19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 killed, over 20 injured as bus topples in Tumakuru||Two people were killed and over 20 were injured after a bus turned turtle near Sira-Bukkapatna highway in Tumakuru, Karnataka, last night.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-killed-over-20-injured-as-bus-topples-in-tumakuru-952898.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Untimely rains lash parts of Karnataka||Untimely rains accompanied by thunder and lightning lashed several parts of Karnataka on Friday morning, disrupting farming activities.  Rains that started around 3:30 am, flooding low lying areas in the city. Prashanth Nagar, Clerk colony in Chitradurga were affected. Drain water flooded the streets disrupting vehicular movement. Bharamasagar, Sirigere, Bheemasamudra in Chitradurga taluk, Dharmapura in Hiriyur taluk, Nayakanahatti, Parashurampura in Challakere taluk and Chikkajajur in Holalkere taluk saw heavy rains. Parts of Dakshina Kannada district also received heavy rain for half an hour on Friday. Various parts of Belthangady received rain from 3.30 am to 4 am and drizzling continued till 8 am. Sudden rain affected the drying of areca nuts in interior villages. Ujire, Charmadi, Mundaje, Belthanhagdy,  Dharmasthala, Kalmanja, Nidle, Kalenja, Belalu, Kaniyoor and surrounding areas experienced rainfall. On the other hand, N R Pura, Kottigehara,  Balehonnur, Kadur and Koppa in Chikkamagaluru district too received rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/untimely-rains-lash-parts-of-karnataka-953011.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||It's raining hailstones in Kodagu||Large hailstones accompanied by rains lashed different parts of Kodagu district on Friday. The gusty winds damaged the standing crops. Heaps of hailstones were found on the roads, coffee estates, roof of the houses, arecanut and coconut plantations at Mullooru, Nidta, Ankanahalli, Gudugalale and other areas. The hailstones has created fear among the farmers in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/its-raining-hailstones-in-kodagu-953023.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Untimely rain worries farmers in Mysuru region||The untimely rain that lashed parts of Mysuru district continued in parts of Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, accompanied by hailstones, on Friday also. Mysuru city and district remained overcast for the whole day. Bilikere in Hunsur taluk and K R Nagar taluk received rains with hailstones. Arkalgud in Hassan district received heavy rain, with hailstones on Friday. Doddamagga, Mokali, Santhemaruru, Shanbhoganahalli received hailstones with rain. But, the farmers are worried over the untimely rains. The hailstones would destroy the vegetable and other crops, which will begin to rot in a couple of days. The mango trees were in full flowering this year, but the flowers have dropped due to the hailstones, said farmers. Heavy rains with hailstones lashed Sakleshpur taluk. The rains, that started at 2.30 pm, continued till 4 pm. This has left the coffee growers worried. The coffee beans that were spread for drying have been totally washed out due to the sudden rains, causing a loss amounting to lakhs of rupees to the coffee growers. Kadathanalu village in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, also received rains with hailstones. Chamarajanagar city and parts of the district received good rains on Friday evening for around 20 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/untimely-rain-worries-farmers-in-mysuru-region-953175.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mega job mela evokes good response||More than 100 companies participated in the mega Job Fair organised by Department of Industrial Training and Employment, in association with Department of Skills Development and district administration, at Dasara Exhibition Grounds in Mysuru on Friday. Hundreds of aspirants thronged the venue, with many software companies, industries, manufacturing companies and others taking part in the job fair. The mela was held from 10 am to 4 pm. Candidates having educational qualifications of SSLC, PUC, degrees, post-graduation, diploma and engineering courses, who are in the age group of 18 to 35 years were eligible to participate in the job fair. Speaking after inaugurating the event, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said that more than 10,000 jobs were in the offing for the aspirants. The situation is slowly returning to normalcy from the Covid crisis. Thousands of people had lost their jobs during Covid and were facing a very difficult situation. However, the companies have started recruitment, with the intervention of the Labour department. The rule that the women would be allowed to work 24x7 in IT sectors have been extended to other sectors also, Hebbar said. The minister handed over offer letters to a few candidates on the occasion. Officers of various departments were present. The minister also said that efforts are on to sort out the issue of Toyota company near Bengaluru, which has been closed due to differences between the administration and employees. Asian Paints, BEML, Infosys, J K Tyres and various companies participated. Some companies issued offer letters on the spot. Some companies had collected other details of the candidates and assured to call them within a week. Nagesh, one of the aspirants, said, “I had come searching for a suitable job. I have got offer letter on the spot, with Rs 16,000 salary.” MLA S A Ramadass said, “Realising that many people had lost their jobs during the Covid pandemic, the job mela was organised to bring several prestigious companies under one roof. Those, who failed to clear the interviews may register their names. They will be provided skilled training to help them get jobs.” MLA Yathindra Siddaramaiah, MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, Exhibition Authority Chairman Hemanth Kumar Gowda, BJP Mysuru president Srivatsa, Deputy Mayor C Sridhar, Labour Commissioner Thammanna were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mega-job-mela-evokes-good-response-953176.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hundreds perform Surya Namaskara on Rathasaptami||Hundreds of yoga enthusiasts gathered near Kote Anjaneya Swamy temple, Mysuru Palace, even before the break of the dawn, for mass Surya Namaskara, held as part of Rathasaptami in Mysuru on Friday. A large number of people, both young and old, carrying yoga mats, gathered in large numbers and demonstrated 108 mass Surya Namaskara. The event was organised by Mysuru Yoga Federation, as part of Rathasaptami, Surya Yajna and the 20th anniversary. Rathasaptami, also known as Surya Jayanti, is the festival dedicated to the Sun God. The festival is celebrated on Saptami tithi, Shukla Paksha, Maagha masa. The participants, attired in white, started doing 108 salutations to the Sun God, even before the sun rose above the horizon. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, inaugurated the programme and explained about the importance of yoga. “Yoga is very much required for life,” he said and shared that his ancestor Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar brought yoga exponent Krishnamachari from Benaras to Mysuru region, to popularise the ancient science. He participated in the Surya Yajna held at Chandramouleshwari Swamy temple and offered obeisance to the procession idol of Kote Anjaneyaswamy. All yoga participants were distributed certificates. Federation’s honourary president A S Chandrashekar, B P Murthy, T Jalendrakumar and M S Ramesh Kumar were present. The temples on the premises of Mysuru Palace had organised procession of their respective idols as part of Rathasaptami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hundreds-perform-surya-namaskara-on-rathasaptami-953177.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC's village stay brings hope among tribals||With the ambitious ‘Jilladhikari Nade Halliyakade’ programme being launched, people of Tarikallu village, under Bilikere hobli, Hunsur taluk, are an excited lot, with a lot of hope, for the deputy commissioner’s visit. Rangaiahana Koppalu hamlet of Tarikallu village, has 100 to 125 families. The people have no basic facilities, like housing. Three or more families live under one roof. Though sites have been sanctioned under Ashraya scheme, they are not handed over to them, it is alleged. Other problem that needs to be addressed is illegal liquor sales. Five people have died in the last one month, and they were said to be suffering from tuberculosis. DC Rohini Sindhuri should initiate steps to improve healthcare and also upgrade the canals that irrigate the lands in the area, said Dharmapura ZP member Surendra. There are incidents, where innocent tribals are lured with liquor and their sites are purchased by wealthy people. The tribals may disappear from the hamlets, if this continues, he said. Tahsildar Basavaraj said that 30 families were sanctioned sites under Ashraya scheme on Survey number 28 of Tarikallu village, 25 years ago. Measures have been taken and the land documents are handed over to them to construct houses. Around 90 farmers on survey number 43 were denied bank loans as they did not have revenue documents. Measures have been taken to provide them documents, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dcs-village-stay-brings-hope-among-tribals-953178.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rail track barricade damaged by elephant||An elephant has damaged a rail track barricade near Muduganuru Hosakere, under Nagarahole National Park in Hunsur taluk, Mysuu district, on Thursday night. Since the past one week, there are reports that elephants are straying in Muduganuru, Hejjodlu and Chikka Hejjuru, on the fringes of forests. An elephant had damaged a tractor parked outside a house. In the melee, its tusk was broken, a piece of which was later found near the tractor. Similarly, a few cars were attacked. After damaging the rail track barricade, the elephant has raided a few houses and farmlands in Veeranahosahalli on Thursday night, complained the villagers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rail-track-barricade-damaged-by-elephant-953179.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Former CM Siddaramaiah promises 10 kg free rice if Congress comes to power||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, on Friday promised that families below the poverty line will get 10 kg of rice for free, if Congress comes to power. Speaking to reporters after participating in a temple ceremony at Gandanahalli in K R Nagar taluk, Mysuru district, he said, "Each BPL family was given 7 kg free rice during my tenure as the chief minister. The BJP brought it down to five kg and now it is said that it will be further reduced to three kg. I cannot tolerate the sufferings of the poor. Whatever the expenses, each poor family will get 10 kg rice, if our party comes to power." "The government is citing corona for reducing the rice supply. What is the connection between corona and rice distribution? The government might have spent around Rs 6,000 crore for corona related expenses. But the Karnataka budget is for Rs 2,37,000 crore", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/former-cm-siddaramaiah-promises-10-kg-free-rice-if-congress-comes-to-power-953135.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||KDA condemns Maharashtra government's decision to conduct survey of non-Marathi speaking people||Kannada Development Authority Chairman Dr C Somshekhar condemned the Maharashtra government's decision to conduct a survey of non-Marathi speaking population through Gram Panchayats. In a statement released on Friday, Dr Somshekhar said that Kannada speaking people were in considerable number in Jat, Akkalkot and southern part of Solapur district in Maharashtra and a survey of non-Marathi speaking people was an attempt to threaten them. Kannada speaking people in Maharashtra were living in harmony by respecting the state and should be given a cultural and educational commitment by the neighbouring state. Their self-esteem and respect should not be hurt and they should not be provoked, he demanded. Karnataka government will stand with the Kannada speaking people from Maharashtra and respond to their needs, Dr Somshekhar stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kda-condemns-maharashtra-governments-decision-to-conduct-survey-of-non-marathi-speaking-people-953164.html
19-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Home Minister Bommai orders action against PFI leader’s ‘anti-national’ speech||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday ordered the police to take action against “an anti-national hate speech” made by PFI leader Anees Ahmed in Ullal, Mangaluru. Bommai said he ordered the local police to “take cognisance” and “take action” against Ahmed’s speech during the PFI Unity March on February 17. “He has spoken against the country and against the Constitution. It’s an anti-national hate speech trying to create division among people of this country,” Bommai told reporters. “He has talked about RSS, which is one of the most patriotic organizations. He talked about Ram Mandir even as the Supreme Court has given a judgement for its construction,” he added. During his speech, Ahmed said India had come under a Hindu majoritarian government and attacked the Modi administration by targeting the RSS. “There is no ‘Hindu vs Muslim’ problem in India. There’s only ‘RSS vs Muslim’ problem,” Ahmed, the PFI general secretary, said. Ahmed also called upon all Indian Muslims to rise against the RSS. “I want you to identify every local pracharak in your district and mandal. Just identify them. Once you start identifying them, these RSS people will run without even remembering when their uniform changed from chaddi to pant,” he said.   “Some secular leaders who called themselves Muslim intellectuals used to say that everything will be sorted if Babri Masjid is let go. Now that a Ram Mandir is coming up, is everything sorted? In the name of Ram Mandir donation, there are riots happening. Why are Muslims being targeted?” he said. Ahmed urged Muslim businessmen and shopkeepers not to give a single rupee to RSS people seeking donation for the temple. “This is not Ram Mandir. It is RSS Mandir. Not one Muslim’s money should be used for a single brick to build an RSS temple,” he said. Bommai said the PFI had shown its “true colours” in the past as well. “It’s the most anti-national, irresponsible statement,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-home-minister-bommai-orders-action-against-pfi-leader-s-anti-national-speech-953200.html
19-02-2021||National||Quad nations emphasise on respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty||In the midst of rising global concern over China's military expansionism, India and three other member nations of the Quad on Thursday vowed to uphold a rules-based international order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, freedom of navigation and peaceful resolution of disputes. At a virtual meeting, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne and Japan's Toshimitsu Motegi reiterated their common vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The ministers deliberated on a host of issues including the recent developments in Myanmar, the coronavirus pandemic, climate change and furthering cooperation in areas such as maritime security, supply chain resilience and counter-terrorism, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. During the discussion on recent developments in Myanmar, the upholding of rule of law and the democratic transition was reiterated by India, the ministry said. "The ministers emphasised their commitment to upholding a rules-based international order, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas and peaceful resolution of disputes," it said. The meeting took place in the backdrop of China's aggressive military behaviour in South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's growing military assertiveness has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. The MEA in its release on '3rd India-Australia-Japan-USA Quad Ministerial Meeting' said,"it was noted that the Indo-Pacific concept had gathered growing international support, including in Europe." "Their productive exchange of views on regional issues included a reiteration of their common vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region, with clear support for ASEAN cohesion and centrality," the ministry said. The 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a key stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region. The minister discussed ongoing efforts to combat the pandemic, including vaccination programmes, and expressed their commitment to cooperate in addressing this challenge, enhancing access to affordable vaccines, medicines and medical equipment. They also recognised and appreciated India's efforts at providing vaccines to 74 countries, the ministry said. It was the third ministerial meeting of Quad member countries and the first after the Joe Biden administration took charge in Washington. The MEA said the ministers highlighted their shared attributes as political democracies, market economies and pluralistic societies and recognised that the changes underway in the world makes a strong case for their countries working closely together. "It was important for the international community that the direction of changes remains positive and beneficial to all," the MEA said. Noting that regular Quad consultations hold value, the ministers agreed to continue these useful discussions, the ministry added. The foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The foreign minister of the four countries held their first meeting under the 'Quad' framework in New York in September 2019. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the Quad to develop a new strategy to keep the criticl sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quad-nations-emphasise-on-respecting-territorial-integrity-and-sovereignty-952867.html
19-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Fuel on fire as petrol, diesel prices skyrocket||With fuel prices rising to record high, commoners living on Bihar-Nepal border have found a new way to get some relief from a spike in prices of petrol and diesel. They are reportedly travelling to the Himalayan Kingdom through porous borders to get fuel, which is approximately Rs 23 less than what it is in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fuel-on-fire-as-petrol-diesel-prices-skyrocket-952880.html
19-02-2021||National||It is in America's interest to assist the rise of India: US think tank||Asserting that the US ought to counteract the influence of Chinese authoritarianism early and often, a top American think tank on Thursday said that one relatively low-cost way is to encourage India to engage more deeply as a competitor with China in the global economy. In its latest report "A US-India Trade Agenda for the Biden Administration", the Washington-DC based think tank Hudson Institute said that India should aim for better relations with American corporations as increased US investment and trade relations will enhance the potential for US-India cooperation in confronting the rise of China. The report, written by Husain Haqqani and Aparna Pande, says that it was in America's interest to assist the rise of India. "The US ought to counteract the influence of Chinese authoritarianism early and often. One relatively low-cost way is to encourage India to engage more deeply as a competitor with China in the global economy," it said. The report calls upon India to move away from protectionism. "For Indian consumers and business, protectionist practices deliver the opposite of protection. Softened restrictions could attract American and European companies that are moving away from China," it said. Not only would India's economy grow but this would also help with employment generation, it said. It also suggested that Indian bureaucracy's antipathy to foreign corporations has become an obstruction in closer India-US relations. "Preventing competition within the Indian market," the report points out, and "using regulation to benefit indigenous companies" will only impair India's growth and limit its potential. The Hudson Institute, in its report, calls upon the Biden administration to "encourage India to lower tariffs, to remove barriers to foreign retail, to roll back unnecessarily restrictive data privacy rules, and to provide economic incentives for foreign investment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-in-americas-interest-to-assist-the-rise-of-india-us-think-tank-952881.html
19-02-2021||National||Fuel prices hiked for 11th day straight; petrol crosses Rs 90 per litre mark in Delhi||Petrol and diesel prices soared to record highs on Friday as fuel rates were hiked for the 11th consecutive day. Petrol price in Delhi crossed the Rs 90 per litre mark after a hike of 31 paise. In the national capital, Petrol cost Rs 90.19 per litre, while diesel is priced at Rs 80.60 per litre after an increase of 33 paise.  In Mumbai, diesel and petrol prices are up by 35 paise and 30 paise respectively. After the hike, diesel is priced at Rs 87.67 per litre, and petrol at Rs 96.62 per litre. Petrol in Bengaluru costs Rs 92.37 per litre, while diesel is at Rs 85.74 per litre. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties, including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-11th-day-straight-petrol-crosses-rs-90-per-litre-mark-in-delhi-952882.html
19-02-2021||National||Covid outbreak deepened mutual suspicions between armies of India, China: Lt Gen Chauhan||Eastern Army commander Lt Gen Anil Chauhan said on Thursday said that the Covid-19 outbreak deepened mutual suspicions between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA and the virus affected working protocols of border management. The General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Eastern Command, said that effective steps were taken to ensure that coronavirus does not infiltrate the units deployed along the northern borders with China. "The Covid outbreak deepened mutual suspicions and affected working protocols for border management," he said, adding that the Eastern Command maintained a high level of alertness and prevented any untoward incidents. He said that medical facilities were upgraded all across the Eastern Command and hospitals were modified to deal with the new adversary - the coronavirus. "The focus of anti-Covid was primarily on force preservation due to the developing situations along the northern borders," Lt Gen Chauhan told reporters during an interaction at the Investiture ceremony of the Eastern Command at its headquarters Fort William here. "It was ensured that the virus does not infiltrate the units deployed along the Chinese border," he said. Maintaining that the situation had been tense on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China after the Galwan incident, Chauhan said that focused measures have been taken to improve operational preparedness. Altogether 20 personnel of the Indian Army were killed while fighting Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 last year. The Chinese Army also suffered casualties in the face-off. He said that troops in sensitive areas have been equipped suitably to deal with unconventional kinds of challenges and new inductions have been done in the Eastern Command including M777 ultra-light howitzer guns, additional aviation assets and electronic warfare equipment. He said that in the hinterland, counter-insurgency operations were affected due to the nationwide lockdown and the restrictions on the movement of units. At the Investiture ceremony presided by Eastern Army Commander Lt Gen Chauhan, 18 Sena medals (Gallantry), nine Sena medals (Distinguished) and eight Vishisht Seva medals were presented to the deserving personnel. On the occasion, 21 units of various arms and services who performed exceedingly well during their deployment in the eastern theatre were also awarded the Unit citation by the GOC-in-C, Eastern Command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-outbreak-deepened-mutual-suspicions-between-armies-of-india-china-lt-gen-chauhan-952885.html
19-02-2021||National||Pakistan urges India to let neutral international observers visit Kashmir||Pakistan on Thursday urged India to let neutral international observers visit Kashmir and assess the situation on the ground by free interaction with the Kashmiri people. Foreign Office Spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri made the comments during the weekly briefing here. Envoys from several countries, including member states of the European Union and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) visited Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday and Thursday to assess the ground situation in view of the efforts made to restore normalcy by strengthening democratically-elected local bodies. India has told Pakistan that it has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of India, asserting that the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been and will remain an integral part of the country. Chaudhri said that India should allow UN observers, Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the OIC Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission, and the international media to visit Kashmir and assess the situation on the ground by free interaction with the Kashmiri people. Earlier this month, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said that India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. To a question about India prohibiting the Sikh Yatris to visit Pakistan for religious purposes, he said Pakistan provides maximum facilitation to the Sikh Yatris from all over the world, including India, for visiting their religious sites in Pakistan. “We believe that India should also facilitate Sikh Yatris for visiting their religious sites in Pakistan,” Chaudhri said. On Wednesday, India denied permission to around 600 Sikh pilgrims to visit Pakistan, citing the security and Covid-19 situation in the country. Chaudhri said that a workshop on “Exchange of Good Practices in tackling Covid Pandemic and the Way Forward” was organised for SAARC member countries plus Mauritius and Seychelles in a virtual format. “In line with its policy of enhanced regional and international cooperation in dealing with the pandemic, Pakistan is also participating in the said workshop and sharing its good practices with the regional countries,” he said. Responding to a question about the Afghan peace process, the spokesperson said Pakistan desires that the developments made so far toward a durable peace in Afghanistan should be preserved and built upon. He said all the stakeholders in Afghanistan should seize the opportunity of reaching a long-lasting peace. He said Head of Afghan Massoud Foundation, Ahmad Wali Massoud, along with his delegation, who arrived in Islamabad on Tuesday, met Prime Minister Imran Khan who reiterated his longstanding position that there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan and that a political solution is the only way forward. The Prime Minister also underscored that all Afghan parties must work for a reduction in the violence leading to a ceasefire and conveyed that Pakistan would support whatever the Afghans agreed upon about the future of their country. Chaudhri also said Prime Minister Khan is likely to visit Sri Lanka later this month. He said the two sides are currently working on the elements of the programme keeping in view the Covid-19 health-related protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-urges-india-to-let-neutral-international-observers-visit-kashmir-952886.html
19-02-2021||National||China again blames India for Galwan Valley clash, finally reveals identity of its fallen soldiers||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Friday revealed the identities of its four soldiers who were killed in the clash with the Indian Army personnel on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 last year. Though the two sides now completed the withdrawal of frontline troops from both banks of Pangong Tso as the first step towards ending the 10-month-long military stand-off along the LAC, China once again blamed India for the violent face-off at Galwan Valley. The Chinese PLA also released a video on the clash with subtitles in English, referring to the Indian Army as “relevant foreign military” and accusing it of violating India-China agreements and trespassing “border line” to build roads and bridges and trying to change the status quo along the ‘border” unilaterally. The video lauded the Chinese PLA officers and soldiers for fighting “bravely” and defeating and expelling the “offenders”, i.e. the Indian Army personnel, from the territory claimed by China. “It should be noted that since last June, Indian troops illegally crossed the LAC for deliberate provocation, and even violently attacked the Chinese officers and soldiers who went there for negotiation, thus intentionally triggering the fierce physical conflict at the Galwan Valley and causing casualties on both sides,” Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang, Spokesman for Chinese Ministry of National Defence, said in Beijing. “The responsibility of the skirmish at the Galwan Valley lies entirely with the Indian side.” The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers, including the Commanding Officer of its 16 Bihar Regiment, Colonel B Santosh Babu, in the clash at Galwan Valley. The Chinese PLA, however, took eight months to reveal the identities of the soldiers it had lost during the violent face-off. The Indian Army has been blaming the Chinese PLA for the premeditated attack on its personnel. The Chinese PLA revealed the identities of its fallen men just days after Lt Gen YK Joshi, the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Indian Army’s Northern Command, referred to a report by Russian TASS news agency that had claimed that the communist country had lost 45 of its soldiers in the Galwan Valley clash. “After the skirmish, the Chinese side, out of consideration to preserve the overall situation of the relations between China and India as well as the two militaries, promoted the cooling and easing of the situation and exercised a high degree of restraint, which reflects China's manner as a responsible power,” said the spokesperson of the Chinese Government’s Ministry of National Defence. “However,” he added, “the Indian side has repeatedly hyped up the casualties, distorted the truth, misled international public opinion, and slandered the Chinese border troops.” The video was released shortly after the media outlets controlled by the Communist Party of China and the Chinese Government revealed that the PLA had lost four of its men in the clash with the Indian Army personnel at Galwan Valley on June 15 – Battalion Commander Chen Hongjun (33) and soldiers Chen Xiangrong (19), Xiao Siyuan (24) and Wang Zhuoran (24). “They all died in a clash with trespassing foreign military personnel wielding steel tubes, cudgels and stones last June,” Xinhua, the official state-run news-agency of China, reported, adding that each of them was awarded the title of “Border Defending Hero” by the Central Military Commission of the communist country. The Xinhua also reported that another PLA soldier Qi Fabao had been seriously injured in the skirmish. The video later identified Qi as the commander of a PLA regiment. It claimed that Qi, along with a few other soldiers, had gone to negotiate with his counterpart in the Indian Army in Galwan Valley on June 15, but had come under premeditated attack. It also stated that the PLA soldiers had been outnumbered by the Indian Army personnel, but fought taking advantage of the terrain till the reinforcement arrived. It claimed that the “foreign military” had been “utterly defeated”, paid a “heavy price” and many of its personnel fled, “leaving numerous injured and dead”. It also showed Qi, the PLA Regiment Commander, bleeding profusely from wounds in his head and being given first-aid by other soldiers of the Chinese Army. The Xinhua and the PLA Daily reported that Qi had also been awarded the title of “Hero Regiment Commander for Defending the Border”. The Indian Army honoured its Galwan Valley martyrs during the Republic Day ceremony on January 26 this year. Col Babu was posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest war-time military decoration of the nation. Five others were honoured with the Vir Chakra. The remaining 14 fallen soldiers were awarded the “Sena Medals”. Beijing on Friday referred to the PLA personnel killed and injured in the Galwan Valley clash as “iron soldiers” nurtured by Chinese President Xi Jinping’s “Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era” and “Thinking on Strengthening Military”. “They are outstanding representatives of the Chinese military in the new era,” said Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang, Spokesman for Chinese Ministry of National Defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-again-blames-india-for-galwan-valley-clash-finally-reveals-identity-of-its-fallen-soldiers-952892.html
19-02-2021||National||India rejects comments on Jammu and Kashmir by UN Special Rapporteurs||India on Thursday hit out at two UN Special Rapporteurs for criticising its policies towards Jammu and Kashmir, asserting that the region is an "integral and inalienable" part of the country. India's reaction came after Special Rapporteur on minority issues, Fernand de Varennes, and Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, Ahmed Shaheed, made adverse comments on withdrawal of Jammu and Kashmir's special powers in 2019. Their comments were part of a press release published on the website of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. In response to media queries, External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the press release has been deliberately timed to coincide with the visit of a group of ambassadors to Jammu and Kashmir. "The press release disregards the fact that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India and the decision of August 5, 2019, regarding the change in the status of the state of Jammu and Kashmir into a Union Territory of India was taken by the Parliament of India," he said. Srivastava said the press release failed to take into account the steps aimed at ending decades of discrimination, enshrining democracy at the grassroots level through successful conduct of local elections for the District Development Councils (DDC), and ensuring good governance. "The press release has ignored the positive impact of extending laws applicable to the rest of India to Jammu and Kashmir, enabling the people of Jammu and Kashmir to enjoy the same rights as available to people in other parts of India," he said. In the press release, it was said the UN human rights experts are concerned over India's decision to end Jammu and Kashmir's autonomy and enact new laws that could curtail the previous level of political participation of Muslim and other minorities in the country. "The loss of autonomy and the imposition of direct rule by the government in New Delhi suggests the people of Jammu and Kashmir no longer have their own government and have lost power to legislate or amend laws in the region to ensure the protection of their rights as minorities," Varennes and Shaheed were quoted as saying in the release. Srivastava said the press release calls into question the larger principles of objectivity and neutrality that the Special Rapporteurs are mandated by the Human Rights Council to adhere to. "We expect the Special Rapporteurs (SRs) to develop a better understanding of the issues under their consideration before jumping to hasty conclusions and issuing press statements," he said. He further said, "It is deplorable that the SRs, after sharing their questionnaire on February 10, did not even wait for our response. Instead, they chose to release their inaccurate assumptions to the media."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-comments-on-jammu-and-kashmir-by-un-special-rapporteurs-952895.html
19-02-2021||National||India reports over 13,000 Covid-19 cases after 18 days||Daily new cases of Covid-19 in the country climbed to over 13,000 after 19 days taking India's tally of cases to 1,09,63,394, while the recoveries surged to   1,06,67,741, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 13,193 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,56,111 with 97 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,67,741 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.30 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,542 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the ICMR, 20,94,74,862 samples have been tested up to February 18 with 7,71,071 samples being tested on Thursday. The 97 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,111 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,669 from Maharashtra followed by 12,444 from Tamil Nadu, 12,282 from Karnataka, 10,896 from Delhi, 10,239 from West Bengal, 8,709 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,166 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-13000-covid-19-cases-after-18-days-952904.html
19-02-2021||National||Meet Swati Mohan, Indian-American scientist who led Nasa rover’s landing on Mars||NASA successfully landed its Perseverance rover on Mars early Friday, and among the scientists who were part of this historic mission, was Indian-American Dr Swati Mohan, who led the landing of the rover on the planet. Mohan is the Mars 2020 Guidance, Navigation and Controls (GN&C) Operations Lead in NASA and led the attitude control and landing system for the Perseverance. She was communicating and coordinating between the GN&C system and the team from NASA’s Jet Propulsion Lab near Los Angeles. “Touchdown confirmed! Perseverance safely on the surface of Mars, ready to begin seeking signs of past life,” Mohan was the first to announce when the rover made history on the red planet. Mohan has been a part of this mission since its beginning, for over 7 years now.  From India to the US Swati Mohan, born in India, moved to the US when she was 1. She grew up in Northern Virginia. She was inspired to pursue the hard sciences by popular science fiction franchise ‘Star Trek’. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering from Cornell University and an MS and PhD from MIT in Aeronautics. Before spearheading the Mars mission, Mohan has been a part of several NASA missions, including Cassini, a mission to Saturn and GRAIL, a mission to the Moon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-swati-mohan-indian-american-scientist-who-led-nasa-rover-s-landing-on-mars-952910.html
19-02-2021||National||Narendra Modi not an intellectual: Amazon describes PM in leaked internal documents||E-commerce giant Amazon said in an internal document that Prime Minister Narendra Modi “is not an intellectual or an academic” but “someone who is known to like simple, logical, straight forward-thinking without excessive academic jargon". The document showed talking points for Amazon.com Inc executive Jay Carney during a meet with India’s ambassador to the United State in 2014. It included an analysis of Modi. It said, “PM Modi is not an intellectual or an academic but believes that strong administration and governance is the key to running a successful government.” The internal company documents reviewed by Reuters show Amazon has for years given preferential treatment to a small group of sellers on its India platform, publicly misrepresented its ties with the sellers and used them to circumvent increasingly tough foreign investment rules that affect e-commerce. The documents, dated between 2012 and 2019, are being reported for the first time. They provide an inside look at the cat-and-mouse game Amazon has played with India's government, adjusting its corporate structures each time the government imposed new restrictions aimed at protecting small traders. All this information was indeed politically sensitive. If it got out, it could give fresh ammunition to small Indian retailers who allege that Amazon harms their businesses by flouting federal regulations and favouring a few big sellers. It could have annoyed Modi, whose political base includes millions of these small retailers. And it would have undercut Amazon’s public messaging that it is the friend of small business in India. As the company says in one marketing slogan in India, it is “transforming lives, one click at a time.” However, What Carney wound up telling the ambassador is unclear. A meeting did take place in April 2019, but neither side would comment on the specifics of the gathering. (With inputs from Reuters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-not-an-intellectual-amazon-describes-pm-in-leaked-internal-documents-952911.html
19-02-2021||National||SC expunges remarks made against 3 sitting members of NCLAT||The Supreme Court on Friday expunged remarks made against three sitting members of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) by a bench headed by acting chairperson Justice Bansi Lal Bhat. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman granted the relief to the petitioner's Justices (retd) Jarat Kumar Jain, Davinder Singh and Vijay Pratap Singh who were part of the bench, which had referred the matter to a five-member bench headed by the acting chairperson of the appellate tribunal. "We are with you," the bench said. The issue which was referred to the five-member bench was related to the entry of the book of accounts of a company and acknowledgement of the debt by the company. The proceedings before the 5-member bench had arisen after a reference made by the 3-member bench comprising the three petitioners on September 25, 2020. The three petitioners before the top court had prayed for expunging of remarks made by the five-member bench, saying they have just acknowledged the position in law that the larger bench was competent enough to consider the earlier verdict on the issue. They said it is well-settled law that the larger bench must not venture into making personal comments against members of the referral bench only because it finds the reference order was not maintainable or not in accordance with the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expunges-remarks-made-against-3-sitting-members-of-nclat-952935.html
19-02-2021||National||NASA's Ingenuity helicopter could pave way for future rover-drone tandem missions||With the successful landing of its Perseverance Mars rover on Friday, NASA is set to become the first global space agency to fly a drone in the atmosphere of another planet, an advance which could pave the way for future "tandem-exploration" missions that include new terrestrial and aerial surveillance methods. As the rover surveys and looks for evidence of past life around the Jezero crater on Mars -- an ancient lakebed believed to have once contained liquid water -- the Ingenuity helicopter's expected flight on Mars 31 days from now will be a test demonstrator, the space agency had said. The 1.8-kilogramme chopper is about 0.49 metre tall with two rotor blades of about 1.2-metre wingspan stacked above each other. "Even though Ingenuity is a tech demo, meaning we are trying to demonstrate a new technology and not necessarily doing any science data gathering, the inspiration came from future science and operational consideration," Goutam Chattopadhyay, Senior Research Scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in California, told PTI.   Over the course of its mission, Ingenuity is expected to make five attempted flights each lasting for about 90 seconds at a stretch. While NASA already conducts several reconnaissance missions to pick exploration sites on other planets before sending rovers to them, Chattopadhyay said these terrestrial vehicles do not have the ability to go on their own, expecting to find "something interesting". He believes this is where drones may come into the picture in future planetary exploration missions. "Now, if we have a helicopter or such a flying vehicle that can go around, do some surveillance, send that data back to the rover, and then the rover makes a decision whether to further explore some areas based on that data, it will be much more interesting," the NASA scientist explained. However, NASA Engineers, including J. (Bob) Balaram from JPL, say there are several new challenges to flying a fully autonomous drone on the Martian atmosphere which are not encountered here on the Earth. Balaram and his colleagues explain these challenges in a study describing the design, development, and testing of the Mars helicopter, posted on the Aerospace Research Central website. The research, presented at the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics SciTech 2019 Forum, noted that the Red Planet's thin carbon dioxide atmosphere is approximately 1 per cent of the Earth's atmosphere density -- equivalent to the Earth's air density at an altitude of 35 km. "Since this is a very thin atmosphere, we can't really fly anything very high up on Mars," Indian astrophysicist Dibyendu Nandi added. He explained that aeroplanes and helicopters fly on the principle of lift based on Newton's third law of motion: For the lift force to push the helicopter up, an equal force should be applied which pushes the air down. "If the density of the atmosphere becomes half, the lift becomes halved. So if a planet has a weak atmosphere, getting the lifting force is always going to be a problem, The drones need to be able to move greater amounts of air than they do on Earth," Nandi, a scientist at the Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata, told PTI. While the weaker gravitational pull of Mars -- 38 per cent that of the Earth -- is an advantage, he said choppers meant for Mars still need to weigh very less with blades that can rotate much faster while consuming as little energy as possible. "For example, a helicopter rotor on Earth rotates at 400-600 rotations per minute. Whereas on Mars, the blades need to rotate at 2600 rpm. This is a huge challenge," Chattopadhyay added. To test the drone's performance in Martian conditions, NASA scientists evacuated a chamber to near-vacuum and back-filled it with carbon dioxide gas to a density representative of the Red Planet's atmosphere. According to the NASA engineers, the helicopter also had to be vacuum compatible and capable of survival at very low temperatures down to minus 100 degrees Celsius. "So the materials used for building vehicles for Mars undergo expansion and contraction between day and night and may lead to severe physical stress on the structure of these vehicles," Nandi added. At the JPL Space Simulator, the engineers also tested the helicopter's aerial performance under a range of conditions, including its response to winds and higher-speed forward flight by placing it in front of an array of small fans capable of producing winds up to approximately 10 metres per second. And drones built for such missions also have to be fully autonomous. "We cannot really do live driving the vehicle sitting in here due to the time delay related to the huge distance. The helicopter flies autonomously using a gyroscope, accelerometer, camera, altimeter, and on-board computer," Chattopadhyay explained. He said the autonomous system developed for Ingenuity uses cutting-edge artificial intelligence and machine learning tools, which he said can help engineer better light-weight and efficient drones here on the Earth for delivering medicines, transporting organs for transplant, and other uses. Just like the Sojourner rover on the 1997 Pathfinder mission paved the way for numerous Mars rovers, the scientists believe the Ingenuity technology demo can open the doors for future drone missions to other planets||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-could-pave-way-for-future-rover-drone-tandem-missions-952940.html
19-02-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee likely to skip Niti Aayog meeting on February 20||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to skip the Niti Aayog's governing council meeting to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 20, sources said on Friday. The council, the apex body of the government's think tank, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several Union ministers and senior government officials. The prime minister will chair the Saturday's meeting, where issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development will be discussed, according to an official statement. "Mamata Banerjee may not attend the Niti Aayog's February 20 meeting," a senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee had earlier skipped the Niti Aayog's meetings and termed it as a "fruitless" exercise, alleging that the body has "no financial power" and cannot support the state plans. The sixth meeting of the governing council will witness the entry of Ladakh for the first time, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT, the statement said. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join, it added. The governing council meets regularly and its first meeting took place on February 8, 2015. However, the council did not meet last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-likely-to-skip-niti-aayog-meeting-on-february-20-952945.html
19-02-2021||National||Terrorism a major source of discrimination against minorities: India||State-sponsored terrorism targeted against specific communities leads to increase in discrimination against minorities and their further marginalisation, India has said, calling on UN member states and agencies to not give an opportunity to justify terrorism on any ground. “The scourge of terrorism has emerged as a major source of discrimination in our societies today. State-sponsored terrorism targeted against specific communities lead to increase in discrimination against minorities and their further marginalisation in society,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said. He said this while addressing the ECOSOC Meeting on ‘Eliminating Racism, Xenophobia and Discrimination for All in the Decade of Action for the SDGs’ on Thursday. India calls on countries to desist from such terrorist acts and also calls on member states and the UN bodies to not give an opportunity to justify terrorism on any ground, he said. As the world becomes interconnected, new media, especially social media has emerged as a platform for amplifying racial hatred and discriminatory ideas, Tirumurti said. “We need to tackle infodemic with all our might to ensure social cohesion. United Nations has the responsibility to ensure that countering racism and discrimination should not be limited to a select few but should encompass all those affected.” Addressing the session, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres gave a clarion call to reject racism. “Racism plagues our world. It is abhorrent. It is ugly. And it is everywhere. We must condemn it without reservation, without hesitation, without qualification,” he said. The UN chief said as societies become ever more multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-cultural, there is a need for greater political, cultural and economic investments in inclusivity and cohesion, to harness the benefits of diversity rather than perceiving it as a threat. Tirumurti noted that India is firmly committed to social, economic and political equality through legislations and well-designed multi sectoral interventions. He told the meeting that in the wake of Covid pandemic, India has adopted a variety of interventions, particularly targeted at vulnerable sections, to ensure that there is no discrimination in the society. “The role of the State in the last one year has been crucial in ensuring that we are able to recover with minimal damage and at the same time contribute to the welfare of all countries.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorism-a-major-source-of-discrimination-against-minorities-india-952947.html
19-02-2021||National||Strong India-Australia partnership will play key role in shaping post-Covid world: PM Modi||The strong India-Australia partnership will play an important role in shaping the post-COVID world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday and expressed confidence that the two countries would take the lead in providing circular economy solutions. Addressing the valedictory function of the India-Australia Circular Economy Hackathon, Modi said consumption-oriented economic models have put a great strain on the planet. "We must never forget that we are not the owners of all that Mother Earth has to offer, but merely its trustees for all the future generations to come," he said. Stressing that it is not enough to make production processes more efficient and less polluting, Modi said no matter how fast or slow one drives, if the direction is wrong, then one is bound to reach the wrong destination. "And so, we must set the right direction," he added. The prime minister called for looking at consumption patterns, and how their ecological impact can be reduced. Noting that this is where the concept of a circular economy comes in, Modi said the concept can be a key step in solving many of our challenges. Recycling and reusing things, eliminating waste, and improving resource efficiency must become part of our lifestyles, the prime minister asserted. Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison also felicitated the participants of the India Australia Circular Economy Hackathon(I-ACE) at a virtual award ceremony. The idea of the hackathon originated during the India-Australia Virtual Leaders’ Summit between the Prime Ministers of India and Australia, held on June 4, 2020. "This hackathon has seen innovative solutions from Indian and Australian students, start-ups and entrepreneurs. These innovations show your commitment to the philosophy of circular economy," Modi said. "I have no doubt that your innovations will inspire our two countries to take the lead in circular economy solutions," he said. Also, ways must be explored to scale-up and incubate these ideas, Modi said. Circular economy implies reusing waste back into the production cycle to make new products instead of wasting such materials with embedded resources. Modi asserted that the power of youth comes from openness to new ideas and innovations, and the ability to take risks. The energy and enthusiasm of today's youthful participants is a symbol of the forward-looking partnership between India and Australia, he said. "I have full confidence in the energy, creativity and out-of-box thinking of our youth. They can offer sustainable, holistic solutions to not just our two countries but to the whole world," the prime minister said. The strong India-Australia partnership will play an important role in shaping the post-COVID world, he said. "And our youth, our young innovators, our start-ups, will be at the forefront of this partnership," Modi asserted. He noted that in June last year, Australian Prime Minister Morrison and he discussed the possibility of organising a hackathon on the circular economy, and was happy that their idea has been realised so soon. In his remarks, Morrison also lauded the joint initiative. The I-ACE Hackathon was organised jointly by the Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog, India and Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO), Australia with the aim of enabling students and start-ups/MSMEs from both countries to present innovative solutions for the development of a circular economy across the food system value chain. The I-ACE Hackathon addressed four themes -- Innovation in packaging - reducing packaging waste; Innovation in food supply chains - avoiding waste; Creating opportunities for plastics waste reduction; Recycling critical energy metals and e-waste. I-ACE Hackathon was launched on October 16, 2020 and the initial round received over 1000 registrations from India and Australia. The finals were held between February 9 and 11, 2021 where more than 200 participants in 39 teams from India and 33 teams from Australia took part. Two university teams and two start-up/MSMEs from India and Australia were declared as winners for each of the four themes. The winners will be supported by the innovation and incubation ecosystems of both Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog and CSIRO Australia to enable them develop their solutions into products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strong-india-australia-partnership-will-play-key-role-in-shaping-post-covid-world-pm-modi-952955.html
19-02-2021||National||Tele-counselling number launched for children of BSF personnel||An exclusive toll-free tele-counselling number for children of BSF personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty was launched jointly by the apex child rights body NCPCR and BSF on Friday. The platform Supportive Action for Holistic Approach to build Resilience among the children of Armed Police Force Personnel (SAHARA) aims at providing emotional support, psycho-social first aid and counselling for the children.  This facility will be functional from 10 am to 5 pm from Monday to Friday.  DG BSF Rakesh Asthana and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights Chairman Priyank Kanoongo jointly launched SAHARA toll-free number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tele-counselling-number-launched-for-children-of-bsf-personnel-952959.html
19-02-2021||National||SC grants 4 weeks to Odisha for reply on Andhra Pradesh's affidavit over polls in 'disputed areas'||The Supreme Court Friday granted four weeks to Odisha to reply to Andhra Pradesh government's affidavit on its contempt plea against senior officials of AP for notifying panchayat polls in three 'disputed areas'. The panchayat elections were held on February 13 by Andhra Pradesh in the disputed areas, on which Odisha claims ownership. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari took note of the submission of senior advocate Vikas Singh that Odisha be given some time to file its reply on the Andhra Pradesh government's affidavit. In its affidavit, the AP government told the apex court that there was no breach of undertaking or its direction and it has been duly administrating its own territories and has not infringed upon the area of Odisha. The Naveen Patnaik government has challenged the AP notification for the local body polls with regard to the disputed area and said the notification amounts to invading Odisha's territory. More than five decades since the first status quo order on the territorial jurisdiction dispute with AP over 21 villages, Odisha has moved the top court once again seeking contempt action against officials of the southern state for notifying panchayat polls in three of its villages. The dispute over territorial jurisdiction over 21 villages popularly called as Kotia Group of villages first reached the top court in 1968 when Odisha on the basis of three notifications — issued on December 1, 1920, October 8, 1923, and October 15, 1927 — claimed that Andhra Pradesh had trespassed into its well-defined territory. During the pendency of the suit filed by Odisha, the top court had on December 2, 1968, directed both the states to maintain status quo till the disposal of the suit and said, there shall be no further ingress or egress on the territories in dispute, on the part of either party. The suit filed by Odisha under Article 131 (the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction over any dispute arising between the states or between the centre and state) of the Constitution was finally dismissed on technical grounds by the top court on March 30, 2006, and with the consent of both the states it directed that status quo be maintained till the dispute is resolved. Now, the Odisha government has sought contempt action against AP's three senior officials — Mude Hari Jawaharlal (contemnor-1), collector of Vizinagaram district; Adityanath Das, Chief Secretary of AP (contemnor-2), and N Ramesh Kumar, State Election Commissioner of Andhra Pradesh (contemnor-3). Apparently, the notification issued by Jawaharlal in unison with Das and Kumar is to invade into the territory of the petitioner state at the cost of wilful violation of order of this court, the plea said. Therefore the officials are to be called upon to explain as to why contempt proceedings shall not be drawn against them and appropriate punishment shall not be awarded to them, it said. The Odisha government has sought notice to the the three AP officials as to why contempt proceedings not be initiated against them for wilfully violating orders dated December 2, 1968 and March 30, 2006 passed by the court in the original suit. The petitioner state of Odisha is invoking the contempt jurisdiction of this court against the alleged contemnor for having wilfully and deliberately violated the order dated December 2, 1968 and the judgement dated March 30, 2006 passed by this court in original suit filed by State of Orissa and State of Andhra Pradesh, the plea said. The Odisha government further claimed that administratively and otherwise, it has been in control of these villages but of late clandestinely the contemnors have entered into the impugned act of contempt by which the order of this court has been violated . It further said Jawaharlal had on March 5, 2020, issued various notifications to conduct local body elections in the Vizinagaram district in which Salur is one of the Mandals, where the Panchayat election was also notified to be held on the schedule date. In the notification deliberately the contemnor number 1 roped in three villages from the Kotia Group of villages' falling under the territory of Koraput district of Odisha into Salur Mandal of Vizinagaram district (AP). Clandestinely the contemnors changed the name of the three villages of Kotia Gram Panchayat, the state government alleged. It said that tactfully the contemnors converted these three villages of one Gram Panchayat falling under territory of Odisha to three different Gram Panchayats. The three Gram Panchayat created by them were made part of Salur Mandal. Odisha said although the notification was issued on March 5, 2020, the officials "made sure that it was kept a deadly secret so that local authority of the Petitioner State shall not get to know about it . It added that for these three self-created Gram Panchayats, nomination centre has been kept 20 kilometres away in the district of Vizinagaram (AP) from these villages. That the officials tactfully issued the impugned notification and attempted to conduct election during the pandemic time when the entire state machinery was engaged to fight Covid-19 pandemic," it said. It said the attempt on their part to conduct the election in the newly self-named three villages pertaining to the territory of petitioner state is nothing but a wilful attempt to sabotage the dictum of this court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-4-weeks-to-odisha-for-reply-on-andhra-pradeshs-affidavit-over-polls-in-disputed-areas-952960.html
19-02-2021||National||India to appeal against Cairn arbitration award: Report||The government is likely to file an appeal against the $1.4 billion international arbitration award won by Cairn Energy in a tax dispute, even as the issue did not figure during two-days of talks the Finance Secretary held with the company officials to look for a resolution, sources with knowledge of the matter said. Soon after the second meeting in as many days between Cairn CEO Simon Thomson and Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey ended, a person informed of the development said the government intends to defend its sovereign right in taxation and will file an appeal against an international tribunal ordering India to return $1.4 billion to the British firm. However, another person briefed on the discussions between Cairn and Finance Ministry said the option of India appealing against the verdict did not figure in talks either on Thursday or Friday. Cairn on its part remained tight-lipped on the parleys it has initiated with an aim to avert the company having to take legal recourse to recover the amount including through seizure of Indian assets overseas. "Constructive dialogue is continuing," Thomson said after the meeting on Friday. He did not elaborate. Cairn in a letter to the Indian government last month indicated it could seize overseas assets such as airplanes and ships if New Delhi fails to comply with the arbitration award and return the value of the shares sold, dividend seized and tax refund withheld by the income tax department to recover part of the tax demand it had raised using retrospective legislation. The firm has already started identifying assets it could seize in the event of Indian government does not comply with the tribunal order. The first person said the government, however, has kept open the possibility of a resolution within existing Indian laws. The options under the existing provisions, the person said, include Cairn opting for the direct tax dispute settlement scheme Vivad se Vishwas, which gives relief on interest and penalty if the principal tax demand is paid. The tax department had in March 2015 slapped a tax demand of Rs 10,247 crore on Cairn for the alleged capital gains it made on reorganising its India business prior to an IPO in 2006-07. It levied short-term capital gains tax in raising the demand even though Cairn had over several years built the India business that included developing the Ravva oil and gas field in the KG Basin and discovering the nation's biggest onland oilfield in Rajasthan. Cairn at that time stated that its internal reorganisation was in compliance with the law and had been approved by various regulatory bodies including SEBI. It denied evading any taxes prevalent at that time and challenged the tax demand through international arbitration. After coming to power in 2014, the Modi government had promised not to use a 2012 legislation that gave the government to levy taxes retrospectively, to raise any fresh demand. The Cairn assessment was opened in January 2014. The then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had promised to abide by arbitration awards on retro tax cases. The first source said the government welcomes Cairn's move to reach out for a resolution but any dispute resolution sought by the company will have to be within already existing laws. The government, he said, will file an appeal against the Cairn arbitration award soon and will contest its sovereign rights to tax. It will also strongly contest other suits brought by Cairn Energy at various other international courts, he added. Last week, Cairn had filed cases in the US, the UK and the Netherlands courts to register the arbitration award, a prelude to seeking legal seizure of assets. The second source said the government is aware of the legal consequences and is weighing all its options. "The fact that a second round of meeting was sought by the finance ministry indicates their eagerness to avoid any legal consequences and look for a resolution," the person said. The options discussed at the meeting to resolve the issue weren't immediately known. The government alleges that the offshore transactions executed by Cairn in 2006-07 were aimed at evading taxes. The transaction in 2006-07 involved entities in Jersey led to capital gains in the hands of Cairn UK Holdings, which is taxable in India, the first person said. Cairn's hands have been forced by its shareholders who after waiting patiently for seven years for resolution of the tax issue, now wants action to recover the award. The shareholders include big financial institutions such as BlackRock, Fidelity, Franklin Templeton, Schroders and Aviva. But, since the 582-page judgment was issued, the government has given no indication about whether it intends to honour the verdict, even though payment was due immediately. Rather than sit and wait for the government response, Cairn has moved to cover for all eventualities and moved courts in the US, the UK and the Netherlands. It will also approach court in Canada, the sources said. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax demand using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. Soon after seeking Rs 10,247 crore in taxes over alleged capital gains made by the company over a 2006-07 reorganisation of India business before its listing, the tax department seized Cairn's residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In a ruling Cairn had previously described as "final and binding", the tribunal ordered New Delhi to pay $1.2 billion in damages, plus interest and costs, to compensate Cairn for the shares — long sold off by the tax department — as well as confiscated dividends and withheld tax refunds. This totals $1.4 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-appeal-against-cairn-arbitration-award-report-952966.html
19-02-2021||National||Unnao case: AISA members hold protest outside UP Bhawan in Delhi, detained||The Delhi Police on Friday detained members of the Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA) protesting outside the Uttar Pradesh Bhawan here against the deaths of two girls whose bodies were found in a field in Unnao. Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, were found in the field by the villagers when they did not return after leaving their house to take fodder for cattle, according to the UP police. The villagers rushed the teenagers, who are related, to a hospital, where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl, who is on ventilator support at a Kanpur hospital, is being treated for suspected poisoning, the police said on Thursday, adding they have registered a murder case in connection with the deaths. The protesters demanded "immediate action against perpetrators of attack on Dalit women in Unnao" and medical attention to the third girl, who is on ventilator support. "Ensure justice to the victims and survivor! Punish the perpetrators! Yogi Adityanath must resign," the student association said in a statement. The protesters were taken to Mandir Marg police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unnao-case-aisa-members-hold-protest-outside-up-bhawan-in-delhi-detained-952995.html
19-02-2021||National||India's Dr. Reddy's seeks emergency use authorization for Russia's Sputnik V vaccine||Dr. Reddy's had been working with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to hold small domestic clinical studies of Sputnik V, which has proved 91.6% effective against Covid-19 based on late-stage trials in Russia. The drugmaker said it would present the safety profile of a mid-stage study and interim data from a late-stage trial, which is expected to complete by Feb. 21. Sputnik V, developed by Moscow's Gamaleya institute and marketed abroad by the RDIF, has already been registered in nearly 30 countries and will have the highest efficacy of vaccines currently cleared for emergency use in India if approved in the Asian country. For comparison, Bharat Biotech has yet to release efficacy data for its vaccine COVAXIN, while AstraZeneca's vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India, has an efficacy of around 60%. Shares of Dr.Reddy's reversed course to trade 1.5% higher after the news. They had earlier fallen as much as 1.9%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-dr-reddys-seeks-emergency-use-authorization-for-russias-sputnik-v-vaccine-952999.html
19-02-2021||National||Ready to be Kerala CM if BJP wins: 'Metroman' E Sreedharan||Set to enter the political fray by joining the BJP next week, technocrat E Sreedharan on Friday said his main aim is to help the party come to power in Kerala and that he will be open to chief ministership. He also said that the focus will be on developing infrastructure in a big way and bring the state out of the debt trap if the BJP wins the Assembly polls that are likely to be held in April-May this year. Known as 'Metroman' as well as for the efficiency in completing big infrastructure projects, Sreedharan told PTI that he will contest the Assembly elections if the party wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks. The 88-year-old technocrat also made it clear that he will not be interested in governorship, saying that it is purely a "constitutional position and no powers at all" and that he won't be able to make any positive contribution to the state in such a position. "My main idea is to bring BJP to power in Kerala. If BJP comes to power in Kerala, there will be three to four major areas we want to focus. One is infrastructure development in a big way and another is to bring industry to the state," he said. Speaking over phone from Ponnani in Kerala where he is based now, Sreedharan said that a finance commission could also be formed for the purpose of improving the finances of the state, which is in a "debt trap today". "The state is in a debt trap today, so much of borrowings. And debt burden on each Malayalee is Rs 1.2 lakh today.... That means we are heading for bankruptcy and the government still continues to borrow. The state finances need to be propped up and for that, we need to find a solution," he said. His entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being seen as a major boost for the party in election-bound Kerala. The state is being ruled by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) alternately for the past many years. "If BJP wants, I will contest (the assembly elections)," he said during an interview over phone. Sreedharan said that he is "certainly" ready to be the chief minister if the party wants him to be after coming to power. When asked about whether he will be open to chief ministership, he said, "If they (BJP) want, certainly. To tell you very frankly, unless I am the chief minister these (priorities) cannot be achieved." He is likely to formally join the BJP on February 25 and said that he was entering the "political fray". On the reasons for deciding to join the BJP which is in power at the Centre, Sreedharan said that he wanted to do things for the benefit of Kerala as the UDF and the LDF have not been able to bring any tangible progress to the state. "Why I chose BJP is for a different reason. The two others in Kerala -- UDF and LDF -- have been ruling Kerala alternately... They have not been able to bring any tangible progress to the state, not even one industry has come to the state in the last 20 years... "They were having tussles with the (central) government all the time. The two governments are not able to see eye to eye on many matters. The development of the state is suffering. If the BJP comes to power here, they will have a good rapport with the Government of India," he said. He was referring to apparent differences between the Centre and the ruling LDF in Kerala. On what it means to enter the political fray, Sreedharan said it only means that all his professional responsibilities are coming to an end by the end of this month. "All the responsibilities taken up by me are coming to an end. I thought I will give time for the benefit of Kerala state. That is possibly only if we enter politics. Do something for the state," he noted. Currently, he is working on a project to rebuild a bridge in Kerala and the professional commitment will come to an end this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-be-kerala-cm-if-bjp-wins-metroman-e-sreedharan-953012.html
19-02-2021||National||Jammu and Kashmir police arrest 3 ‘militants’ over attack on Srinagar eatery owner’s son||Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday said that it arrested three newly recruited militants allegedly involved in an attack on the son of a popular eatery in Sonwar area here on Wednesday evening. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that three-bike-borne newly recruited militants carried out the attack to instill fear among tourists on a day when foreign envoys were in Srinagar. “A civilian called SP South city and informed that the attackers were riding a bike after which we accessed the CCTV footage and followed other inputs,” he said addressing a presser, here. The IGP said they followed certain leads and arrested two youth who were involved in the act. “The bike used in the offence and a pistol were seized. After interrogating the duo, they revealed that a third person was also involved in the crime,” Kumar said and added the third one was also arrested. The IGP said all three were newly recruited militants and “one of them was given pistol training in the forest area of hill station Pahalgam. All three belong to Pulwama district.” He said the trio was lured by a Lashkar-e-Taiba or The Resistance Front (TRF) commander Gazi, “who had tasked them to strike at Krishna Dhaba, where tourists rush is always high and the shop even remains open during strikes.” “The main aim of the attack was to instill fear among the tourists on a day when EU envoys were in Srinagar. We have cracked the case in 24 hours and it is a big success for us,” the IGP said. The eatery is famous for its fresh and clean vegetarian food served at reasonable rates and remained functional even during the high points of militancy in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-police-arrest-3-militants-over-attack-on-srinagar-eatery-owner-s-son-953015.html
19-02-2021||National||India took 34 days to achieve one crore Covid-19 vaccinations, second fastest in the world after US: Centre||India took 34 days to achieve the landmark feat of one crore Covid-19 vaccinations, the second fastest in the world, the health ministry said on Friday. The US took 31 days, while the UK took 56 days to surpass the one-crore vaccination mark. Till 8 am on Friday, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) in the country was 1,01,88,007. "A total of 1,01,88,007 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,11,462 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am. These include 62,60,242 HCWs (1st dose), 6,10,899 HCWs (2nd dose) and 33,16,866 FLWs (1st dose)," the ministry said. The second dose of the Covid-19 vaccination started being administered to those who have completed 28 days since the receipt of the first dose from February 13. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. As on the 34th day of the vaccination drive (February 18), a total of 6,58,674 vaccine doses were administered, of which 4,16,942 beneficiaries were inoculated across 10,812 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs), while 2,41,732 HCWs received the second dose, the ministry stated. The country is witnessing a progressive increase in the number of vaccinations day by day, it underlined. Eight states account for 57.47 per cent of the total vaccine doses administered in the country. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.5 per cent (10,70,895). Seven states account for 60.85 per cent of the second vaccine doses administered. Telangana leads the chart with a 12-per cent (73,281) share of the second doses administered in the country. Sixteen states and Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 death in a span of 24 hours. These are Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Jharkhand, Meghalaya, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Manipur, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Tripura, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The number of fatalities reported was between one and five in 15 states and Union territories, while it was between six and 10 in three states and Union territories. The number of active Covid-19 cases in India currently stands at 1,39,542, accounting for only 1.27 per cent of its total caseload. The number of patients who have recuperated from the viral disease has gone up to over 1.06 crore (1,06,67,741) with 10,896 of them recovering in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 83.15 per cent of the new recoveries were reported from six states. Kerala reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries at 5,193, followed by Maharashtra (2,543) and Tamil Nadu (470). A total 13,193 fresh cases of the coronavirus infection were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said, adding that 86.6 per cent of those were reported from six states. Maharashtra accounted for the highest number of 5,427 cases, followed by Kerala (4,584) and Tamil Nadu (457). Also, 97 fatalities due to Covid-19 were recorded in 24 hours, the ministry said, adding that five states account for 76.29 per cent of those. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (38), followed by Kerala (14) and Punjab (10).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-took-34-days-to-achieve-one-crore-covid-19-vaccinations-second-fastest-in-the-world-after-us-centre-953025.html
19-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi sent to three-day judicial custody||A Delhi court on Friday sent climate activist Disha Ravi to three-day custody in a case related to a toolkit, prepared to gather online support for the farmers protest. Disha was produced before a Delhi court after five-day of custodial interrogation. The police requested to send her to judicial custody saying her further custody might be required on February 22 to confront her with co-accused Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mukul, who were asked to join investigation. Her bail plea is to come up for hearing before a sessions court on Saturday. The Delhi High Court, on the other hand, directed TV channels to exercise proper editorial control to see that the ongoing investigation in the toolkit case was not hampered with, as recent press coverage showed sensationalism, following arrest of Disha from Bengaluru on February 13. The court also asked the Delhi Police to abide by the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines of April 1, 2019 on sharing details of investigation in the case. "The print and electronic media plays a very important role in ensuring that there is no sensationalism and that they adhere to responsible journalism. While police briefings and the happenings in court proceedings etc can also be broadcasted and disseminated, leaked investigation material ought not to be disseminated so as to prejudice the investigation," a single judge bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said. In an interim order on a plea by Disha to restrain the media, the High Court said the right to privacy, the sovereignty and integrity of the country and freedom of speech need to be balanced. "Media houses shall also ensure that the telecast/broadcast by them is from verified/authenticated sources, though the sources need not be revealed," it said, pointing out regulation of content in print and electronic media has been a very contested issue across the world and India is no exception to it. However, the police or other investigation authorities would be, entitled to conduct their briefings, so long as no rights of the petitioner are violated, the court further said. It also said if the charge sheet was filed and made public, dissemination of information cannot be interdicted. The Delhi Police, led by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, for its part claimed that it has not leaked anything in media. It claimed attempts were being made to malign the investigating agency. Disha was arrested for allegedly editing the toolkit document to gather support in social media for the farmers' protest. She sought a direction to restrain TV channels from publishing alleged WhatsApp chats with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, in order to protect her right to privacy, reputation and fair trial. The court also took on record an assurance by Disha's counsel, senior advocate Akhil Sibal that the petitioner or any other person directly associated with her would not intend to indulge in any kind of maligning of the police or the investigating authorities. Sibal contended that half-baked and speculative information was leaked by the police. The court, while refraining to direct TV channels News 18, Times Now and India Today to take down "objectionable contents", posted the matter for detailed hearing on March 17 for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-disha-ravi-sent-to-three-day-judicial-custody-953032.html
19-02-2021||National||Ayurveda economy has seen up to 90% growth post-Covid: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||The Ayurveda economy has witnessed up to 90 per cent growth after the Covid-19 pandemic, as Ayurveda has gained global acceptance, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. The sector has also witnessed a significant surge in export as well as investment, he said. As per official data, Ayurveda is a Rs 30,000 crore industry, having an annual double-digit growth of 15 to 20 per cent. "This (data) is of the pre-Covid era. Post-Covid, the economy of Ayurveda, which is Rs 30,000 crore with a growth of 15 to 20 per cent, has gone up to 50 to 90 per cent," he said.      This itself reflects that people from India and the world have accepted Ayurveda. "There has been a marked improvement in terms of exports and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) also," he said while speaking at a function here to release a research paper by Haridwar-based Patanjali on the "first evidence-based ayurvedic medicine" against Covid-19. During Covid-19 times, the Ayush Ministry had done 109 types of studies at 140 places. "When I saw the results, it was encouraging and positive," he said. Ayurveda is to keep people healthy and it does not require any certification from anybody. "If we technically study it, then India has a great potential," he added. Harsh Vardhan, who himself is an MBBS and MS with specialisation in ENT and had practised as an ENT surgeon (as mentioned in his biography) said : "Though I have practised modern medicine but after studying Ayurveda, I have come to conclusion that it is beneficial for all." Lauding the efforts of Swami Ramdev and his Patanjali Ayurveda, Harsh Vardhan said, Ayurveda should be re-established in a scientific and modern way in the world and this will be a matter for pride and help the cause of humanity. Speaking at the occasion, Ramdev said that there is a need for harmony among all treatment patterns -- the modern allopathy and traditional naturopathy. Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari who was also present said Patanjali has provided a good alternative for the daily usage products for which the country has to pay a royalty to the foreign makers. Now, Yoga and Ayurveda have become popular across the globe and people are following it, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayurveda-economy-has-seen-up-to-90-growth-post-covid-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-953040.html
19-02-2021||National||Opposition in Bihar protests petrol price hike outside State Assembly||Peeved over the steep price hike of petroleum products, the Opposition in Bihar lodged its protest in its own imitable style when the Budget Session of the State Assembly began on Friday. While the RJD MLA from Mahua, Mukesh Raushan, arrived at the Bihar Assembly on a bicycle, the Congress MLA, Shakeel Ahmad Khan brought a traditional firewood stove to the Vidhan Sabha premises to protest against the sharp increase in the price of LPG cylinders. The price of petrol is about to touch the three-digit figure in Bihar while the LPG cylinder, after a Rs 50 hike this week, comes to around Rs 800. “I started on a bicycle from Hajipur from 7 am today,” said the RJD MLA, who won from Mahua, the erstwhile seat of Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap in Vaishali district. “Crime is at its peak... All essential commodities have become quite expensive... We will raise these issues in the House,” said the RJD legislator after pedalling over 25 kilometres. The Congress legislators were equally scathing. “People have been forced to adopt the traditional method of cooking after there has been a sharp rise in the price of LPG cylinders. The BJP has brought us to this stage,” said Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan, displaying the firewood stove.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-in-bihar-protests-petrol-price-hike-outside-state-assembly-953052.html
19-02-2021||National||India, Russia ties strong enough to navigate complexities of present world: Shringla||India's strategic ties with Russia has very deep historic roots which provide stability and trust strong enough to navigate the complexities of the current world, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said, as he sought to allay concerns that New Delhi is under pressure from the US to abandon military-technical cooperation with Moscow. Shringla's remarks came during an interview with the Russian daily Kommersant during which he was asked whether India would bow to the US pressure and give up the S-400 air defence missile systems deal with Russia. In October 2018, India had signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, despite a warning from the previous Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. Responding to a question, Shringla said, India's relations with the US and Russia stand on their own merits and all the major powers recognise fully India’s tradition of an independent foreign policy. "Our Strategic Partnership with Russia has very deep historic roots which provide stability, trust and confidence strong enough to navigate the complexities of the current world. We have a global strategic partnership with the United States," he said. "I do not want to comment on the specific defence contracts, but let me state clearly that all the contracts concluded with Russia are being implemented according to schedule. These are consistent with India’s defence and security needs and interests," he said. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. When asked about the cancellation of the India-Russia Annual Summit in 2020 amid speculation of growing uneasiness between the two countries over certain sensitive diplomatic and security issues, like India’s ties with the US, Shringla said: "The only reason for not holding the Annual Summit last year was the Covid pandemic." "However, we did have very high-level interactions, including a visit by our External Affairs Minister and two visits by Defence Minister to Moscow, one of which was for the 75th Anniversary of the Victory Day," he said. Shringla said the annual summit is a unique feature of the India-Russia relations since 2000. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir have met 19 times since 2014 during bilateral summits and on the sidelines of multilateral fora. "They spoke with each other four times last year and enjoy a unique personal rapport," he said. "India and Russia have worked together to overcome the difficulties of the Covid pandemic and I am sure bilateral relations will emerge even stronger as a result of our planned meetings this year," he said. When asked about Russia's unease with Quad — a group of US, Japan, Australia and India, Shringla said India sees "this concept as a framework for engagement with Russia." Russia is an important Pacific power. During his speech in Vladivostok in Russia in September 2019, Prime Minister Modi referred to Vladivostok as a junction between Eurasia and the Indo-Pacific, Shringla said. "The Chennai-Vladivostok Maritime Corridor which will further link to the Northern Sea Route and the Pacific will create a connectivity continuum that will bind India and Russia together from the Arctic to the Indian Ocean," he said. "Therefore, contrary to certain speculation, we feel that in reality, India and Russia have more in common on the concept of Indo-Pacific. A multi-polar world and multi-polar Asia has to recognise the indispensable role of India and Russia," he added. Shringla said India does not see the Indo-Pacific Region as a club of limited members nor as a new theatre for geostrategic contestation. "It includes all nations in this geography as also others beyond who have a stake in it aimed at Security and Growth for All in the Region (SAGAR)," he said. "India’s approach focuses on a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific. We emphasise respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations in the region, peaceful resolution of disputes, avoidance of use or threat of use of force, and adherence to international laws, rules and regulations. "With respect to Quad, as vibrant and pluralistic democracies with shared values, India, US, Japan and Australia have collectively affirmed the importance of maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific," he said. "They are aimed at advancing the security and the economic interests of all countries having legitimate and vital interests in the region," Shringla said, amidst China flexing its muscles in the region. When asked about the challenges to India’s security stemming from troubled Afghan settlement, Shringla said: Afghanistan is passing through a critical phase." The peace process in Afghanistan began last September in Doha. India participated at the level of External Affairs Minister in the inaugural session of the Intra-Afghan Negotiations. "We are of the view that any peace initiative which can bring peace and prosperity to the people of Afghanistan must be welcomed. India, as an important stakeholder, has been playing its role," he said. He, however, said India is equally concerned about the rise in violence as well as targeted attacks on civil society activists and media persons in Afghanistan. "Violence and talks cannot proceed simultaneously; it is not sustainable. There is a need to call for a comprehensive ceasefire in Afghanistan," he said. India is actively following the developments in Afghanistan and remains engaged with other regional countries, and Russia, Shringla said. He said that Russia is an important ally as well as an important stakeholder in the region. "India, Russia and Iran recently had a trilateral meeting in Moscow on the Afghan situation," he said. "All efforts must be made to preserve the gains Afghanistan has made in the past two decades. It is for this reason, we have always supported an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process," Shringla said. India has committed over $3 billion as part of its development assistance to Afghanistan. On Russia-India cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus, he said Russia was the first country to register a vaccine against COVID-19. "Of the 500 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine that Russia plans to produce in 2021, a significant portion is expected to be produced in India," Shringla said. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) is in negotiations with several other Indian producers to manufacture higher doses of vaccines in India for use in Russia, India and other countries as well. The phase-3 trials of Sputnik V are ongoing in India and we expect regulatory approvals for emergency use authorization in India in due course, he said. "India-Russia cooperation in the fight against COVID-19 has reinforced the traditional bonds of friendship between our two countries. During the peak of Covid last spring, India supplied a consignment of Hydroxychloroquine tablets which was highly appreciated by the Russian leadership," he added. He expressed hope that India and Russia partnership will play a significant role in combating the pandemic. "In the post-pandemic world, we would see a redefining of our understanding in a number of areas, including our understanding of security, which until now, was thought largely in the military, intelligence and economic terms," he said. "Today, greater weight is being assigned to health security and resilience of supply chains. Likewise, we will have to focus on the reform of multilateral institutions and recalibrate our approach to address global challenges such as climate change, terrorism, etc. In all these areas, India and Russia can work together for the common good," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-ties-strong-enough-to-navigate-complexities-of-present-world-shringla-953059.html
19-02-2021||National||Kerala job aspirants tonsure, sell fish and stage mock funerals to be heard as stir continues||The street in front of the Kerala government secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram has been witnessing protesting job aspirants selling fish, crawling on their knees, rolling on the tarred roads, tonsuring and even staging mock funerals to elicit some leniency from authorities towards their plight with respect to government jobs. Hundreds of candidates who have cleared the recruitment tests of the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) to the posts of last-grade servants and civil police officers as well as medal winners in the 2015 National Games have been protesting in front of the government secretariat for a while now. Even with the political parties, mainly the Youth Congress, coming out in support of the stir with two Congress MLAs launching an indefinite fast and staging violent protests, the job aspirants sought to steer clear of violence. Instead, they have been coming up with different types of protests. The candidates, including women, rolled and crawled on their knees on the tarred road braving the scorching sun the other day.  Many fainted and were rushed to a hospital. While on Thursday, the job aspirants tonsured their heads, on Friday, they sold fish. The PSC rank holders allege that their rank lists were getting expired even before one-fifth of the rank holders got placements owing to a delay on the part of the government in reporting vacancies to the PSC in time. The National Games' medal winners, on their part, say that the assurance by the government that they would be given government jobs has remained just an assurance. With the job aspirants' stir gathering steam and grabbing eyeballs, the Pinarayi Vijayan government, which has so far been quite adamant about not wanting to initiate talks with the agitators, seems to be under pressure from within the CPM leadership, especially because of the upcoming Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-job-aspirants-tonsure-sell-fish-and-stage-mock-funerals-to-be-heard-as-stir-continues-953070.html
19-02-2021||National||Fashionable to oppose whatever BJP does: 'Metroman' E Sreedharan||It has become a fashion to oppose whatever the Modi government is doing, BJP-bound technocrat E Sreedharan said on Friday as he strongly supported the contentious new farm laws and asserted that there is no "intolerance" in the country. He also said any attempt to malign the government before a foreign dispensation or medium can't be called "freedom of expression" as that would tantamount to "war against the establishment" and this constitutional right has to be controlled if it is misused against our own country. Hailing from Kerala, the 88-year-old technocrat said that he wants to do things for the benefit of the state and those can be done by entering politics. He said his main aim is to help the BJP come to power in Kerala where the Assembly polls are due in April-May this year. Sreedharan said that he has known Prime Minister Narendra Modi for several years. When Modi was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, he had worked on various projects in the state. "I know him (Modi) from very close quarters. He is very upright, corruption-free, committed, very passionate about the country's interests, very hardworking and very forward-looking," he added. In an interview with PTI, he said the debate on nationalism that is happening is unfortunate and that there are "so many petty parties" that are all against the BJP and a combined attack is going on against it for no reason. "That is why all these things are happening. The government is so forward-looking and dynamic...if they join (support) the (central) government, things will be so different for India and the world. "Unfortunately, some of our friends in opposite parties are working against the interests of the country," he said. On the ongoing farmer protests against the Centre's new farm laws, Sreedharan opined that farmers might not have really understood the benefits of these legislations. When asked whether the protests could be seen as a kind of situation where it is about industry versus farmers, he replied in the negative and said, "It has nothing to do with the industry unless we are dragging industry into it." "It is that either farmers have not understood or they don't want to understand for political reasons. It has become a fashion in this country that whatever the (central) government does, oppose it... Anything that the government wants to do, there is an opposition, unfortunately," Sreedharan, better known as the 'Metroman', said. He was instrumental in developing the Delhi Metro Rail project apart from various other infrastructure projects. Ruling out the possibility of him acting as a mediator between the central government and the protesting farmers, Sreedharan said the issues have to be sorted out by the government. "They have to educate the farmers and tell them that it is in their own interest. If this is not done, what is going to happen to them. They (protesting farmers) don't realise what will happen five years down the line," he noted. To a query on whether he is optimistic about a constructive solution to the ongoing protests which have been going on for a few months now, he said the protests are not being dragged on by farmers really but "dragged on by elements opposed to the central government". About debates on nationalism and intolerance, Sreedharan wondered where is intolerance and that all such things are only in talks. "Where is intolerance (he smiles)... It is all just talk... We have got a very strong judiciary and intolerance cannot function, it is just talk. If their view is not accepted by the government, they say it is intolerance. There is absolutely no intolerance according to me...," he said. When asked about his views on the debate on freedom of expression, Sreedharan said it is a right in the Constitution but if the freedom of expression is misued against the country, then certainly that has to be controlled. "If you go to a foreign government or medium and complain about all sorts of things about the government and convince them that the government is wrong, then that is a wrong thing. This is not freedom of expression. This is sort of a war against the establishment, the government. This is how Hitler also started...giving false opinion that this is freedom of expression and misled people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fashionable-to-oppose-whatever-bjp-does-metroman-e-sreedharan-953079.html
19-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Disha Ravi sent to 3-day judicial custody; Jharkhand HC rejects Lalu's bail plea||In your evening news brief, Disha Ravi sent to three-day judicial custody; Jharkhand High Court rejects RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav's bail plea in the Dumka Treasury case and WhatsApp says it has conveyed to the Indian government that it remains committed to the protection of privacy of personal conversations across the country:  Here is the top news of February 19, 2021: Climate activist Disha Ravi has been sent to three-day judicial custody by Delhi's Patiala House Court, according to news agency ANI. Ravi has been arrested for alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers' protest.   The Jharkhand High Court on Friday rejected RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav's bail plea in the Dumka Treasury case. The Dumka treasury embezzlement case is an offshoot of the multi-crore rupees fodder scam. The former Bihar chief minister has already acquired bail in three cases related to the Rs 900 crore fodder scam and was expecting a favourable decision in the Dumka treasury case for release from jail.   Hours after announcing the decision to go ahead with its controversial privacy policy update, WhatsApp on Friday said it has conveyed to the Indian government that it remains committed to the protection of privacy of personal conversations across the country. Last month, the messaging app had faced a volley of questions from the Indian government after it informed users that it was updating its privacy policy under which it could share limited user data with Facebook and its group firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-disha-ravi-sent-to-3-day-judicial-custody-jharkhand-hc-rejects-lalus-bail-plea-953088.html
19-02-2021||National||Goa analysing rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Goa government is "analysing" the situation. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that suitable measures would be taken after the analysis of trends in the neighbouring state. Maharashtra has been reporting around 5,000 new Covid-19 cases daily. The minister was speaking to reporters after a meeting with Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. "We have been discussing with the CM. We have to analyse if the trend continues in Maharashtra. Then we will also have to become strict as far as Goa as a state is concerned," the Health Minister told reporters outside the Chief Minister's official residence in Panaji. Rane also said that the Goa government would take a measured and practical decision unlike the Maharashtra government, which made Covid-19 tests mandatory for travellers heading to the state from Goa, along with Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka. Rane said that the state government would be monitoring the situation over the next four to five days, before taking a call. He, however, said that there was no question of imposing a lockdown in Goa, in wake of the rising cases in Maharashtra. "Lockdowns are a thing of the past," Rane said. Goa has been reporting an average of between 40 to 50 new Covid-19 cases every day. In total, 54,466 Covid-19 cases and 787 deaths have been reported in the state, ever since the pandemic broke out last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-analysing-rising-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-953094.html
19-02-2021||National||Harsh Vardhan appeals to healthcare, frontline workers to get vaccinated against Covid-19||Union minister Harsh Vardhan appealed to all healthcare and frontline workers to get vaccinated against Covid-19 as per schedule. He also said the vaccines are safe and fulfill all the criteria of immunogenicity. "I want to appeal to all healthcare and frontline workers to get inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine doses as per schedule. The vaccines are safe. Don't believe any rumour and misinformation," he said. He further said that no severe adverse event post-immunisation have been recorded in the country and those reported are also 0.0004 per cent. "No death has been recorded due to Covid-19 vaccination. All state governments have been asked to vaccinate every healthcare and frontline worker," he said.  Every state/union territory have been asked to schedule all healthcare workers for vaccination at least once before February 20 and immediately thereafter organise mop-up rounds for them.  Similarly, all frontline workers must be scheduled for vaccination at least once before March 6 this year and immediately thereafter organise mop-up rounds for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harsh-vardhan-appeals-to-healthcare-frontline-workers-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-953096.html
19-02-2021||National||BJP youth leader arrested with cocaine in Kolkata||BJP's youth-wing leader Pamela Goswami was arrested with cocaine from south Kolkata's upscale New Alipore area on Friday, police said. Goswami, the state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), was along with a friend, identified as Prabir Kumar Dey, in her car when both of them were nabbed, they said. Around 100 gm of cocaine was allegedly found in her handbag, and other parts of the car, police said. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the New Alipore police station made the arrests when she was parking the car, an officer said. "She was involved in drug trafficking for quite some time. Today, we got information that she along with her supplier Prabir was reaching the spot to hand over the drugs to the purchasers," the officer said. A team of policemen in eight vehicles surrounded Goswami's car and made the arrests, he said. "An investigation into the matter is underway. We are trying to find out whether she is involved in any drug racket," the officer said. The BJP said that it suspects the police's role in the drugs recovery but if Goswami was wrong, the law should take its course. "We had earlier seen that the state police had named several BJP activists in arms cases. I do not have much information about this incident that is why I will not be able to say more. Pamela is a young girl. If she has done anything wrong, the law will take its course," BJP MP Locket Chatterjee said. State BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, "I do not know whether this is planted. The model code of conduct is yet to come into effect and the police are still under the state government. So, anything can be possible. We need to see whether the packets were planted inside her vehicle and her bag. I am not sure." State minister and senior Trinamool Congress leader Chandrima Bhattacharya slammed the BJP and said it was a shame that even women from the party were found involved in such illegal acts. "Earlier, we saw the involvement of several BJP leaders in child trafficking, and now drug trafficking. Every time they cannot cry conspiracy. It's a shame that their (BJP's) women leaders are involved in such illegal activities," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-youth-leader-arrested-with-cocaine-in-kolkata-953098.html
19-02-2021||National||Madras HC issues notice to SII, others over petition alleging adverse reaction after Covishield jab||Admitting a petition filed by a volunteer who participated in the clinical trial of Covishield alleging adverse reaction after taking a jab of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Madras High Court on Friday issued notices to the Union Health Minister, Serum Institute of India, a popular medical college in Chennai, and three others. The volunteer had alleged that he suffered an adverse reaction after taking the vaccine a few months ago, and had sent a notice to the SII, which manufactured the vaccine in India. With no response from the Institute, the volunteer has now moved the Madras High Court seeking damages of Rs 5 crore and to declare the Covishield vaccine as “unsafe.” The court, which admitted the petition filed by a 41-year-old independent business consultant, issued notices to Union Health Secretary, Drugs Controller General of India, ICMR, SII, Astra Zeneca UK, and Sri Ramachandra Medical University where the trials took place in October. The case will be heard on March 26. In his petition, the volunteer asked the court to declare Covishield as “not safe” and directed the SII to pay him compensation and damage of Rs 5 crores “or any other amount as decided by the court” including the medical and legal cost for all the “suffering and trauma” that he and his family underwent. Narrating his experience, the petitioner said he was administered the vaccine on October 1, 2021 and that there was no adverse reaction for the first 10 days. “But on October 11, 2020, I woke up at 5.30 am with a very severe headache and went back to sleep. My wife tried to wake me up at 9 a.m. but I did not get up nor speak with her. I did not have breakfast and kept repeating that I was having severe headache and went back to sleep,” the petitioner narrated. At the hospital, where his wife took him, the petitioner said the doctor suggested a CT-Scan and MRI. “In a country like India where majority of the population are in rural areas and innocent about any side effect that vaccine could produce, it is an important duty of the 1st and 2nd Respondents (Health Ministry and the Drugs Controller General of India) to grant approval for the administration of vaccine on the innocent population only after it is proved that the vaccine is safe,” he said. He also contended that the vaccine was not safe and that it could produce serious side effects. “Therefore the balance of convenience is in favour of stopping the administration of continuance of vaccines to the public. Hence it is prayed that the Hon’ble Court may be pleased to grant an interim injunction” restraining the authorities from administering the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-hc-issues-notice-to-sii-others-over-petition-alleging-adverse-reaction-after-covishield-jab-953101.html
19-02-2021||National||Mangalyaan-2 will be an orbiter mission: ISRO chief||As NASA's Perseverance rover landed on Mars in the early hours of Friday to look for signs of past life, ISRO chief K Sivan said India's next mission to the Red Planet is likely to be an orbiter. He, however, did not provide an exact time frame for the mission -- Mangalyaan-2. The second mission to Mars will be undertaken only after the launch of Chandrayaan-3, he said. The third mission to the Moon or Chandrayaan-3, under which ISRO aims to land a rover on the satellite, has been delayed due to the coronavirus-induced pandemic and is now likely to lift off in 2022. Landing on Mars is "more tough", Sivan said, adding that Chandrayaan-3 will demonstrate ISRO's landing capabilities. After its first Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) was successful, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) called for 'Announcement of Opportunities' on MOM-2. Sivan said Mangalyaan-1 is "still working good" and sending data. "It is now planned to have the next orbiter mission around Mars for a future launch opportunity," according to the Announcement of Opportunities. Sivan said the space agency had asked the scientific community for suggestions on possible experiments and it is in the process of receiving these. "Once we get these suggestions, we will prepare a project report and have discussion in (an expert) committee. Then we will go to Space Commission," Sivan told PTI. The Space Commission is the highest body that takes policy decisions on activities related to space. Asked whether the mission will be an orbiter or a rover, Sivan said, "Right now, we are thinking about the orbiter mission only. Rover, lander...we are at least not thinking in this process." "Mangalyaan-2 will only be an orbiter mission," he said. Mangalyaan-1 was launched in November 2013 and entered the Martian orbit in September 2014. Designed to work for six months, the mission is in its seventh year now. Mangalyaan-1 or Mars Orbiter Mission was India's first endeavour to successfully reach another planet. The launch vehicle, spacecraft and ground segment cost Rs 450 crore, one of the cheapest missions to Mars so far. The Mars orbiter has sent thousands of pictures totalling more than two terabytes. ISRO has other major projects lined up. After the Mars Orbiter Mission's success, it also decided to explore Venus. However, the immediate priorities of ISRO remain to be Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan -- both projects have been delayed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. ISRO plans to send three humans to space by 2022 under the Gaganyaan (human space) mission. Under Chandrayaan-3, ISRO will once again try to land a rover on the Moon. The mission was to be launched late last year. Chandrayaan-2 did not yield expected results as the lander hard-landed, dashing India's hopes to successfully land on the Moon. The space agreements with the US and France mention cooperation in the area of Mars exploration. The 2018 India France Joint Vision for Space Cooperation' also mentions about the possible collaboration to explore Mars.  "CNES and ISRO, with the support of Laboratoire de meteorologic dynamique (LMD, CNRS), will jointly work on the modelling of Mars and Venus atmospheres," the vision statement said. NASA too had signed an agreement with the ISRO for collaboration on the Red Planet. "We have not yet received any communication from them on this yet. We had written to all international space agencies as well as our scientific community in India,” Sivan said. Perseverance, the biggest and the most advanced rover ever sent by NASA, made its landing at Jezero Crater.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mangalyaan-2-will-be-an-orbiter-mission-isro-chief-953102.html
19-02-2021||National||India not sequencing coronavirus genomes to full capacity: CCMB Researchers||The Covid-19 virus novel variants worrying many countries globally were found to be less prevalent in India so far, according to a Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)-CSIR research study. However, researchers point out that India has not been sequencing SARS-CoV-2 isolates to full capacity, “having deposited only about 6,400 genomes so far”. At least 187 cases of the UK variant (found to be more infectious), four cases of the South African strain and one case of Brazil variant were detected in the country. The first Covid-19 patient in India was identified on January 30, 2020, in Kerala. Over the past year, the genome of the Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has evolved as it transmitted through its human hosts. Scientists at CCMB, Hyderabad, have presented an analysis of over 5,000 coronavirus variants in India and their evolution over the pandemic's course. These variants include immune-escape E484K mutation and the N501Y mutation with a higher transmission rate. “However, their apparent low prevalence here might be simply because not enough genome sequencing (of the Covid-19 virus detected in the positive patients' samples) has been carried out,” the researchers said. "More coronavirus genomes need to be sequenced across the country to accurately identify the emergence of these and other new variants”, said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB and corresponding author of the study 'SARS-CoV-2 genomics – an Indian perspective on sequencing viral variants.' The study also finds that a few novel variants are spreading more in some states. “We now have emerging evidence that N440K is spreading a lot more in southern states. Closer surveillance is needed to understand its spread properly. Accurate and timely detection of new variants that may show greater infectivity or worse clinical symptoms, including immune escape, will be extremely important to preempt disastrous consequences,” said Dr Mishra. As variants will keep emerging due to the natural process of mutation, the best way to control the potential damage is to exercise extensive genome surveillance and take measures to prevent the spread of new variants as and when detected. “The success in the development and administration of vaccines is promising but other non-therapeutic prevention measures, such as masks and physical distancing, will still prove to be the most effective in curbing further spread of the disease. The lesser spread of the virus also decreases the scope for emergence and accumulation of harmful mutants,” said Dr Surabhi Srivastava, lead author of the study. The researchers have also explained how different variants gained prevalence in India during the last one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-sequencing-coronavirus-genomes-to-full-capacity-ccmb-researchers-953111.html
19-02-2021||National||Former cops, members of judiciary write to President; slam those criticising Disha Ravi's arrest||Slamming those criticising the arrest of activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit case, a group of former members of the judiciary and law-enforcement agencies has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, alleging that those with "vested interests" are doing so to hide their "anti-national" activities and indulging in "slander" against Delhi Police. Defending the police action, they said information available on open sources clearly establish that the toolkit document contains the list of persons or groups to be followed having "linkages with ISI and Khalistani groups". The 47 signatories to the representation to the President include former Rajasthan chief justice and governor V S Kokje, former Delhi and Patna high courts' chief justice Rajendra Menon, former Punjab DGP P C Dogra, former CBI director Nageshwar Rao and former Kerala DGP R Padmanabhan. Several opposition parties and organisation have slammed Disha's arrest, alleging that it is an attack on democracy and accusing the government of trying to silence its critics. Many of them have also cited her young age to attack the police. The representation to the President said, "It is sickening to note that a few Indian citizens have actively engaged with banned elements and organisations who coordinated and perfected a plan to organise protests in front of all Indian embassies, high commissions and consul-general offices in leading cities in the USA, Canada, the United Kingdom and Europe to defame the Indian government... "They have not only attempted to undermine the confidence the Indian expatriate community and PIOs have in the present government but also tried to mislead elected representatives of these foreign governments which is clearly an act prejudicial to friendly relations of our nation with these countries and amounts to an illegal act." The group of people asserted that her age is immaterial to the case as she is an adult and claimed that it has now been well established that she has been conspiring with banned anti-national elements and persons who were acting in a manner that would adversely affect the friendly relations with foreign countries and create unrest affecting the public order in our country. The very fact that she had allegedly deleted the WhatsApp group messages on coming to know that the police had got the clue about its content clearly proves that the accused was aware of illegal actions, they alleged. They urged the central government to ensure that Delhi Police is able to do its investigation in a free and fair manner without any undue pressure from "vested interests" and to bring to book all those who allowed themselves to be used by "secessionist" forces in India and abroad. The police have adhered to legal formalities in the case, they said, adding that the arrest and the procedural aspects are in public domain and open to judicial scrutiny. A democratically-elected government has constitutionally passed the farm laws and is conscious about its duty towards the people of India, they said. "Few immature individuals with vested interests are making attempts to magnify the legal action by the police to hide their anti-national activities by making such baseless allegations and indulging in slander against the Delhi Police to demoralise them," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cops-members-of-judiciary-write-to-president-slam-those-criticising-disha-ravis-arrest-953113.html
19-02-2021||National||India to focus on counterterrorism cooperation at BRICS||India will focus on reform of multilateral system and counterterrorism cooperation when it will host the next summit of the BRICS later this year, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated on Friday. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday launched the BRICS 2021 website at the MEA headquarters at Sushma Swaraj Bhavan in New Delhi. The BRICS – a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – is celebrating its 15th anniversary this year. India at present holds the chair of the five-nation bloc and will focus on strengthening collaboration through “continuity, consolidation and consensus”, the MEA spokesperson, Anurag Srivastava, said. “The priorities for BRICS during the year include reform of the multilateral system, counter terrorism cooperation, technological and digital solutions for sustainable development goals and enhancing people-to-people cooperation”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will host Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa for the BRICS summit, which is likely to be held later this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-focus-on-counterterrorism-cooperation-at-brics-953116.html
19-02-2021||National||Modi govt’s reforms will make country economic superpower; BJP's biggest achievement is good governance: Anurag Thakur||Various reforms being implemented by the Narendra Modi government will make the country an economic superpower, Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Singh Thakur said here on Friday. Addressing the concluding session of the state BJP Executive Committee meeting here, Thakur also urged the party workers and leaders to apprise people of the achievements of the Modi government. “The Modi government is committed to make India an economic superpower and shape the future of 135 crore countrymen,” said Thakur. “To make India a $5-trillion economy and self-reliant, the Modi government has undertaken major reforms in areas of coal, mineral, power, defence, civil aviation, social infrastructure, space and atomic energy. These steps will create a strong, capable and prosperous India of the future,” said Thakur. The Union minister of finance added that the BJP's “biggest achievement is good governance and corruption-free government.” Thakur said the budget this year is aimed at increasing opportunities for development and openings for youths besides developing new areas for infrastructure and technology. The government has tried to bring new reforms in this budget, he added. “It is a great budget brought in the time of pandemic and its objective is to make India a five-trillion-dollar economy and bring it to the world's largest economy," he added. Speaking on the occasion, Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur thanked the Union government for providing an interest-free loan worth Rs 450 crore to the state. He also thanked the Finance Commission for recommending Rs 1000 crore for Green Field Airport Mandi and Rs 400 crore for the expansion of Gaggal airport in Kangra district. Giving credit to party workers’ hard work and dedication for the BJP’s landslide victory in Lok Sabha elections, byelections to Vidhan Sabha and thereafter victory of BJP-supported candidates in PRIs and ULBs polls, the chief minister said the Covid-19 has also affected the organisational work of the party. He said steps would be taken to work with greater dedication to strengthening the party at the grass-root level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-s-reforms-will-make-india-economic-superpower-bjps-biggest-achievement-is-good-governance-anurag-thakur-953118.html
19-02-2021||National||'Toolkit' case: Whatever in public domain can't be part of public record, Disha tells Delhi High Court||Environmental activist Disha Ravi on Friday contended before Delhi High Court that her alleged WhatsApp messages may be in the public domain but they could not become part of public record. "The difference between 'public records’ and 'records in public' domain has to be maintained. The fact that the WhatsApp messages may be in the public domain does not make them a part of the public record," senior advocate Akhil Sibal submitted before Justice Pratibha M Singh. Maintaining that her privacy must be maintained, the counsel said after her arrest during the process of investigation, various messages were leaked by the police to the media, resulting in a large number of programmes, news bulletins and online dissemination of various private messages. The court, which asked TV channels to telecast only authentic information, told Delhi Police to stick to the Ministry of Home Affairs's office memorandum on press briefings. Disha's counsel apprehended that various messages were leaked by the police to the media. He sought a direction that the alleged WhatsApp conversation ought to be removed from the public domain and the police should be directed not to disseminate anything, which was not part of the public record. Media houses ought to be directed to comply with the programme code, he said. Delhi Police, for their part, said that the allegations that the information or investigation data was leaked, were false and incorrect. TV channel, India Today, submitted that the petitioner herself does not seems to be alleging that the WhatsApp messages were false or incorrect and cannot be attributable to her. "If that is the position, the broadcasting of the WhatsApp messages which are correct cannot be complained of," the counsel said. Times Now's counsel said all the information was in the public domain and the broadcast of tweets by Delhi Police with regard to the investigation cannot be termed as objectionable. He said the right of privacy of the petitioner would be restricted only by the public interest which has to be "overwhelming" as per the judgment of the Supreme Court in K S Puttaswamy case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-whatever-in-public-domain-cant-be-part-of-public-record-disha-tells-delhi-high-court-953125.html
19-02-2021||National||Centre likely to do away with fare bands for air travel as traffic picks up||The Centre is likely to scrap fare bands as domestic air travel picks up pace in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri told a parliamentary panel that air traffic has now reached three lakh per day - nearing pre-Covid levels and is set to rise further in the summer. “In the summer schedule, as domestic traffic would increase more, the fare bands and some other restrictions are likely to be done away with,” the minister told a meeting of the parliamentary consultative committee on civil aviation. As the government reopened domestic civil aviation in May last year after lockdown, it had imposed seven fare bands specifying a lower and a higher limit for prices of air tickets. The minister said the fare bands – an extraordinary measure – were introduced to ensure that airlines do not sell cheap tickets in a cut-throat market as also to check unusually high prices in the face of limited availability. Last week, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had revised the fare bands with effect from April 1 in the range of 10%-12% with the limit on maximum fare raised by 30%. For routes with a flight time between 90 and 120 minutes, the lower fare cap has been increased to Rs 3,900 from Rs 3,500, whereas the cap on maximum chargeable fare has been increased to Rs 13,000 from Rs 10,000. Routes like Varanasi-Jaipur, Ahmedabad-Kolkata, Bengaluru-Bhopal and Delhi-Bhubaneshwar among others fall under this category. According to DGCA figures, domestic airlines ferried 77.3 lakh passengers in January, an increase of 5.3% over the previous month. However, the figures were almost 40% lower than the number of passengers the airlines had ferried in January 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic had not reached India yet. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, scheduled domestic operations were suspended from March 25, 2020, which were subsequently resumed in a calibrated manner from May 25, 2020, with fare capping (lower and upper limit) to ensure that airlines do not charge excessive fares and the journey is performed only for essential purposes. The order for capping of fare is valid up to March 31, 2021. The domestic scheduled operations at present have been opened up to 80% of the Summer Schedule 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-likely-to-do-away-with-fare-bands-for-air-travel-as-traffic-picks-up-953126.html
19-02-2021||National||Agriculture ministry permits use of drones for remote sensing data collection||The agriculture ministry has been permitted to use drones for remote sensing data collection under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). "The Ministry of Civil Aviation and Directorate General of Civil Aviation have granted conditional exemption for Remotely Piloted Aircraft System (RPAS) usage to Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (MoAFW)," an official statement said on Friday. This will allow MoAFW to use drones for remote sensing data collection in agricultural areas of 100 districts of the country for gram panchayat level yield estimation, under PMFBY. The conditional exemption will be valid for one year from the date of issue of the permission letter or until the operationalisation of the Digital Sky Platform, whichever is earlier, the statement by the civil aviation ministry said. This exemption shall be valid only if all conditions and limitations are strictly adhered to, it said. While conditional exemption has been given to MoAFW, it still needs to obtain necessary clearances from the local administration, the defence ministry, home ministry, Indian Air Force and Airports Authority of India, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agriculture-ministry-permits-use-of-drones-for-remote-sensing-data-collection-953128.html
19-02-2021||National||Republic Day violence was not due to intelligence failure, says Delhi Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Friday said the violence that broke out on Republic day was not due to intelligence failure and alleged that the farmers protesting the three agri laws had betrayed their trust by not following pre-decided routes during the tractor parade. He said there were apprehensions which is why barricades were placed and the farmers were stopped. He said 152 people have been arrested so far in connection with the violence that took place in the national capital on Republic day. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died on that day. Responding to a question during the annual press conference of the Delhi Police about the possibility of an intelligence failure on January 26, Shrivastava said "there was no intelligence failure." "We had been holding talks with them (farmers). We had permitted them to take out the tractor rally. As per the agreement, certain terms and conditions were laid down and they were given designated routes to take out their tractor parade. "But they betrayed the trust of Delhi Police and resorted to violence. The police discharged its duties very well," he said He further added that the farmer leaders have also responded to the notices served on them by the Delhi Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-was-not-due-to-intelligence-failure-says-delhi-police-chief-953139.html
19-02-2021||National||India successfully test fires Helina, Dhruvastra anti-tank guided missiles||India on Friday successfully test fired indigenously-developed anti-tank guided missile systems 'Helina' and 'Dhruvastra', paving their induction into the Army and the Indian Air Force respectively, officials said. The defence ministry described the missiles as one of the most-advanced anti-tank weapons in the world. The missiles were test fired at Pokhran deserts in Rajasthan. "The system has all-weather day-and-night capability and can defeat battle tanks with conventional armour as well as with explosive reactive armour. It is one of the most-advanced anti-tank weapons in the world," the ministry said. It said five missions were carried out for evaluating the capabilities of the missiles in minimum and maximum range. "The missiles were fired in hover and max forward flight against realistic static and moving targets. Some missions were carried out with warheads against derelict tanks. A mission was carried out against a moving target from a forward flying helicopter," the ministry said in a statement. The 'Helina' and 'Dhruvastra' are third generation anti-tank guided missiles that can engage targets both in direct hit mode as well as top attack mode. The ministry said the joint user trials of Helina (the Army version) and Dhruvastra (IAF version) have been carried out from Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) platform. The missile systems have been designed and developed indigenously by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO, the Army and Indian Air Force on successful conduct of the user trials. DRDO Chairman G Satheesh Reddy appreciated the efforts of teams involved in the successful trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-successfully-test-fires-helina-dhruvastra-anti-tank-guided-missiles-953143.html
19-02-2021||National||DMK petitions TN Guv again alleging corruption against AIADMK ministers||The DMK on Friday submitted the second list of alleged scams involving five AIADMK ministers and a party MLA, to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit and sought appropriate action against them. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan said "we furnished a list of graft charges containing nine complaints, with evidence against five ministers and a legislator. The Governor assured us he would take appropriate action in accordance with the powers vested upon him by the Constitution." Duraimurugan, who handed over the list, was accompanied by party leaders, including R S Bharathi and T R Baalu, told reporters that the Governor informed them that he had already forwarded to the Union Home Minister, the list of corruption charges given by their party president M K Stalin "No chance," Duraimurugan shot back when asked if the DMK would come out with a third list. "There is no chance for it because by that time, this government will not be in power," he said. Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are expected to be held in April-May. The DMK had petitioned the Governor on December 22 last year, alleging graft charges against Chief Minister K Palaniswami and seven of his Cabinet colleagues and seeking action against them under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The CM had rubbished the charges and accused the DMK of seeking cheap publicity by peddling lies and slander.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-petitions-tn-guv-again-alleging-corruption-against-aiadmk-ministers-953144.html
19-02-2021||National||Air Fest to commemorate victory in 1971 war against Pakistan held in Tamil Nadu||The Air Force Station at Sulur here on Friday hosted Air Fest 2021 to mark the 50th year of the nation's victory in the war against Pakistan in 1971, resulting in the liberation of Bangladesh. With college and school students in attendance, the fest began with an air show of coordinated aerobatic display. The first event was the flying of the indigenously developed light combat aircraft (LCA) Tejas followed by an operational display by An-32 transport aircraft and Mi-17 V5 helicopters. The show concluded with the world famous aerobatic teams of Suryakiran and Sarang exhibiting manoeuvres involving split-second reactions and extreme mastery, an official press release said. This was followed by a static display of various aircraft with their armament and equipment, as Swarnim Vijay Varsh (50th year) commemorative celebration in 2021 was special for the Indian armed forces, the release said. "We are very proud of our heritage and the active participation of two of our units in the 1971 war. The only Param Vir Chakra recipient of Indian Air Force Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhom is from the squadron located at Sulur," Air Commodore Samir J Pendse, Air Officer Commanding of Air Force Station, Sulur, said. An-21 squadron presently at Sulur was a key participant in the historic Tangail Drop of 1971 which proved vital in the defeat of Pakistan and also flew General Niazi from Dacca to Kolkata after the 1971 surrender, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-fest-to-commemorate-victory-in-1971-war-against-pakistan-held-in-tamil-nadu-953147.html
19-02-2021||National||Unnao deaths case: Two arrested in connection with death of 2 teenage girls, says Uttar Pradesh Police||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Friday held two people in connection with the death of two teenage girls at an Unnao village, a senior official said. Another victim in the case battling for life at a hospital. One of the accused held in the case is a teenager, according to police. “Vinay and a teenager have been held in connection with the case. The matter is a fallout of one-side love affair. The accused gave some pesticide with water to the three girls," Lucknow Range IG Laxmi Singh told reporters here. Earlier in the day, the last rites of the two teenage girls found dead in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of the Asoha police station area were performed amid tight security arrangements, officials said. Three girls -- aged 16, 15 and 14 -- were found in the field by some villagers on Wednesday night. They had left their home to bring fodder for cattle. Apart from Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, police have slapped Section 201 against the accused for causing disappearance of evidence on a complaint of a victim’s father, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unnao-deaths-case-two-arrested-in-connection-with-death-of-2-teenage-girls-says-uttar-pradesh-police-953148.html
19-02-2021||National||India looking forward to substantial Russian investments in Make-in-India projects: Shringla||India is looking forward to substantial Russian investments in the Make-in-India projects, including in defence, railways and petrochemical sector, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Shringla was on an official visit to Moscow from February 17-18 for the India-Russia Foreign Office Consultations. It was his first foreign trip this year. In an interview to Russian newspaper Kommersant on Thursday, Shringla said India and Russia are looking at substantial investments in each other’s energy sectors, including looking at new opportunities for supply of Russian Coking Coal for Indian steel sector. "We are also looking forward to major substantial Russian investments in the Make-in-India projects in India including in defence, railways, inland waterways, highways and petrochemical sector," he said. According to the website of the Indian embassy in Russia, the total bilateral trade between the two countries from January-September 2019 stood at USD 7.55 billion. "Intensifying the trade and economic relations has been identified as a priority area by the leaders on both sides as is clear by the revised targets of increasing bilateral investment to USD 50 billion and bilateral trade to USD 30 billion by 2025," it noted. Shringla said his discussions in Moscow confirmed the vitality of India's relations with Russia. "We have an active agenda to carry forward the decisions of the last Summit during Prime Minister Modi’s highly successful visit to Vladivostok in September 2019 at the Eastern Economic Forum where he was also the Chief Guest," the foreign secretary said. Fourteen MoUs in the fields of trade and investments, defence cooperation, road transport and cooperation in oil and gas sectors were signed during the visit of the prime minister in 2019. Annual summits, regular consultations between the Foreign Ministries, cooperation in Defence, Nuclear and Space sectors, Energy, Science & Technology are the key facets of the India-Russia relationship, Shringla noted. India has longstanding and wide-ranging cooperation with Russia in the field of defence. In March 2019 in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi, Modi had announced the JV – Indo-Russian Rifles Pvt Ltd for production of AK Series Assault Rifles at Ordnance Factory Korwa under the ‘Make-in-India’ programme. "Our people-to-people contacts are also evolving. We intend to have a special programme for cooperation with the Buddhist regions of Russia. We would be opening an Indian Energy Centre in Moscow and a Tourism Office by summer this year," Shringla said. "Most importantly, we look forward to an active bilateral schedule of meetings including a Bilateral Summit during the course of this year," he said. Addressing a meeting hosted by the Diplomatic Academy of Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Wednesday, Shringla had said India-Russia trade, amounting to USD 10.11 billion in FY 2019-2020, is far below the potential. He emphasised that India and Russia should diversify their trade basket and economic exchanges by going beyond the traditional sectors and cooperating in new areas like railways, transport and logistics, pharmaceuticals, minerals and steel that will add momentum to the bilateral ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-looking-forward-to-substantial-russian-investments-in-make-in-india-projects-shringla-953149.html
19-02-2021||National||Why are people made to pay so much for petrol when global crude oil prices are low, asks Congress||The Congress on Friday hit out at the government over fuel rates and demanded an answer from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on why people are being made to pay so much when international crude oil prices are low. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the government has become a "curse" for the people as it has imposed high taxes on petrol and diesel which is hitting the budgets of the common man in these times of pandemic and slowing economy. He claimed that the government has "looted Rs 21.50 lakh crore from the people of this country by taxing petrol and diesel ever since it came to power in May 2014". Surjewala alleged that the BJP has now become "Bhayankar Jan-loot Party" as it has raised prices of petrol and diesel since the last 11 days in a row. He said that since May 2019, the government has raised the prices of petrol and diesel 200 times or more. "The Modi government is robbing the people of the country with both hands of their hard-earned money. On one side there is an all-round inflation and on the other, there is a spurt in the prices of petrol-diesel and gas. In many parts of the country, petrol has crossed 100 and diesel has crossed 90. That is why the common public is saying that Modi ji has only one slogan, 'Hum Do, Hamare Do", he alleged at a press conference. "If the cost price of petrol is Rs 32 per litre and that of diesel is Rs 33 per litre, as per government documents, then why are we being charged Rs 100 and Rs 90 respectively for petrol and diesel. Prime Minister Modi should himself come forward and answer," he claimed. Surjewala further claimed that on May 26, 2014, when the Congress was voted out of power and the Modi government came, the price of crude oil was USD 108 per barrel and on February 19, 2021, crude oil price is USD 65 per barrel as per old companies. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said "There is a saying by Modi government that everyone is at fault for rising fuel prices except the government. Everyone is responsible, previous government, the prices, the inflation- everyone is responsible for the increase in this price except the government." "We demand that when people want more money in their hands, when common people of our country want more disposable income, when economy requires more cash in the hands of people to revive demand, you are consistently increasing the petrol and diesel prices," he said. Drawing a comparison with the situation in 2014, he said the crude oil price is 41 per cent lower today but petrol prices are 26 per cent higher. "We demand on behalf of common people of our country, agriculturists, farmers that immediately you should roll back these hikes, which you had done in last 6 years, as these are sinful activities against the common people of our country," Vallabha alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-are-people-made-to-pay-so-much-for-petrol-when-global-crude-oil-prices-are-low-asks-congress-953154.html
19-02-2021||National||India, EU express hope to forge host of bilateral cooperation arrangements||India and the European Union (EU) on Friday expressed hope to forge a host of bilateral cooperation arrangements with a view to boost bilateral trade. At a bilateral meeting with the EU, India shared structural reforms priorities of the country and various steps taken to revive economy hit by Covid-19 crisis. During the 11th India-EU Macroeconomic dialogue held virtually, the EU informed about the economic challenges and outlook of their economy due to the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and their recovery plan. "The dialogue concluded with the hope that both sides would be able to build stronger and deeper relations by entering into various bilateral cooperation arrangements which are of mutual interest to both sides," an official statement said. Both sides have been negotiating on the Bilateral Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) for many years but still not reached a consensus. The European Union is seeking greater market access for its automobiles, wines and spirits, and have raised concerns over high duties by India. The Indian side, led by Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj, shared fiscal policy response and medium-term fiscal strategy including financial/structural reforms priorities. "India shared its policy response to Covid-19 crisis and steps taken to revive the economy from Covid-19 impact including well calibrated stimulus packages announced by the Government of India as also the vaccination-related efforts," an official statement said. The delegation from the EU was led by Maarten Verwey, director general (economic and financial affairs) of European Commission, who informed about the economic challenges and outlook of their economy due to the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the recovery plan. "India-EU relationship has evolved into a multifaceted partnership. Today, it covers all dimensions — political, economic, security, trade and investment, environment, research and innovation," it said. The 27-member EU is one of our largest trading partners, one of the largest investors in India and an important source for technology, innovation and best practices. The dialogue also covered sharing of their experiences to enable both sides on various aspects such as collaboration in the G20 on finance track matters, including through G20 Framework Working Group deliverables, and international taxation of digital economy, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eu-express-hope-to-forge-host-of-bilateral-cooperation-arrangements-953162.html
19-02-2021||National||Oppn spreading false propaganda about farm laws: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday accused the opposition parties of spreading false propaganda about the contentious farm laws and said they were protesting only to benefit middlemen. Addressing the traders' cell of Tamil Nadu BJP here, she also said those who were causing hindrance to the progress of the growth of Tamil Nadu were now criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government at the Centre. "How can one answer to a false propaganda that through the farmer's law a farmer could lose his land?", she asked, referring to the protests demanding repeal of the laws. She said that they were opposing the laws only to benefit middle men. In an apparent counter to the repeated attack by DMK that Tamil Nadu's interests had been neglected by the Centre, she said: "We are not those who are standing as an obstacle in the progress of a state. Tamil Nadu should develop." Tamil Nadu required good governance, she added. Noting that there was not even one Parliamentarian representing Tamil Nadu in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's cabinet, she said, despite that he was executing various development projects for the welfare of the state. Referring to the ambitious Defence corridor project in the state, she said Uttar Pradesh was now looking at Tamil Nadu on how they can compete with it in the production of defence parts. "This is called a healthy competition. When this happens, every state progresses. We are not doing any politics that pose an obstacle in the progress of a state," the Finance Minister said. Pointing to the announcement by Modi that the Centre has accepted the Devendrakula Vellalar community to be listed only by their collective, traditional name of 'Devendrakula Vellalar" and not by the names of seven sub-sects, she said it was the BJP that gave prominent posts in government to those belonging to all communities. Which other party gave prominent posts in the government to those who were not belonging to any "forward castes", she asked, slamming the opposition parties for indulging in 'irresponsible politics'. Sitharaman said several BJP leaders such as former state unit chief L Ganesan visited every nook and corner of the state for the growth of the party. "Even at that time (when the party was not in power) we did not forget the people of Tamil Nadu, even today (when we are in power) we did not forget the people of Tamil Nadu (in announcing development projects for the state)", she said. The senior BJP leader claimed the opposition parties in the state were in a state of fear as they could not take on the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the state, where assembly elections are due in the next few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppn-spreading-false-propaganda-about-farm-laws-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-953166.html
19-02-2021||National||Gujarat HC rejects plea seeking simultaneous counting of votes for two elections||Gujarat High Court on Friday rejected a petition filed by Congress leaders against the State Election Commission's decision of counting votes for municipal corporations before polls for district panchayats, taluka panchayat and municipalities are over. The petitioners had argued that such a move would influence the voters and "hamper the concept of free and fair election." The division bench of the high court while rejecting the plea noted, "It is possible, and to a certain extent quite obvious, that the result of one part of the election may have its own influence on the second part of the election, but that by itself would not be sufficient to say that the election is not free and fair. It all depends on the individual voters how they look at it." Refusing the relief to the petitioners, the bench said that had there been "credible material" to indicate that the commission was not acting independently, the court would have interfered "unhesitatingly." "...it is not permissible for this court to take a view that the election programme declared by the State Election Commission is tainted with malafide or the same has been fixed at the instance of the ruling party in power, merely on the basis of the perception a common man carries in his mind about the independence of the State Election Commission," the order noted. The bench referred to a paper which stated that voting behaviour in India is "very complex and unpredictable", and charisma, caste, religion, money, language, ideology, among others, are some factors that influence voting behaviour. Polling for six corporation elections in the state will be held on February 21 and results will be declared on February 23. Voting for district panchayats, taluka panchayats and municipalities is scheduled for February 28 and results will be announced on March 2. All six corporations are BJP's stronghold while Congress has traditionally been strong in small towns and villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-simultaneous-counting-of-votes-for-two-elections-953169.html
19-02-2021||National||Intensified Mission Indradhanush 3.0 to focus on children, pregnant women who missed vaccination during Covid-19||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan launched Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 3.0 with a focus on children and pregnant women who missed their vaccine doses during the Covid-19 pandemic. IMI 3.0 will have two rounds starting from February 22 and March 22 and will be conducted in 250 pre-identified districts and urban areas across 29 states and Union territories. "Focus of IMI 3.0 will be the children and pregnant women who have missed their vaccine doses during the Covid-19 pandemic. They will be identified and vaccinated during the two rounds of IMI 3.0. Each round will be for 15 days.  Beneficiaries from migration areas and hard-to-reach areas will be targeted as they may have missed their vaccine doses during Covid-19," the health ministry said in a statement. Vardhan noted that IMI 3.0 will build on the gains of the previous phases of the campaign and make lasting gains towards universal immunisation. Since its first phase, Mission Indradhanush has covered 690 districts and vaccinated over 3.76 crore children and 94.6 lakh pregnant women, he said, adding, "The present eighth campaign will target achieving 90 per cent Full Immunisation Coverage (FIC) in all districts of the country, sustain the coverage through the immunisation system strengthening and foster India's march towards the sustainable development goals." Mission Indradhanush was launched in 2014 to provide affordable and accessible healthcare to all citizens of the country, the health minister said. According to the guidelines released for IMI 3.0, there are 313 low-risk, 152 medium-risk and 250 high-risk districts. "The country has successfully been able to contain Covid-19 and the drive for two indigenous vaccines is being carried out. With this, the importance of a vaccine has never been so strongly felt. "Every year, the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) caters to the vaccination needs of 2.65 crore children and 2.9 crore pregnant women against 12 vaccine preventable diseases. Despite these efforts by all the states and Union territories, some children and pregnant women get missed out from this network," Vardhan said. Mission Indradhanush aims to reach out to every dropped out and left out child and pregnant woman. There has been remarkable improvement in the immunisation coverage, which is also evident in the NFHS-5 data as available for 22 states, he added. On the massive push to provide affordable healthcare facilities to the last citizen, the minister observed that implementing large campaigns like IMI 3.0 even during the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines is a clear indication of India's health system getting stronger day by day. "IMI 3.0 aims to reach the unreached population with all the available vaccines under the UIP and thereby, accelerate the full immunisation coverage of children and pregnant women," he said. Vardhan also detailed the provisions in the Union Budget that lay high priority on health and well-being.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intensified-mission-indradhanush-30-to-focus-on-children-pregnant-women-who-missed-vaccination-during-covid-19-953174.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||Some media coverage of FIR against Disha Ravi sensational, prejudicial, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed TV channels to exercise proper editorial control to see that the ongoing investigation in the toolkit case was not hampered, as recent press coverage following the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru showed 'sensationalism'. The court also asked the Delhi police to abide by the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines of April 1, 2019, on sharing details of the investigation in the case. "The print and electronic media play a very important role in ensuring that there is no sensationalism and that they adhere to responsible journalism. While police briefings and the happenings in court proceedings, etc can also be broadcast and disseminated, leaked investigation material ought not to be disseminated so as to prejudice the investigation," a single-judge bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said. In a related development, 22-year-old Disha was produced before a Delhi court after five-day of custodial interrogation. The court sent her to three-day judicial custody on a request by the police. Her bail plea is scheduled to come up for a hearing before the sessions court on Saturday. In an interim order on a plea by Disha to restrain the media, the High Court said the right to privacy, the sovereignty and integrity of the country, and freedom of speech need to be balanced. "Media houses shall also ensure that the telecast/broadcast by them is from verified/authenticated sources, though the sources need not be revealed," it said, pointing out regulation of content in print and electronic media has been a very contested issue across the world and India is no exception to it. However, the police or other investigation authorities would be, entitled to conduct their briefings, so long as no rights of the petitioner are violated, the court further said. It also said if the charge sheet was filed and made public, dissemination of information cannot be interdicted. The Delhi Police, led by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, for its part, claimed that it has not leaked anything in media. It claimed an attempt was being made to malign the investigating agency. Disha was arrested on February 13 from Bengaluru for allegedly editing a toolkit document to gather support in social media on farmers' protest. She sought a direction to restrain TV channels from publishing alleged WhatsApp chats with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, in order to protect her right to privacy, reputation and fair trial. The court also took on record an assurance by Disha's counsel, senior advocate Akhil Sibal that the petitioner or any other person directly associated with her would not intend to indulge in any kind of maligning of the police or the investigating authorities. Sibal contended half-baked and speculative information was leaked by the police. The court, while refraining to direct TV channels News 18, Times Now and India Today to take down "objectionable contents", posted the matter for a detailed hearing on March 17 for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-media-coverage-of-fir-against-disha-ravi-sensational-prejudicial-says-hc-952941.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate 'Hunar Haat' in Delhi on Feb 21||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will on Sunday inaugurate the 26th edition of 'Hunar Haat' that will bring together indigenous artisans and craftsmen from across the country at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ports, Shipping and Waterways  Mansukh Mandaviya will be the chief guest during the inaugural programme of the 'Hunar Haat' and Lok Sabha MP Meenakshi Lekhi will be present on the occasion as the guest of honour, an official statement said. The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs is organising the 'Hunar Haat' on the theme of "Vocal for Local" from February 20 to March 1 2021. The 'Hunar Haat' will be officially inaugurated on February 21. More than 600 artisans and craftsmen from more than 31 States and Union Territories are participating in the 'Hunar Haat', Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said. Artisans and craftsmen from Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, and several other states and UTs are participating in 'Hunar Haat' to display and sell their exquisite indigenous handmade products. Naqvi said indigenous handmade products from every corner of the country would be available under one roof at 'Hunar Haat'. The visitors will also enjoy traditional delicacies from every region of the country at a "Bawarchikhana" section. Besides, the people will also enjoy various cultural and musical programmes to be presented by renowned artists of the country at the 'Hunar Haat' in New Delhi. The people will get a feel of the strength of the country's "unity in diversity" at the 'Hunar Haat', Naqvi said. The 'Hunar Haat', which is a "perfect platform" to promote indigenous products of artisans and craftsmen from across the country, has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than five lakh artisans, craftsmen and artists yet, he said. The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will provide employment and employment opportunities to 7,50,000 artisans and craftsmen through 75 'Hunar Haat' which will be organised by the completion of 75 years of the country's independence in 2022, Naqvi said. The 'Hunar Haat' is available on virtual and online platform http://hunarhaat.org and on GeM (Government e-Marketplace) Portal also where the people of the country and those from abroad can buy products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen online, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-hunar-haat-in-delhi-on-feb-21-952980.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||Efforts were made to ensure people forget Netaji’s legacy: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said that efforts were made to make people forget the legacy and sacrifices of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose but even then his courage, patriotism, unflinching loyalty and service to the nation continued to inspire generations. “Efforts were made to ensure that people forget the legacy and sacrifices of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. But they turned out to be futile. Netaji’s courage, patriotism, unflinching loyalty and selfless service to the nation continue to inspire generations,” said Shah. He was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the ‘Shauryanjali Programme’ at the National Library in Kolkata organised to pay homage to the revolutionaries of West Bengal. Lauding Netaji for choosing to fight for his country over a comfortable service life after cracking the ICS, Shah said if Netaji chose his career over his country then the people would not have the opportunity to be proud of the “glorious history” of the Indian National Army (INA). He said that despite being a brilliant student Netaji left the job even after successfully clearing the ICS to make the point that the nation should be one’s top priority over everything. “People’s love and respect for Netaji is still the same as it was many years ago. His indomitable spirit is a source of inspiration to many,” said Shah. He also said that it was Bengal where Netaji formed the INA which waged war against the British Empire. Shah said that Netaji’s popularity became evident when he was elected as the Congress president twice and at one time even by defeating the candidate of Mahatama Gandhi. Urging the youth to enrich themselves by reading about Netaji’s life and legacy, Shah said that only a young generation that knows about history can build a strong nation. The Home Minister inaugurated the ‘Biplabi Bangla’ exhibition held to pay tribute to freedom fighters of Bengal like Rash Behari Bose and Khudiram Bose and flagged off a cycle rally. Cyclists of three teams named after Netaji, Rash Behari Bose and Khudiram Bose will travel about 900 kilometres to spread knowledge about the freedom fighters. Shah’s comments come at a time when the BJP and Trinamool Congress (TMC) are engaged in a tug-of-war over appropriating Netaji’s legacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/efforts-were-made-to-ensure-people-forget-netaji-s-legacy-amit-shah-952984.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||EVs usage should be made mandatory for all govt officials: Gadkari||Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday pledged to convert all vehicles in his ministry to EVs and urged other departments to follow suit in a bid to cut India's oil import dependence. The minister has also suggested providing subsidy to buy electric cooking appliances rather than giving support to buy expensive imported gas for cooking. Back of envelop calculation by the minister indicate that using 10,000 electric vehicles in Delhi alone can save Rs 30 crore every month. Besides, he stressed on electric cooking which is also cheaper than imported gas. Addressing at the launch Go Electric campaign, Gadkari said, "Why don’t we provide subsidy on electric cooking appliances. We already provide subsidy on cooking gas." He was of the view that electricity cooking is clean and will also reduces import dependence for gas. Gadkari suggested that use of electric vehicles should be made mandatory for all government officials. He informed that one electric vehicles save almost Rs 30,000 per month on fuel cost which comes to around Rs 30 crore a month for 10,000 vehicles. He said if 10,000 electric vehicles were used by officials in Delhi, then Rs 30 crore per month can be saved. He further urged Power Minister R K Singh to make is mandatory to use electric vehicles for officials in his department saying he will do so for his departments. On this occasion, Singh also announced that a fuelcell bus service will be launched from Delhi to Agra and Delhi to Jaipur soon. Singh said, "We are going to start a premium bus services using fuelcell electric vehicles from Delhi to Jaipur and Delhi to Agra... totally premium… We will advertise (about) it and increase its (frequency)." He said, "Our vision is 'Go Electric and Green The Electricity'. So bring more and more sector to electricity. Mobility is one and cooking is another. Move away from firewood and gas. It (electricity) is cheaper than gas... that is the way to go... not the imported gas." He suggested a trajectory where five years down the line, no busses would be allowed in India unless they were electric; and four years down, all three-wheelers turn electric. About the Hydrogen Energy Mission announced in the Budget-2021, the minister stated, "We are going for green hydrogen bids in four to five month. We already have discussion with ministries of petroleum, steel and fertilisers." He informed about the government's plan to replace 10 per cent of imported ammonia with green ammonia. He said, "We can add 10 per cent hydrogen in our gas. This will increase calorific value and reduce our (gas) imports. We can put a mandate that 10 per cent imported hydrogen for refining would be replaced by green hydrogen." Noting the green hydrogen is expensive at present, he stated that green hydrogen would be cheaper in next three years just like it happened with renewables. He cited the instance of solar energy where tariff dipped from Rs 15 per unit to Rs 1.99 per unit. Later in a media interaction, he told that gone are the days for 'Licences Raaj' in electricity distribution business in the country as it would soon be de-licensed. The minister told that this would enable the consumer to choose from multiple electricity service providers in their area. At present, either private or state-run, the electricity distribution utilities are monopolies and consumers have no option to change services providers. Singh also informed that the average increase in power demand was 10.5 per cent from October 2020 to January 2021 and the power demand grew at over 13 per cent in October, 2020. Thus, the power demand growth would be even higher when economy picks up pace (post pandemic), he added. He was of view that India's imports of petroleum should reduce. About the import of gas in the country, he stated it is not a path to Aatmanirbhar Bharat and India needs to reduce import of gas. The Go Electric campaign is launched on Friday to spread awareness on the benefits of e-mobility and EV Charging infrastructure in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/evs-usage-should-be-made-mandatory-for-all-govt-officials-gadkari-952988.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||Lalu's wait to walk out of jail prolongs as court rejects his bail application in Dumka case||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday rejected Lalu Prasad's bail application in a fodder scam case, dashing the RJD president's chance of immediate release from jail. Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh turned down Prasad's bail request in the Dumka treasury case, an offshoot of the multi- crore rupees fodder scam. The court said since the RJD supremo has to serve two more months in jail to complete half of the tenure of his total sentence in the case, the bail plea is not granted and asked us to file a fresh application after two months,Prasad's lawyer Prabhat Kumar said. Prasad has already acquired bail in three out of the four cases of the fodder scam in which he has been convicted and acceptance of his request in the case related to illegal withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from the Dumka treasury could have helped him come out of the jail. The court was also slated to hear another matter relating to violation of jail manuals by Prasad, but it could not do so because of paucity of time and posted it for next hearing on February 26. On direction of the court, the Ranchi based RIMs has submitted reply on health of imprisoned RJD leader and also sending him to AIIMS Delhi . The RJD chief was airlifted to AIIMS Delhi on January 23 last. The hearing into the RJD chief's bail application went for 2.5 hours. Prasad's lawyer Kapil Sibal, who participated in the hearing virtually from Delhi, argued that his client has spent 42 months while CBI contented that he has completed 37 months and 19 days and hence bail should not be provided. The court after perusing papers related to the claims of both the sides concluded that Prasad has spent 40 months of sentence in the case. The court asked him to file a fresh application after two months. A special CBI court in Ranchi had in March 2018 sent Prasad to 14 years in jail and fined Rs 60 lakh in the fourth fodder scam case pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of money from Dumka treasury in the early 1990s. CBI judge Shiv Pal Singh had awarded two separate sentences of seven years each to Prasad under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Corruption Acts. Both the sentences will have to be served consecutively. In the first fodder scam case, dating back to 2013, the RJD supremo was convicted for illegal withdrawal of Rs 37.7 crore from the Chaibasa treasury. He got five years' prison term in the case following which he was disqualified from the Lok Sabha. In Patna, Prasad's family members as well as party leaders were glued to their TV screens waiting for the good news from Ranchi. But, their hope did not come true. RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav said outside Rabri Devi's residence in Patna that they were hopeful of an ailing Lalu ji getting bail and coming back home. "We have high regards for the judiciary and accept the court's verdict," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lalus-wait-to-walk-out-of-jail-prolongs-as-court-rejects-his-bail-application-in-dumka-case-953044.html
19-02-2021||National Politics||BJP always holds victim responsible for rape, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Citing a media report on a brutal assault on a woman in Madhya Pradesh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that the BJP always holds the victim responsible for rape and shows laxity in taking action against culprits. Gandhi's attack on the BJP came over a media report in which a 24-year-old woman talks about a brutal assault on her in Bhopal by a man, which has left her grievously injured. She also alleged that the police was showing laxity in nabbing the perpetrator of the crime. "Bhopal rape victim is miles away from justice even after one month because the BJP always holds the victim responsible for rape and shows laxity in taking action which benefits the culprits," the former Congress chief alleged in a tweet in Hindi. "This is the truth of the government's 'Beti Bachao'," Gandhi said, taking a dig at the Centre's slogan 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-always-holds-victim-responsible-for-rape-alleges-rahul-gandhi-953205.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Disengagement process in eastern Ladakh in final phase: Top defence officials tell Parliamentary panel||The disengagement process between India and China in eastern Ladakh is in final stages and on the brink of completion, top officials of the country's defence establishment on Thursday told a parliamentary panel during a meeting, which sources said turned "stormy" amid several questions asked by opposition members including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, top officials from the three armed forces and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar on Thursday deposed before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence chaired by BJP leader Jual Oram. The meeting witnessed an argument between Oram and Gandhi when the Congress leader asked some specific questions to the officials deposing before the panel, which the chairman felt was not on the agenda of the meeting, sources said. The agenda of the meeting was to examine demands for grants of the defence ministry in this year's budget. In the presentation before the panel, officials informed that Indian Air Force (IAF) for the year is planning to acquire Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Avro transport aircraft replacement, upgrade of UAV systems, Harop (P-IV), Avionics upgrade of IL-76, IL-78 among others, according to sources. The committee was also informed that the 83 Tejas aircraft, acquisition of which was approved by Union Cabinet last month, will be inducted in four squadrons. Induction of these aircraft would augment the present overall fighter squadron strength of IAF and would partially offset the phasing out of MiG-21 and MiG-27 squadrons, sources said. Responding to members' question, top officers from armed forces also informed the panel that the disengagement between armed forces of India and China in eastern Ladakh is in final stages and on the brink of completion, sources in the panel said. Earlier in a statement given to both Houses of Parliament during the first part of the Budget Session, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had said India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Singh had also assured that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/disengagement-process-in-eastern-ladakh-in-final-phase-top-defence-officials-tell-parliamentary-panel-952863.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Terrorists still retain ability of attack in J&K: Army||A top army officer on Thursday said the terrorists operating in Jammu and Kashmir still retain the ability to carry out attacks despite improvement in the overall security indicators and reduction in estimates of terrorist numbers to nearly 200 in the Union Territory. General Officer Commanding, Chinar Corps, Lt Gen B S Raju also said the edifice of counter-terror operations still requires a grid deployment to ensure security to the citizens residing in Jammu and Kashmir. "Overall, the security indicators have improved. However, the terrorists still retain the ability for a terror act," Lt Gen Raju told the foreign envoys who visited the headquarters of the 15 corps at the Badami Bagh Cantonment here. The visiting envoys interacted with Lt General Raju and other senior officers including Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar. The envoys were briefed by the police and army representatives on the ground situation at the Line of Control (LoC) and in the hinterland. The police briefing included an update on the efforts on 'mainstreaming the youth' and 'policing under COVID-19 challenges' followed by an Army briefing which included a historical update and the current situation in the JK, an Army official said. He said the event concluded with a question-answer session wherein the heads of missions asked questions to Lt Gen Raju. In response to the queries, the Corps Commander elucidated the multi-pronged and integrated approach of the Indian Army and police in Jammu and Kashmir. On being asked about the status of various terror organisations, the Corps Commander shared that last year most terror organizations have experienced depletion in their strength and killing of the group leaders which has resulted in a more secure environment. He explained that despite estimates on the number of terrorists reducing to nearly 200, the edifice of counter-terror operations still requires a grid deployment to ensure security to the citizens residing in the UT. "International experiences including in Afghanistan proves the need for boots on the ground in counter-terror operations," he said. Lt Gen Raju said while grassroots politics is taking roots, the terror organisations' effort to target political workers is a worry. "It is a clear message that Pakistan-sponsored elements do not want a change to the status quo. Any activity that leads to normalization of the situation is opposed," he said. The Corps Commander also drew attention to the propaganda efforts of Pakistan and the separatists and said Kashmiri citizens have seen through the lies of the cross-border propaganda and are choosing to ignore it. On being queried about de-radicalisation efforts, the Corps Commander said the principal supporters in such efforts are the parents, society elders and friends who help in identification of youth vulnerable to radical ideology. A joint civil society and government effort is made to counsel and support such an identified youth, he said. The official said the visiting envoys expressed satisfaction at the soft policing being attempted in Jammu and Kashmir. On being queried about the role of NGOs in supporting the government's efforts, the Corps Commander said many local and national NGOs are helping the government in its efforts in JK in diverse fields including drug abuse, women empowerment and imparting skills to the youth. "The national NGOs bring in skills, technology and help in building cross regional linkages, which would prove invaluable in the long term," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-still-retain-ability-of-attack-in-jk-army-952866.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Youth Congress leader shot dead in Punjab's Faridkot||A 34-year-old youth Congress leader was allegedly shot dead in Punjab's Faridkot on Thursday evening, said police. Two unidentified men fired around 12 shots at youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Bhullar when he was standing near his car near Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot district, a police official said over the phone. Bullar was rushed to the hospital where he died during the treatment, he said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed shock over the incident and directed the state police chief to nab those who were behind this incident. The assailants fled on a motorcycle after committing the crime, said police. Bhullar was the president of the Faridkot District Youth Congress. Faridkot Senior Superintendent of Police Swarndeep Singh said no arrest has yet been made. “Investigation is going on. We have some clues,” the SSP said, adding a case was registered in this regard. The Punjab CM, meanwhile, said in a tweet, “Shocking incident of fatal attack on our Faridkot @IYCPunjab President Gurlal Singh. Have directed @DGPPunjabPolice to ensure a speedy investigation and nab the culprits responsible for this heinous act. The guilty will be severely punished.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-congress-leader-shot-dead-in-punjabs-faridkot-952873.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||If you don't know the answer, write anything in exams: Delhi's DoE to students||Delhi's Director of Education Udit Rai stoked controversy on Thursday after a video surfaced on social media in which he is purportedly asking students at a government school to "fill answer sheets with anything" during exams but not leave them blank. During his interaction with class 12 students, he said the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has been asked to give marks to students as long as they write something in their answer sheets. The Congress and the BJP targeted the Delhi government over the video while senior government officials said Rai's comments had been taken out of context. In the video, Rai is seen instructing class 12 students to "fill the answer sheets". "If you don't know the answers, write anything. Copy the questions in the answer slots but don't leave the answer sheet blank. We have spoken to your teachers and they have said that they will mark you provided something is written in the answer sheets. We have also told the CBSE that if a child writes something, they should be marked," he said. Despite repeated attempts, Rai did not comment on the video. CBSE officials also declined to comment and said the education department could "give context" to the video. A senior Delhi government official said Rai's speech had been "taken out of context". The BJP and the Congress hit out at Rai and the Delhi government over the video. Sharing the video on Twitter, Naveen Kumar, media head of Delhi BJP, said, "Did you (Rai) become an Indian Administrative Officer by writing questions instead of answers? This is the level of education in Delhi." The Delhi Congress tweeted from its official handle saying, "Kejriwal ji, what kind of education model is this? Stop playing from students' future." Ashok Aggarwal, national president at All India Parents Association, said he has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the video. "I have come across a shocking video wherein Director of Education, Delhi Government is instructing students not to leave answer sheets blank and write anything. "He also added that he had a word with CBSE that if students write even questions in the answer sheet, they will be given marks. Such a person seems undeserving to be the director of education. Please take necessary action," Aggarwal said in his letter. He also said that Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, "must take responsibility for what the DoE has done to degrade education and issue a public statement".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-you-dont-know-the-answer-write-anything-in-exams-delhis-doe-to-students-952887.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Patanjali's Coronil gets scientific boost as Ramdev releases research paper on Covid-19 medicine||Yoga guru Ramdev Baba on Friday released a scientific research paper on 'the first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 by Patanjali'.  Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari are also present at the event. Ayush Ministry certification Patanjali said Coronil has now received certification from Ayush Ministry as per the World Health Organization (WHO) certification scheme. "Coronil has received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme," said Patanjali in a statement. Under CoPP, Coronil can now be exported to 158 countries.   Commenting on the development Swami Ramdev said, Coronil will help humanity while providing affordable treatment based on naturopathy. On the basis of presented data, the Ministry of Ayush has recognised Coronil Tablet as medicine for "supporting the measure in Covid-19." Earlier, Ramdev had alleged that Patanjali Ayurved is witnessing demand of around 10 lakh packs daily for its controversial Covid-19 immunity booster medicine Coronil.  In June last year, Ramdev had claimed that Coronil can cure Covid-19 patients. However, the AYUSH Ministry immediately put restrictions on Patanjali over selling it. Later, the Union ministry confirmed that Patanjali can sell the product only as immunity booster but not as a cure for Covid-19. The Madras High Court had restrained Patanjali from using Coronil trademark till July 30, over a petition filed by a Chennai-based company. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patanjalis-coronil-gets-scientific-boost-as-ramdev-releases-research-paper-on-covid-19-medicine-952914.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||3 policemen, 3 Al-Badr militants killed in encounters in J&K||In the bloodiest day this year in Kashmir, three local militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit and three policemen were killed in separate militancy-related incidents across the Valley on Friday. Two policemen were killed after militants fired upon them indiscriminately in the uptown Barzulla area of Srinagar on Friday afternoon. Videos of the shootout have emerged, showing a militant with an assault rifle opening fire on the policemen in broad daylight near Baghat Chowk, which is barely a few meters away from Sadder police station. After firing, the militant wearing pheran (traditional gown) was seen fleeing from the spot. The two injured policemen were rushed to a hospital after they sustained bullet injuries, but were declared brought dead, police said. Earlier, three local militants were killed in Badigam village of south Kashmir’s Shopian district in a nocturnal gun battle which erupted late Thursday night. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar told reporters that all the three militants killed in Shopian were locals. “Two Ak-47 rifles and one pistol were recovered from their possession,” he said. In another encounter in central Kashmir’s Budgam district, one policeman was killed and another injured during an anti-militancy operation. The IGP said a cordon was laid in a village in Beerwah area of Budgam in the mid-night and in the initial exchange of firing, SPO Altaf Ahmed and constable Manzoor Ahmed sustained injuries. “Altaf succumbed to injuries later. There were reports of the presence of a militant Yusuf Kandroo and another foreign militant,” he said. “It seems that two militants sustained injuries in the first exchange given the blood trial that was seen up to two kilometres from the site of encounter. We have cordoned the village where the blood trail ended and searches are on,” Kumar added. Earlier on January 29, in the first encounter of 2021, three militants were killed in the volatile Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-policemen-3-al-badr-militants-killed-in-encounters-in-jk-952916.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Ladakh row: India, China to hold 10th Corps Commander-level talks on February 20||Senior military commanders from India and China would meet on Saturday for the 10th round of Corps Commander-level talks at Chushul-Moldo border point at eastern Ladakh to chalk out disengagement strategies from other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang plains. The two nations have decided to carry on with the military commander level dialogue after the Indian Army and Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have withdrawn the troops and machinery completely from southern and northern banks of the 135 km-long Pangong Tso lake, completing the disengagement process that began on February 10. Both sides also carried out verification. Sources indicated that during Saturday's talks, India will insist on faster disengagement in remaining areas to bring down the tension in the region, which has witnessed a tense standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. Though the talks would focus on all the remaining flashpoints, a resolution to the Depsang crisis is unlikely at this point since its a legacy issue. “Depsang is the area where differing perceptions are maximum. It predates the present situation. Since it is a large area, patrols from both sides face off. This is the prevailing situation. The situation is not volatile there and it has to be resolved at some point,” Lt Gen Y K Joshi, the Northern Army Commander said in an interview earlier this week. The crisis at Depsang close to the Daulat Beg Oldie airbase has its genesis in a letter that Chinese premier Zhou Enlai wrote to then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on November 7, 1959, making certain territorial claims. Though India never recognises such a claim, China reiterates it every now and then. On the contrary, the face-off at Gogra and Hot Springs— areas where the confrontation between the troops initially occurred— are likely to be resolved quickly as both sides want to send the troops back to the respective posts. Last week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told the Parliament that India and China had reached an agreement to disengage from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso and to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, China pulled back its troops to the East of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel are now at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. Similar action took place on the south bank of the lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-row-india-china-to-hold-10th-corps-commander-level-talks-on-february-20-952924.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court directs police to not leak information in toolkit case probe||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the police to ensure that there was no leakage of information on an investigation in toolkit case but refused to restrain it from holding press briefings. A single-judge bench of Justice Pratibha Singh HC also directed the TV channels to exercise proper editorial control to see that the ongoing investigation was not hampered. Passing an interim order on a plea by arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, the High Court said the right to privacy, the sovereignty and integrity of the country and the freedom of speech need to be balanced. While noting that the recent coverage by media definitely showed sensationalised reporting, the court directed the Delhi police, investigating the case, their officers abided by the April 2019 notification on press briefings. While a journalist cannot be asked to reveal their source, it has to be authentic, it added. The Delhi Police, for its part, claimed that it has not leaked anything whereas the media claims to the contrary, the court noted. Disha was arrested on February 13 from Bengaluru for allegedly editing toolkit document to elicit social media responses to farmers' protest. She sought a direction from High Court barring TV channels from publishing alleged WhatsApp chats with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, in order to protect her right to privacy, reputation and fair trial. After hearing on her petition, the court said, "The channel editors are directed to ensure that proper editorial control is exercised while disseminating information to ensure the investigation is not hampered." The court also ordered Disha to ensure that there was no indulgence to malign the police and other authorities. It posted the matter for detailed hearing on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-directs-police-to-not-leak-information-in-toolkit-case-probe-952938.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||PM Modi invokes Rabindranath Tagore's world view, asks Visva Bharati to help farmers find global markets||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday praised the world view of poet- philosopher Rabindranath Tagore and asked Visva-Bharati students to help farmers and artisans of nearby villages find global markets. He said Guru Rabindranath Tagore had not envisioned the university as a typical educational institution but one that will help Indian culture realise its full potential globally. Addressing online the convocation of Visva Bharati university that was launched by Nobel laureate Tagore in 1921 and designated the first central university in 1951, Modi said knowledge was not a "still and static but a dynamic concept". He asked the institution's students to prepare a 25-point vision document for the next 25 years that will lead all education establishments in the country to emulate it and enhance India's image globally.     "A starting point could be that the students under mentorship of teachers of this inspirational institution begin helping farmers, artisans living in villages nearby to find global markets for their products. That will be a step towards building an 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) Bharat," he said. He said West Bengal can become an example of how unity can boost national growth and progress. "Bengal is an inspiration for Ek Bharat-Shreshth Bharat campaign. Visva Bharati will play a big role in the 21st-century knowledge economy, taking Indian knowledge and identity to every corner of the world. Students should prepare a vision document for the next 25 years about the 25 biggest goals of Visva Bharati in 2047," he said. He told the gathering that with knowledge comes responsibility and the knowledge attained by the students was not theirs alone but a legacy for future generations. "Your knowledge is not only yours but society's... it is the heritage of the country. Your knowledge and skill can make a nation proud or push society into the darkness of slander and ruin," he said. Modi said some highly educated and skilled people were spreading terror and violence in the world, while others were toiling day and night to free people from a global epidemic like Covid-19. "It is not about ideology but the mindset, whether it is positive or negative," he said. Modi said it was for the students to decide whether they wanted to be part of the problem or solution, and asked them not to be afraid of taking risks. "If your intentions are clear and your loyalty is to 'Ma Bharati' (Mother India) every decision of yours will take you towards finding a solution. It's for you to decide whether you want to be a part of the problem or solution. "You may not get the results you thought you will after you had taken a decision, but you should not be afraid of making a decision," he said. The prime minister said the new National Education Policy (NEP) was a major step towards building a self-reliant India as it gave impetus to research and innovation. He said the NEP broke the old restrictions and allowed students to realise their potential, promoted entrepreneurship and self-employment, research and innovation. "This new national education policy is a major milestone in the making of an Aatmnirbhar Bharat," he said. In his speech peppered with references to Tagore, a native of Bengal but idolised by all Indians, Modi said, "Gurudev believed that we have to discover ourselves among the varied Ideologies and differences."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-invokes-rabindranath-tagores-world-view-asks-visva-bharati-to-help-farmers-find-global-markets-952939.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||J&K govt vacates illegal occupants from 7 govt buildings in Rajouri||The Jammu and Kashmir administration cracked down on illegal occupants of government buildings and vacated seven of them from encroachers in Rajouri district, officials said on Friday. A team of the district administration vacated a school building and a panchayat ghar in Rajouri town, they said. A portion of Government High School in Chowdhary Nar and a panchayat building in Dhanore Loharan were under illegal encroachment in the district. "The portion of the school building was locked by the contractor over a payment issue but the administration got it vacated and handed over the building portion to school for use," said district administration officials. A team of the district administration headed by Rajouri Tehsildar Mohammad Rafiq removed the illegal structure and got the panchayat building vacated from the illegal occupants. A total of seven government buildings, including a panchayat ghar, anganwadi centres, and schools have been vacated by the district administration headed by Rajouri Deputy Commissioner Rajesh K Shavan, they said. The Deputy Commissioner has already issued directions to all the field functionaries to identify such government buildings so that the administration can get the same vacated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-vacates-illegal-occupants-from-7-govt-buildings-in-rajouri-952942.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court declines to consider plea against Madhya Pradesh's 'Love Jihad' law||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea against a Madhya Pradesh law prohibiting religious conversion for purpose of marriages to check incidents of alleged 'Love Jihad'. The court allowed lawyer and petitioner, Vishal Thakre, to withdraw his petition. It granted him the liberty to approach Madhya Pradesh High Court in connection with his plea. A three-judge bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the counsel that a matter was already pending before the High Court.  "We would like to have the benefit of the High Court judgment," the bench said. The court had already admitted a similar plea by Thakre against such a law passed in Uttar Pradesh. Under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2020, forcing religious conversion will lead to one to five years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 25,000. Forced conversion of a minor, woman or a person from Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe, would lead to a minimum jail term of two to 10 years with a minimum penalty of Rs 50,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-against-madhya-pradeshs-love-jihad-law-952944.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Unnao deaths: Last rites of teens found dead in field performed under heavy security blanket||The last rites of two teenage girls, found dead in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of Asoha police station area, were performed here on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements. Three girls -- aged 16, 15 and 14 -- were found in a field by the villagers on Wednesday night when they did not return after leaving their house to take fodder for cattle. The local residents had rushed the teenagers, who are all related to each other, to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital and later referred to a Kanpur healthcare facility where she is presently undergoing treatment, police said. On Friday morning, the bodies of Komal (15) and Kajal (14) were buried in their agriculture fields in the presence of senior officials and police personnel in large numbers. The bodies were brought to their village after a post-mortem was done on Thursday but the last rites could not be performed on the day, police said. The district unit president of BJP Raj Kishore Rawat and local MLA Anil Singh was present during the funeral. The district administration had made elaborate arrangements with heavy deployment of security personnel and barricades being installed covering about one kilometre on the four paths reaching the village with a magistrate-level official posted at every barricade to check people. Personnel from six police stations were also deployed for cover. Director-General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi had said on Thursday, "The post-mortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies. The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis." "We are taking the help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities," the DGP had said. A medical bulletin by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl had noted that it was a suspected case of poisoning. Apart from Section 302 (murder), the FIR also lists Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code, related to causing disappearance of evidence. The case mentioning the two sections was lodged on the basis of the family's complaint, the police had stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-deaths-last-rites-of-teens-found-dead-in-field-performed-under-heavy-security-blanket-952963.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||2 policemen killed as militants open fire in Srinagar||Two policemen were killed after militants fired upon them indiscriminately in the uptown Barzulla area of Srinagar on Friday. Videos of the shootout have emerged, showing a militant with an assault rifle opening fire on the policemen in broad daylight near Baghat Chowk, which is barely a few meters away from Sadder police station. After firing, the militant wearing pheran (traditional gown) is seen fleeing from the spot. The two injured policemen were rushed to a hospital after they sustained bullet injuries, but were declared brought dead, police said. He identified the slain policemen as constables Sohail and Mohammad Yousuf. Officials informed that the area has been cordoned off while searches were launched to nab the attackers. This is the second attack in the city in the past three days. Militants shot at and injured son of a restaurant owner in high security Durganag area of the city on Wednesday. The attacks in the city have come as a 24-member delegation of envoys from various countries visited Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday for assessing the ground situation in the union territory.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-policemen-killed-as-militants-open-fire-in-srinagar-952978.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||BSF seizes heroin along Indo-Pak border in Punjab's Ferozepur||BSF sleuths on Friday seized 10 kg heroin along the Indo-Pakistan border near Gatti Hayat border outpost in Mamdot area of Punjab's Ferozepur, officials said. The BSF jawans observed some suspicious movement early morning ahead of barbed wire fencing following which they challenged the intruders, they said. The BSF jawans also fired some shots in the air following which the smugglers ran towards the Pakistani territory amid dense fog. During a search operation in the area, ten packets of heroin were recovered, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-seizes-heroin-along-indo-pak-border-in-punjabs-ferozepur-952985.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Tech used extensively to probe northeast Delhi riots: Delhi Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Friday said technology was used extensively to investigate over 750 cases related to the northeast Delhi riots that led to the arrest of over 200 people. Addressing the annual press conference at Delhi Police headquarters, Shrivastava said 755 FIRs were registered in connection with the riots and his force ensured a "free and fair" investigation. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. "You are aware of the riots which led to 53 deaths and 581 injuries. Riots reached a peak on February 24 and 25 last year. A total of 755 FIRs were registered and we made it a point that no one had a grievance that their complaint was not acknowledged," he said. He said three SITs were formed to investigate the cases. One of the cases was registered to unearth the conspiracy behind the riots, which was investigated by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police while the remaining cases were investigated by the northeast district, he said. Elaborating on the use of technology, the Delhi Police chief said 231 accused were arrested on the basis of CCTV footage. "Of them, 137 were identified through FRS (Facial Recognition System) when matched with criminal records and the remaining 94 were through driving license photographs," he said. He said the investigation team used video analytics and FRS to analyse CCTV footage to identify the accused, retried deleted data from electronic device, used geo-location to ascertain the presence of the accused and drone mapping for crime scene reconstruction. The use of DNA fingerprinting, e-Vahan database, facial recognition, fund flow analysis and forensic teams comprising physical, chemical, biological and ballistic analysis of videos and photographs through open sources were also used to investigate the cases, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tech-used-extensively-to-probe-northeast-delhi-riots-delhi-police-chief-953034.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||'Free hand' to police responsible for poor law & order in Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the alleged poor law and order situation, claiming that a "free hand" given to police is responsible for it. Charging the government with humiliating all sections of society, including the youth, unemployed and political leaders, he said thousands of SP workers have been framed in fake cases. In an apparent reference to the two girls who were found dead in a field in Unnao, Yadav asked, "Who is responsible for it." "When the government gives free hand to police, this is bound to happen. In the state where daughters are not safe, mothers are not safe who will invest there. Cases are being reported continuously from Badaun, Hathras and Unnao. A victim woman was cremated in the night in Hathras," he said. He also claimed that a large number of custodial deaths and fake encounters have taken place in the state. "Ever since this government came to power, fake encounters have started taking place," he said. The SP chief said that the UP government has been continuously making claims on investments but these are not visible on the ground. "This is the first government which is inaugurating the already inaugurated projects, laying the foundation stones of projects where it was already done and signing MoUs which had already been signed. The government is not telling what new works have been done by them," Akhilesh said. Alleging that farming is being ruined, he said, "Though the BJP has been continuously saying that the new farm laws will benefit farmers but farmers of the entire country want them repealed as they are not beneficial for them." "The BJP has been continuously saying that they will give MSP to farmers and double their income. And now when it is time to do so, they have brought the laws which have posed problems for agriculture and farmers," he said, adding that the youth too is facing unemployment. "They (BJP) have their government at the Centre and also in Uttar Pradesh. Where are they taking the economy? They are showing dreams of investments, if it is coming where it is. No investment is seen in Uttar Pradesh," he said. Referring to the rise in petrol and diesel prices, he said its profits are going into the government's coffers but not being shared with farmers. To a question, the SP chief said his party will perform well in the upcoming panchayat elections and will have a good show in Assembly polls next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-hand-to-police-responsible-for-poor-law-order-in-uttar-pradesh-akhilesh-yadav-953048.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to come out with long-term action plan to tackle dust pollution: Gopal Rai||The Delhi government will come out with a comprehensive long-term action plan to tackle dust pollution for which a seven member expert committee has been formed, Environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday. Rai said he has also directed officials to prepare an action plan to deal with the problem of pollution in Delhi. The environment minister said this after holding a meeting with officials of the environment department. The department will also hold a round table conference of experts on March 4 to plan its-anti pollution campaign during lean period of March- September, Rai said. "The seven member committee including members from IIT Delhi, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will submit its action plan report to the government on control dust pollution based on which a long term plan will be prepared by it," Rai told reporters. In view of the deteriorating air quality in the city, PWD and municipal corporations have also been directed to hasten water sprinkling on the roads. The green war room set up to receive complaints against various agencies is also being strengthened so that action could be taken against the erring officials, he said. Various organisations and institutions like the IITs, TERI and Greenpeace will be invited to the round table conference for their suggestions on how to conduct the anti-pollution campaign during the March- September period. "An action plan will be prepared, after discussing the suggestions received at the round table conference, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal," the environment minister said. He said officials informed in the meeting that a smog tower being constructed at Connaught Place with a cost of Rs 20 crore will be completed by June month. A team has also been formed to monitor the work on the tower so that the timelines for its completion could be strictly followed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-come-out-with-long-term-action-plan-to-tackle-dust-pollution-gopal-rai-953069.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Gupkar alliance wins DDC chairperson post in Rajouri||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Friday won the post of District Development Council (DDC) chairperson in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. Rajouri, which is reserved for Scheduled Tribes, went to the polls in the final phase that marked the conclusion of the election process to DDC posts in all the 20 districts of the Union territory, officials said. The win in Rajouri gave PAGD, an alliance of various mainstream parties including National Conference, PDP and CPI(M), its third district in Jammu region. On Friday, PAGD had won the posts of DDC chairpersons in Ramban and Kishtwar districts with the support of Congress, whose DDC member was also elected to the post of vice-chairperson in Kishtwar. NC's Naseem Liaqat, an advocate, won the post of DDC chairperson in Rajouri by eight votes against six by his rival Shazia Choudhary (independent), while senior Congress leader and former minister Shabir Khan was elected to the post of vice-chairperson after PAGD and Congress joined hands. All 14 members were present and the election concluded in a conducive atmosphere, the officials said. Of the 14 DDC seats, PAGD had won six (NC five and PDP one) followed by Congress and BJP (three each) and Apni Party and an independent (one each) in the elections held in November-December last year. The election in the district was rescheduled for Friday after it was deferred on February 13 due to lack of quorum. In the earlier four phases in Jammu division, BJP had won the posts of DDC chairpersons in the six districts of Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Udhampur, Doda and Reasi while an independent was elected to the post in Poonch district. Five vice-chairperson posts also went to BJP, while independents emerged victorious by winning the posts of vice-chairpersons in Reasi and Poonch districts. In Kashmir valley, PAGD had won five districts of Bandipora, Ganderbal, Pulwama, Kulgam and Anantnag, while J&K Apni party had got two districts of Srinagar and Shopian and Peoples Conference, which exited from the PAGD recently, got the DDC chairperson post in Kupwara. Budgam and Baramulla districts went to independent candidates despite PAGD emerging as the single largest party at both the places due to cross-voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gupkar-alliance-wins-ddc-chairperson-post-in-rajouri-953117.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Gone to attach assets of UP MLA's son, cops return empty-handed||A police team that had gone to attach assets of Nishad Party MLA Vijay Mishra's son had to return empty-handed after they came to know that he transferred his most properties in the name of his brother-in-law. The court had on February 8 ordered the attachment of properties of MLA’s son Vishnu Mishra, wanted in land grabbing and other cases. When a police team reached his firm Nav Nirman on Thursday, it came to fore that he had transferred most of his properties in the name of his brother-in-law Harishankar Mishra, Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said on Friday. He said Harishankar has been asked to present property papers and cooperate in the probe. He said the company shareholders will also be called for investigation. The court will be informed about the probe outcomings, he added. An FIR was lodged against the MLA Vijay Mishra and his wife Ramlali, a member of the UP Legislative Council, and their son Vishnu Mishra on August 4 by their relative Krishna Mohan for allegedly grabbing property after threatening him. They were booked under Sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 347 (wrongful confinement), 387 (putting person in fear of death of grievous hurt), 449 (house trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, Singh said. The MLA is in jail after he was arrested in Madhya Pradesh on August 14 and his son Vishnu is still absconding and a lookout notice has also been issued against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gone-to-attach-assets-of-up-mlas-son-cops-return-empty-handed-953119.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Opposition walks out from Uttar Pradesh Assembly over farm laws; Adityanath says only 'brokers' unhappy||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said in the state Assembly on Friday that only the "brokers" who had betrayed farmers were unhappy over the new farm laws, prompting a sharp reaction from the Opposition benches who staged a walkout in protest. The issue had also come up when the House assembled in the morning, leading to the adjournment of the proceedings for an hour in two phases. After Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary demanded in the House that the issue of the protest against the farm laws be taken up immediately, the chief minister said the "dalaals" (brokers) were worried as now the money is directly going into the accounts of farmers. "People who are indulging in brokerage ('dalaali’) by deceiving the farmers are worried over the fact that the money is directly going to their accounts. Today, farmers are getting their receipt on smartphones,” he said, adding that the system of brokerage has ceased to exist. In an attack on the SP whose legislators staged a walkout along with other Opposition parties, Adityanath said, "They do not have the courage to accept the truth and hence they fled. It is surprising that the SP is talking about farmers, youth and women. The anti-land mafia task force has freed 67,000 hectares. Most of the land was grabbed by them (SP) while in power from farmers.” The CM said tthe land freed from mafias is being used in the defence corridor, for the welfare of farmers and cowsheds. Adityanath claimed that the truth is that the Opposition does not have anything to do with farmers. "Every work is seen by them through the lens of politics and being used for vested political interests,” he said. Later addressing mediapersons outside the Assembly, Chaudhary said "only a broker will recognise another broker". "They have forgotten parliamentary language and etiquette. They are themselves brokers of Adani and Ambani. The prime minister and the chief minister are brokers of Adani and Ambani. The Opposition is in support of farmers," Chaudhary added. Chaudhary said farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders against the laws for close to three months now and over 200 of them have died during the course of the agitation. “Of them, two were from UP. No Union minister, chief minister or any BJP leader has gone there to pay their tributes. This is the most important issue before the country but the government is ignoring it. The government does not want to have a discussion on it and the chief minister got up to make a speech," he said. Congress MLAs Akhtar Masood and Naresh Saini said the government that talks of doubling the income of farmers has not increased even a single rupee for sugarcane farmers. "Our demand was that the proceedings of the House be adjourned and discussions be held on this but this government is insensitive. Hence, the Congress staged a walkout from the House," they said. The proceedings of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly Budget session on Friday got off to a stormy start over the farmers' issue with Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary demanding immediate discussion on the topic, leading to the adjournment of the house for an hour in two phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-walks-out-from-uttar-pradesh-assembly-over-farm-laws-adityanath-says-only-brokers-unhappy-953132.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Gherao Delhi cops if they come to arrest you, Haryana farmer leader tells supporters||Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Friday asked farmers to `gherao’ Delhi Police personnel if they come to their villages to make an arrest and not let them leave till the district administration assures that they will not be allowed again. In a veiled reference to Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been addressing a series of ‘mahapanchayats’ in Punjab and Haryana, Chaduri said there was no need for such events in the two states. The Haryana BKU leader made the controversial remark, virtually asking people to hold policemen hostage, while referring to the action taken by the Delhi Police after violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on Republic Day. In a video message, Chaduni said if Delhi police personnel conduct raids and come to nab anyone, they should be gheraoed, made to sit there and the entire village and neighbourhood should be informed. “They should not be left till the district administration assures that the Delhi police won't enter your villages, your districts,” he said. In another video message, Chaduni discounted the need for holding ‘panchayats’ in Haryana and Punjab, saying the farmers of the two states are already well aware of various issues related to the farm laws of the Centre and they should focus more on protests. “The agitation is going on smoothly. There is no need for Kisan panchayat in Punjab and Haryana because the awakening here is already quite good. I feel people also don't want this,” he said. He added that frequent panchayats in Punjab and Haryana also leave farmer leaders from the two states little time to visit other states to awaken the farmers there. Chaduni himself had addressed some ‘Kisan mahapanchayats’ along with some other prominent farmer leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Dr Darshan Pal. Yet he urged for holding less of farmers' meet in Punjab and Haryana arguing that farmers of other states needed more of the awakening. “Our brothers from Haryana and Punjab should focus more on dharna sites and ensure that a set of people from villages remains deputed permanently there,” he said. About Delhi police action, Chaduni said, “During the incidents related to farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, many farmers were arrested and many were booked for offences like murder attempts.” "Many farmers are getting notices from the police and when they go there they are detained. They are sending more notices based on video footages while some are being arrested from homes," he said. He asked people to ignore Delhi Police notices and instead gherao policemen if they raid their village to arrest anyone. He also cautioned people not to hit policemen while holding them hostage. "I would also like to request that if any Delhi police personnel is gheraoed, no one should raise a hand at them, but they should be taken good care of and offered food. But do not leave them till the district administration reaches the spot. "We have to take this action because there is no other option to deal with the Delhi police. Such excesses will not be tolerated," he said. While Chaduni felt holding farmers' 'mahapanchayats' was not needed, Tikait has addressed several farmers' meet in Haryana during the month with the first one being in Jind, attracting a big turnout and emerging the main face of these events. Tikait, who is known to wield good influence among farmers in western UP, has also addressed maha panchayats in Kurukshetra, Rohtak and Hisar districts and is scheduled to address another one in Sirsa district next week. It was Tikait's emotional call in the aftermath of the Republic Day violence during farmers' tractor rally that had infused a new lease of life into the agitation. During his addresses, Tikait has been stressing the “great support” which Haryana 'khaps' or caste councils have lent to the farmers' agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gherao-delhi-cops-if-they-come-to-arrest-you-haryana-farmer-leader-tells-supporters-953150.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Samyukta Kisan Morcha demands 'fair investigation' into Unnao case||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions, on Friday demanded a "high-level fair investigation" into the death of two minor girls in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao. The farmers' body said proper medical treatment should be given to the third victim, who is battling for life, and called for "strict punishment to the culprits." "Samyukta Kisan Morcha expresses deep condolences to the victim's family after the mysterious death of two of the three Dalit sisters in Unnao of UP. The governance and administration system of Uttar Pradesh is once again under suspicion where there is no safe space for women. We demand proper medical treatment of injured women, a high-level fair investigation into this incident and strict punishment to the culprits," it said in a statement. Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, were found in an agricultural field in Babuhara village under the Asoha police station area of Unnao on Wednesday night. Villagers had rushed the teenagers, who are related, to a hospital, where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl, who is on ventilator support at a Kanpur hospital, is being treated for suspected poisoning, the police said on Thursday, adding they have registered a murder case in connection with the deaths. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha also announced it would celebrate "Pagdi Sambhal Day" on February 23 in the memory of Sardar Ajit Singh, the uncle of Shaheed Bhagat Singh and founder of the "Pagdi Sambhal" movement.  The song "Pagdi Sambhal", written by Banke Dayal, editor of weekly Jhang Sial, had become the anthem for the peasant movement against three agricultural laws by the British government in 1906.  "The reflections of the movement that Chacha Ajit Singh had started at that time can be observed in this farmers' movement as well. It is an appeal to all farmers to participate in this program by placing poster-banner of Chacha Ajit Singh on tractors and other vehicles and by wearing green turban," the statement read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samyukta-kisan-morcha-demands-fair-investigation-into-unnao-case-953156.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Ensure e-payment to farmers: Centre tells Haryana, Punjab||In a bid to ensure transparency, the Centre on Friday said it has asked Punjab and Haryana to ensure online payment of dues to farmers from the coming season but made it clear that it was not a move to end the role of arthiyas or agents in the wholesale markets. The Centre said it planned to release more than Rs 2.97 lakh crore towards food subsidy during the current financial year over and above the Rs 1.25 lakh crore spent so far this fiscal. Both Punjab and Haryana have been approaching the Centre seeking an exemption or more time for implementation of direct online payment initiative. However, the Centre has directed Punjab and Haryana to ensure online payment to farmers through e-mode from the upcoming season and that no further relaxation on this account will be accorded. Of the Rs 4.22 lakh crore food subsidy payouts, Punjab will get more than Rs 1.16 lakh crore, which accounts to 27.61% of the total payout, while Haryana was likely to receive Rs 24,842 crore. “E-mode of MSP payment is already in force across India, Government of India has been trying to ensure the same in Punjab and Haryana at least since 2015-16,” the Ministry for Food and Consumer Affairs said in a statement. The statement said the push for e-payment was not a move to replace the Agricultural Produce Market Committee, but to strengthen transparency and eliminate leakages. It said that the e-payment mode was adopted partially in Punjab and Haryana where payment of MSP was made to farmers through arthiyas. In Haryana, the Food Corporation of India made payments directly into farmers’ bank accounts. The state agencies have to also ensure the use of the Expenditure Advance Transfer module of the Public Financial Module System (PFMS) while making payment. “The state governments have to integrate their online payment system with PFMS. The online payment system shall necessarily have the feature of online registration of farmers and online payment to them as mandated by Government of India,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-e-payment-to-farmers-centre-tells-haryana-punjab-953165.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Haridwar Kumbh to start on April 1||Haridwar Kumbh will be held from April 1 and it has been decided to limit its duration to 28 days in view of the coronavirus pandemic, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat told reporters here on Friday. The ascetics of Haridwar were taken into confidence before taking the decision, he said. The SOP issued by the Centre and the state government for Kumbh will have to be strictly followed by devotees, he said. As per the SOP, devotees will be allowed to attend Kumbh only if they produce a negative coronavirus report issued not more than 72 hours before their arrival. A notification in this regard will be issued soon, Rawat said. It is for the first time that Kumbh is being organised for such a short duration. Earlier, the Kumbh congregation used to last more than four months. Three Shahi Snan dates fall between April 1-28. The first Shahi Snan will be on April 12 (Somvati Amavasya), the second on April 14 (Baisakhi) and the third on April 27 (Poornima). With the official announcement of Kumbh dates, DGP Ashok Kumar held a meeting with police officials from other states and central agencies here on Friday to discuss security arrangements, crowd management, law and order and the maintenance of Covid protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haridwar-kumbh-to-start-on-april-1-953204.html
19-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police release photos of 200 people in connection with R-Day violence at Red Fort||The Delhi Police has released the photographs of 200 people who were allegedly involved in the violence that broke out on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade at Red Fort, officials said on Friday. Police said they have scanned the videos and taken pictures of people from them. "We have released the pictures and the process of identification (of the people) has been started," a senior police officer said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. The farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Centre's three agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-release-photos-of-200-people-in-connection-with-r-day-violence-at-red-fort-953210.html
19-02-2021||Opinion||Women’s domestic work shouldn’t remain a labour of love||Covid-19 has undoubtedly transformed how we think about the social context of work and the norms which govern work. Recently, Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam party has laid down a seven-point agenda in the run-up to the 2021 elections, proposing that homemakers should get “due recognition through payment for their work at home which hitherto has been unrecognized and unmonetized, thus raising the dignity of womenfolk.”  In an editorial for the Times of India, Professor Prabha Kotiswaran analysed the Indian Supreme Court’s jurisprudence in several Motor Vehicles Act claims to show that there exists some judicial willingness to recognise social reproductive labour performed by women within the home. Indeed, in January, the Supreme Court directed an insurance company to pay a higher claim amount by taking into account the unpaid work performed by a deceased homemaker. Unsurprisingly, this has given rise to considerable debate. For one, critics point out that a lot of social reproductive work, a term coined to denote work that nurtures future workers (e.g. child care), regenerate the current workforce (eg. cooking, cleaning etc.) and maintain those who cannot work (eg. caring for the elderly), is relational and affective in nature, making it more than a task that can be performed in exchange for wages. Further, as middle-class norms of marriage and family have gained currency, the house is associated with love whereas the workplace is associated with money. Thus, housework ought to be treated as a labour of love.  However, this is problematic on several counts. First, this way of thinking obscures the extent to which marriage, in Indian society, is still an economic necessity for some women and the degree to which legal inequality was inscribed within marriage and the family. In fact, according to data collected by the National Sample Survey Office (2014), 60.1 per cent of rural women and 64.1 per cent of urban women reported that they took on domestic duties because no other family member was available to take up this work. Moreover, the anxiety surrounding the idea of monetising care work is nothing new. In fact, it explains why the most marginalised members of society — migrant lower class, lower caste women — are employed as domestic workers who live beyond the imagination of labour law and social security schemes. Our labour laws effectively privilege workers in core industrial sectors over those in other sectors of the economy. This increases the vulnerability of women since it reduces their bargaining power in trying to get more protection. A study carried out in 2018 in South Delhi, published in EPW, showed how domestic workers did twice the work that they were contractually obligated to do because of the higher social standing, co-constituted by caste and class, of their employers.  There are diverse domestic constituents within the state that benefit from not recognising social reproductive work. Families of course benefit from the free labour. Employers benefit since employment in the formal labour market is based on the ideal male worker who is unencumbered by domestic responsibilities and can work long hours.  If this unpaid but socially necessary reproductive work is considered to be as valuable as paid labour, employers would not be able to design jobs based on the assumption that it is the worker’s private and individual responsibility to adapt their caring responsibilities to the temporal requirements of the job. Instead, working-time norms would be designed on the assumption that all workers engage in domestic labour for others and women would no longer be expected to shoulder the economic burden of unpaid care work.  Trade unions are also largely represented by workers in the primary labour market. Ironically, the same rules about the recognition of women’s work in monetary terms do not apply when men are the beneficiaries of such a claim.  For instance, men have been historically compensated for the loss in a consortium, defined by several Indian courts, most recently National Insurance Company Limited v. Pranay Sethi as the “loss of love, company, care, help, comfort, guidance, solace, affection and sexual relations,” upon their wife’s deaths.  Further, as the radical anthropologist David Graeber has pointed out, in today’s economy, not all labour is geared towards the production of skill or service. Instead, a lot of it is relational in nature. Thus, it is not obvious why some relations are considered “social” and others are considered “market”. Feminists have made an ironclad case to show how productive work and reproductive work are intertwined and women’s disproportionate responsibility in social reproduction is actually a huge part of the reason why women disproportionately have precarious personal work profiles.  Admittedly, just saying women’s social reproductive work ought to be given monetary compensation is not enough. We need to decide how we are to construct the tools needed to navigate a working world in which key assumptions about the nature and operation of that world which have long informed our labour laws and grounded our theories no longer apply. We also need to go into the question of how this compensation is decided and we need to be able to assign appropriate values to reproductive work in a way that doesn’t exacerbate existing inequalities. For instance, both the Opportunity Cost Model, which evaluates the salary paid to the homemaker by evaluating what she would have earned had she not remained at home, and the Replacement Model, which evaluates how much it would cost to replace the homemaker with paid workers, rely upon factors such as the woman’s existing accomplishments to be able to predict what she would have been able to achieve in the formal workforce and casteist ideas of what constitutes “good” values and who has the ability to impart them. For instance, part of the social reproductive labour that women do is childcare. Given that paid domestic help in Indian homes is not even allowed to use the same cutlery as the employers, it’s unlikely that they will be seen as imparting good values to children. At any rate, these are the discussions we should be having. Otherwise, anthropologists in the future will have to explain how our performative love for women as mothers, wives and sisters relates to our relentless anxiety that they be rewarded in any tangible terms. (Shubhangi is a final year law student at National Law University Delhi) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/women-s-domestic-work-shouldn-t-remain-a-labour-of-love-952917.html
19-02-2021||Opinion||Joe Biden is going big and Americans are with him||By Timothy Egan, For years, well-credentialed thinkers have been telling us to expect a Democratic majority, built on the rise of young, minority and urban voters. Demography was destiny and the future was blue. Texas was the Moby Dick in this telling, the great whale that finally would be landed by the Dems some fine Election Day. And yet here we are — more than a quarter-century and counting since a Democrat last won statewide office in Texas. But now Democrats have a real shot at a durable majority, defying even the gerrymandering and small-state inequities built into the system. And not only because of Stacey Abrams’s winning strategy in Georgia. It’s no more complicated than this: The current Democratic agenda is hugely popular, crossing racial and regional lines. If you do things that help people’s lives, and do them well, the public will stay with you. Joe Biden has been president for only a month. But if his $1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan and the jobs, infrastructure and climate initiatives to follow work out as well as they are now polling, his party could govern for many years to come. Biden is listening to whispers from the grave of Franklin Roosevelt — laying out a society-changing plan of action at a low ebb in the nation’s history. Facing the largest social and economic crisis since the Great Depression, Biden is hoping to significantly reduce child poverty, expand health care and fortify working-class families. “We’re in a position to think big and move big,” said Biden this month. He was talking about Covid-19 relief specifically, but it’s important that he maintain that mantra and not let his master plan get nibbled to death. Some 40 years after Ronald Reagan convinced Americans that government was the problem, Biden could successfully spin the counterargument by wielding something simple, but entirely missing while Donald Trump was in charge: competence. Biden set a low goal of 100 million Covid vaccine shots in his first 100 days; his administration is delivering at a pace that would far exceed that. If most Americans are inoculated by August, he’ll be boosted by majority approval. One stumbling block is opening the schools, an issue Republicans see as their best chance to trip up their new Democratic leader's early momentum. Another threat comes from right-wing media’s talent for making odious mountains out of Democratic molehills — or outright making things up. Case in point: the fictional death panels that were used to erode support for the Affordable Care Act, in which government bureaucrats were rumoured to choose one life or treatment over another. But make no mistake: The public is with Biden now. The Covid-19 relief package — with its direct payments to families and aid for businesses, the unemployed and local governments — is backed by nearly 70% of Americans, according to a recent Quinnipiac poll. In a nation that can’t agree on a simple set of facts, this is staggering. Two-thirds of Americans supported raising the federal minimum wage before the pandemic, By August, that figure had risen to 72%. That level of support has only gone up since Covid set in, as people realize that many of their beloved essential workers have been living on poverty-level wages. In Florida, a state run by Republicans, the $15 minimum hourly wage won more than 60% of the vote last November. Let Republicans in Congress continue to defend a federal wage floor of $7.25. They can’t. Nor can they go after the popular central elements of the American Rescue Plan. Biden’s plan to provide tax credits in the form of payments of up to $300 per month to poor families could lift 10 million children above or closer to the poverty line. People who have long argued that the best way to help the poor is simply to give them money are going to have their moment. Big majorities also support rejoining the Paris climate agreement, offering a pathway to citizenship for immigrants in the country illegally and expanding "Obamacare" with a public option. One month in, Biden’s presidency gets the approval of well over 50% of Americans, something Trump never had in the aggregate of polls in his four years. What could doom Democrats is fellow Democrats. Seattle was a laudable pioneer in raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour. But now its City Council is never far from a bad idea. A recent proposal would make it the first city in the nation to appear to incentivize misdemeanour crime. Assaults, trespass, stalking — all could be excused if their offense is linked to poverty or a behavioural health disorder. And then there’s the San Francisco school board, which can’t find a way to put children back at their desks but plans to wipe out a third of the city’s school names, including one named for Abraham Lincoln, because of character flaws of the honorees. In the great scheme of things, these kinds of distractions are just that. They sound like parodies of liberals gone mad. But with that kind of material, Fox News and friends are expert at making people believe the lefty fringe is the main Democratic agenda. So while Biden explicitly said he would not seek to defund the police, Republican demagoguery on the issue was effective enough that the slogan was wielded against other Democrats down the ticket. For the moment, Biden has kept his troops united and disciplined. Tepid incremental steps are out. So long as it remains carpe diem time at the White House, the president is poised to make a lasting blue mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/joe-biden-is-going-big-and-americans-are-with-him-953097.html
19-02-2021||Panorama||India-China military standoff in Ladakh is over for now||Disengagements between rival armies locked in a tense standoff for months, as the Indian Army (IA) and the People’s Liberation Army Ground Force (PLAGF) have been in Eastern Ladakh, are never a simple affair. Especially given the lack of trust following the Galwan clash of June 2020 and the intrusions by the Chinese side that preceded it. Nevertheless, New Delhi seems sanguine about the sanctity of the disengagement process currently underway. So much so that it has vacated most of the peaks of the Kailash range occupied by the IA’s ‘readjustments’ of August-September 2020 even before the Chinese have pulled back from the Depsang plains and stopped blocking Indian patrols there. Perhaps the fact that the disengagement is being implemented pursuant to a written agreement between the two sides to restore status quo ante end-April 2020 has helped make up for some of the trust deficit. Be that as it may, the real test for India lies in the way it will go about border management once this current standoff winds down. Specifically, will New Delhi be willing to expend the resources necessary to address the mobilisation differential that continues to be in the PLAGF’s favour or will it succumb to the comfort of a new set of border protocols that give a false sense of stability? The proof of the pudding will lie in the pacing of India’s border works. Though various drafts outlining each side’s version of what a disengagement could look like had been exchanged for weeks prior, it was a delegation-level meeting on February 9 that finally broke the impasse between the two sides, and a written agreement with guarantees followed. As per the agreement, the withdrawal is to be implemented in phases, with Phase 1, centred around the North and South banks of Pangong Tso, already underway. This phase began with the withdrawal of most of the armour and artillery deployed by either side from the South bank of the lake by February 11.    At the time of writing, along with the remaining mechanised units and artillery, the pullback of infantry forces from the standoff sites in the Pangong Tso area was also in progress. Notably, the PLAGF has removed the encampments, revetments and other fortifications it had built on Fingers 4-8 on the North bank, even as its infantry units have either pulled back to Finger 6 or have been sent further to the rear, east of Sirijap. As part of Phase 1 disengagement, the Chinese must completely pull back to their post just east of Finger 8, where they even built a jetty in 2017. They have also pulled back from features such as Helmet Top, Bump and Point 5155 on the Kailash Range that they occupied in August 2020. The IA, meanwhile, has pulled back its infantry units to its main post on the North bank at Finger 3, called the Dhan Singh Thapa Post. It is reliably learnt that India has vacated most of the peaks in the Kailash Range that were occupied by the IA in late August 2020 as a riposte to the Chinese intrusions. In particular, India is also in the process of removing both troop presence and mechanised units from the standoff sites at Rezang La and Rechin La, the occupation of which had served to put considerable pressure on the PLAGF’s Moldo Garrison at Spanggur Tso. Once disengagement in and around Pangong Tso is verifiably complete, expected to happen today (February 19), both sides will meet for a new border personnel meeting (BPM) to work out disengagement from Patrolling Point 17A (PP-17A) at Gogra, PP-15 at Hot Springs, PP-14 in Galwan and PP-10, PP-11, PP-11A, PP-12 and PP-13 in the Depsang plains. Subsequent to this BPM, the process of disengagement in Gogra-Hot Springs and Galwan is supposed to take place very quickly, while the disengagement at Depsang may take a few more weeks. However, it must be noted that regular patrolling by either side between Finger 4 to Finger 8 may not resume for months. India will eventually return to a small subsidiary post it has long maintained on Finger 4.   Naturally, the question arises as to whether India has conceded the positions it occupied in the Kailash Range a little too early, given that Depsang is yet to be resolved. New Delhi, however, seemed keen to resolve the Pangong Tso issue first since the sheer number of intruding PLAGF troops here was several multiples of what the Chinese have deployed at Depsang. Moreover, Depsang had seen a similar standoff back in 2013 as well, which eventually wound down with the PLAGF realising its futility as it could not advance beyond a place called ‘Nepali Basti’ as the Indian side was occupying certain elevated positions. The same situation obtains even now. There is also a fear expressed in some quarters that the Chinese may rush to occupy features on the Kailash Range that have been vacated. However, that is unlikely given how the disengagement process is progressing, with even carefully built infrastructure being removed by the Chinese side and the closely monitored de-induction of troops to the rear. In any case, contingency plans would be in place for any such eventuality. Importantly, as a surety, the Indian side is unlikely to vacate one particular peak of great strategic importance in the Kailash Range till the disengagement process across Eastern Ladakh is complete. In general, the PLAGF has been facing a lot of personnel-related issues in Eastern Ladakh, not the least of which is casualties due to the extreme cold. One estimate puts the number of daily cold injuries suffered by the PLAGF during the past few months at over a hundred. With summer still a couple of months away in Eastern Ladakh, this would have likely contributed to the Chinese willingness to disengage. As it is, with the Indian side having matched the Chinese buildup in Ladakh and demonstrated the ability to move preemptively, the PLAGF would not have been able to guarantee the outcome of any escalation. On the other hand, with forces in such close proximity, the probability of an inadvertent escalation was on the rise.  With Indian forces still deployed in depth, this also means that the Chinese are unlikely to spark off a conflict by attempting to occupy the Kailash Range on the sly. At the moment, neither side seems to have much of an appetite for a major conflagration. Though the Indian military has worked admirably to deploy and sustain very large formations in the field, logistics continues to be a challenge. For instance, the Chinese side had actually proposed the removal of artillery and armour at the beginning of winter itself. But at the time, the Indian side was afraid that it may not be able to re-induct armour to the standoff points in time due to the closure of passes. The PLAGF did not face this constraint. Indeed, pullbacks of a few score kilometres are not made equal as the mobilisation time for the PLAGF is still superior to that of the IA, as is being demonstrated even during the disengagement. The PLAGF pulled out around 200 tanks in short order from the South bank within a day of the disengagement being agreed upon. These tanks are believed to have retreated to a place called Shandong, some 20 km to the east of Spanggur Tso. In fact, far from being worried about the PLAGF pulling a fast one during the disengagement itself, the Indian military is more concerned about the coming summer, when the PLAGF will again hold regular exercises. Readers would note that it was under the cover of such exercises last year that the PLAGF mounted its intrusions, and the mobilisation differential helped it reinforce these intrusions rapidly, thereby leading to Indian forces finding themselves temporarily outnumbered at various standoff points. Now, as part of a broader de-escalation, the Chinese may seek to enmesh India in a new set of protocols that would constrain the pace of infrastructure construction by New Delhi, which in any case leaves a lot to be desired. For instance, out of the 61 ‘India-China Border Roads’ entrusted to the Border Roads Organisation, only 28 roads of total length 981 km have been completed thus far, according to a parliamentary committee report. As such, India must resist the lure of a new stability framework based on paper promises and instead expedite border works that can support offensive operations. With the IA currently having created substantive defensive pockets in Eastern Ladakh, mirroring the hardened and redundant buildup by the PLA in the Ngari part of Tibet, summer 2021 in this theatre may not be as tense as summer 2020. But one can never be quite so certain about Eastern Arunachal Pradesh, where the mobilisation differential is firmly stacked in the PLAGF’s favour. (The writer is Chief Editor, Delhi Defence Review)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-china-military-standoff-in-ladakh-is-over-for-now-952973.html
19-02-2021||South||Hyderabad recognised as a '2020 Tree City of the World'||Hyderabad has been recognised as a '2020 Tree City of the World' by the Arbor Day Foundation and the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations. The recognition is for the commitment of the city to growing and maintaining urban forest. Hyderabad is the only city in the country to get the recognition, an official press release said on Thursday. Through this, the Telangana capital joins a network of like-minded cities which recognise the importance of trees in building healthy, resilient and happy cities, the release said. Hyderabad has earned recognition in the foundation's second year of the programme along with 51 other cities in the world (during 2020 and cumulatively 120 cities from 63 countries) while being the only city in India to get the recognition so far, it said. Most of the cities were from countries, including the US, the UK, Canada, Australia and others, it said. The city, to be eligible under the category of Tree City needs to confirm to five standards -- 'Establish Responsibility' (the city having a written statement by city leaders delegating responsibility for the care of trees), 'Set the Rules' (the city has in place a law or an official policy that governs the management of forests and trees) and 'Know what you have' (the city has an updated inventory or assessment of the local tree resource). The other two standards are 'Allocate the Resources' (the city has a dedicated annual budget for the routine implementation of the tree management plan) and 'Celebrate Achievements' (the city holds an annual celebration of trees to raise awareness among residents). The Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department (MA&UD) has applied for the recognition based on an online submission done on January 31, 2021, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-recognised-as-a-2020-tree-city-of-the-world-952837.html
19-02-2021||South||TN CM, Deputy will lose in coming polls, says MK Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Thursday asserted that the AIADMK candidates in the coming assembly elections, including Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy will be defeated and the victory of the opposition alliance will be that of the people's. Addressing his pre-election campaign "Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin" (Stalin in your constituency), the leader of the Opposition assured people that all their grievances will be reddressed after his party is voted to power in the coming polls, likely in the next two months. "Palaniswami, Panneerselvam and AIADMK candidates are going to lose (in the elections); have to be defeated. Nominees of the DMK-led alliance should win. That will be a victory of the people," he said. Further, the party's 11th state conference will be held at Tiruchirappalli on March 14 where "victory strategies" to win the polls will be devised, he added. Meanwhile, speaking at a CPI conference in nearby Madurai, he charged the BJP-led NDA at the Centre with launching an "economic strike" on the people by hiking fuel prices including petrol and LPG. "While the global crude prices have fallen, the Narendra Modi government is repeatedly increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG.... these are economic strikes on the people of the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-deputy-will-lose-in-coming-polls-says-mk-stalin-952838.html
19-02-2021||South||You'll soon be able to choose between Covaxin and Covishield in Tamil Nadu: Report||In a first, the Tamil Nadu government is set to allow beneficiaries to choose between two government-approved vaccines – Covaxin and Covishield for Covid-19 inoculation. It’s been over a month since the mass vaccination drive was kicked off in the state. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin was earlier administered at only six vaccination centres across Tamil Nadu, now it would be available at government medical colleges in other districts too in a phased manner. The state government had made a request to the Centre to expedite the vaccination programme for people in the age group of 50 years and above and others who were originally scheduled to be vaccinated from the middle of March. As of Thursday, Tamil Nadu reported 457 new Covid-19 cases aggregating to 8,46,937 in the state, while six more fatalities pushed the toll to 12,444.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youll-soon-be-able-to-choose-between-covaxin-and-covishield-in-tamil-nadu-report-952927.html
19-02-2021||South||Over one lakh people achieve literacy in Kerala in four years||In a historic achievement, a total of 1,08,057 illiterate people, majority of them belonging to the marginalised sections, have been initiated into the world of letters in the last four years in Kerala, according to government figures. It was also a period (2016-2020) that saw the most number of tribal people achieving literacy in the last 30 years in the southern state, it said. Besides tribals, a large number of fisherfolk people and migrant workers who came to Kerala from other states in search of jobs were also among those who either achieved literacy or pursued their discontinued studies through equivalency courses, officials sources said. The rare feat was achieved through various programmes implemented by the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority (KSLMA), an autonomous institution under the General Education Department, Government of Kerala. Besides those who learnt their first letters through the KSLMA programmes, a total of 1,35,608 people including women have cleared its various equivalency programmes- 24,148 students (fourth standard), 21, 950 (seventh standard), 64,663 (10th), 24,847 (plus two), as per the figures released by the Authority. Official sources said the figures assumed significance as only4,600 people had achieved literacy through state government programmes during the period 2011-2015, during the tenure of the previous UDF government. "After the much-touted total literacy programme during the 1990s, Kerala had given more prominence to primary education than the eradication of illiteracy in the later decades. After so many years, it was during the last four years under the present government that total literacy campaign was given due importance," a KSLMA official told P T I. As per the state Planning Board figures 2011, there are 18 lakh illiterate people in Kerala, he said. KSLMA director P S Sreekala said the achievement in the literacy and education sector was the result of special drives implemented by the agency focusing on the marginalised areas including tribal colonies and fishing hamlets. Listing out various projects by the Literacy Mission, she said 12,968 people became literate through the special tribal literacy drive implemented in Wayanad and Attappady in Palakkad district, one of the largest and most backward tribal settlements in the southern state. A total of 11,941 people achieved literacy through the "Aksharasagaram" project, a literacy-cum-equivalency project implemented in coastal areas of the state, she said. "Changathi" drive helped over 5,400 migrant workers to learn Malayalam while 3188 people turned literate through the "Navachethana", an initiative envisaged to eradicate illiteracy in scheduled caste (SC) colonies,the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-one-lakh-people-achieve-literacy-in-kerala-in-four-years-952931.html
19-02-2021||South||3 more Congress MLAs to quit in Puducherry; govt sure to lose trust vote: BJP||Three more Congress MLAs are set to resign from the Assembly in Puducherry, a key BJP leader claimed on Friday even as he asserted that the beleaguered V Narayanasamy government would lose the trust vote. Two of the four Congress MLAs who quit the House — A Namassivayam and E Theeppainthan — have already joined the BJP. BJP in-charge of the Union Territory, Nirmal Kumar Surana said the other two Congress MLAs — Malladi Krishna Rao and A John Kumar — would join the J P Nadda-led party. "The two will be joining the BJP. They are speaking with our leadership," Surana, also Vice-President of Karnataka unit of the BJP, told PTI. "Certainly, 100 per cent", he said when asked if the Congress government would lose the vote of confidence in the House. "That's the only option, I feel", Surana responded to a question on whether imposition of President's Rule is a possibility in the poll-bound Puducherry. The newly appointed Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry Tamilisai Soundararajan directed the Assembly Secretariat on Thursday to convene the House on February 22 for the Trust vote.   Surana declined to name the three Congress MLAs he claimed would quit the Assembly. "I cannot talk now. They are unhappy with Narayanasamy and they want to resign. Hundred per cent they are going to resign", he said. On whether the BJP is open to taking these three MLAs into its fold, Surana said whoever accepts BJP's ideology and whoever wants to join for the development of Puducherry, his party is ready to take them. Ruling Congress MLAs met in Puducherry on Thursday night after the Chief Minister was asked to prove his majority in the assembly on February 22. They did not take any decision on the future course of action and resolved to meet again a day ahead of the trust vote. In the 33-member assembly with an effective strength of 28, the Congress has ten members, including the Speaker, while its alliance partner DMK has three and lone independent from Mahe region also supports it. The opposition parties also have 14 members, including the three nominated (BJP), and have said that the ruling dispensation no longer has a majority. Emerging from the inconclusive meeting held at his residence on Thursday night, an embattled Narayanasamy contended that the three nominated MLAs (all BJP) in the union territory assembly do not have rights to vote on a confidence motion and the opposition strength was only 11 and not 14 as maintained by them. He charged the BJP with intensifying its design to topple the Congress government, which has been hit by resignations of four party MLAs, including two ministers since last month. Surana denied Narayanasamy's allegation. "He (Narayanasamy) could not keep his flock in his fold and he is accusing others. He has not performed and he has been accusing the Lieutenant-Governor. He has not worked and he has been telling lies", Surana said. He said the Election Commission might announce the poll schedule for Puducherry in the next one week or ten days. Elections are due in Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu by May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-more-congress-mlas-to-quit-in-puducherry-govt-sure-to-lose-trust-vote-bjp-952951.html
19-02-2021||South||PM Modi to visit poll-bound Puducherry on February 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will pay a one-day visit to poll-bound Puducherry on February 25, the BJP's Puducherry unit said on Friday. Modi will address a public meeting at AFT mill Thildal here during his visit, the party's Puducherry president V Saminathan, MLA, said, adding, other programmes were not finalised. This would be the Prime Minister's second visit to the Union Territory since February 2018 when he participated in the golden jubilee celebrations of Auroville International township. Modi's visit comes at a time when the ruling Congress has lost its majority in the territorial assembly following resignations of two ministers and two MLAs and has been asked to prove its majority by Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan in the House on February 22. With Puducherry going to Assembly polls in the next couple of months, leaders of various political parties are visiting Puducherry to address public meetings. BJP president J P Nadda had addressed a public meeting here on January 31 while AICC leader Rahul Gandhi on February 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-visit-poll-bound-puducherry-on-february-25-952986.html
19-02-2021||South||Kerala HC hands over missing woman's case to CBI||Kerala High Court has ordered a CBI probe into the mysterious missing of a 22-year-old woman from Pathanamthitta district in Kerala three years ago as various teams of state police who investigated the case so far could not unravel the mystery. Jesna Maria James, who was a second-year degree student, went missing on March 22, 2018, after she left home, in Vechoochira in Pathanamthitta district, for her aunt’s house. Various teams of Kerala police were investigating the case and there were also reports that she was spotted in various parts of Kerala.  Some senior police officers even stated that the probe was in advanced stages. But the cops seemed to be clueless. Even cash rewards announced for informers about the woman did not yield any result. Jesna’s brother, Jaice, had approached the court seeking a CBI probe to trace his sister, saying that the family had lost confidence in the Kerala police. The Kerala Students’ Union also moved the court seeking a CBI probe and considering these, the High Court order a CBI probe. Thiruvananthapuram unit of CBI was entrusted with the probe. Various online forums seeking justice for the woman had also come up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-hands-over-missing-womans-case-to-cbi-953031.html
19-02-2021||South||PM Modi launches key power, urban projects in Kerala||After a major allocation for national highways and metro rail development in the Budget, the Centre has also launched a series of infrastructure projects in poll-bound Kerala. Hardly five days after commissioning major infrastructure projects to the tune of over Rs 6,000 crore in Kerala, including the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical project at BPCL Kochi Refinery, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched another set of infrastructure project through video conferencing. A Power transmission project Pugalur from Tamilnadu to Thrissur in Kerala worth Rs 5,070 crore with a capacity of 320 KV was one of the major projects commissioned on Friday. He also launched a solar power project developed under the National Solar Energy Mission in Kasargod and a water treatment plant at Aruvikkara in Thiruvananthapuram under the AMRUT Mission. He also laid foundation stones of the Integrated Command and Control Centre and a Smart Roads Project in Thiruvananthapuram. While the Prime Minister emphasised development during his address, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan thanked the PM for the projects. The Kerala government is also launching a series of development projects in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-launches-key-power-urban-projects-in-kerala-953055.html
19-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM announces withdrawal of cases against anti-CAA protesters||About 10 lakh cases filed in connection with violation of lockdown norms to prevent spread of Covid-19, and cases over protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act early last year would be withdrawn, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced here on Friday. Barring specific cases like those linked to violence, prevention of police personnel from discharging their duties, and use of fraudulent means for obtaining e-pass during the lockdown phase, all other cases would be withdrawn, he said. Palaniswami, addressing a meet for Assembly polls likely in April, at Kadayanallur near here, said approximately 10 lakh cases were registered by police in connection with violation of lockdown and Covid-19 norms like against those who spread rumours on coronavirus. Also, about 1,500 cases were registered during the anti-CAA protests for staging demonstrations in violation of prohibitory orders, damaging public property and preventing policemen from doing their work, he said. Except for cases like the ones related to violence, further legal action in all other cases was being dropped considering people's welfare, he said. Citing a plea from people requesting withdrawal of cases against those who took part in protests against the Kudankulam nuclear power project, he said several cases have already been cancelled. Some cases were pending in court and some remained at the level of First Information Report and people's request to drop action would be positively considered in accordance with law, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-withdrawal-of-cases-against-anti-caa-protesters-953061.html
19-02-2021||South||India devoting great importance to solar energy, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said India is devoting great importance to solar energy to ensure a stronger fight against climate change and also connect the country's farmers with the solar sector. Speaking after inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of key projects in the power and urban sector in poll-bound Kerala via video conference, Modi said in the last six years, India's solar energy capacity has gone up 13 times. "India is devoting great importance to solar energy. Our gains in solar energy ensure a stronger fight against climate change. A boost to our entrepreneurs." "Work is also underway to connect our hardworking farmers with the solar sector -- make our Annadatas (farmers) also Urjadatas," Modi said. He noted that India has also brought the world together through the International Solar Alliance. Describing cities in the country as engines of growth and power houses of innovation, Modi said the cities are seeing three encouraging trends including technological development, favourable demographic dividend and increasing domestic demand. Talking about Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) to improve urban infrastructure, he said the initiative is helping cities expand and upgrade their wastewater treatment infrastructure. Earlier, the prime minister dedicated to the nation the 320 KV Pugalur-Thrissur power transmission project, built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore, to facilitate transfer of power from the western region and help meet the growth in load in Kerala. Modi also inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of some key projects in power and urban sectors in the state via video conference. The projects inaugurated included the 50 MW Kasaragod Solar Power Project, developed under the National Solar Energy Mission and the much-awaited 75 MLD (million litres per day) Water Treatment Plant at Aruvikkara near here under the AMRUT Mission. Modi laid the foundation stones of the Integrated Command and Control Centre and Smart Roads Project, both in Thiruvananthapuram. Built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore, the Pugalur (Tamil Nadu)-Thrissur (Kerala) power transmission project is a Voltage Source Converter (VSC) based High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) Project and has India's first HVDC link featuring state-of-the-art VSC technology. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and R K Singh and state ministers attended the virtually organised function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-devoting-great-importance-to-solar-energy-says-pm-modi-953076.html
19-02-2021||South||Man sentenced to life for sexually abusing daughter||The district court here on Friday sentenced a 40-year-old man to undergo life imprisonment and fined him Rs 10 lakh for sexually abusing his daughter. The man had been abusing his daughter from 2014 to 2017 and threatened his wife of dire consequences if the matter was leaked. Unable to bear the torture, the teenaged daughter lodged a complaint with the police in September 2017 and got her father arrested. The trial was on in the district court. Judge Arunachalam sentenced the man to life imprisonment under the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-sentenced-to-life-for-sexually-abusing-daughter-953103.html
19-02-2021||South||Row over Kerala govt’s deal with US firm for developing fishing boats||Opposition Congress in Kerala has raised corruption allegations over a deal being initiated by the Kerala government with a US-based firm for developing deep-sea fishing trawlers. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that it was an attempt to allow the US firm to exploit the fishing resources of the sea off the Kerala coast.  Kerala Fisheries Minister Mery Kutty Amma has denied the allegations. The row is over a recent Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the US-based EMCC International, run by a Malayali, with the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC). The US firm proposed to build 400 trawlers with the help of KSINC as part of the Rs 2950 crore project. Fisheries Minister J Mercy Kutty said that no agreement has been signed by the government to allow fishing by the US firm. The firm's representatives told that the project was only at a proposal stage and it was only for building trawlers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-kerala-govt-s-deal-with-us-firm-for-developing-fishing-boats-953107.html
19-02-2021||South||Antarvedi temple gets a new chariot 'in record time'||A new chariot for Lord Lakshmi Narasimha was inaugurated in Antarvedi on the occasion of Ratha-Saptami on Friday, in the presence of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. The decades-old chariot of the famous Narasimha temple was gutted under mysterious circumstances in the middle of the night on September 5, leading to statewide agitation by BJP, TDP and Hindu organisations. Protests and heavy police deployment has kept the popular town in East Godavari district tense for several days. However, the culprits behind the desecration are still not identified. The case was initially probed by the state police, but later the Reddy government announced that it was handed over to the CBI. The chariot is the main attraction during the annual procession of the presiding deity, in February. Facing all round criticism, more so at a time when such desecration incidents were frequently being reported from several temples across the state, the YSRCP government commissioned the work on a new chariot at an expense of about Rs one crore. “Work on the new chariot was completed in a record time, ahead of the annual Kalyanotsavam. The new chariot has six wheels, is seven-tiered and made out of 1,330 cubic feet of wood. It is equipped with hydraulic brakes. The chariot would be now parked in a protective shed with iron gates,” officials said. Reddy offered puja-aarti to the Lord and later pulled the colourful, forty-feet chariot along with the devotees to herald its commissioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/antarvedi-temple-gets-a-new-chariot-in-record-time-953137.html
19-02-2021||South||Development, good governance don't know religion, caste, creed: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said development is for everyone and it is the aim and religion of his government. Development and good governance do not know caste, creed, race, gender, religion or language, Modi said while inaugurating and laying foundation stones of some key projects in power and urban sectors in poll-bound Kerala via video conference. He also quoted the iconic lines of the great Malayalam poet Kumaranasan who had said, "I am not asking your caste, sister, I ask for water, I am thirsty." "Development is for everyone. This is the essence of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas. Development is our aim, development is our religion," he said concluding his brief speech. Modi also sought the support of the people of the poll-bound state to "realise the shared vision of togetherness and development". He dedicated to the nation the 320 KV Pugalur-Thrissur power transmission project, built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore. The virtual function saw the PM inaugurating the 50 MW Kasaragod Solar Power Project, developed under the National Solar Energy Mission and the much-awaited 75 MLD (million litres per day) Water Treatment Plant at Aruvikkara near here under the AMRUT Mission. Modi also laid the foundation stones of the Integrated Command and Control Centre and Smart Roads Project, both in Thiruvanathapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/development-good-governance-dont-know-religion-caste-creed-pm-modi-953140.html
19-02-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crosses 10.25 lakh||Kerala's Covid-19 tally crossed the 10.25 lakh mark on Friday with the addition of 4,584 cases while the toll rose to 4,061. The state tested 67,574 samples and the test positivity rate was 6.67 per cent, Health Minister K K Shailaja said. Till now,1,09,06,927 samples have been sent for testing. "Out of those infected today, 74 reached the state from outside while 4,110 contracted the disease from their contacts. The source of infection of 288 is yet to be traced. 33 health workers are also among the infected," she said in a release. Meanwhile, 4,854 people recuperated from the disease on Friday taking the total cured persons in the state to 9,61,789 while the tally of positive cases stood at 10,26,286. Currently, there were 59,814 people under treatment in the state. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest cases on Friday with--535, followed by Kozhikode with 509, Malappuram with 476 and Alappuzha with 440 cases. There are 2,54,520 people under observation in the state out of which 9,191 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. Meanwhile, 67 regions were removed from the list of hot spots, whereas four new regions were added to it taking its total number 368.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-tally-crosses-1025-lakh-953146.html
19-02-2021||South||Coimbatore Health Department asks to not use paediatric shots||The Health Department here on Friday asked the anganwadis and primary health centres (PHCs) not to use a particular batch of vaccines following the death of two infants a couple of days ago. Postmortem revealed the death of one infant due to pneumonia and the cause of the other death was yet to be ascertained, sources in the department said. Since the parents were panicky, the department ordered not to use the particular batch of paediatric vaccines until further orders, even as the condition of nearly 35 babies vaccinated at both the centres was reported normal, they said. The babies, aged 2.5 months and three months, died after they were given pentavalent, rotavirus and oral polio vaccines at an anganawadi at Masakalipalayam and in a PHC at Sowripaqlayam in the city on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coimbatore-health-department-asks-to-not-use-paediatric-shots-953180.html
19-02-2021||State||Disha's arrest: 'Youth with passion to change world not safe in India'||A group of parents came together on Thursday to condemn the arrest of young activist Disha Ravi and said they were worried that their children could be persecuted in a similar manner for standing up to injustice.  More than 200 people signed an open letter issued to the media, calling Disha’s arrest “arbitrary and criminalisation” of a toolkit used both by the government and social movements.  “As parents of children, teenagers and young adults, we are shocked by this arrest... We have striven to inculcate in our children a love for the planet and their fellow human beings. We value their concerns about the state of the world and their desire to stand up against injustice and make a difference,” the statement reads.  The signatories called Disha’s arrest an “abduction” that sends a message that “no young person with a sense of curiosity and passion to change the world is safe in today’s India”.  “As parents, we know that all-round development of children and youth is only possible when they are exposed to different viewpoints, when they can debate and stand for or against any position. We are shocked at the call to exterminate Disha by an elected official and the equating of her actions to terrorism. We are dismayed at the exhortations to youth to “keep their heads down” and “focus on their studies”. By criminalising young people’s speech, thoughts and lawful actions, India fails its future citizens,” the statement said.  The parents said it was “a matter of shame” that the Karnataka government abdicated its responsibility in the matter.  “We are angered that her family was given no information about her arrest or any opportunity to interact with her. We are filled with a sense of disquiet and foreboding — any of our children could be taken from us in this manner,” they said.  Sudha N, one of the people who drafted the statement, said there were many other people who supported them but were not forthcoming to sign the letter. “The fear is palpable,” she added.  The letter comes two days after more than 500 alumni of Mount Carmel College — Disha’s alma mater — issued a similar statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dishas-arrest-youth-with-passion-to-change-world-not-safe-in-india-952849.html
19-02-2021||State||Poppy worth Rs 20 lakh seized, 3 arrested in Belagavi||Cyber Economic Offices and Narcotics (CEN) Wing of the Belagavi Police conducted a raid on a pan shop beside 'Rajasthan Dhaba' in Honga village of Belagavi taluk along the Pune-Bengaluru national highway and a house in Rani Chennamma Nagar on Friday where they seized poppy (afeem) worth Rs 20 lakh in the international market and arrested three accused. Based on a specific tip-off that drugs were being stocked and sold at the two locations, CEN sleuths led by Police Inspector B R Gaddekar conducted raids and arrested accused identified as Barquatkhan Dillakhan, resident of Joganatti village in Belagavi taluk, Kamlesh Surjanram Baniwala, a fabricator by profession and resident of Gokul Road, Hubballi and Sarvan alias Sarvararam Asuram Bishnoi, fabricator by profession and resident of Rani Chennamma Nagar. The recovered poppy from their possession weighed 1 kg and 15 grams. Police Commissioner Dr Thiyagarajan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Vikram Amathe and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) Chandrashekhar Neelgar complimented the CEN sleuths for unearthing the contraband smuggling racket. CEN police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/poppy-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized-3-arrested-in-belagavi-953002.html
19-02-2021||State||Actor Sudeep adopts village, four schools in Shivamogga district||Sudeep Charitable Trust of popular actor Sudeep has adopted a village and four government schools in Sagar taluk of the district. Aavige village and schools functioning at Halasasi, ML Halli, and S N Nagar have been adopted. The trust has decided to develop the village and improve infrastructure in the schools of four villages. Aavige village attached to Karur gram panchayat is on the border of the Udupi district with most of the villagers belonging to Kunabi tribal community residing in Shivamogga. There are 27 houses in the village and around 157 people are living in the village. As many as 13 students are enrolled in the government primary school in the village. The majority of villagers are not educated. They visit various parts of the State seeking work to earn their livelihood. The village adoption programme is likely to be held in March and the trust aims to improve infrastructure in the schools and introduce the smart class facility for students. The trust decided to provide all facilities for the school to ensure that rural students are not deprived of any facility that would hinder their studies. Initially, the actor decided to adopt the school and later, he decided to adopt the entire village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/actor-sudeep-adopts-village-four-schools-in-shivamogga-district-953075.html
19-02-2021||State||Fee cut: Pvt school managements plan protest on Feb 23||In a bid to exert pressure on the government to withdraw its order on school fee cut, a consortium of private school management associations has decided to stage a massive protest in the city on February 23. The consortium of 11 associations will take out a protest rally from City railway station to Freedom Park. According to the organisers, more than 25,000 people are expected to take part in the protest. Also, the private unaided schools in the state will remain shut on the protest day, which happens to be a day after the reopening of schools for grades 6 to 8. This will be compensated on Saturday, said private schools management representatives. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, told DH, “There are several issues which are not addressed by the government. Some of them are pressing demands.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fee-cut-pvt-school-managements-plan-protest-on-feb-23-953184.html
19-02-2021||State||Mining hits groundwater level in drought-prone Chitradurga||Every day, students enter classrooms with fear writ large on their faces as they do not know when the roof of the school buildings would collapse or stones might come and hit windows during the class hours due to blasting that has been taking place in stone quarries near Agasarahalli, Mathada Kurubarahatti and Seebara on the outskirts of the city for the past several years. As per the norms, there should not be any building within a 200-metre radius of stone quarries. Though these buildings are located outside the 200-metre radius, the impact of blasting has been causing damage to the houses, schools, religious mutts and former chief minister the late S Nijalingappa’s memorial. Besides, geologists have stated that unscientific mining activities in a drought-prone region, like Chitradurga, would not only worsen groundwater level but also harm water quality. Speaking to DH, hydrogeologist N J Devaraj Reddy said Chitradurga is a hard rock terrain region. “Aquifers are there in the form of pockets. Soil and weathered zone are very thin. The groundwater level is poor in the region and one cannot sink borewells to more than 400 to 500 feet due to the presence of hard rock inside the earth. The mining activities have worsened groundwater level. Groundwater recharge possibility is almost nill here as it is one of the driest places in the state. Besides, it would harm groundwater quality,” he added. “We find brackish water in borewells in villages such as Medehalli, Pillekaranahalli, Basaveshwaranagar as they are close to stone quarries. Similarly, reddish water is found in borewells in Bheemsamudra where iron and manganese ore mining activities are being operated,” he said Bhovi Gurupeetha seer Immadi Siddarameshwara Swami said that groundwater level has worsened in the region known for drought due to uncontrolled mining activities. Earlier, water was available after sinking borewells at 150 foot. Now, water has become elusive in most parts of the city and it is not found even after drilling bore-wells up to 1,000 foot, he added. The memorial of former chief minister S Nijalingappa, which has been constructed on a four-acre land at Seebara on the outskirts of the city, has continued to develop cracks as three quarries are still being operated around the memorial within five km radius.  S Nijalingappa Memorial Trustee Shanmukhappa S said the memorial must be declared as a national monument to protect it from mining activities. The officials must take steps to reduce the intensity of the blast to prevent further damage to the memorial or relocate stone quarries to far-off places. “The structure vibrated when boulders are blasted and it has developed cracks,” he complained. Seven religious institutions are in the region - Sevalal, Medara Ketaiah, Chalavadi Samsthan, Madiwala Samsthan, Madara Chennaiah Peetha, Bhovi Samsthan and Yoga Vana Betta within five km radius of the mining sites. The heads of these religious mutts have urged the officials concerned to direct miners to relocate them to far-off places at the earliest. Chalavadi Mahasamthsan Seer Basava Nagideva said the construction activities have come to a standstill due to the mining activities as the newly constructed buildings are also developing cracks. So, they must be relocated to far-off places, he said. District mines and geology officer B M Lingaraju admitted that the buildings outside the radius of 200 metres of mining sites have developed cracks. He said he would direct the owners of quarries to take steps to ensure that the buildings near the sites are not damaged in any way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mining-hits-groundwater-level-in-drought-prone-chitradurga-953191.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In a first, 16-year-old girl enrolled for Covid-19 vaccine trial||A 16-year-old girl became the first child in Karnataka to enroll in a Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial. Jeevan Rekha Hospital in Belagavi started Phase 3 clinical trials of Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine ZyCoV-D on February 1, in which 500 people have already enrolled and received the first dose, including this paediatric volunteer.   Currently, no Covid-19 vaccines are available for children. Worldwide, there are, but a few trials that have enrolled children in clinical trials. In the US, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna recently started trials of their vaccines among children aged above 12. In Karnataka, 27,434 children in the 0-9 year age group had contracted Covid-19; 28 of them died. In the 10-19 year age group, 63,708 children were infected, out of whom 45 died. Some infected children had developed the multi-system inflammatory syndrome.  Even in the Covishield and Covaxin trials in the state, no child was enrolled. The hospital has already vaccinated 175 in its Phase 2 trial. It was not a part of Phase 1. The trial is allowed to enrol children between the ages of 12 and 18 years. The teenager was enrolled after an audiovisual consent from her and her parents in the presence of the principal investigator. She has reported no major side-effects so far. Dr Amit Bhate, director, Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi, also the principal investigator of the clinical trial, told DH, "We had received two or three enquiries from parents of children. One girl has been vaccinated so far with the first dose. The parents have to maintain a 'diary card' where they have to note down any reaction developed post-vaccination for 56 days and submit it after receiving three doses." The vaccine has to be administered via the intradermal route in the upper arm (unlike Covishield and Covaxin that are given via intramuscular route) on day 0, 28, and 56. "In case of female children, the mother has to be compulsorily there with the child, where everything about the vaccine is explained to both," he said.  There are 43 trial sites across the country and Jeevan Rekha Hospital is the only trial site for this vaccine in the state. The sample size is 28,216. "All the 175 vaccinated in Phase 2 trial with three doses at our hospital are doing fine without any major side-effects. We are still observing them. This will go on for eight months," he said. They come in for blood sampling to check their antibody levels. "We are constantly in touch with them. As many as 2,250 volunteers were inoculated as part of the Covaxin trial at our hospital over a month. Now their friends, relatives and colleagues are coming for the ZyCoV-D trial," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-a-first-16-year-old-girl-enrolled-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial-952930.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yakshagana artiste Bhandary dies at 73||Veteran Yakshagana artiste Puttur Sridhar Bhandary, who has long been associated with the Dharmasthala Yakshagana Mela, died on Friday, family sources said. He was 73. He is survived by wife, two sons and two daughters. Bhandary had learnt Yakshaganaat the age of 12 and first made a stage appearance when he was 15. He earned praise and recognition for the portrayal of young Yakshagana heroes and was known for his electrifying, youthful and soulful performances. He was a resident of Bannur in Puttur taluk. Bhandary had won several honours including Karnataka Rajyotsava award and Yakshaganga academy award. Some of the immensely popular roles he portrayed were Babhruvahana, Ashwathama, Kusha and Bhargava. He had served in Subramanya Mela, Balambetttu Mela and Puttur Mela before joining Dharmasthala Mela where he served for 45 years as the leading artiste||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yakshagana-artiste-bhandary-dies-at-73-952996.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Padma Shri Darshan Shankar to hold webinar on Indian way to study nature||Padma Shri Darshan Shankar will hold a webinar in Bengaluru on February 20 to mark the birth anniversary of Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar. The webinar is being organised by His Highness Sri Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar (HHSNW) Foundation on ‘The Indian Way to Study Nature and Society’. Shankar, Vice Chancellor of Trans-Disciplinary University, Bengaluru, will speak on the unique Indian approaches to studying nature and society, a topic of anthropological interest to a wide audience. The webinar will be streamed from the Gagana Malige Hall, Mysuru Palace, according to Reginald Wesley, Honorary Secretary, HHSNW Foundation. The webinar will be streamed on https://youtu.be/PtefrdSki8E. The Trans-Disciplinary University primarily focuses on Ayurveda-biology, a new domain that combines systemic perspectives of Ayurveda with molecular approaches of biology. The government awarded Shankar Padma Shri in 2011 recognising his work in promoting integrative health sciences. He won Normal Borlaug Award (1998) for his contribution towards conservation of wild populations of medicinal plants. He is also the recipient of Columbia University’s International Award (2003) as recognition for his contributions to revitalisation of traditional systems of healthcare in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/padma-shri-darshan-shankar-to-hold-webinar-on-indian-way-to-study-nature-953006.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||TAC member suggests compulsory RT-PCR tests for those travelling to Karnataka from high-risk states||Against the backdrop of mandatory tests for all arrivals from Kerala, a Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee member in Karnataka has suggested compulsory RT-PCR tests for those coming from high-risk states, seven-day home quarantine for all, and a mandatory RT-PCR test once every 15 days for those who work in catering companies and serve food. Another Covid-19 TAC member said these recommendations are yet to be finalised. Dr CN Manjunath, a TAC member said, "An order pertaining to Kerala has already been issued. But in Maharashtra also, cases are rising. So obviously, the same model has to be applied to other high-risk states. It also makes sense to test caterers in the current scenario." "I will definitely pitch it to the state TAC. Many marriages and social functions are going on, and caterers go from place to place. They mostly work in basements. Choultries are mostly in the basement where ventilation is less. If anyone of them has the virus, they can spread it to many. Catering service has improved compared to what it was four to five months back," he said.  "These people should be screened for Covid-19 at least once in two weeks. The atmosphere they work in is conducive for the spread of the virus. The fact that the dining hall is always in the basement doesn't help. They go downstairs repeatedly for serving the food," he said. All marriage halls are completely full now, pushing the state to put an upper limit of only 500 on social gatherings. The TAC's Chairman Dr MK Sudarshan said these aspects related to Covid containment and surveillance are yet to be discussed and that the next meeting is yet to be scheduled. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra said, "This is on our agenda. We will be discussing this on February 20 or 21. A circular to this effect should be issued shortly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tac-member-suggests-compulsory-rt-pcr-tests-for-those-travelling-to-karnataka-from-high-risk-states-953027.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reservation demands: Govt discussing modalities regarding way forward says B S Yediyurappa||The Karnataka government was discussing modalities on the way forward following demands by various communities in the state to revise the existing reservation, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday. "I have discussed it at the cabinet meeting (on Thursday), all the Ministers have expressed their opinion, discussions are on regarding the way forward....how and what is to be done," Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question. The state government is facing demands for revision of the existing quota from various communities, including the dominant Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat. After the cabinet meeting on Thursday, Home and Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the Chief Minister took note of opinions expressed by various Ministers and suggested about the government taking suggestions from legal experts and also reviewing court orders in this regard. Amid demands for better reservation, Yediyurappa had recently said his government would do whatever was possible within the ambit of the law and the Constitution. The Veerashaiva-Lingayats, to which Yediyurappa belongs, are demanding OBC status under the central list, whereas the sub-sect of the community-Panchamasali Lingayats- wants to be put under Category 2A in the state quota. The other dominant Vokkaliga community has decided to seek for enhancement of reservation, formation of a Vokkaliga Development Authority and greater quota access to the urban poor from the community. They want all Vokkaliga sub-sects to be included under OBC. On the other hand, while the backward Kuruba community is seeking ST tag, the Valmiki community wants ST quota to be hiked from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent. Karnataka at present provides 15 per cent reservation for SCs, 3 per cent for STs and 32 per cent for the other backward classes (OBC), which adds up to 50 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reservation-demands-govt-discussing-modalities-regarding-way-forward-says-b-s-yediyurappa-953046.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans 'Investors Meet' to boost mining sector||Karnataka is planning to host a ‘Mining Investors Meet’ to not only attract investments but also rebrand the mining sector that is mostly perceived to be corrupt, Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said Friday.  Nirani said this during a Facebook live event with DH.  “We want to organize a Mining Investors Meet on the lines of the Global Investors Meet,” Nirani said. He was the industries minister when Karnataka hosted the Global Investors Meet in 2010 and 2012.  “We are discussing this and we plan to have it next year once the Covid-19 pandemic goes. I will discuss this with the chief minister. We will need a year’s time to prepare,” Nirani said. “The mining sector needs rebranding as it is perceived to be corrupt,” he added.  Nirani, who was inducted into Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s Cabinet a little over a month ago, said he has initiated some reforms to revamp his department.  One of the reforms is to introduce a single-window agency for mining approvals for ease of doing business. “At present, one requires 8-10 no-objection certificates from the departments of forest, transport, revenue and so on. So, we will hold monthly meetings and clearance will be given at once,” he said.   Nirani is also keen to push for the establishment of a School of Mines like the one in Dhanbad, Jharkhand. “This will come up somewhere in central Karnataka or Ballari where mining is more. Ultimately, the plan is to make it a university,” he said. “Right now, mining isn’t happening in a scientific way. On an acre of land, for example, if one lakh tonnes are being extracted, with scientific training, three lakh tonnes can be extracted,” he explained.  The government is also revisiting the modalities of taking up a drone survey to assess mining activities following complaints from the industry. “The drone survey done previously was not scientific... They calculated whatever mining is being done multiplied by volume. But, the yield itself was low,” he said, adding that the penalty amount levied five times the tax payable will be reduced.  Affordable sand According to Nirani, the government’s new sand policy will be pro-poor.  “All those who carry sand on two-wheelers, three-wheelers or tractors for their own use will be charged a very nominal price,” he said. “This will benefit citizens constructing houses.” And, those using sand for commercial use will have to pay a royalty, he said. “The policy will be out very soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-investors-meet-to-boost-mining-sector-953071.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Man dies nine days after receiving Covishield vaccine in Karnataka||A 56-year-old man from Chikkaballapur died on Friday, nine days after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine. The deceased, according to the Covid bulletin a ‘waterman’, had first developed symptoms on the afternoon of February 11, a day after he received the Covishield jab. He was shifted to Aster CMI Hospital and thereafter to Jayadeva Hospital.  He was, ‘admitted, treated, recovered and discharged from the hospital on February 18, according to the bulletin. On Friday afternoon, however, he developed chest pain again and while being shifted to the hospital, he died. Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said, “The case will be investigated by Chikkaballapur district AEFI Committee on Monday.” Dr C N Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, told DH, “We have to look at the case sheets to understand the treating doctor’s provisional diagnosis. But a vaccine given nine days ago couldn’t have given him a heart attack today.” This is the fourth death of an vaccinated individual in Karnataka. The previous three deaths of the inoculated were from Ballari, Shivamogga and Belagavi. While the first two were male health workers, the third was a female ASHA worker. Meanwhile, two serious AEFIs (adverse events following immunisation) were reported in the state - one each in Raichur and Mysuru. A 45-year-old anganwadi worker from Raichur vaccinated on January 20 developed pain in bilateral lower limbs a week later. On February 15, she developed fever, chills, abdominal pain and vomiting. Two days later, she was shifted to NIMHANS for further management.  A 40-year-old ‘waterman’ from Mysuru was vaccinated on Feb 12. The same day, he developed muscle twitching of the right lower limb which became generalised. On February 15, he got shifted to KR Hospital, thereafter to JSS Hospital on February 16 for further management. Severe AEFI  A 26-year-old female swab collector from Bengaluru was vaccinated on February 17. Within 30 minutes, she developed vomiting, giddiness, breathing difficulty, and lost consciousness for ten minutes. She was shifted to ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar. She has been discharged and is stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/man-dies-nine-days-after-receiving-covishield-vaccine-in-karnataka-953127.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 386 new Covid-19 cases, five deaths||Karnataka logged 386 new Covid-19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the total caseload to 9,47,246 and the toll to 12,287, the Health department said on Friday. The day also saw 291 patients getting discharged after recovery. The state also completed vaccination of more than six lakh beneficiaries till date, the department said in a bulletin. Bengaluru Urban accounted for most number of the fresh cass at 209. Cumulatively 9,47,246 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,287 deaths and 9,29,058 discharges, the department said out of 5,882 active cases, 5,757 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 125 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban also accounted for the most number of deaths reported at four, while the other was from Kodagu. Mysuru came second in number of cases with 34, Kalaburagi 23, Dakshina Kannada 20, Tumakuru 11, Belagavi 10, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,03,236, followed by Mysuru 53,868 and Ballari 39,206. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 3,94,583, followed by Mysuru 52,682 and Ballari 38,587. A total of over 1,82,21,003 samples have been tested so far,out of which 61,440 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-386-new-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-953173.html
19-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's Covid-19 vaccinations cross 6-lakh mark||The Covid-19 vaccination coverage in the state has crossed the six lakh-mark on Friday. Till 8.30 pm on Friday, as many as 6,32,711 beneficiaries have received the vaccine shots. On the flip side, only 51% of the targeted health workers have received their first dose of vaccine and Saturday is the last day for the Phase-1 beneficiaries to get their first dose. BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad said till Friday around 50% health workers were vaccinated in BBMP limits. Till 8.30 pm, only 4,20,837 health workers out of targeted beneficiaries 8,21,939 were vaccinated, which is 51% coverage. As many as 99,326 health workers have taken the second dose, so far. The vaccination coverage of frontline workers also has been mediocre with 1,12,548 of the targeted 2,84,950 (39%) having received their vaccine shots. On day 35 of Covid vaccination drive, the state has recorded a cumulative vaccination coverage of 57%, till 8.30 pm on Friday. On Friday alone, 46,534 were vaccinated out of 1,04,121 targeted beneficiaries, which is 45% of day's coverage.  386 new cases, 5 deaths Karnataka, meanwhile, logged 386 new Covid-19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the total caseload to 9,47,246 and the toll to 12,287, on Friday. The day also saw 291 patients getting discharged after recovery. There have been 9,29,058 recoveries, so far. Out of 5,882 active cases, 125 are in ICUs.  Bengaluru Urban accounted for 209 fresh cases. Mysuru recorded 34 new infections followed by Kalaburagi 23, Dakshina Kannada 20 and Tumakuru 11. A total of 1,82,21,003 samples have been tested for Covid-19, so far. Out of which 61,440 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-covid-19-vaccinations-cross-6-lakh-mark-953202.html
19-02-2021||West||Curbs, lockdown in parts as Maharashtra sees 5,427 Covid-19 cases after 75 days||Authorities in two eastern Maharashtra districts of Amravati and Yavatmal on Thursday announced strict implementation of restrictions, including a weekend lockdown in Amravati, to stem the rising cases of Covid-19. The administration in Yavatmal district ordered curbs on gatherings and also the closure of schools (which had reopened for select classes) for ten days, measures coming on a day when the state reported 5,427 new cases, a daily tally not seen in more than two months. A weekend lockdown was announced in Amravati district, from 8 pm on Saturday to 7 am on Monday, a period during which markets and other establishments will remain shut, but essential services will remain unaffected. Schools (for students from Classes 5 to 9), colleges, and coaching classes in Yavatmal district will remain closed till February 28, while only 50 persons will be permitted at weddings, Yavatmal collector D M Singh said. Religious places will remain open but Covid-19 protocols will be strictly implemented, he said. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to operate between 8 am to 9.30 pm, while markets and shops will remain open till 8 pm, Singh said. Amravati Collector Shailesh Naval said on weekdays, all establishments in the district, including hotels and restaurants, would stay open only till 8 pm (from earlier 10 pm). Yavatmal collector Singh told PTI that they have not stopped anything in the district. "However, strict enforcement of restrictions as per the guidelines of the Government of India and Government of Maharashtra is being implemented in the district," Singh said. Both Amravati and Yavatmal fall in Vidarbha, a region which has been reporting a steady rise in Covid-19 cases since the start of February. Earlier, the Maharashtra government ordered collectors of Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal districts in Vidarbha to take necessary steps to curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases, state Minister Anil Parab said in Mumbai. Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar also wrote to collectors of the three districts to declare areas having high prevalence of Covid-19 as containment zones to check further transmission of the disease. Yavatmal collector Singh said the number of Covid-19 cases in the district had been increasing since February 1. Almost 80 to 90 per cent of new cases were being reported from Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Pusad cities, he said. "We have decided to conduct around 500 tests per day in Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Pusad municipal corporations. Today we are ordering lockdown in Yavatmal district till February 28," Singh said. "In view of a spurt in Covid-19 cases, I have decided to impose a weekend lockdown in Amravati district. To avoid any stricter lockdown in the future, I appeal to people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," Collector Shailesh Naval said. Naval said during the weekend lockdown all markets and other establishments will remain shut. "Swimming pools and indoor games, too, will remain closed, while only five people will be allowed at religious ceremonies," Naval said. According to the government, Amravati and Akola cities reported 542 and 152 Covid-19 fresh cases, respectively, on Thursday. Yavatmal district recorded 131 cases during the day. The Akola circle, which covers the three districts besides Buldhana and Washim, reported 1,258 cases -- second only to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, which saw a rise of 1,432 patients during the day. According to an official statement, the daily Covid-19 positivity rate of Akola is 32 per cent, while the same for the week is 24 per cent. The daily and weekly positivity rate of Amravati district is 48 per cent and 35 per cent respectively, the statement said. Yavatmals daily and weekly positivity rate is 15 per cent, the statement said. Maharashtra's daily and weekly positivity rate is 8.8 per cent and 7.76 per cent, respectively, it said. There is a need to take care given the way the number of cases is going up (of late). "District collectors have been ordered to take necessary steps to contain the spread of the disease or control the number of patients there, Transport Minister Parab told reporters. In his letter to the three collectors, Chief Secretary Kumar noted that an upsurge is being seen in Covid-19 positive cases in Achalpur taluka and Amravati city (Amravati district) and areas under Yavatmal, Pusad and Pandharkawada municipal councils in the Yavatmal district. Similarly, the Akot and Murtizapur talukas and Akola city in Akola district too have seen an upsurge in Covid-19 cases, Kumar observed. In the light of above, you are directed to declare the above mentioned affected areas as Containment Zones in order to check further transmission of the Covid-19 virus. Detailed orders regarding permissible and non-permissible activities as well as taking up all requisite precautionary measures in the said zones may be issued by you (district collectors) immediately, the chief secretary said. In the statement, the government asked the authorities to increase contact tracing in districts which are more affected. It has ordered authorities to test at least 20 to 30 close contacts of a patient and bring down the positivity rate to less than 10 per cent. Instructions have been issued to carry out 20 times more tests in areas where a new patient is found and to conduct RT-PCR test of patients with symptoms, the statement said. The government has also asked local administrations to spray disinfectants at places like public toilets and bus and railway stations. The administration should ensure that the attendance for social, religious and political events is limited and physical distancing and mask norms are adhered to strictly. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting in Mumbai to review the situation in the Vidarbha districts. Speaking to reporters before the meeting, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar noted that, till January-end, the number of Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals post recovery was higher, while the number of positive patients reported in the entire state was less. But from February 1, the positive cases started increasing in different areas (of the state). In Amravati division, it is more evident, Pawar said. The government last month extended the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state till February 28, even as a lot of restrictions have been eased in the last few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curbs-lockdown-in-parts-as-maharashtra-sees-5427-covid-19-cases-after-75-days-952875.html
19-02-2021||West||Snacks godown, 12 cargo vehicles gutted in major fire in Maharashtra's Thane||A godown of a prominent snacks manufacturer in Thane city of Maharashtra was completely destroyed along with 12 cargo vehicles in a major fire that broke out in the wee hours of Friday, an official said. There was no report of any casualty due to the fire, he said. "The fire broke out around 2.20 am at the godown of a leading snacks manufacturer in Manpada. The godown was reduced to ashes due to the blaze, which also completely destroyed 12 cargo vehicles loaded with goods," Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane civic body's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said. A few fire engines were rushed to the spot and the blaze was doused, he said. "The cooling operation will continue for the next few hours," Kadam said, adding that the cause of the fire is being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/snacks-godown-12-cargo-vehicles-gutted-in-major-fire-in-maharashtras-thane-952878.html
19-02-2021||West||FIR registered against 2 nurses in Bhandara hospital fire case||Nearly 40 days after an incident of fire claimed the lives of 10 new-born babies in a government hospital at Bhandara in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, police have registered an FIR against two nurses on Thursday night. The January 9 fire at the Special Newborn Care Unit of District General Hospital in Bhandara had rattled the hospital administration in the state – that is already fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. The FIR was registered against Shubhangi Sathavane and Smita Ambildukhe, who were prima facie found negligent during the midnight when the fire took place. A case under IPC section 304(2) (causing death by negligence) was registered against the duo, Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale said on Friday. As many as 17 infants, aged one to three months, were admitted in the ward at the time of the tragedy. Fortunately, the fire brigade was able to save seven of them. It may be recalled, earlier paediatrician Dr Sushil Ambade, Smita Ambilduke and Shubhangi Sathawane were terminated from service for negligence in duty. Besides, district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate, the medical officer on duty Dr Archana Meshram and in-charge nurse Jyoti Bharaskar were suspended. Additional civil surgeon Dr Sunila Bade was transferred to a non-executive post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-registered-against-2-nurses-in-bhandara-hospital-fire-case-952909.html
19-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: 500 booked for flouting Covid-19 norms at birthday party||Police have registered a case against around 500 people for allegedly violating the Covid-19 norms by gathering for a birthday celebration at Dombivli in Maharashtra's Thane district, officials said. The birthday party was held during the intervening night of February 17 and 18 at Deslepada, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said in a statement on Thursday. KDMC's ward officer Akshay Gudge had received a complaint that people had assembled in large numbers to celebrate the birthday of a local resident without following the coronavirus norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, it said. After being alerted, the civic authorities visited the premises and later lodged a complaint with the Manpada police station against around 500 people, including the host and the attendees, the statement said. The police have registered an FIR against them under IPC sections 269 and 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of diseases), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and under sections of the Disaster Management Control Rules against the crowd. No arrest has been made in this connection so far, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-500-booked-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-at-birthday-party-952922.html
19-02-2021||West||Bird flu: Over 7 lakh birds culled in Maharashtra||Nearly one-and-a-half months into the outbreak of Bird Flu, over seven lakh birds have been culled in Maharashtra. Wherever the positive reports in Poultry Birds and Ducks have been communicated, the process of declaring the “Infected Zone” and activities have been initiated to enforce the prescribed preventive measures, as per the provisions of the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009. All poultry birds, eggs, poultry feed and droppings within a radius of 1 km from the poultry farm have been scientifically destroyed. So far 7,12,172 poultry birds - including 5,78,360 birds in Navapur in Nandurbar, 26,03,728 eggs, and 72,974 kg poultry feed have been destroyed from the infected zone, according to officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry. The Government of Maharashtra has released an amount of Rs.338.13 lakh for compensation to the poultry farmers where the culling of poultry birds, disposal of eggs, and poultry feed have been carried out in the infected zone for containment of Bird Flu. The samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section, Pune for testing, the officials said. “Poultry farmers are urged to follow strict bio-security measures. The chicken shop proprietors are strictly directed to use gloves, mask covering mouth and nose, stringent hygiene practices in the shop and to maintain social physical distancing norms,” the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bird-flu-over-7-lakh-birds-culled-in-maharashtra-952928.html
19-02-2021||West||Congress promises ‘dating destinations’ in Vadodara, draws BJP’s ire||In a bid to attract young voters in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation polls, the Congress promised in its manifesto 'date destinations' with coffee shops for 'youth, students, couples and corporates', much to the ruling BJP’s displeasure. For an 'iconic Vadodara', the Congress has also promised a higher standard of education in the city with English-medium schools in each zone and 'ultra-modern schools offering free education'. The grand old party is also promising party halls for women’s kitty parties. The BJP, which has been the ruling party in the Vadodara civic body since 1995, is yet to release its manifesto for the polls. Stating that the Congress election document had 'an influence of Italian culture', the saffron party said that those promises had offended the people of Vadodara. The BJP also dubbed the 'dating destinations' as 'malicious'. The Congress hit back by saying that the idea was to give people from weaker sections of the society a place to unwind. The party claims that this will help generate employment and “bridge the gap between sections of society”. Vadodara Congress President Prashant Patel accused the BJP of having a “regressive mindset”, according to the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-promises-dating-destinations-in-vadodara-draws-bjp-s-ire-952936.html
19-02-2021||West||Masks your 'dhal' in Covid-19 battle: CM Uddhav Thackeray as Covid-19 surges in Maharashtra||On a day the Maharashtra government intensified the measures vis-a-vis Covid-19, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said masks go a long way in combating the viral pandemic. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj defeated his enemies... he had ‘talwar’ (sword) and ‘dhal’ (shield)... in our fight against coronavirus, the biggest ‘dhal’ is your mask,” Thackeray said on the occasion of the birth anniversary of the legendary Maratha warrior at Shivneri Fort in Junnar in Pune district. “We draw inspiration from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and we will win this battle,” he said. The Chief Minister’s statement came on a day when new curbs were placed in several cities including Mumbai. There has been a significant rise in cases in Maharashtra over the last seven days in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nashik and towns of the Vidarbha region. “Strict action would be taken against those found not wearing masks,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar told reporters. In Mumbai, over 5,000 marshals have been pressed by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to keep a check on whether people are wearing masks or not. While 4,800 would be on the roads of Mumbai, around 300 would travel in trains in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The BMC has decided to keep all passengers coming to Mumbai from Brazil under mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine. The implementation for the same has already begun. “The Mumbai police are now being empowered to take action against unmasked citizens. The police can also act as marshals by imposing fines on the violators,” BMC officials said, adding that municipal teachers will be deployed at all buildings, offices, hospitals managed by corporation with powers to take punitive action against those roaming without masks. “In order to monitor all places of worship, women marshals will also be deployed along with male marshals. Roaming without a mask, gathering of more than 50 people at a time or any such violation will lead to punitive action. Action will also be taken against those found in playgrounds and parks without masks,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/masks-your-dhal-in-covid-19-battle-cm-uddhav-thackeray-as-covid-19-surges-in-maharashtra-952962.html
19-02-2021||West||Half a dozen top leaders of Maharashtra get Covid-19 infection||Half a dozen top Maharashtra leaders have tested Covid-19 positive in the last couple of days including Eknath Khadse and Bacchu Kadu, who have got the infection for the second time. Those who had tested positive include state NCP president and water resources and command area development minister Jayant Patil, state health minister Rajesh Tope, food and drug administration minister Dr Rajendra Singne, minister of state for labour and Prahar Janshakti founder Bacchu Kadu, senior NCP leader Eknath Khadse and his daughter-in-law and BJP MP from Raver Raksha Khadse. Meanwhile, state Congress president and former speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Nana Patole is in self-isolation after two of his staff members tested positive for the infection. On the other hand, state home minister Anil Deshmukh is in-home quarantine in Nagpur after recovering from a bout of Covid-19. Kadu is from Achalpur in Amravati and is the guardian minister of Akola, both of which are among the affected districts. Khadse had tested positive in November last year and recovered. During the last week of December and the first week of February, he suffered from Covid-19 like symptoms and was in-home quarantine. Now he has tested positive again. Meanwhile, the budget session of the Maharashtra legislature is set to commence on 1 March. The budget would be tabled on 8 March. On 25 March, a meeting would be convened to decide on the duration depending on the situation. Chairman of Maharashtra Legislative Council Ramraje Naik-Nimbalkar has urged the Centre and the State government to ensure priority to legislators and Vidhan Bhavan staff. “We have 287 MLAs now while 60-plus MLCs. Besides, we have 700 to 800 people who work in the Vidhan Bhavan complex. Plus, officials from Mantralaya, who set up camp offices in the complex during the session,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/half-a-dozen-top-leaders-of-maharashtra-get-covid-19-infection-952987.html
19-02-2021||West||Patole, Fadnavis trade barbs over fuel, actors' tweets||A day after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole's comments on some actors not taking a stand on the fuel price hike issue were for "publicity", the latter hit back on Friday saying the former chief minister's comments need not be taken to heart. Patole had, on Thursday, said if actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar do not take a stand on the issue of fuel price hike, then screening of their films and shootings would not be allowed in Maharashtra. Criticising Patole, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Fadnavis had reportedly said the Congress leader's remarks were aimed at "seeking publicity" and should not be taken seriously. Hitting back, Patole said, "Fadnavis has been making comments with a negative view that he at least became leader of the opposition if not leader of the ruling party. Hence, his comments need not be taken to heart." He also asked why the BJP was getting so rattled with his comments on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/patole-fadnavis-trade-barbs-over-fuel-actors-tweets-953092.html
19-02-2021||West||Maha Dy CM warns of action against people found without masks||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said he has instructed administrations in the state to take strict action against people who are found without masks in public amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to reporters at Shivneri Fort after an event, Pawar said district administrations have been authorised to assess the situation in their respective districts and impose a lockdown from 6 am to 6 pm, if the situation demands. "I am going to chair a meeting on February 21 in Pune to discuss measures to contain the viral spread," the deputy chief minister said. A spike in Covid-19 cases witnessed in some districts of the state is a matter of concern, he said. "In some cases, the local administrations of such districts have been authorised to impose lockdowns from 6 am to 6 pm if the situation demands," he said. Moreover, local authorities have been asked to take strict action against those who do not wear masks in public, Pawar said. Speaking at an event organised to celebrate Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's birth anniversary at the fort, Pawar said he is thankful to people of the state for responding to the government's appeal to celebrate Shiv Jayanti and other festivals in a simple manner in the last one year. "If Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj had been there, he too would not have taken any decision that could endanger the lives of people," he said. He also stated that the chief minister had announced Rs 23.50 crore funds for the development of Shivneri Fort and the same has been handed over now. When asked about Puja Chavan death case in Pune, in which allegations have been levelled against a minister from the Shiv Sena, Pawar said the Sena can talk about the issue with more authority. "I have already clarified that a detailed inquiry is being carried out in the case and no one will be shielded. We should give time to the police to conduct the probe. I am sure that there will not be any political interference," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-dy-cm-warns-of-action-against-people-found-without-masks-953099.html
19-02-2021||West||No foreign Covid-19 strain in Maharashtra, says govt||While a new suspected strain of coronavirus found in Vidarbha is being examined in detail, the Maharashtra government has ruled out any evidence of mutated variations of Covid-19 that had surfaced in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil in the state. “There is no change in the genetic make-up of coronavirus in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal districts,” the state's Public Health Department said in a press statement on Friday. It said that four samples each from the three districts and 12 from Pune were tested at the BJ Government Medical College and no genetic mutations are found. The government has sent more samples from Akola, Amravati and Yavatmal to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) for genome sequencing the reports of which would be available next week. The new coronavirus mutant strain found in the Vidarbha region’s three districts have compounded concerns in Maharashtra where Covid-19 cases are spiralling yet again. The new possible strains found were confirmed by Dr Shanhank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force and Dr Tatyarao Lahane, Director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DEMR). “New strains were seen in samples collected in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal,” said Dr Lahane. According to him, more tests need to be conducted to check the “infectiveness” of the new mutant variety. However, he said that the spike is not related to the new strain but the laxity of part of the people who were not following the precautions and SOPs. “The government is fully mindful of it and is looking at it in greater detail,” said Dr Joshi. “Some geographies in Maharashtra are showing large cluster infections. Seeing disrespect for use of mask and sanitation issues in rural areas. The only silver lining is the low death rate. We cannot afford a lockdown,” added Dr Joshi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-foreign-covid-19-strain-in-maharashtra-says-govt-953123.html
19-02-2021||West||Tough measures in Maharashtra as Covid-19 cases compound and new suspected strain surfaces||Near-lockdown-type measures were clamped in three Vidarbha districts of Amravati, Akola, and Yavatmal even as 5,000-plus marshals fanned the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) as the Covid-19 pandemic seems to raise its gory head again in Maharashtra, the worst-hit in the country. On Friday, the cases in the western state jumped by 6,112 to a progressive total of 20,87,632 – bringing the state to what it was in the last week of November, 2020 – in terms of daily figures. Compounding the problems in the state was a new suspected strain of the novel coronavirus that was reportedly detected in the Vidarbha districts and was being examined in detail. However, the Maharashtra government has categorically ruled out any evidence of mutated variations of Covid-19 that had surfaced in the United Kingdom, South Africa, and Brazil. Meanwhile, coinciding with the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that masks are like ‘dhal’ of the legendary Maratha warrior. “We need to wear masks in the fight against Covid-19,” he said. The statement came on a day when over 5,000 marshals fanned the roads of the financial capital and its suburbs which included 300 in moving suburban trains in the MMR. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that local district collectors have been authorised to take appropriate decisions as local situations warrant. “Lockdown or not totally depends on the public,” said food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal. Meanwhile, on the issue of new strain, the state’s Public Health Department said: “There is no change in the genetic make-up of the coronavirus in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal districts.” It said that four samples each from the three districts and 12 from Pune were tested at the BJ Government Medical College and no genetic mutations were found. The government has sent more samples from Akola, Amravati, and Yavatmal to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) for genome sequencing, whose reports would be available next week. The new coronavirus mutant strain found in the Vidarbha region’s three districts is puzzling the healthcare system and has compounded concerns in Maharashtra where Covid-19 cases are spiralling yet again. The state's politicians who had tested positive include state NCP president and water resources minister Jayant Patil, state health minister Rajesh Tope, food and drug administration minister Dr Rajendra Singne, minister of state for labour and Prahar Janshakti founder Bacchu Kadu, senior NCP leader Eknath Khadse and his daughter-in-law and BJP MP from Raver Raksha Khadse.  Khadse and Kadu have tested positive for the second time. Meanwhile, state Congress president and former speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Nana Patole is in self-isolation after two of his staff members tested positive for the infection. Two senior officials -  Dr Shanhank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, and Dr Tatyarao Lahane, Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DEMR) - spoke of a new possible strain. “New strains were seen in samples collected in Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal,” said Dr Lahane. However, these strains were not similar to the ones detected from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa. According to him, more tests need to be conducted to check the “infectiveness” of the new mutant variety. However, he said that the spike is not related to the new strain but the laxity of part of the people who were not following the precautions and SOPs. “The government is fully mindful of it and is looking at it in greater detail,” said Dr Joshi. “Some geographies in Maharashtra are showing large cluster infections. Seeing disrespect for use of mask and sanitation issues in rural areas. The only silver lining is the low death rate. We cannot afford a lockdown,” added Dr Joshi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tough-measures-in-maharashtra-as-covid-19-cases-compound-and-new-suspected-strain-surfaces-953130.html
19-02-2021||West||Mumbai records 823 new Covid-19 cases, as Maharashtra cases surge continues||With the addition of 823 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai on Friday recorded the highest single-day spike in infections since December last year, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. According to the civic body's data, the tally of coronavirus cases in the city has risen to 3,17,310, while the toll has reached 11,435 with five new casualties. The city's daily count of infections crossed the 700 mark in the last two days, after it recorded less than 500 cases at the start of the week, the official said. As many as 440 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the count of recoveries to 2,98,435, the official data stated. With this, the city now has 6,577 active cases, it was stated. The average growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city has increased to 0.18 per cent from 0.17 per cent on Thursday, while the average doubling rate has dropped to 393 days from 417 days. With the addition of 18,366 samples tested during the day, the total number of tests conducted so far has risen to 30,98,894. While the civic body conducted around 15,000 Covid-19 tests every day earlier this month, in the wake of a spike in cases, it has ramped up testing since Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-records-823-new-covid-19-cases-as-maharashtra-cases-surge-continues-953141.html
19-02-2021||West||RBI puts Rs 1,000 withdrawal cap on Deccan Urban Co-op Bank; fresh loans, deposits restricted||The Reserve Bank on Friday said it has barred Karnataka-based Deccan Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd from granting fresh loans or accepting deposits and customers cannot withdraw more than Rs 1,000 from their savings account for a period of six months. The lender has also been asked not to make fresh investments or incur any liability without its prior permission. The RBI said it issued the directions to the chief executive officer of the bank on Thursday (February 18). It has also asked the lender to desist from disbursing any payment whether in discharge of its liabilities or otherwise, or dispose of any of its assets except as notified in the RBI direction. "Considering the bank's present liquidity position, a sum not exceeding Rs 1000 only of the total balance across all savings bank or current accounts or any other account of a depositor, may be allowed to be withdrawn," RBI said in a release on Friday. It said customers can set off their loans against deposits subject to conditions. "However, 99.58 per cent of the depositors are fully covered by the DICGC insurance scheme," said the regulator. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of RBI, provides insurance cover on bank deposits. The RBI further said putting the bank under restrictions should not be construed as cancellation of its banking license. The bank will continue to undertake banking business with restrictions till its financial position improves. The Reserve Bank may consider modifications of the directions depending upon circumstances. The directions are set to remain in force for six months from the close of business on February 19, 2021 and are subject to review, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rbi-puts-rs-1000-withdrawal-cap-on-deccan-urban-co-op-bank-fresh-loans-deposits-restricted-953209.html
