20-02-2021||First Edit||Licence raj for academic seminars||A new notification by the Ministry of Education that requires public-funded institutions to seek permission from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) before organising virtual seminars will deal a serious blow to academic freedom and deny opportunities to students, teachers and scholars to learn and benefit from interaction with their peers elsewhere. The order has made it compulsory for the institutions to take approval for the events and for the list of participants. Permission is also required if the discussion is about the “security of the State, border, North-East states, Jammu & Kashmir or any other issues which are related to India’s internal matters.” There will also be appropriate level scrutiny to identify the nature and sensitivity of data or contents, or presentation or information. Events with foreign funding, and those “involving sensitive subjects with provisions for sharing of data in any form” will also need prior permission. These are very restrictive guidelines and make it difficult for students and scholars to pursue their academic and professional work and activities effectively. There are already some restrictions on holding physical seminars and these have now been extended to online events. While the need to constrain physical events is also questionable, there is even less justification for the curbs on online events which can easily be monitored. Freedom of functioning and openness in academic and research activities of institutions is a key requirement in a democratic society. It is also essential for their excellence. Knowledge has no borders and a lot of research and studies have become globalised. Some fine scholars on India and matters that are important in the country live and work abroad. The negative list of subjects will make understanding of such subjects, places and areas that come under them difficult. “Issues related to internal matters’’ is a broad expression that has not been defined, and any discussion on any subject can be restricted under the rubric. The implementation of the guidelines will hamper the growth and development of academic institutions and the cause of higher education in the country. There is no major institution that meets global standards of excellence in the country, and such restrictive guidelines can only bring the levels further down. The result will be that Indian scholars will be cut off and isolated from global trends and scholarship. National security is a legitimate concern but institutions and scholars are not unaware of its imperatives and their responsibilities. In some universities and institutions, virtual seminars are held every week and getting approvals for each of them from the ministry will prove burdensome and impractical. Many institutions will feel discouraged and stop holding such seminars. The loss will be the students’, the scholars’ and the nation’s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/licence-raj-for-academic-seminars-953240.html
20-02-2021||In Perspective||No easy way to handle Myanmar||With echoes of Trumpian rhetoric of election fraud, Myanmar’s military Commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing staged a coup in Myanmar on February 1. He claimed that the military takeover was to avert potential widespread protests by opposite sides of the political divide, both in support of election fraud claims and in support of the elected government. The ruling National League of Democracy (NLD) had won 396 of 476 seats in the November election, allowing it to govern for another five years. The military claims that at least 8.6 million irregularities were found in the voter lists. The USDP, or Union Solidarity and Development Party, founded by retired generals in 2010, won only 33 seats in the 2020 election. Except from 1948 to 1958 and 2010 to January 2021, the military, locally known as Tatmadaw, has governed the country with absolute control, apart from fighting a dozen insurgent groups, monopolising the political economy by running enterprises like breweries and receiving licensing fees for lucrative jade mining in the north. In the last five years, occasional attempts by NLD leader and de facto foreign minister Aung San Suu Kyi to fully civilianise the political structure were firmly opposed. Outside Myanmar, many countries, particularly varying kind of democracies, have expressed concern over the developments. Notably, the US has emerged as one of the most proactive countries in demanding the military to backpedal. On February 10, President Joe Biden said he was “imposing sanctions that would prevent the generals who engineered the coup from gaining access to $1 billion in funds their government keeps in the United States,” and warned of more sanctions to come against military leaders and their families. There are many reasons at play for Biden’s approach. First, the coup in Myanmar coincided with the first month of the Biden administration, which has promised to bring back the values of democracy and respect for human rights to the core of US foreign policy. In the Biden cabinet and his senior appointees, there are a number of people who have worked closely on the Myanmar file. Samantha Power, who now heads the United States Agency for International Development, which is primarily responsible for administering civilian aid and development assistance, had worked closely on Myanmar-related issues as the US ambassador to the UN; Kurt Campbell, now Biden’s senior official for Asia policy, had worked on Myanmar as the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs in the Obama administration; National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan had worked with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton as deputy chief of staff and director of policy planning, and had reportedly played an important role in shaping a new ‘Burma’ policy. Second, Myanmar is one of the foreign policy issues that enjoys a rare bipartisan consensus in the US in an otherwise polarised political landscape. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who was reportedly consulted by President Biden, has been one of the diehard supporters of NLD leader Aung Sung Suu Kyi for nearly three decades. He has often led the initiative in sponsoring a number of ‘Burma’-related sanctions measures in the US Senate. There is little doubt that the Biden administration, with a surplus of experienced hands on Myanmar, didn’t factor in the limitation of sanctions in changing the military’s behaviour in that country. To have an impact on the ground in Myanmar, the US will need tangible wheels in Asia. In this connection, President Biden’s maiden call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 8 provides some cues. The White House readout of the call noted that “the President underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world and noted that a shared commitment to democratic values is the bedrock for the US-India relationship. They further resolved that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Burma.” It is not hard to understand why the US wants to engage closely with India on Myanmar. First, with a 912-mile-long border between the two countries, India-Myanmar defence cooperation has strengthened with India emerging as one of the major military hardware suppliers to Myanmar. India recently announced that it was to sell a Soviet-era Kilo-class submarine to Myanmar. Second, the two countries see China’s economic and military influence over Myanmar as detrimental to their own interests. However, the US and India will be cognizant of each other’s constraints. Myanmar’s military maintains close linkages with the Indian security establishment to assuage the latter’s security concerns in the North-East. On the other hand, India’s overall economic heft is far weaker compared to China’s economic influence in Myanmar. With countries formulating their Myanmar policy on the basis of their own assessment of geopolitics and national interest, the enthusiasm over Myanmar’s democratic consolidation, which has over the decades vacillated from oscillation to skepticism to enthusiasm 10 years ago, has once again reversed to skepticism. (The writer was a member of the UN Secretary General’s Good Offices on Myanmar)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/no-easy-way-to-handle-myanmar-953242.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vishwanath a joker, Cong's Zameer Ahmed says||Congress leader B Z Zameer Ahmed criticised MLC A H Vishwanath, calling him a 'joker'. Khan was addressing a programme organised to open MLA H P Manjunath's office at Hunsur on Saturday. Vishwanath was elected as an MLA by the JD (S) government but later, joined BJP. Now, he has nothing, Ahmed said. "He is like a joker now."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vishwanath-a-joker-congs-zameer-ahmed-says-953347.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||PDS foodgrains worth Rs 66,375 seized in Belagavi||Belagavi Police conducted a raid at Sheri Galli in the market area and rice meant for the Public Distribution System worth Rs 66,375 was seized. Three accused were arrested in this connection on Saturday. The accused were identified as Suhas Suresh Pilvekar, a resident of Vadgaon, Mahadev Laxman Patil, a resident of Dhamnae and Ahmed Bashir Ahmed, a resident of Veerbhadra Nagar. A total of 2,950 kg rice packed in 118 bags worth Rs 66,375 and a vehicle used for transport were confiscated. Khade Bazaar Police Inspector Dheeraj Shinde and the team conducted the raid. Khade Bazaar police are further investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pds-foodgrains-worth-rs-66375-seized-in-belagavi-953358.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Take precautions to avert second wave of Covid-19: Siddaramaiah||Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah recommended the state government to take immediate precautionary measures to avert the second wave of Covid-19. Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah said that the government must take all the measures to control the spread of Covid-19 and measures must be taken to check visitors from Kerala and other places. Siddaramaiah also slammed the state government and claimed that the government has not bothered about controlling the spread of the virus but, BJP leaders are bust looting money, he alleged||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/take-precautions-to-avert-second-wave-of-covid-19-siddaramaiah-953373.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Renuka Yallamma and Mayakka temple closed for devotees||Belagavi district administration has closed Renuka Yallamma and Satyamma temples in Savadatti and Mayakka temple at Chinchani in Raibag for devotees until further orders as precautionary measure for preventing the spread of Covid-19. As devotees in large numbers from various parts of the country visit the pilgrim centres, Health Department had proposed to the District Administration that the temples be closed for devotees to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner and District Magistrate M G Hiremath in orders issued on Saturday banned entry of devotees in both the temples until further orders. Temple management will carry out the regular prayer rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/renuka-yallamma-and-mayakka-temple-closed-for-devotees-953503.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||DCs’ visits to villages bring hope to the people||Deputy Commissioners of Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar, visited villages under ‘Jilladhikari Nade Halliyakade’ programme on Saturday. The officers received grievances related to the Revenue Department from the villagers. Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri visited Tarikallu village in Hunsur taluk. The DC received 685 applications and disposed of 625 of them. While 261 people raised complaints in connection with Aadhaar card, 161 applications were related to pension. Other applications include, Aadhaar card, ration card, burial grounds. The DC also visited Government higher Primary school and taught mathematics for students. The DC also directed the teachers to conduct classes effectively. Mandya DC S Ashwathi visited Shilanere in K R Pet taluk. The programme helps to understand the problems of the people, the DC said. The villagers raised issues in connection with bus service, water issue and hospital issues among the others. Hassan DC R Girish visited Hettur in Sakleshpur taluk and the programme aims to resolve people’s issue at their door step. The villagers raised issues of electricity supply, delay in repair works, bus pass for physically challenged, problems in connection with land documents among the others. Chamarajanagar DC M R Ravi visited Hosamaalangi village and received grievance from the people. The DC also conducted a class for students before hearing grievance of the villagers. Srirangapatna MLA Ravindra Srikantaiah said that the programme is imperfect and anti-Democratic. What is the use of sending an officer to stay in a village? The government should release funds for works. If the government is really concerned about the development then the programme must be organised effectively and the people’s problems must be sorted out immediately, he said, the programme will mount pressure on the officials, he said. He also alleged that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is neglecting the district by not taking measures for the development. The government is not releasing funds as JD(S) MLAs are representing the district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dcs-visits-to-villages-bring-hope-to-the-people-953523.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Yediyurappa is nurturing casteism in state’||Former advocate general Ravivarma Kumar said that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is nurturing casteism in Karnataka. During the observation of World Day of Social Justice, organised by Dr B R Ambedkar Research and Extension Centre of University of Mysore in Mysuru on Saturday, he said, "Instead of the principle of democracy, as a rule of the people, for the people and by the people, the present dispensation is of Lingayats, for Lingayats and by Lingayats." “By establishing development boards for 16 castes, Yediyurappa has given funds for them. He has given funds to religious institutions like mutts of a few castes. It is unlawful to give public money to such institutions. This wrong policy has lead the people of various castes to hold stirs for reservation. But, for the board of his own caste, he has given Rs 500 crore. He is publicly practising casteism. His behaviour is against the principles of the Constitution. If there was a secular government, there would not have been protests for reservation,” he said. “In principle, seers, swamis and sanyasis should be selfless and detached. If such religious and spiritual persons, who wear kaavi (ochre) robes, start politics, kaavi loses its sanctity. They do not qualify to be seers and pontiffs. As all people follow casteism, these seers are not questioned,” he said. “Why do seers exert influence on governments, to appoint certain persons as ministers? Mutts have become power centres and places to choose ministers. These are becoming ultra-Constitutional power centres,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yediyurappa-is-nurturing-casteism-in-state-953524.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP formed govt unethically: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday, commented that democracy is murdered as the BJP formed the government immorally. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating MLA H P Manjunath’s office in Hunsur, Siddaramaiah said, “The people of the state did not vote the BJP to power, but Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa formed the government forcefully. The government is not capable of executing any programme. It is suffering without development, he said. Siddaramaiah criticised MLC A H Vishwanath and said that he was elected accidentally in 2018. But, his joker like behaviour made the segment to go for by-poll. The Congress will come to power in the next term, he said. Siddaramaiah said that Yediyurappa is tired of driving his ‘Dakota Bus’. “Even after one and a half year, the government has failed to take up any development activity. The government has cancelled many pro-people programmes launched by the Congress government. BJP is pro-capitalist and the Central government’s agriculture policies are a classic example for it,” he said. Siddaramaiah said that it is not proper to claim that the people, who do not donate for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, are anti-Hindus. “I have given funds to construct a Ram Mandir in my native village. I am a Hindu with Mahatma Gandhiji’s principles. But, BJP people are Hindus with Vinayak Damodar Savarkar’s principle,” he said. Siddaramaiah said, “The BJP purchased MLAs. I had never seen such politics in my political career. The voters will never forgive the sold out MLAs. It is proved in Hunsur bypoll.” Congress leader B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan also criticised Vishwanath, by calling him as a joker. “Vishwanath, who was elected as an MLA on JD(S) ticket, joined the BJP for power. But, now, he has nothing. He is like a joker now,” he said. Former minister H C Mahadevappa, former MP R Dhruvanarayan, state Congress women’s wing president Pushpa Amarnath, MLC R Dharmasena and MLA Anil Chikkamadu were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-formed-govt-unethically-siddaramaiah-953525.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Pro-people projects make villages better places’||Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat A M Yogeesh, who was recently promoted to Indian Administrative Service (IAS), said that his stint as KAS officer in the Revenue department and a few government agencies will help him in his new assignment. Alpahalli Marisiddegowda Yogeesh, a 2004 KAS officer, was born and brought up in KR Pet town and attended college in Mysuru. He also graduated in Law in Malavalli. Before being promoted to IAS, he worked as Secretary of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), as Assistant Commissioner of Koppal and Kollegal sub-divisions, as Deputy Administrator of Cauvery Command Area Development Authority (CADA), as Secretary of Karnataka Housing Board, as Additional DC of Bengaluru Rural, as Chief Administrative Officer of Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited (KRIDL) and Additional Regional Commissioner in Mysuru. Speaking to DH, Yogeesh, said that having studied and worked for over a decade in Mysuru, he has a clear picture of the region and hopes to give his best in his first posting as IAS officer, only to do better in future assignments. He has his roots in Nagamagala taluk, was brought up in KR Pet taluk, studied in Mysuru and Malavalli taluk, and worked in Bengaluru and parts of North Karnataka, getting diverse exposure and experience. Will the exposure and experience in various government departments and agencies help in the ZP? The Revenue department identifies and grants lands for solid waste management units, graveyards and other projects implemented by the ZP. The KRIDL is involved in construction of various buildings for various projects executed by the ZP. CADA is involved in creating awareness about judicious use of water, crop pattern and providing guidance to Water User Associations in rural areas. Thus, by understanding the importance and significance of coordination between various departments and agencies, for the welfare of the people, I will strive for the successful implementation of the schemes and projects under the ZP. What excites you in the ZP? As a person born and brought up in rural areas, during a substantial duration of my childhood, I know the joys of rural life and also the problems ailing the rural people. There are some new projects and schemes under the ZP that will do good for rural people. Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is an useful legislation, that will help rural people, if it is implemented effectively. Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), envisioned to provide safe and adequate drinking water through individual tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India, will transform the lives of the deprived class. JJM will also implement source sustainability measures such as recharge and reuse, through grey water management, water conservation, and rainwater harvesting. It is based on community approach to water and will include extensive information, education and communication. JJM aims to make water, everyone’s priority. Under Mysuru ZP, we have identified 1.31 lakh households in 652 villages for JJM in the year 2020-21. It includes a campaign to provide tap water to schools, anganwadis, and Ashrama schools. A minimum of three taps — one for drinking, one for washroom and one for kitchen — is intended for each institution. Projects like sanitation, water supply, drainages, waste management, anganwadi convergence and digital libraries will make villages better places to live. What plans do you have for reforms, within your limits? Of late, mid-tier Taluk Panchayats are touted as not significant. I wish to convene a meeting to TP Executive Officers, presidents and vice-presidents to explore ways to make them relevant and useful for the welfare of people. They will also be actively involved in the schemes and projects executed by the ZP and Gram Panchayats. I hope to engage all EOs via video-conference on a daily basis. In each taluk, one GP can be identified to be developed as a model. Each village should evolve into an autonomous and self-sustaining entity, like they used to be in earlier times. Migration from villages to towns and cities should by minimised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pro-people-projects-make-villages-better-places-953526.html
20-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Freedom of expression should not be hurt’||Leader of the Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday said that freedom of expression should not be hurt. Addressing a gathering, after inaugurating Mysuru Photo Journalists Association, at Mysuru District Journalist Association here, Siddaramaiah said that a section of the media misinterprets him, but he welcomes it as it is a form of freedom of expression. He said, “We have accepted the Constitution and the parliamentary system. The country has to function accordingly. It is not right to be anti-democratic.” Siddaramaiah said that he reads newspaper, rather than watching television. Newspapers are more credible than TV media. Though reporters give proper news, editors or owners misinterpret them, he said. Siddaramaiah shared the stage along with Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda, who defeated him in the last Assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/freedom-of-expression-should-not-be-hurt-953527.html
20-02-2021||Main Article||Uttarakhand Disaster: Lessons we refuse to learn||The Himalayas are young and highly fragile mountains where more than 50 hydroelectric power projects in the river basins of Bhagirathi and Alaknanda have been built. Despite the Kedarnath tragedy of 2013, which claimed more than 5,000 lives, the government has launched a massive project to widen roads along the Char Dham (Yamunotri-Gangotri-Kedarnath-Badrinath) route, increasing tourism and uncontrolled development of hotels, shops and other tourist infrastructures. Thousands of trees have been cut and the ecosystem has been disturbed. Many green hills now look barren. The glacial flood and debris in the Rishiganga river on February 7 washed away bridges connecting dozens of villages, two power projects, along with the people at work. More than 60 people have already been confirmed dead and nearly 200 more are missing. The area is quite vast and its deep gorges and valleys are inaccessible. It is unlikely that the bodies of many missing persons will be found. The removal of debris from a 180-m long tunnel at the Tapovan project has proved quite difficult despite the ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and other agencies doing their best. The Union Budget for 2021-22 focuses on heavy investment on infrastructure development such as roads, railways, hydroelectric projects, fossil fuel-based power projects, many of which would ignore environmental concerns. The money for infrastructure development is proposed to be raised by privatising government assets. Attempts to revive the economy and achieve higher GDP growth without ensuring proper environmental safeguards and conserving nature will be suicidal. Climatic catastrophes like the glacial flood in Uttarakhand will occur more frequently and more destructively. The Budget allocation for environment and forests, on the other hand, has been slashed. The Prime Minister has called for reforestation of 26 million hectares of degraded forest land in the country by 2030 to keep up our Paris climate accord commitment. The UNEP’s emission gap report puts our annual greenhouse gas emissions at 3.7 Gigatons. We made three major nationally determined contribution (NDC) commitments in the Paris accord. One, to cut down GHG emissions by 33-35% by 2030, from 2005 levels; two, to increase the share of renewable electricity to 40% by 2030; and three, to enhance our forest cover by 2030 so as to absorb 2.5-3 Gigatons of CO2 annually. While the country is on track to achieving the second commitment, we have to do much more to achieve the other two. The first NDC can be achieved only by reducing fossil fuel-based power projects, and is linked to the third NDC. The more we depend on a fossil fuel-based economy, the more will be the GHG emissions and thus rise in temperature. To neutralise the emissions, we have to have more forests for carbon sequestration. If we do not achieve the first NDC, we will have to increase the target of the third NDC. Reforesting 26 million hectares of degraded forest land is quite a challenge for state forest departments. The vulnerability of areas to fire, grazing, illicit cutting of trees and encroachments are the main reasons for degradation. A large proportion of it, nearly 10.5 million hectares, is under occupation of scheduled tribes and other traditional forest dwellers. Rights are already recognised in their favour over 5.2 million hectares, in accordance with the provisions of Forest Rights Act, 2006. The Budget should have allocated money for reforesting remaining areas in control of Forest Departments. Union Environment and Forest Minister Prakash Javadekar, quoting biannual reports of the Forest Survey of India, has said that the country has added 6,000 sq km of forest cover since 2014. Decoding the reports, we find however that natural forests are being lost and in their place are coming up horticultural crops and agroforestry on private lands, which are being counted towards the nation’s forest cover. The old and diverse trees that came up in the forests naturally have larger stem volume and capture more carbon than the monoculture of young plantations that are replacing forest areas. Millions of trees sacrificed for infrastructure, mining and industrial projects cannot be compensated through plantations. Like the 900-km road network connecting the Char Dham in Uttarakhand, a number of roads and rail projects are in the pipeline in the Western Ghats, too. Sacrificing so much of our natural forests will not help us to meet the third NDC target, let alone raise it. A rise in average temperature is inevitable, and climatic catastrophes like the Rishiganga floods will strike with greater frequency. The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ own report for the subcontinent projects a 4.40 Celsius rise in average temperature by the turn of the century. The study, which looked at data from 1986 to 2015, concluded that during those 30 years, the temperature of the warmest day and coldest night rose by 0.630 C and 0.40 C respectively. In the future, heat waves would be three to four times more frequent than it used to be 30 years ago; sea levels will rise by 30 cm over the 1990 level. In business-as-usual conditions, the report projects, the temperature of the warmest day and the coldest night will rise further by 4.70 C and 5.50 C respectively by the turn of the century. Experts continue to study the causes of recent disasters and pinpoint whether it was caused by an avalanche of snow, a landslide or a glacier lake. A study titled “Melting of Himalayan glaciers” published in June 2019 in the journal ‘Science’ indicates that ice of half-metre height is melting annually from the glaciers due to warming, threatening the water supply of millions of people. Forest fires and the burning of a greater load of fossil fuels are to be blamed for accelerated glacier melting post-2000. The way forward is to stop the sacrifice of natural forests for infrastructure projects, allocate more funds to reforest 15 million hectares of degraded forest lands still in the control of state forest departments and to phase out the expansion of fossil fuel-based power projects. (The writer is a former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/uttarakhand-disaster-lessons-we-refuse-to-learn-953241.html
20-02-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi questions Defence Ministry officials on OROP revision at parliamentary panel meet||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned top officials of the Ministry of Defence on the pending review of One Rank One Pension (OROP) during a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence. The ministry officials informed the panel that there are certain issues to be fixed. A committee has been constituted to look into these, and a review will be held once the committee submits its report, sources said. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, chaired by senior BJP leader Jual Oram, held a cordial meeting on Friday, a day after a "stormy" session and a war of words between the chairman and Gandhi. On Thursday, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, top officials from the three armed forces and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar deposed before the panel. The meeting witnessed an argument between Oram and Gandhi when the Congress leader asked some specific questions to the officials, which the chairman felt was not on the agenda of the meeting, sources had said. Last year in June, the Defence Ministry had formed a committee to work out the modalities for the revision of OROP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-questions-defence-ministry-officials-on-orop-revision-at-parliamentary-panel-meet-953277.html
20-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 12th straight day; petrol touches Rs 97 per litre mark in Mumbai||Petrol and diesel prices continued to soar to new highs as fuel rates were hiked for the 12th consecutive day on Saturday.  While the petrol price was hiked by 39 paise in Delhi, the diesel price was increased by 37 paise. In the national capital, petrol now costs Rs 90.58 per litre, while diesel Rs 80.97 per litre.  In Mumbai, the petrol price touched the Rs 97 per litre mark with a hike of 38 paise. The diesel is priced at Rs 87.06 per litre after an increase of 39 paise.  Meanwhile, in Bengaluru, the petrol price was hiked by Rs 1.30 on Saturday. The petrol now costs Rs 93.67 per litre in Bengaluru, while diesel costs Rs Rs 85.84 after an increase of 10 paise.  The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties, including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-12th-straight-day-petrol-touches-rs-97-per-litre-mark-in-mumbai-953284.html
20-02-2021||National||PM Modi to chair Niti Aayog's Governing Council meeting on February 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair Niti Aayog's Governing Council meeting on February 20 where issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing and human resource development will be discussed, according to an official statement.           The council, the apex body of Niti Aayog, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories (UTs), several union ministers and senior government officials.             The sixth meeting of the Governing Council will witness the entry of Ladakh for the first time, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT, the statement said.             This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join, it added.             Prime Minister Modi is the Chairman of Niti Aayog.             The council will deliberate on issues related to agriculture, infrastructure, manufacturing, human resource development, service delivery at grassroots level and health and nutrition, the statement said. The meeting will also be attended by the ex-officio members of the Governing Council; union ministers; vice chairman, members and CEO of Niti Aayog; and other senior officials of Government of India.         The Governing Council meets regularly and its first meeting took place on February 8, 2015. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Governing Council did not meet last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-chair-niti-aayogs-governing-council-meeting-on-february-20-953291.html
20-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Fuel prices soar across states for 12th day||Petrol and diesel prices continued to soar to new highs as fuel rates were hiked for the 12th consecutive day on Saturday.  While the petrol price was hiked by 39 paise in Delhi, the diesel price was increased by 37 paise. In the national capital, petrol now costs Rs 90.58 per litre, while diesel Rs 80.97 per litre.  In Mumbai, the petrol price touched the Rs 97 per litre mark with a hike of 38 paise. The diesel is priced at Rs 87.06 per litre after an increase of 39 paise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fuel-prices-soar-across-states-for-12th-day-953292.html
20-02-2021||National||India records 13,993 new cases, highest in 22 days||Daily Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to about 14,000 after nearly 22 days taking India's tally to 1,09,77,387, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,78,048, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. A total of 13,993 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 101 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 daily cases were recorded. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,78,048 which translates to a national recovery rate of 97.27 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,43,127 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.27 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,02,61,480 samples have been tested up to February 19, with 7,86,618 samples being tested on Friday. The 101 new fatalities included 44 deaths from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 8 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,212 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 51,713 from Maharashtra followed by 12,451 from Tamil Nadu, 12,287 from Karnataka, 10,897 from Delhi, 10,242 from West Bengal, 8,712 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-13993-new-cases-highest-in-22-days-953310.html
20-02-2021||National||Centre's $3.5 billion zombie-home experiment starts to pay off||By Dhwani Pandya A Rs 25,000 crore ($3.5 billion) fund set up by India’s government to complete stalled housing projects is set to deliver its first finished apartments in 2021, offering a template for a problem that has washed out savings of thousands of home buyers and bankrupted developers. The fund will hand over some 16 projects or more than 4,000 homes in the financial year starting April 1, said Irfan A. Kazi, chief investment officer at SBICAP Ventures Ltd., the government-appointed manager of the alternative investment fund. The ‘Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Projects’ (SWAMIH) fund was announced in November 2019. At the time, India had an estimated $63 billion of such stalled projects as an economic slowdown and a credit crisis cascaded through the sector. Builders were unable to service their loans, forcing banks to write off the debts and worsen what was already one of the world’s biggest bad-loan piles. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government created the fund as one measure to unclog the financing pipes. Kazi spoke in a phone interview February 12. His responses have been edited for clarity. Q. How much money has been disbursed?A. We have given approvals to around 159 projects involving investment of about Rs 14,500 crore rupees, which will complete around 100,000 homes. Of this, about 47 projects (Rs 5,000 crore) have received final approval but 112 are early-stage approvals, where due diligence is pending. We don’t disclose disbursal amount as we give funding only against project progress; two projects will complete construction by April. Q. What kind of returns do you expect?A. We take first charge on assets and cash flows, so when projects get completed we are the first one to get our money back. Existing lenders have to agree to take second charge. We invest via zero-coupon non-convertible debentures. All our investments are done at a standard 12 per cent internal rate of return across projects. Q. Was there any pushback? A. There was a significant amount of resistance from lenders about our first charge on repayment but, as our deal track record shows, that hurdle is being gradually scaled. We now allow sharing of the security with lenders, and sharing of cashflow to some extent. We keep having internal discussions and also with the finance ministry on what criteria can be relaxed. Q. Who are your investors? We have 14 investors, the government has 50 per cent in the fund, Life Insurance Corp. and State Bank of India each have 10 per cent and the rest are other public and private-sector players. Global funds have not shown a large interest for a couple of reasons: they prefer rent-yielding office and warehousing assets over residential. They also expect returns of more than 20 per cent to account for risks including asset class and exchange rate, at which level our projects will be loss-making. We have raised Rs 10,000 crore so far (of the planned Rs 25,000 crore total fund size) but the government has assured us that more will be made available when required. Q. What kind of challenge has the fund faced? A. In many cases we are dealing with the bottom rung of companies, which have lost manpower and some even no longer have a finance team, so due diligence can be hard. A no-objection certificate from existing lenders has come only in some cases and takes an exceedingly long amount of time. Then there are also pending court cases or home buyers demanding compensation. Q. What would you count as successes?  SWAMIH is a social impact fund to complete construction of stalled homes. This is also our performance yardstick. When you look at parameters like setup time, fundraise time, we are probably the fastest. The fund was set up in a month after the official announcement (2019), capital was raised in a month. No real estate fund, I believe, has done more than 100 deals probably in their lifetime. We are close to almost 150 deals now. But stalled housing is still a huge problem and it’s a growing problem. (NOTE: India had an estimated $63 billion in such stalled projects across its seven biggest cities in 2019, which has reduced to $55.8 billion in December 2020, according to Anarock Property Consultants) Q. How and where does the fund operate? A. Before setting up the fund, we did a market study which established that about 40 per cent of the stressed projects were in the National Capital Region, about 25 per cent in Mumbai Metropolitan Region and the top seven cities accounted for about 85 per cent of all the stalled projects. However, we are a pan-India fund and offer democratic access to developers located anywhere in India where Real Estate Regulation and Development Act is applicable; in fact more than 90 per cent of the proposals we receive are though our website. Q. How did the pandemic affect you? A. When distress in the environment increases, our deal flow increases. Then around Diwali (the Hindu festival celebrated in November 2020) there was a significant improvement in real estate sentiment due to government measures including emergency credit lines and stamp duty reductions, which offered relief to some developers and they then withdrew their applications. But since January, deal flow has improved again because developers are wondering whether the revival in sales will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-35-billion-zombie-home-experiment-starts-to-pay-off-953312.html
20-02-2021||National||PM Modi greets people of Arunachal, Mizoram on statehood days||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted the people of Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram on their statehood days and heaped praise on their culture and traditions. Both states were created on this day in 1987. "Greetings to the wonderful people of Arunachal Pradesh on the special occasion of their Statehood Day. The people of this state are known for their culture, courage and strong commitment to India's development. May Arunachal Pradesh keep scaling new heights of progress," Modi tweeted.  "Best wishes to my sisters and brothers of Mizoram on their Statehood Day. The entire nation is proud of the great Mizo culture. The people of Mizoram are known for their kindness and commitment towards living in harmony with nature. Praying for the state's continuous growth," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-of-arunachal-mizoram-on-statehood-days-953313.html
20-02-2021||National||Ladakh row: India, China military commanders hold talks||India and China on Saturday held another round of military talks with a focus on taking forward the disengagement process at friction points like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh, two days after concluding the withdrawal of troops and weapons from North and South banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region, official sources said. The tenth round of Corps Commander-level talks began at 10 AM at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control and it was continuing till around 9:45 PM, the sources said. In the talks, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region that has witnessed a standoff between the two militaries for over nine months. "The focus of the talks is on carrying forward the disengagement process. Both sides have met to discuss modalities for it," said a source. The sources said bringing down the tension was the broad priority of the talks. India has all along been maintaining that disengagement at all the friction points was necessary to de-escalate the situation in the region. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said, China will pull back its troops to the east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the southern bank of the lake as well, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions that were agreed upon. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks was being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The Chinese side was to be headed by Maj Gen Liu Lin, the commander of the South Xinjiang military district of the People's Liberation Army (PLA). In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on the withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on the withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied these strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-row-india-china-military-commanders-hold-talks-953333.html
20-02-2021||National||PM Modi bats for representation of private sector for economic progress||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for further reforms to provide better infrastructure and technology in the farm sector and favoured a role for private enterprises in realising the aim of self-reliant India. In his opening remarks at the Niti Aayog Governing Council meeting, the prime minister also made a case for reducing the compliance burden on the common man and asked states to set up committees to identify the bottlenecks in development and remove them. Modi noted that the private sector of the country was coming forward with greater enthusiasm in the development journey of the country. “As a government, we have to honour this enthusiasm, the energy of the private sector, and give it as much opportunity in the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign,” he added. Referring to the easing of regulations on use of geospatial data, the prime minister said had these reforms taken place 10 years ago, companies such as Google and others could have been set up within the country. “The talent is of our people, but the product is not ours,” Modi said, adding that the liberalisation of geospatial data would help startups and the technology sector. For the farm sector, the prime minister said that efforts should be made to produce agriculture items like edible oil and reduce their imports. “About Rs 65,000-75,000 crore is spent on the import of edible oils which should have gone to our farmers. There are several imported products that make their way to our tables. Our farmers have no difficulty in growing these crops, just a little guidance is required,” he said, referring to the need to step up oil seed production. The prime minister urged state governments to help farmers grow crops as per the agro-climatic conditions prevailing in the region. He said the Centre had introduced production-linked incentive schemes for various sectors that provided an excellent opportunity to increase manufacturing in the country. The states, he added, should take full advantage of this scheme and attract maximum investment in themselves and also reap the benefits of reduced corporate tax.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-bats-for-representation-of-private-sector-for-economic-progress-953342.html
20-02-2021||National||Centre releases Rs 1L cr GST compensation to states since October 2020||The Centre has released Rs 1 lakh crore to states and UTs in four months since October 2020, to meet GST compensation shortfall, the Finance Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry on Friday released the 17th weekly instalment of Rs 5,000 crore to 23 states and 3 Union Territories (Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir & Puducherry), taking the total amount released so far under the special borrowing window set up in October last year to Rs 1 lakh crore. The remaining 5 states, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim, do not have a gap in revenue on account of Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation. The Centre had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of GST. The borrowings are being done through this window by the Centre on behalf of states and UTs. Under the special window, the Centre has been borrowing in government stock with tenor of 3 years and 5 years. The borrowing made under each tenor is equally divided among all states as per their GST compensation shortfall. With the current release, the proportionate pending GST shortfall with respect to borrowing under 5 years tenor has been concluded for 16 states and 2 UTs. Till now, 91 per cent of the total estimated GST compensation shortfall has been released to states & UTs with Legislative Assembly (Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir & Puducherry), the statement said. "An amount of Rs 1,00,000 crore has been borrowed by the Central Government through the special borrowing window at an average interest rate of 4.83 per cent....Out of this, an amount of Rs 91,460.34 crore has been released to states and an amount of Rs. 8,539.66 crore has been released to the 3 UTs with Legislative Assembly," it said. Total 17 rounds of borrowings have been completed so far starting from October 23, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-releases-rs-1l-cr-gst-compensation-to-states-since-october-2020-953349.html
20-02-2021||National||Surge in daily new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and MP: Govt||Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have recorded an "upsurge" in daily new cases of Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. In a statement, the ministry said in the last seven days, Chhattisgarh has also seen a rise in daily active new cases. In the last 24 hours, 259 daily new cases have been reported, it said. Kerala continues to report a high number of daily new cases and in the past week, Maharashtra has exhibited a spike in the number of daily new cases, accounting for the highest number of daily new cases in the country on Saturday, the ministry said in the statement. "In the last 24 hours, 6,112 daily new cases have been reported in the state," it said. Similar to Maharashtra, the ministry said Punjab has also shown a sudden spike in the number of daily new cases reported in the last seven days with 383 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours. "Since February 13, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in the number of daily new cases. In the last 24 hours, 297 daily new cases have been registered in the state," the ministry said. The ministry stressed the importance of adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour for breaking the chain of transmission and containment of spread of the disease. Only two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, account for 75.87 per cent of total number of active Covid-19 cases, the ministry added. The ministry said 18 states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Telangana, Haryana, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Assam, Chandigarh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu . The ministry said a total of 1,07,15,204 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,22,313 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am today. These include 63,28,479 healthcare workers (first dose), 8,47,161 healthcare workers (second dose) and 35,39,564 frontline workers (first dose), the ministry said. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of the frontline workers started on February 2. The ministry said nine states have administered more than five lakh doses each. These are Uttar Pradesh (11,52,042), Maharashtra (8,60,386), Gujarat (8,56,657), Rajasthan (7,99,719), West Bengal (6,50,976), Karnataka (6,29,420), Madhya Pradesh (6,26,391), Bihar (5,50,433) and Odisha (5,01,713).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surge-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-maharashtra-punjab-chhattisgarh-and-mp-govt-953357.html
20-02-2021||National||Manipur Anganwadi worker dies a week after taking Covid-19 vaccine||A 48-year-old Anganwadi worker in Manipur has died a week after receiving her first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Saturday. W Sundari Devi of Kumbi Terakha area in Bishunpur district had received her first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on February 12 at Kumbhi primary health centre (PHC), they said. She was taken to the Moirang community health centre (CHC) on February 18 as she had breathing problems and died at the CHC on Friday. Health Department officials said that a special team will conduct the post-mortem of the deceased to ascertain the true cause of the death. Meanwhile, Chief Minister N Biren Singh met the family members of Sundari and heard their grievances. He expressed deep condolences and assured the family members of suitable compensation duly considering the post-mortem report. "Heard the grievances of family of Anganwandi Worker W Sundari of Kumbi Terakha, Bishnupur District and expressed my deep condolences. Assured suitable compensation duly considering post mortem reports and instructed for taking strong action against defaulting officials," the chief minister tweeted. The Deputy Commissioner of Bishnupur, Neeta Arambam said that the family members of the deceased claimed that at the time of vaccination, Sundari had told the "vaccination team that she has allergy problem. However, the vaccination went ahead."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-anganwadi-worker-dies-a-week-after-taking-covid-19-vaccine-953377.html
20-02-2021||National||BJP youth-wing leader Pamela, arrested in drugs case, accuses party colleague of conspiracy||The BJP was left red-faced on Saturday as a leader of its Yuva Morcha who was earlier arrested in a drugs case, alleged that one of his party colleagues, a close aid of national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya should be arrested in the case. The Yuva Morcha leader Pamela Goswami accused BJP leader Rakesh Singh of conspiracy and demanded that the CID investigate the case. “BJP leader Rakesh Singh, a close aid of Kailash Vjayvargiya should be arrested. It is his conspiracy. I want a CID probe into the case,” said Goswami. She was speaking to reporters while being taken to the lock-up of a court in Kolkata. Goswami who is a state secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha was arrested on Friday by Kolkata Police along with her friend Pradip Kumar Dey and her security guard from South Kolkata after police found about 90 grams of cocaine in her handbag and her car. Denying the allegation, Singh said that the Kolkata Police and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) were hatching a conspiracy against him. “Maybe they brainwashed her. I am not in touch with her for over a year. If I have done anything illegal then police can call me, Kailash Vijayvergiya or even Amit Shah. I am prepared to face any investigation. I am ready for the challenge,” said Singh. He further alleged that the Kolkata Police might be acting as per the instructions of the ruling party in the state. “These are all baseless allegations,” said Singh. Reacting to the development Vijayvargiya said that he did not have much information about it but if anyone did anything illegal then the law would take its own course. “Earlier many of our workers have been slapped with cases under the NDPS. We will have to see whether someone is being framed,” he said. “They (BJP leaders) were earlier arrested in relation to a child trafficking case and now one of them has been arrested in a drugs case. This shows that the true nature of BJP leaders,” TMC secretary-general and Education Minister Partha Chatterjee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-youth-wing-leader-pamela-arrested-in-drugs-case-accuses-party-colleague-of-conspiracy-953381.html
20-02-2021||National||Rajasthan Congress takes out protest against Centre's farm laws, soaring fuel prices||The Congress on Saturday organised a march in all districts of Rajasthan to mark its protest against the farms laws enacted by the Centre and the rising fuel prices. In Jaipur, the protest was led by Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi. The Congress leaders were seen riding on tractors, camels and elephants besides participating in a "Paidal March" as party workers and protestors raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra could not participate in the march. While Gehlot could not come due to a meeting with the governing council of NITI Aayog, Dotasra skipped the march owing to health issues. "After the death of several farmers during the farmers' agitation and Supreme Court staying the three farm laws, the Centre wants to impose the laws on farmers. The government has also stabbed on the back of common people by increasing petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder prices," Khachariyawas told reporters. On the other hand, BJP state president Satish Poonia asked the Chief Minister to fulfill its promise of waiving off farm loans instead of taking up a protest march. "Instead of doing protest march in the name of farmers, the CM should fulfil the promise of waiving off farm loans completely. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the Chief Minister had made the promise to the farmers during election rallies in the state," Poonia said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-congress-takes-out-protest-against-centres-farm-laws-soaring-fuel-prices-953383.html
20-02-2021||National||Police allege Disha Ravi deleted evidence; activist says if highlighting farmers’ protest is sedition, it is better to be in jail||There is no evidence to show that the toolkit on farmers' protest is responsible for the violence on January 26, activist Disha Ravi's counsel told a Delhi court which reserved for Tuesday its order on her bail plea. "If highlighting farmers’ protest globally is sedition, I’m better in jail," Ravi said through her counsel on Saturday. Ravi's counsel was submitting arguments after the Delhi Police opposed her bail plea, alleging she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. "This was not just a toolkit. The real plan was to defame India and create unrest here," the police said before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. Why did Disha Ravi cover her track and delete evidence if she did not commit wrong, the police said, alleging that his shows her guilty mind and sinister design. Ravi "was part of the Indian chapter of the global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the garb of farmers' protest," it alleged, adding she was in touch and preparing and sharing toolkit with those advocating Khalistan "It shows there was a sinister design behind this toolkit," the police told the court. However, Ravi's lawyer rejected the allegations. "There is no evidence to link me with Sikhs For Justice, a banned organisation. And even if I (Ravi) meet someone, there is no symbol on him that he is a secessionist," the defence counsel said. "The Delhi police gave permission for the farmers’ march, which they’re claiming that I (Ravi) asked people to join, so how did I become seditious," the lawyer said in court. There’s nobody arrested in connection with violence at Red Fort who says he was inspired for same because of the toolkit, Ravi's counsel claimed, adding there is no evidence to show that the toolkit is responsible for violence during farmers' march. The counsel also questioned the contents of the FIR and asserted that people can have a different point of view on a subject. "There is an allegation in FIR that Yoga and Chai are being targeted. Is it an offence? We are now reducing the bar that somebody can’t have a point of view different," Ravi's lawyer said. "The talk about alleged genocide in Kashmir has been going on for years. How talking about it suddenly becomes sedition," the lawyer said. A trial court had on Friday sent Ravi to judicial custody for three days after her five-day police custody expired. The Delhi high court on Friday heard Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material concerning the FIR lodged against her. The high court, in its order, asked media houses to ensure that no leaked investigation material is broadcast as it could affect the probe and directed Delhi Police to abide by its stand on affidavit that it has not leaked nor intends to leak any probe details to the press. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday and brought to Delhi. She was booked on sedition and other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-allege-disha-ravi-deleted-evidence-activist-says-if-highlighting-farmers-protest-is-sedition-it-is-better-to-be-in-jail-953388.html
20-02-2021||National||EAM S Jaishankar arrives in Maldives on two-day visit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived here in the Maldivian capital on Saturday on a two-day visit during which he will call on President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, hold talks with several other political leaders in the country and review the entire gamut of bilateral ties. Jaishankar arrived here on the first leg of his two-nation tour that will also take him to Mauritius. He was received at Velana International Airport by his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Ahmed Khaleel, Foreign Secretary Abdul Gafoor Mohamed and Maldivian High Commissioner to India Hussain Niyaz, Maldivian media reported. Jaishankar is visiting the Maldives at the invitation of Shahid. It is his second official visit to the Maldives, following his visit to attend the 5th Indian Ocean Conference in 2019. According to the Maldivian Foreign Ministry, Jaishankar, during his visit, will inaugurate some projects undertaken with Indian grant assistance and witness the exchange of several agreements and MoUs between the two countries. "The External Affairs Minister's visit is testimony to the importance that India attaches to its close and friendly relations with the Maldives and Mauritius and is expected to lend further momentum to substantive cooperation and robust people-to-people ties," the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi on Thursday. In the Maldives, Jaishankar will call on Presiden Solih and have substantive discussions with the ministers for foreign affairs, defence, finance, economic development and planning and infrastructure, the MEA said in a statement. Jaishankar will also call on Speaker Mohamed Nasheed and meet with other political leaders. "During this visit, EAM will review the entire gamut of our bilateral ties as well as the progress of ongoing bilateral projects and hold discussions on the ongoing COVID situation, including India's continued assistance to the Maldives for its post-Covid economic recovery," the MEA said. It said both the Maldives and Mauritius are India's key maritime neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region and occupy a special place in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'SAGAR' (Security and Growth for All in the Region).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-s-jaishankar-arrives-in-maldives-on-two-day-visit-953399.html
20-02-2021||National||Over 11,000 complaints against police filed with NHRC since April 2020; UP Police tops list||Over 11,000 complaints of human rights violation by police have been filed with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in 2020-21 so far with Uttar Pradesh (UP) topping the list accounting for around 48% of the total complaints. UP accounted for 5,338 in 2020-21 as of January 15 to top the list of ignominy followed by Delhi (940), Tamil Nadu (575, Assam (562) and Haryana (408) at a distance. Karnataka had 175 such cases during this period. An analysis showed that the number of complaints in 2020-21 could be less than the previous three corresponding years. In 2017-18, there were 26,391 cases and it rose to 28,342 the next fiscal, the highest in these four years. It decreased to 17,229 in 2019-20. All these years, UP had been on the top of the list though the number of complaints from the state has been reducing completely. In 2017-18, there were 15,246 cases followed iby 16,414 and 9,417 in the next two fiscals. Karnataka, however, already surpassed 2019-20's complaints (158) in this fiscal but is still lower compared to 2017-18 and 2018-19 numbers at 211 and 264 respectively. Among the states and union territories, no complaints have been received by the NHRC from Sikkim and Lakshadweep in 2020-21. Since 2017-18, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha to questions by Congress' Rajiv Satav, the NHRC has recommended monetary relief of Rs 20.42 crore in 784 cases, disciplinary action in 48 cases and prosecution in one case. Between April 2017 and January 15, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said, 83,092 complaints were filed with the NHRC. When it comes to deaths in police custody, the MHA has said that there were 394 such incidents between 2017-18 and 2019-20. Officials said all cases need not necessarily be due to custodial torture. During this period, Reddy said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha to questions by Trinamool Congress' Saugata Roy, Gujarat had the highest number of deaths of people in police custody at 39 followed by Tamil Nadu (34), Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (33 each), UP (25) and Delhi (24). Karnataka had 15 such incidents during this period -- four in 2017-18, seven in 2018-19 and 4 in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-11000-complaints-against-police-filed-with-nhrc-since-april-2020-up-police-tops-list-953406.html
20-02-2021||National||India a trusted and reliable development partner of Maldives: Jaishankar||India is a “trusted and reliable development partner” of Maldives, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday, even as the Indian Ocean archipelago is grappling to come out of the debt trap of China. As Jaishankar visited Malé and met his counterpart, Maldivian Foreign Minister Shahid Abdulla, on Friday, he announced a new Line of Credit (LoC) of $ 40 million offered by the Government of India to build sports infrastructure in the Indian Ocean nation. The External Affairs Minister also handed over to the Maldivian government an additional 100,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as a gift from India. New Delhi had earlier gifted 100,000 doses of the vaccines to the archipelago, soon after its rollout in India. New Delhi has been over the past two years trying to resist China’s bid to elbow out India and spread its geopolitical tentacles in Maldives. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government earlier offered two LoCs of a total of $ 1.2 billion – one of $ 800 million in 2019 and another of $ 400 million in 2020 – for development projects in the island nation. Jaishankar and Shahid on Saturday reviewed the progress of development projects taken up in Maldives with the LoCs from India. “While our bilateral relations are multifaceted, a key dimension is that India is a trusted and reliable development partner (of Maldives). India’s development assistance is aimed at supporting the aspirations of the youth in Maldives,” Jaishankar said. “It (Government of India) is helping the Government of Maldives in building infrastructure, broadening the economic base, and making the economy more robust and resilient”. The erstwhile regime of Abdulla Yameen had put Maldives into a debt-trap by awarding the state-owned companies of China contracts to build several infrastructure projects – mostly on unsustainable loan terms. Though Beijing’s influence over Abdullah Yameen regime had resulted in strains in New Delhi’s relations with Malé, it saw a reset after Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and former Maldives president Mohamed Nasheed led the Maldivian Democratic Party to victory in the November 2018 elections. India in August 2020 announced a financial package – consisting of a grant of $ 100 million and a LoC of $ 400 million – to support construction of a 6.7-km-long bridge-cum-causeway link between Malé and its three other islands. The Greater Malé Connectivity Project will streamline connectivity between the four islands, boost economic activity and generate employment in Maldives. “We expect it to become an economic lifeline of the new Maldives; connecting Malé with Villingili, the new commercial port at Gulhifalhu and industrial zone at Thilafushi,” Jaishankar said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-a-trusted-and-reliable-development-partner-of-maldives-jaishankar-953419.html
20-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Delhi Police opposes Disha Ravi’s bail plea||In your evening news brief, Delhi Police opposes Disha Ravi’s bail plea; Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman dubs the rising fuel price a "vexatious issue”; Japan's Naomi Osaka beats Jennifer Brady in straight sets in Australian Open final and Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar rules out imposing of lockdown, as of now, in any part of the state.  Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 20, 2021: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday dubbed the rising fuel price a "vexatious issue in which no answer except for fall in fuel price will convince anyone” Sitharaman added that both Centre and state should talk to bring down retail fuel price at a reasonable level for consumers. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Japan's Naomi Osaka beat Jennifer Brady in straight sets in the Australian Open final to win her fourth major title on Saturday. Osaka edged a tight first set and broke the American twice in the second to win 6-4, 6-3 in 77 minutes. Osaka, who also beat her idol Serena Williams in straight sets in the semi-finals, has not lost a match in more than a year. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Opposing activist Disha Ravi's bail plea in the toolkit case, the Delhi Police on Saturday alleged in a court here that she was preparing the toolkit with those advocating Khalistan and was part of a global conspiracy to defame India and create unrest in the country in the garb of farmers' protest. It alleged that Ravi deleted WhatsApp chats, emails and other evidence and was aware of legal actions she could face. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Amidst the fear over the resurgence of the second wave of Covid-19, Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar ruled out imposing of lockdown, as of now, in any part of the state. Sudhakar's statement comes close on the heels of BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad’s statement on Friday that if the citizens continue to violate Covid-19 rules, lockdown may be reintroduced. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-police-opposes-disha-ravi-s-bail-plea-953423.html
20-02-2021||National||25,000 CAPF personnel earmarked for polls in 4 states, 1 UT||At least 25,000 Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel have been earmarked to be deployed for the forthcoming assembly polls in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, officials said on Saturday. They said the Union home ministry has directed that a total of 250 companies of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) will be utilised for conduct of the upcoming elections. A CAPF company has an operational strength of about 100 personnel. These forces work under the command of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Assembly polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry are due in April-May this year. Officials said while 125 companies are being moved to West Bengal, 45 are earmarked for Tamil Nadu, 40 for Assam, 30 for Kerala and 10 for Puducherry. "These numbers are based on the preliminary assessment that was undertaken by the Election Commission after its meeting with senior home ministry officials sometime back. "Some addition in numbers many take place once the EC announces the final dates for polls and the number of phases," a senior officer privy to the development told PTI. About 75 more companies are kept on standby and they will be pulled in for the polls duty once their requirement is felt, he said. The largest chunk of the forces, from the 250 companies umbrella, are drawn from the CRPF (85 companies) followed by the BSF (60 companies) and the ITBP (40 companies) apart from the other two CAPFs, they said. Officials said the forces have been asked to be initiate a phase-wise movement and 'pre-positioning' of their companies so that the overall deployment is carried out smoothly. At least 12 CAPF companies have reached West Bengal till now. The officer said every CAPF has assigned a nodal officer for movement of their respective units and the overall coordination between the EC, MHA and the state chief electoral officers (CEOs) will be done by the CRPF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25000-capf-personnel-earmarked-for-polls-in-4-states-1-ut-953449.html
20-02-2021||National||Covid-19 outbreak to affect 2021 as well, says health expert||An epidemiology and communicable diseases expert has predicted that the Covid-19 outbreak could be around all through 2021. Speaking during a panel discussion on a Marathi news channel, Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, former Head Scientist of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research called the outbreak situation "complicated". "If anyone is under the illusion that the Covid-19 phase will end anytime soon, then they are mistaken. The coronavirus infection was there in 2020 and is likely to affect all of 2021," he said. "It is a very complicated issue and we should handle every case very carefully. Cases are on the rise in several states, including Maharashtra. We need to take care to ensure the spread of the virus is contained," Gangakhedkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-outbreak-to-affect-2021-as-well-says-health-expert-953451.html
20-02-2021||National||India offers $40 million Line of Credit to boost sports infrastructure in Maldives||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday offered a $40 million Line of Credit to the Maldives in a bid to boost the sports infrastructure of the country. Speaking at an event at Ekuveni Stadium here, he said that India acknowledges the high priority accorded by President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih to sports… and India is privileged to be a partner in that effort. “I am happy to announce that in order to support the development of sports infrastructure to fulfil the interests and aspirations of the Maldivian people, India has offered a standalone Line of Credit of $40 million for sports infrastructure in the Maldives,” Jaishankar said. He said that the Maldivian people have tremendous sporting talent. "India is a trusted and reliable partner," the minister said in his address. Jaishankar, who arrived here on the first leg of his two-nation tour that will also take him to Mauritius, handed over 100,000 additional doses of COVID-19 vaccine to the Foreign Minister and Health Minister Kerafa Naseem. Earlier, he held talks with his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid and discussed the entire gamut of bilateral cooperation, saying India's time-tested relationship with the Maldives is poised to take a quantum jump.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offers-40-million-line-of-credit-to-boost-sports-infrastructure-in-maldives-953454.html
20-02-2021||National||Congress MLA calls Kangana Ranaut 'naachne-gaane wali'; actor hits back||While Kangana Ranaut got in the crosshairs of the Congress due to her tweets on various issues, including the farmers' protests against the Centre's new agricultural laws, one former Congress minister made some deregotary remarks on the actor. Congress MLA Sukhdev Panse called the actor ‘nachne-gane wali’, stirring a new controversy. He used the words against the Bollywood actress over her statements on farmers’ agitation against farm laws. “Kangana jaisi nachne gaane wali mahila kisanon ke swabhiman ko thes pahuchaye [Woman like Kangana, who dances and sings, hurt farmers' self-respect], but the police baton charges Congress workers who are standing up for the farmers,” ANI quoted Panse as saying.  Hitting back, Kangana Ranaut addressed the Congress leader as "fool", and also targeted other Bollywood actresses. "Whoever this fool is does he know I am no Deepika Katrina or Alia.... I am the only one who refused to do item numbers, refused to do big hero ( Khan /Kumar) films which made entire Bullywoodiya gang men +women against me. I am a Rajput woman I don’t shake a*s I break bones (sic)," she tweeted.  Meanwhile, Congress workers, moving towards Sarni in Madhya Pradesh's Betul district on Saturday to protest against Kangana Ranaut at a film shoot site, were allegedly caned by police who also used water cannons. This is the second day Congress workers, who want the actor to apologise for her tweets, faced police action for trying to protest at Ranaut's film shoot site. Earlier, Congress leaders in Betul district had threatened that they would not allow Ranaut to shoot for a film if she does not apologise to farmers over her tweets. Ranaut, is shooting for the movie ‘Dhaakad’ in Betul currently. The Bollywood actor, on Republic Day, had tweeted, "Sick and tired of riots and blood bath almost every month , Delhi, Bangalore and now again Delhi #दिल्ली_पुलिस_लठ_बजाओ #RedFort."  She also tweeted a photo of a protestor at the Red Fort saying, "You need to explain this @diljitdosanjh @priyankachopra Whole world is laughing at us today, yahi chahiye tha na tum logon ko!!!! Congratulations"  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mla-calls-kangana-ranaut-naachne-gaane-wali-actor-hits-back-953460.html
20-02-2021||National||Farmers Protest: Delhi Police releases photos of 20 more people in connection with Republic Day violence at Red Fort||The Delhi Police on Saturday released the photographs of 20 people who were allegedly involved in the violence that broke out at the Red Fort on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade, officials said. Police said they are scanning the videos and releasing the pictures of people from them. "We have released the pictures and the process of identification (of the people) has been started," a senior police officer said. Earlier, police had released 200 photographs of people in connection with the Red Fort violence. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. The farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Centre's three new agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-delhi-police-releases-photos-of-20-more-people-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-at-red-fort-953464.html
20-02-2021||National||Security outside Amitabh Bachchan's bungalow increased||Two days after Congress leader Nana Patole targeted Amitabh Bachchan for not speaking out against the fuel price rise, police on Saturday increased the security outside the actor's bungalow here. "It is a temporary measure, as a precaution," an official from the local police station said, without specifying what prompted them to deploy more personnel outside `Jalsa', Bachchan's bungalow in Juhu. Earlier this week, Patole, the Maharashtra Congress chief, had lashed out at Bollywood celebrities including Bachchan and Akshay Kumar, saying they used to tweet about the rise in petrol and diesel prices during the UPA regime, but now they are quiet. If they did not take a stand on the issue of current fuel price hike, then screening of their films and shootings would not be allowed in Maharashtra, he had said on Thursday. The Congress shares power in the state with the NCP and Shiv Sena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-outside-amitabh-bachchans-bungalow-increased-953476.html
20-02-2021||National||National curriculum should have chapters on history and culture of northeast region: Khandu||Appreciating the New Education Policy of the Centre, Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Saturday pitched for inclusion of history and culture of the northeastern region in the national curriculum. Apart from creating awareness about the region at the national level, it will also reinforce national integration in the true spirit of Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat, Khandu said while virtually participating in the 6th Governing Council meeting of the NITI Aayog. His government will introduce a curriculum about the culture and traditions of Arunachal Pradesh at primary school level and the history of the northeastern state at middle school level, the chief minister said. To push forward the objective of Aatmnirbhar Bharat, Khandu said, the state government is focusing on agriculture and horticulture besides turning the state into a manufacturing hub. "We have abundant land resource so we are already implementing cluster farming and nutritional kitchen garden schemes across the state. The Centre may handhold us in establishing food processing industry in a big way. We are happy to inform that we have concentrated on ease of doing businesses and have in place a policy in this regard," the chief minister said. Admitting that physical infrastructure like roads have come up in the state like never before, Khandu requested the Centre to relax the criteria for implementation of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) for Arunachal Pradesh. "We still have about 1,047 villages yet to be connected by roads as these do not qualify for PMGSY. If the criteria is relaxed a bit, connectivity can be provided to these villages in the next few years," he said. Lauding the Centre for assuring to provide 4G digital connectivity to about 1,683 habitats in the region, Khandu requested implementation of the scheme in a time-bound manner to achieve the vision of Digital India on time. He informed that the state government has cancelled almost all the MoUs signed earlier with private parties for development of hydropower in the state. Mentioning that only central government agencies will be roped in to undertake hydropower development in the state keeping in mind the environmental impact and peoples will, the chief minister requested the Centre to provide support to the state. Khandu lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for leading from the front in the fight against COVID-19. "With your guidance sir, Arunachal Pradesh could successfully tackle the pandemic. Recent survey by the Union health ministry has revealed that our recovery rate is one of the best and the mortality rate in one of the lowest in the country," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-curriculum-should-have-chapters-on-history-and-culture-of-northeast-region-khandu-953479.html
20-02-2021||National||Mahadayi: Goa CM seeks Centre's intervention at NITI Aayog meet||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant raised the issue of the Mahadayi inter-state water dispute at the governing council of the NITI Aayog on Saturday, requesting the Central government's intervention to resolve the deadlock and ensure justice to Goa. Amid a series of sustained protests related to three central government projects related to road, rail expansion and drawing of a power transmission, Sawant also told the governing council of the NITI Aayog, that his government fully backed the controversial projects.   "The Mahadayi issue is in the Supreme Court again. We need intervention. We use Mahadayi water for drinking purposes. The river's salinity testing is being conducted by the Union Jal Shakti Ministry currently," Sawant told the meeting. "Mahadayi water is being diverted and if the water level in the river reduces, then the salinity may increase, which may again cause problems. This is a sensitive issue in the state," Sawant said. The Opposition in Goa has already demanded Sawant's resignation, accusing him of compromising Goa's interests in the river water dispute with Karnataka. Goa has already filed two petitions in the Supreme Court in connection with the water dispute. In a special leave petition, the Goa government has challenged the award of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal, and in a contempt petition the state government has accused Karnataka of illegally diverting water from the Mahadayi river. Sawant also backed the three controversial central government projects, in the face of vociferous protests, by the civil society groups, the Opposition and some ruling BJP MLAs. "...we will provide all support to take ahead the central projects," Sawant said. The chief minister, however, requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide an option of vertical mobility for Central government projects, especially when it came to small states, which do not have spare landmass. "Central projects need huge land. We are requesting vertical mobility for such projects. This will bring relief for small states, which cannot spare a lot of land for Central government projects," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahadayi-goa-cm-seeks-centres-intervention-at-niti-aayog-meet-953480.html
20-02-2021||National||Kejriwal to meet protesting farmers at lunch, agri laws to be discussed: Report||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will host protesting farmer leaders at a lunch at the Vidhan Sabha here Sunday afternoon where he will discuss with them the three contentious Central agricultural laws and other related issues, government sources said Saturday. However, the government as well as AAP leaders were tight-lipped about the names of the union leaders invited for the meeting. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said they had not received any invitation from the Delhi government till Saturday evening. A senior AAP leader said, "Discussions will be held at the meeting on various concerns of farmers over the agri laws and also the various aspects of the laws and its impact." Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi border under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for nearly three months now against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. Earlier this month, a delegation of SKM leaders had met Kejriwal, urging him for a judicial enquiry into the alleged "conspiracy" against the protesting farmers. Kejriwal had said his government will help trace the farmers who have been missing since the violence on January 26 during a tractor parade by the protesting farmers, and asserted that if needed, he will approach the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre in this regard. Kejriwal had also visited one of the protest sites at Singhu border in December and challenged the Centre to have an open debate with them in the three laws. The AAP government has extended full support to the protesting farmers. Kejriwal in a gesture of his party's support had torn the copies of farm laws in Delhi Assembly in December last year. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are camping at the border points of Delhi including at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, and have been demanding the Centre scrap the farm laws and ensure legal guarantee for MSP purchase of crops. The stalemate over the issue continues despite 11 rounds of talks between farmer leaders and the Central government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-to-meet-protesting-farmers-at-lunch-agri-laws-to-be-discussed-report-953483.html
20-02-2021||National||Centre reconstitutes NITI Aayog governing council with PM as head||The Centre has reconstituted the governing council of the NITI Aayog with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chairperson. According to a notification of the Cabinet Secretariat, chief ministers of all states and those of the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Puducherry are full time members of the council. The Lieutenant Governors of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh, and the administrators of Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep will be special invitees of governing council. The notification said the governing council was reconstituted as there was a need to do this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-reconstitutes-niti-aayog-governing-council-with-pm-as-head-953487.html
20-02-2021||National||Delhi court reserves order on Disha Ravi's bail for February 23||A Delhi court on Saturday reserved its order on a bail plea by climate activist Disha Ravi before questioning the police on her connection with Republic day violence here that preceded the 'toolkit' document case. "What exactly is the evidence against this lady connecting her with the violence," Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana asked Additional Solicitor General S V Raju. The judge asked the law officer to satisfy the court's conscience on charges levelled against Disha. Raju vehemently opposed the bail application by the activist by saying she remained constantly in touch with people associated with the banned outfit 'Sikhs for Justice' and tried to destroy evidence. The court, however, asked as to how the same intention could be imputed to the activist for being in touch with those people. "If I approach a dacoit for temple donation, how could you say that I am privy to dacoity," the judge further asked. The Delhi Police, for their part, contended a scheme was devised in conspiracy with people connected with an organisation 'Poetic Justice Foundation'. "It is not as innocuous as it appeared. The purpose of toolkit prepared in conspiracy with accused in Canada shows an offence under Section 124A IPC has been committed," Raju said. The 22-year-old activist was arrested by the Delhi Police Special Cell from Bengaluru on February 13 in the case related to the preparation of a toolkit to gather support for the farmers protest allegedly at the behest of organisations supporting separate 'Khalistan'. The court posted the matter for pronouncement of order on Tuesday, February 23. Disha's counsel senior advocate Siddharth Aggarwal contended that the toolkit was not seditious, while two others Shantanu Mukul and Nikita Jacob, already on bail, have been asked to join the investigation on Monday, she may also be released with the condition that she would not leave Delhi. He also asserted that Disha worked for climate and environment and had nothing to do with those associated with the secessionist movement. "If highlighting the farmers' protest is sedition, then I'm guilty. We are lowering the bar of thinking that someone may have an opinion different from ours,"  Agarwal contended. The police, on the other hand, contended that the accused, under the garb of farmers' protest, wanted to indulge in anti-national activities. They worked in a coordinated manner to sabotage Republic Day with an agenda of protests globally. This is not a coincidence. It was a well-planned conspiracy. They organised Zoom meetings and created a WhatsApp group for the purpose, the police alleged. Maintaining that the investigation was still at a nascent stage, the police said Disha shared the toolkit document with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg who accidentally or otherwise put it on social media. "She had deleted and destroyed evidence. When her lie was caught, she admitted of deleting the WhatsApp group. We are yet to confront her with other accused," Raju said, adding more evidence was to be collected and sent for forensic examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-reserves-order-on-disha-ravis-bail-for-february-23-953488.html
20-02-2021||National||Farmers, common people suffering due to increased fuel prices: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, Saturday said that farmers as well as ordinary citizens were incurring huge losses due to the rising fuel prices. It said that the increased fuel prices are also resulting in farmers getting lower net Minimum Support Price for their produce. "The central government gives lower MSP by wrong calculations of inputs and now due to rising fuel prices, input costs have also increased," the farmers body claimed in a statement. "Along with farmers, ordinary citizens of the country will also suffer huge losses due to the rising prices of petrol, diesel and gas. People are protesting all over the country against rising prices," it added. Fuel prices have been rising over the past few weeks with petrol price touching an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday, while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. The SKM also alleged that even though police arrested several farmers during their February 18 'rail roko' programme across the country and filed "false cases" against them, the "movement will continue". "Arrests were made during the rail roko programs in several districts in Madhya Pradesh. 50 activists were arrested in Gwalior and 47 were arrested in Riva... The arrested activists were then released from jail. "The government wants to threaten the farmers by putting false cases against them....Farmers warned the government that despite the Mandsaur incident, the spirit of the farmers was not broken, similarly, this movement will continue," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-common-people-suffering-due-to-increased-fuel-prices-samyukta-kisan-morcha-953489.html
20-02-2021||National||Covid-19 upsurge in four states; no significant drop in Kerala||Four states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh reported an upsurge in daily Covid-19 cases over the last few days, whereas thousands of fresh cases are still being detected daily in Kerala, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday raising an alarm. The upswing seen most profoundly in Maharashtra comes after a low that started in November-December and continued through January and the first half of February. But since February 16, the numbers are moving northward. Riding on the increased Maharashtra case numbers, the daily rise of fresh Covid-19 cases as on Saturday was up by nearly 5,000 compared to the situation five days ago. There is also a corresponding rise in the daily death toll. On Saturday, the western state reported more than 6,000 cases for the first time since January 1. Similarly in Punjab too, there is a steady rise in fresh Covid-19 cases since early February with nearly 400 cases being reported for the first time on Saturday since January 1. The rise in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh is not so prominent but an increase nevertheless from last week’s count. Kerala, on the other hand, presents a declining trend but in absolute terms, the numbers are second to Maharashtra with more than 4,500 cases diagnosed in the last 24 hours. “The virus is very much around, the upward surge of cases is a reflection of the fact that there are vulnerable populations. Such localised areas of transmission have been observed in other countries as well,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute of Global Health, Delhi told DH. The health ministry also stressed the importance of adherence to the Covid-19-appropriate behaviour for breaking the chain of transmission of the virus and containment of the spread of the disease. “Recent reports from Israel demonstrate that accelerated vaccination covering a majority of the population is critical to break the chain of transmission,” John said. This, however, remains a problematic area in India as more than 35% of healthcare workers did not take even the first dose of the Covid vaccine as on February 20, which according to the Health Ministry was the final day of finishing the first dose of vaccination for the health care staff. There would be mop-up exercises in the next five days. As many as 63,52,713 healthcare workers took the first dose as vaccine hesitancy continues to dominate the decision making of an individual. In total, just over one crore (1,08,38,323 doses) vaccine doses were administered since January 16. More than 8 lakh healthcare workers received the second dose and 36 lakh front line staff got the first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-upsurge-in-four-states-no-significant-drop-in-kerala-953507.html
20-02-2021||National||PM Modi asks states to get three crore children back to school||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday asked states to take steps to bring nearly three crore out of school children back to schools and fighting malnutrition among women and children. Briefing reporters on the day-long meeting of the Niti Aayog Governing Council, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said the prime minister stressed special measures to bring back three crore out of school children into the school system. He said there were suggestions made to carry out a special annual survey to assess the efficacy of the steps taken in this regard. Kumar said the prime minister also focused on steps to improve foundational literacy and implementation of the Poshan Abhiyan 2.0 to improve nutrition, health and immunity among children and women. During the meeting, there was no mention of the three farm laws that have farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting for months on the borders of the national capital. “Nobody spoke about the farm laws, but we discussed reforms in the agriculture sector,” Kumar said when asked about reports of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh calling for repeal of the farm laws. He said Singh and Chief Ministers of Gujarat, West Bengal and Telangana were not present for the meeting. Demands from states: Maharashtra: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the state should offer better facilities and administrative efficiency to investors instead of giving out doles such as cheap land and electricity. Goa: Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the Mahadayi project could lead to drinking water shortage in the state besides affecting the flora and fauna. Tamil Nadu: Chief Minister E K Palaniswami urged the Centre to declare the Godavari-Cauvery link initiative as a national project as it would benefit the people of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Bihar: Chief Minister Nitish Kumar sought the development of a special port in Odisha to meet the cargo handling requirements of the land-locked state of Bihar. The demand was also supported by Jharkhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-asks-states-to-get-three-crore-children-back-to-school-953512.html
20-02-2021||National||Centre, states should come together to set up manufacturing hubs across country: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Saturday stressed the need for creating manufacturing hubs across the country, and said if it is pursued on war footing, India can leave China behind in the sector, a Delhi government statement said. Speaking virtually at the sixth Governing Council meeting of Niti Aayog, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he also said that attention was not paid to the manufacturing sector in the country over the last 70 years, enabling China to capture local markets, he said. "We saw how China has been challenging us on the border, and on the other hand, it has captured our markets and Chinese products are replacing Indian products on a large scale. If we all work together, India can overtake China in manufacturing," he asserted in the meeting. Kejriwal suggested large-scale creation of manufacturing hubs across the country with facilities and tax benefits for production of cost-effective goods, the statement said. "The Central and state governments should come together to build manufacturing hubs across the country, to provide facilities, and give tax breaks to MSMEs, manufacturers, and industrialists, for import substitutes and exports," he said. "This will help them make products that are cheaper than those made in China and create jobs. This will also help us in leaving China behind in the field of manufacturing and the growth of India's GDP," he said. He also supported favouring small and medium industries in the country. The youths in the country have new ideas and plenty of energy and they should be provided facilities and capital to start businesses, Kejriwal said at the meeting. The Delhi Chief Minister stressed that it is necessary to "aggressively pursue" manufacturing for India's economic progress, creation of jobs, and GDP growth. "In the last 70 years, our country has never given importance to the manufacturing sector, as a result of which people are leaving the manufacturing sector and are moving towards the trading and service sectors. Our country is lagging behind in the manufacturing sector," he said. In the last one year, Covid 19 pandemic "hugely" affected the manufacturing sector and many jobs were lost, he claimed. "We need to aggressively promote start-ups. It will help us in creating a huge number of jobs in the country." Citing his IIT background, Kejriwal said back then a lot of people used to go outside the country after studying in IITs. "This trend has declined in the last 10-15 years, and our youths want to stay in India and start their own business. If the Central and state governments come together and provide facilities to our youth, we will have a huge contribution to the progress of the nation," he said. He expressed hope that all the stakeholders will take a resolve towards expanding the manufacturing sector in India, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-should-come-together-to-set-up-manufacturing-hubs-across-country-kejriwal-953528.html
20-02-2021||National||UGC finalises draft for Indian, global institutions offering joint or dual degrees||Indian and foreign higher education institutions may soon be able to offer joint or dual degrees and twinning programmes with the University Grants Commission (UGC) finalising a draft for the regulations of these programmes. However, a final decision in this regard will be taken following evaluation of feedback received on the draft, which has been put in public domain. According to the draft UGC (Academic Collaboration between Indian and Foreign Higher Education Institutions to offer Joint Degree, Dual Degree and Twinning Programmes) Regulations, 2021, higher education institutions of India can collaborate with foreign counterparts for credit recognition and transfer, twinning arrangement as well as offer degrees. However, regulations shall not be applicable to programmes offered in online and open and distance learning mode. "Any Indian institution accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with a minimum score of 3.01 or in the top 100 in University category of National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) or an Institution of Eminence can collaborate with any foreign institution in top 500 of Times Higher Education or QS World University ranking automatically where as other Indian institutions and any foreign institution accredited by an assessment and accreditation agency in their homeland will have to seek approval of the UGC," the draft said. According to the regulations, any degree or diploma awarded based on these collaborations "shall be equivalent to any corresponding degree or diploma awarded by the Indian Higher Education institution and there shall be no further requirement of seeking equivalence from any authority". "The dual degree programme the degrees will be conferred by the Indian and foreign higher education institutions, separately and simultaneously, upon completion of degree requirements of both the institutions. The partnerships would be allowed for four types of academic collaborations, which include credit recognition and transfer, joint degree programme, dual degree programme and twinning arrangement," the draft said. "Under the twinning arrangement, while a student enrolled in an Indian institution may undertake their programme of study partly in the foreign higher education institution, the degree or diploma offered shall be awarded by the Indian higher education institution only. The joint degree will be a single certificate bearing the crests and logo of both collaborating institutions," it added. As per the draft regulations no franchise arrangement will be allowed under these collaborations. "A franchise arrangement, whether overtly or covertly, by whatever nomenclature used, between a foreign higher education institution and an Indian higher education institution shall not be allowed under these regulations," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-finalises-draft-for-indian-global-institutions-offering-joint-or-dual-degrees-953529.html
20-02-2021||National Politics||No compromise on issues affecting common man, says new Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge||Opposing the government just for the sake of doing so was not his style of functioning, the new leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, but made it clear there would be no compromise on issues affecting the common man. "We are not opposing the government just for the sake of opposition. We oppose the government's wrong policies affecting the common man," he told PTI to a query on how he would function as Leader of the Opposition. Kharge, who became Leader of the Opposition this week following the retirement of Ghulam Nabi Azad, flagged the ongoing farmers stir demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted by Parliament last year, "flouting all procedures" and demanded that they be withdrawn. He suggested that the government come up with fresh proposals after withdrawing these controversial laws and refer them to a parliamentary standing committee for scrutiny. The senior Congress leader visited Kerala on Friday to address a public meeting organised in Kollam as the Congress-led UDF's 'Aiswarya Kerala Yatra', led by senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala arrived in Kollam. The yatra is being organised to reach out to people ahead of the assembly polls likely to be held in April-May. Kharge, a hardcore Gandhi family loyalist, said his party leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi had asked him to "highlight the issues of the poor people" on the floor of the House. "We raise the issues (in Parliament) not to become famous. We take up the issues affecting the poor. Somebody should talk", the senior Congress leader said. The 78-year-old veteran leader, with over 50 years' experience in politics, urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP to listen to the voices of agitating farmers and address their grievances. "The farmers have been agitating against the new farm laws for the past few months and demanding that they be withdrawn as it abolishes the MSP and the Mandi system We are all supporting their demand. The government has failed to satisfy the farmers, the major stakeholders, while bringing in these laws and should withdraw them," he said. Kharge came down on the Centre on the issue, alleging that the government was using all its machinery to divide the farmers by terming them as 'Khalistanis' and 'Pakistanis.' Kharge alleged that the incidents at the Red Fort on January 26 was a planned conspiracy by the government was one such move to cause divisions among the farmers and was done to 'hide its failures.' He also flayed the government over the increasing fuel prices, saying they were doing "a great injustice" to the people. "Petrol prices are at an all-time high, while international crude oil prices have touched a record low. By hiking prices day by day, the central government is doing a great injustice to the people of this country", he said. Kharge also urged Kerala's ruling CPI(M)-led LDF government to reduce state taxes on petrol and diesel to ease the burden on the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-compromise-on-issues-affecting-common-man-says-new-leader-of-opposition-mallikarjun-kharge-953331.html
20-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi is like 'arrogant king from old stories', Priyanka Gandhi tells farmers at mahapanchayat||Launching a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the new farm laws, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday likened him to "arrogant kings in old stories", who never bothered about the people. "The prime minister is behaving like the kings in old stories, whose arrogance increased with power...they confined themselves in their palaces and never bothered about the peoples' problems," Priyanka said while addressing a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Muzaffarnagar district, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow. "The prime minister has become an arrogant king...he does not understand that he should respect the farmers," she said. “People started feeling afraid of telling the truth in front of him… they would be grovelling. It seems our prime minister has also become an arrogant king of that type. He is unable to understand that the jawan who has kept this country safe is a son of a farmer," she told the gathering. She said the farmers had been holding a peaceful demonstration on the borders of Delhi but they were 'humiliated' and 'ridiculed'. "They (farmers) were beaten...power connection was cut off...the birders were turned into international borders...the PM called them parasites," Priyanka said. "The prime minister laughs when there are tears in the eyes of Rakesh Tikait (farmer leader), she said and demanded that the Centre scrapped the farm laws. "You (PM) say that the farm laws are for the benefit of the farmers...did you speak to them?... if they say they don't want it then you should withdraw the laws," Priyanka said. The Congress leader also referred to the rocketing petroleum and LPG prices and said the government was not bothered about the problems faced by the common people. In 2018, Priyanka Gandhi said, the cost of diesel was Rs 60 and today it is Rs 80 somewhere and Rs 90 elsewhere. "The electricity bill has increased, the price of the gas cylinder keeps on increasing, but you are not getting the price for your sugarcane. It is at the same place," she said. "The BJP government earned Rs 3.5 lakh crore by imposing a tax on diesel last year. I want to ask where the money has gone. Why has the person who works day and night for the country, and irrigates it with his blood and sweat not got this money?" she asked. The Congress leader said there was nobody to listen to the farmer who is being harassed. Referring to the ongoing farmer protests against the agri laws at various Delhi border points, she said "The Delhi border is five-six kilometres away from the residence of Narendra Modi-ji. And the prime minister, who can go to the United States, China and Pakistan, and tour the entire world… he could not go to the lakhs of farmers, nor wipe their tears, nor listen to their views. Why? Because his politics are only for himself and his billionaire and capitalist friends." Priyanka Gandhi told the gathering that they would be surprised to see how much “one or two billionaire friends” had earned at a time the entire country is groaning and payments have not been made. "Crores were earned, and you are sitting on roads, fighting for your rights and agitating, and no one is there to listen to you," she said. Elaborating on the farm laws, the Congress general secretary said the prime minister maintained the laws were made for the farmers. “So can they say, which farmer has made it, which farmer was consulted? And if the farmers of the entire country are saying that Pradhan Mantriji, we do not need these laws, then why these laws are not withdrawn, why are they not scrapped?" Priyanka Gandhi asked. Priyanka has been addressing farmers' meetings in western UP districts as part of her party's Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' campaign'.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-is-like-arrogant-king-from-old-stories-priyanka-gandhi-tells-farmers-at-mahapanchayat-953442.html
20-02-2021||National Politics||FIR against Congress leader Udit Raj for 'misleading' tweet on Unnao incident||Congress leader Udit Raj was booked Saturday for his tweet over the death of two girls in Unnao, with the police alleging he propagated fake news that the teenagers were raped and their bodies cremated against the will of their family. Superintendent of Police (SP) Anand Kulkarni said the claims made in the tweet were far from the facts emerging in the post-mortem report and the post was an attempt to create anger through "misleading" rumours. The post-mortem report did not confirm rape and the families had themselves cremated the bodies without any pressure, the SP said, adding that through the tweet, an effort was made to propagate concocted and fake news. An FIR has been registered with the Sadar Kotwali police station in this connection and further action is being taken, the SP said. In the tweet in Hindi, posted Friday, Udit Raj had stated, "Just spoke to former MP Savitri Bai Phule on the telephone. Police let them meet the victims in Unnao after difficulty. The victims' family members said the girls had been raped and the bodies were cremated against their wishes." When contacted on Saturday, Udit Raj said he had tweeted on the issue after talking to Phule who had gone there. "I have also given reference of Phule in the tweet." He then went on to attack the BJP government in the state. In Uttar Pradesh, cases are being lodged against all those raising their voices, he alleged. In Hathras, when "officials had spread the rumour", no action was taken but "we are standing with the truth and no one can suppress our voice", he said. Three girls, aged 15, 14 and 16, left their homes in Babuhara village in Asoha, around 36 km south of Lucknow, to collect fodder on Wednesday evening. As they did not return, their family members went out to search and found them in a field. The villagers informed the police and rushed the girls to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl was rushed to the Unnao hospital and later referred to Kanpur. The last rites of the deceased girls were performed Friday morning amid tight security arrangements. The Unnao police has held two people in this connection, accusing them of murder over a one-sided love affair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fir-against-congress-leader-udit-raj-for-misleading-tweet-on-unnao-incident-953453.html
20-02-2021||National Politics||There is development of inflation in country, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday took a swipe at the BJP government over rising inflation and the hike in petrol and diesel prices. "Development of inflation," he said in a tweet in Hindi, and attached a picture of the problems suffered by common people due to rising prices of petrol and diesel. AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the BJP government should name the day petrol and diesel prices do not rise as "achha din" (good day) as all other days are 'expensive'. "The BJP government should rename that day of the week as 'Good Day' when diesel and petrol do not increase. Because, due to rising inflation, the rest of the days are 'expensive days' for common people," she said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress has been demanding that the tax on petrol and diesel be reduced and the common people given relief in prices of fuel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-development-of-inflation-in-country-says-rahul-gandhi-953475.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Congress leader P C Sharma, others detained during protest against fuel prices in Bhopal||Former Madhya Pradesh minister P C Sharma said he and several other Congress leaders and workers were detained here by the police on Saturday during the state-wide half-day 'bandh' called by his party to protest against the rising fuel prices. The call for half-day bandh has so far evoked mixed response as many shops in Bhopal and elsewhere could be seen functioning as usual. While the ruling BJP said the bandh has failed, the opposition Congress claimed that it has received a good response. Talking to PTI, Sharma said, "I was detained from the bus stop number 6 with other Congressmen while we were requesting the shop owners to get the shutters down." "I have been brought to the central jail campus with other Congressmen," he added. MP Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta accused the BJP government of forcibly keeping the shops open. "Our bandh is getting a good response," he claimed. State BJP's chief spokesman Deepak Vijayvargiya said the Congress has no bearing in the state and its bandh has completely failed. In a few districts of the state, including Indore, there were reports of standoffs between the police and the protesters. "Police came to my petrol pump and asked us to open it. On the other hand, the Congressmen are requesting us to keep the facility shut," an owner of a petrol pump told PTI. "We are caught in the crosshairs," he said. State Congress chief Kamal Nath had on Friday urged the people to join in the 'bandh' in order to "wake up the government over the soaring prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas". Meanwhile, MP Petrol Pump Owners' Association secretary Nakul Sharma said that additive-mixed petrol of a leading oil marketing company is now priced at Rs 102.26 per litre, while regular per litre petrol is being sold at Rs 98.58 and diesel at Rs 89.21 in Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-p-c-sharma-others-detained-during-protest-against-fuel-prices-in-bhopal-953321.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||PM Modi stresses on Centre-States cooperation at Niti Aayog meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong case for repealing archaic laws and making it easier to do business in India, stating that the centre and states need to work closely to boost economic growth. Addressing the sixth Governing Council meeting of Niti Aayog, the Prime Minister said that the private sector should be given full opportunity to become a part of government's Aatmanirbhar Bharat programme. The whole country succeeded when the state and the central government worked together during the coronavirus pandemic, he said, adding that "the basis of the country's progress is cooperative federalism and today’s meeting is to brainstorm to make it more meaningful and move towards competitive cooperative federalism." Modi said there is a need to bring competitive cooperative federalism not only among states but districts too. The Prime Minister also underlined the need for reducing the compliance burden and repealing obsolete laws. He asked the states to form committees to reduce regulations which are no longer relevant in the wake of technology growth. Observing that the positive response received on the Union Budget for 2021-22 expressed the mood of the nation, he said, "the country has made up its mind, wants to move fast and does not want to waste time." Modi further said that the private sector of the country is coming forward with more enthusiasm in this development journey of the country. "As a government, we also have to honour this enthusiasm, the energy of the private sector, and give it as much opportunity in the AatmaNirbhar Bharat campaign," he added. The campaign, he said, "is the way to develop an India that produces not only for its own needs but also for the world and this production also stands the test of the world." Modi said that the initiatives taken by the government would provide opportunity to everyone to participate in nation building to its full potential. Referring to the farm sector, the Prime Minister said that efforts should be made to produce agriculture items like edible oil and reduce their imports. "About Rs 65,000 crore is spent in the import of edible oils which should have gone to our farmers. This can be done by guiding farmers," he said. The Prime Minister said government policies will help farmers raise productivity and cut imports, adding that reforms needed to provide funds and technology for the farm sector. He said the central government introduced production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for various sectors providing an excellent opportunity to increase manufacturing in the country. The states, he added, should take full advantage of this scheme and attract maximum investment in themselves and also reap the benefits of reduced corporate tax. He said the government is spending on infrastructure to boost demand and create jobs. Further, the Prime Minister noted that bank accounts, free electricity and gas connection and proper vaccinations have brought changes in the lives of the poor. Stressing on need to strengthen start-ups and MSMEs, Modi said, "Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not just to make India self-reliant, but also to meet the world's needs." He also urged states to form committees to celebrate India's 75th Independence Day. The Prime Minister said the campaign to provide a pucca roof to every poor is also going on now and added that, since 2014, construction of more than 2.40 crore houses has been completed in both cities and villages put together. He said over 3.5 lakh rural houses are provided with piped drinking water within 18 months of the launch of Jal Jeevan mission and the Bharat Net Scheme for internet connectivity in villages is becoming a medium for a big change. "When the central and state governments work together in all such schemes the speed of work will also increase and the benefits would also reach the last person," the Prime Minister said. He further said that keeping in mind the aspirations of a young country like India, modern infrastructure has to be built. "Innovation has to be encouraged and more technology should be used to provide better opportunities for education and skills," he said, adding there is a need for strengthening businesses, MSMEs and startups. He said shortlisting the products of hundreds of districts of the country according to its speciality has led to healthy competition among the states. These initiatives have to be taken to the block level, making full use of the resources of the states and increasing the exports from the states, he said, while underlining the need for a better coordination and policy framework between the centre and the states. He also announced that there would be a major increase in the economic resources of local bodies in the 15th Finance Commission. The council, the apex body of Niti Aayog, includes all chief ministers, lieutenant governors of Union Territories, several union ministers and senior government officials. In a first, Ladakh is also participating the sixth edition of the Governing Council meeting, in addition to the participation of Jammu and Kashmir as a UT. This time, other UTs headed by administrators have also been invited to join. The meeting is also being attended by the ex-officio members of the council, union ministers, vice-chairperson Rajiv Kumar, members and CEO of Niti Aayog Amitabh Kant, and other senior officials from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-stresses-on-centre-states-cooperation-at-niti-aayog-meet-953322.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Soon small cars in UP 112 fleet to reduce emergency response time||Soon smaller cars will be replacing some of the bigger SUVs used by Uttar Pradesh police's 112 service, in a move aimed at further improving emergency response time, a top official said. The step will affect police's emergency response at sites located in markets, congested areas, narrow lanes and all such places where the PRVs (police response vehicles) lose precious time in traffic snarls because of their size, the official said. The UP Police's 112 service (formerly the 100 service) currently has around 4,500 vehicles of which nearly 3,000 are four-wheeler SUVs and the remaining two-wheeler motorcycles. Additional Director General of Police (112 service) Asim Arun said currently 15,000 to 16,000 events across the state are attended daily by the emergency responders, while the number of distress calls is even more. "Many a time the calls come from incident spots located in busy markets, congested areas, narrow lanes and all such places where SUVs lose precious time in traffic snarls because of their size. Sometimes the police vehicles themselves lead to traffic disruption while responding to emergencies," Arun told PTI. "We will soon be adding into our fleet cars which are smaller in size than our SUVs so that they can easily navigate such areas and the response time can be improved further," he said, adding specifics like car type and a number of vehicles are yet to be worked out. Arun said currently the UP police's average response time in urban areas stands 7 to 8 minutes, while in rural areas it is 15 to 20 minutes. On the difference in response time in urban and rural areas, he said there are more events from urban areas where the deployment of PRVs is also higher, while the relatively long response time in rural areas is because distress calls are not frequent and locations of villages are also isolated. "We have a world-class response time," Arun said and added that during the pandemic and lockdown, the UP police's emergency responders tended to an average of 35,000 distress calls daily. "During the lockdown, the 112 utilised the state capacity following directions from the chief minister. Our PRVs were providing dry ration, cooked meals, milk for newborns and infants and what not. On many occasions, PRV personnel spent money from their own pockets to help distressed callers while the world was yet to come to grips with the situation," he added. On further utilization of 112 in diverse roles like lodging of FIR, he said it was more of a "policy question" that could be answered by the government. "But as far as capacity is concerned, we are technically equipped for it," Arun said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soon-small-cars-in-up-112-fleet-to-reduce-emergency-response-time-953338.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Gehlot slams PM Modi govt over rising fuel prices||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said fuel prices have been increasing for 11 days and the common man is suffering as a result of "wrong" economic policies of the Centre. In a series of tweets, Gehlot targeted the Centre and cleared his stand on the rumours that Rajasthan levies highest tax on fuel prices. "The Modi government imposes excise duty of Rs 32.90 on petrol and Rs 31.80 per litre on diesel. Whereas during the UPA government in 2014 there was an excise duty of only Rs 9.20 on petrol and just Rs 3.46 on diesel. The Modi government should reduce excise duty in the interest of the public without delay," he tweeted in Hindi. "People are affected by petrol and diesel prices. Prices have been increasing continuously for the last 11 days. This is the result of wrong economic policies of the Modi government. Crude oil prices in the international market are currently half of what it used to be during the UPA rule, but petrol-diesel prices have reached an all-time high," Gehlot said in another tweet. The chief minister claimed that the Centre has continuously reduced the part of basic excise duty of the states and increased the additional excise duty and special excise duty on the central portion "only to fill its treasury". Consequently, the state governments have to increase VAT (value-added tax) to raise their economic resources, the chief minister said. Gehlot said the economy of Rajasthan has been badly affected due to Covid-19 and the state's revenue has decreased. But, the state government reduced VAT by 2 per cent in the last month to give relief to the common people, he added. "Instead of giving any such relief, the Modi government is increasing the prices of petrol and diesel every day," Gehlot said. He further said, "Some people spread rumours that the Rajasthan government imposes the highest tax on petrol, so the price is high here. Petrol in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh is taxed more than Rajasthan, so the price of petrol in Jaipur is less than Bhopal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-slams-pm-modi-govt-over-rising-fuel-prices-953345.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Two militant associates of LeT arrested in J&K's Bandipora||Security forces have arrested two militant associates of Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit and recovered incriminating materials from their possession in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Saturday. Acting on specific inputs, security forces established a checkpoint near Papachan-Bandipora Bridge and apprehended two militant associates linked with the proscribed outfit LeT on Friday, a police official said. He identified them as Abid Waza and Bashir Ahmad Gojer, both residents of Bandipora in north Kashmir. The official said as per the police records, they were involved in providing shelter, logistics and other support to the active militants in the area. They were tasked by their handlers to carry out a grenade attack on security forces in Bandipora, he said. Incriminating materials, including two live hand grenades were recovered from their possession and all the recovered material was taken into case records for further investigation, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militant-associates-of-let-arrested-in-jks-bandipora-953350.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Hoshangabad in MP to be renamed Narmadapuram, says Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced that Hoshangabad city in the state would be renamed as Narmadapuram and a proposal to that effect would be sent to the Centre. He made the announcement during the Narmada Jayanti programme held in Hoshangabad on Friday evening. While addressing a gathering on the banks of Narmada, Chouhan asked whether the government should change the name of Hoshangabad, to which the people present there replied in the affirmative. "What should be the new name?" Chouhan asked, and the people replied, "Narmadapuram!" The chief minister then said, "We are now sending a proposal to the Centre to change the name of Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram." The state government will not allow "cement-concrete structures" to be built along the Narmada river, he said, adding that sewage treatment plants are also being constructed in the cities located on its banks. Meanwhile, BJP workers, led by protem Assembly Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, expressed happiness over Chouhan's announcement and burst firecrackers on Saturday morning. Sharma had earlier made the demand to change the name of Hoshangabad. "This is a historic moment. Narmada is the lifeline of Madhya Pradesh. Hoshangabad was so far named after an attacker Hoshang Shah but will be known after the lifeline Maa Narmada, which is a matter of happiness. I thank the CM for making this announcement by respecting the public sentiments," he said. State BJP president VD Sharma and several other leaders also thanked the chief minister for the decision. However, state Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta termed the announcement as the ruling BJP's ploy to divert the attention of people from important issues like inflation and rising prices of fuel. "BJP only changed the names related to the Mughals, but not of those linked to the British rulers. Why the nameof Minto Hall (old Vidhan Sabha building) has not been changed? This is just to divert the attention. Instead, it should focus on development and give relief to people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hoshangabad-in-mp-to-be-renamed-narmadapuram-says-chouhan-953351.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Researchers arrive to inspect artificial lake over Rishiganga||A team of researchers arrived in Pang village on Saturday to inspect the artificial lake formed over Rishiganga after the recent avalanche and gauge how big a threat it poses to areas downstream. The team led by USAC Director MPS Bisht and consisting of four scientists each from the Geological Survey of India and Uttarakhand Space Application Centre will try to reach the lake on foot by Saturday evening or Sunday. With roads in the area around Raini Gram Panchayat washed out in the recent flash flood and vast stretches turned into swamps, the team is being accompanied by a mountaineer from the Nehru Institute of Mountaineering and SDRF jawans to ensure their safe journey to the lake. "We will inspect the lake formed over Rishiganga by the huge volume of sludge that came from Rauthi stream due to the avalanche," USAC Director Bisht told PTI. "We hope to reach Udiyari by the evening which is located above the lake. By Sunday, we may reach the lake to inspect it and take its geographical measurements. How big a threat the lake can pose to the population living downstream of Rishiganga is something that can be measured only by how much water it contains," he said. Sonographic equipment from the Indian Navy are being used to measure how much water is contained in the lake, he said. Sonography experts from Hyderabad are also expected to measure the volume of water in the lake, Bisht said. Bisht said his team will also incorporate the findings of a DRDO team that has visited the lake into its analysis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-researchers-arrive-to-inspect-artificial-lake-over-rishiganga-953353.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||IAF withdraws Jammu airport closure order; restricted flight operations during runway resurfacing work||The flight operations to and from Jammu airport would be restricted to seven hours for 41 days from March 10 as the Indian Air Force withdrew its earlier order proposing complete closure of the airport for 15 days next month for resurfacing work of the runway, officials said on Saturday. The decision was reviewed and modified by the IAF in consultation with the Airport Authority of India (AAI) at a meeting on Friday following instructions from the Union Defence Ministry, the officials said. A day earlier, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar chaired a joint meeting of IAF and AAI in Delhi and advised them to find a way out to avoid closure of the airport for civilian traffic after the Civil Aviation Ministry raised the issue with him at the request of Jammu and Kashmir administration. The officials said the proposed complete closure of the Jammu airport from March 6 to March 20 has been withdrawn. However, the flight operations at the airport would be restricted to seven hours daily from March 10 to April 19 to facilitate smooth work. The Jammu airport would be available for the operations from 6 am to 1 pm with the last flight departure at 12.50 pm during March 10 to April 19, the officials said. They said the Jammu airport would be available for operations as per earlier normal watch hours with effect from April 20. In a communication addressed to Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria, the Air Force Station Jammu had wanted complete closure of the airport for 15 days towards laying of the final two top DAC-II layers on the runway surface. The order drew a strong resentment from the J-K administration and Chief Secretary B V R Subrahmanyam lodged his protest with the civil aviation ministry and requested intervention of the Ministry of Defence in the matter to ensure that the resurfacing is carried out in such a manner that civilian air traffic is not affected during the day time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-withdraws-jammu-airport-closure-order-restricted-flight-operations-during-runway-resurfacing-work-953375.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||BJP has imposed an outsider on people of UP: Akhilesh Yadav slams CM Yogi||Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was an 'outsider', who had ''very little knowledge'' about the state. Speaking to reporters here, Akhilesh said that Adityanath should himself tell the people of UP about his home state. Yogi Adityanath, whose name before attaining sainthood was Ajai Bisht, hailed from Uttarakhand. ''BJP has imposed an outsider on the people of the state,'' he remarked. ''He (Adityanath) does not know much about UP and therefore keeps claiming credit for the works undertaken during the SP rule,'' the SP president said. Akhilesh also took exception to what he claimed was the use of unparliamentary language by the chief minister in the state assembly. ''A chief minister should not use such language,'' he added. The SP leader said that the BJP government had humiliated the farmers, who had been protesting against the new farm laws. ''This government has humiliated the farmers and their families.....they will give a befitting reply to the BJP,'' he said. He also attacked the centre for rocketing prices of petrol and diesel. In reply to a query about Aparna Yadav, the wife of his cousin, who had donated Rs. 11 lakh for the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, Akhilesh said sarcastically that there were people, who looked for opportunities even in times of crisis. Several leaders of Congress, BSP and other parties joined the SP in presence of Akhilesh at the party headquarters in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-has-imposed-an-outsider-on-people-of-up-akhilesh-yadav-slams-cm-yogi-953386.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||All judges of Delhi HC to hold physical court hearings from March 15||The Delhi High Court on Saturday issued an office order stating that from March 15 all its judges would hold physical hearing of cases. The high court said the existing system under which only 11 benches - two division benches of two judges each and nine single-judge benches - hear matters via the physical mode would continue till March 12. The office order issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain said, "The Full Court has been pleased to order that the existing system of hearing the matters in this court shall continue up to March 12, 2021. "It has further been ordered that all benches of this court shall hold physical courts, on a daily basis, with effect from March 15, 2021 and shall continue to take up the matters as per the existing arrangement of listing." The order also said that in exceptional cases, the high court might permit any of the parties and/or their lawyers to join the proceedings through video conferencing, subject to the availability of requisite infrastructure.    At present, 11 benches of the high court hold physical courts everyday on rotation basis and some of them also hold hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person. The office order also said that all pending routine or non-urgent matters listed before it from February 22 to March 26 would be adjourned en bloc to dates between April 15 and May 20. It also urged advocates, litigants and other visitors to the high court to "strictly adhere to norms of social distancing and other Covid-19 related guidelines". The high court on January 14 had decided to increase the number of judges who would be hearing cases physically from January 18 onwards "in view of the decline in the intensity of spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital". Prior to January 18, only two to three benches were holding physical courts daily on a rotation basis.   The high court had, on March 25, 2020 restricted its functioning as well as that of the district courts till April 14, 2020. It was subsequently extended from time to time till January 16, 2021. In between, on August 27, 2020, the high court decided to partially resume physical hearing of matters from September 1, 2020 by two division benches and three single-judge benches on a rotation basis. The number of benches was later scaled down to one division bench and two single-judge benches in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi and a majority of the lawyers indicating their preference for virtual hearing of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-judges-of-delhi-hc-to-hold-physical-court-hearings-from-march-15-953391.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||A day after J&K violence, Mehbooba calls for dialogue with Pakistan||A day after three policemen were killed in militant incidents in Jammu and Kashmir, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti Saturday asked the Centre to start a dialogue with Pakistan and also engage the local public to ensure there is no violence in the union territory. The PDP president visited Logripora Aishmuqam area of in Kashmir’s Anantnag district to express her sympathies with the bereaved family of J&K Police Constable Suhail Ahmad who was killed in the militant attack in the Baghat area of the city on Friday. Besides Ahmad, another police personnel lost his life in the Baghat attack. Separately, a policeman died during an encounter with ultras in Budgam district during the day. Three militants were also killed in a gunfight with security forces at Badigam in Shopian district of south Kashmir on Friday. Speaking to reporters after her visit, Mehbooba asked the Centre to hold talks with Pakistan and the people of Jammu and Kashmir, saying the government must think as to till when the people of J&K, its policemen and youth will continue to sacrifice their lives. "This (the Kashmir issue) is a huge issue and this issue should be resolved so that the bloodshed in J&K stops and the people here live in peace," she said. Talking about Ahmad, she said, "He has (left behind) two small children. His father was also killed when he was just four years old. What will they do?" The former J&K chief minister said at the least, a dialogue should be started to stop violence in the union territory. "The BJP government should think and start the process of dialogue, so that the bloodshed is stopped. Our graveyards have become full," she said. "They should start the dialogue process – be it (with the people) here or with Pakistan because they often say that Pakistan perpetrates violence here. At least, the dialogue process can be started to stop the violence," she told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-day-after-jk-violence-mehbooba-calls-for-dialogue-with-pakistan-953395.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Farmer, son die by suicide over debt, farm laws in Punjab||A debt-ridden farmer and his son allegedly committed suicide at a village here, mentioning in a note that they were upset over the Centre's farm laws and the state government's failure to waive their loans. Jagtar Singh (70) and his son Kirpal Singh (42) were found dead at their residence in Muhadipur village on Saturday morning, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Munish Kumar said. They had consumed a poisonous substance, police said. In a suicide note recovered from their residence, they wrote that they were taking the extreme step because of debt, accusing the Congress government in Punjab of not honouring its promise of waiving their farm loans. They further mentioned in the note that they were distressed as the Centre did not repeal the new farm laws. The two owned one acre of land. The bodies were sent to the Dasuya Civil Hospital for a post-mortem, police said. Meanwhile, Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) demanded Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s resignation. “The lies and deceit of the Congress government have been unmasked,” SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia said in a statement. The SAD also asked the Union government to repeal the three agricultural laws. “Jagtar Singh and Kirpal Singh have clearly stated in their suicide note that they were also taking this extreme step due to the agony caused by the Centre's refusal to listen to the voice of the farming community,” said Majithia. The father-son duo's suicide has exposed the lies of Amarinder Singh who had promised to waive all farmers’ loans once elected to power, the Akali leader said. AAP leaders Kultar Singh Sandhwan and Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer visited the residence of the victims and expressed their condolences to the bereaved family members. A statement by AAP's Punjab unit quoting the two party MLAs, said, "The suicide note clearly stated that Captain Amarinder Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led governments were responsible for their deaths." They said Amarinder Singh had said if the Congress comes to power in Punjab, the debt of farmers will be waived. "But today, due to non-waiving of the debt of the farmers, they were forced to take such a painful step," alleged Sandhwan. They further said, "The false pretences and frauds perpetrated by the Congress government have now been exposed and Amarinder Singh should resign immediately."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-son-die-by-suicide-over-debt-farm-laws-in-punjab-953397.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Massive response to first Army recruitment rally in Jammu since Covid-19 outbreak||Around 40,000 youths have registered online for the ongoing Army recruitment rally, the first in Jammu division after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic last year, a defence spokesman said on Saturday. The February 15-March 6 rally for recruiting various categories of soldiers is being conducted under the aegis of Tiger Division at Sunjuwan Military Station here. "The rally is being organised for the youths of all the 10 districts of Jammu Division. Army Recruiting Office (ARO) Jammu in close coordination with Shivalik Brigade, Civil Administration of Jammu division and J&K Police is conducting the ongoing rally in a smooth and transparent manner," the spokesman said. He said the General Officer Commanding, Tiger Division, Maj Gen Vijay B Nair, reviewed the conduct of the recruitment rally on Saturday. The GOC was briefed by Brigadier A P Singh, Commander Shivalik Brigade and Director Recruiting, Jammu, about various arrangements including security, anti-touting and Covid-19 related measures, the spokesman said. This is the first Army recruitment rally in Jammu division after the Covid-19 restrictions. "An overwhelming response from the exuberant youths has been recorded and approximately 40,000 candidates have registered online. Covid-19 protocol is being followed during the rally by all participants and staff," the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/massive-response-to-first-army-recruitment-rally-in-jammu-since-covid-19-outbreak-953398.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt grants 1-month relaxation for nursery admission||The Delhi government has directed schools in the national capital to grant a 30-day relaxation to students in the age criteria for nursery admissions. "It is reiterated that age relaxation of up to 30 days may be granted at the level of the heads of the school in both the minimum and maximum age limit. Therefore, any parent seeking age relaxation in respect of their ward, may approach the school principal through a manual application for his or her consideration," the Directorate of Education (DOE) said in a letter to schools. The age criterion has been fixed by the DOE every year since 2018 and relaxations have been granted in previous sessions too. For admissions in nursery, KG and class 1 there is an upper limit. The child cannot be more than four years of age for admission in nursery as on March 31, for KG it is five years and for class 1 it is six years. The nursery admissions began on February 18 and the application window will close on March 4. The first list of selected candidates will be released on March 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-grants-1-month-relaxation-for-nursery-admission-953404.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Former BSP MP Akbar Ahmad 'Dumpy' booked on complaint by BJP's Shazia Ilmi||A case has been registered against former BSP MP Akbar Ahmad 'Dumpy' on a complaint by Delhi BJP vice-president Shazia Ilmi accusing him of misbehaving with her at a private party, police said on Saturday. Police said the case was registered under sections 506 (threatening) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. Ahmad could not be reached for comment and did not respond to messages on the matter. In her complaint, Ilmi alleged that Ahmad allegedly started "misbehaving with her and passed lewd remarks" at a dinner party in southwest Delhi's Vasant Kunj area on February 5, according to the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said they received a complaint from Illmi, and based on it, the case was registered against Akbar Ahmad 'Dumpy' on February 7. The DCP said that an investigation is underway in the case. Ilmi on Saturday alleged Ahmad was "very much abusive and humiliating" towards her at the gathering. She said a complaint was filed by her with the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-bsp-mp-akbar-ahmad-dumpy-booked-on-complaint-by-bjps-shazia-ilmi-953450.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Unnao case: Surviving minor girl's condition improves, taken off ventilator||The minor girl, who was found along with her two cousins in an agriculture field in a village in Unnao district, was taken off ventilator support on Saturday after showing improvement, a senior police official said. The girl has shown improvement and doctors decided to take her off the ventilator, Kanpur Deputy IG Preetinder Singh said. The girl is still not in a condition to speak to the police and narrate the incident, the DIG said. The doctors are constantly monitoring the girl's condition and taking care of her, he said. Heavy deployment of police force has been made at the hospital to ensure the safety and security of the girl. On primary assessment, the girl was found in shock. As a suspected case of poisoning, she was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at the paediatric ward, the medical bulletin issued by the private hospital, where she is undergoing treatment, said. The victim was admitted to the hospital in intubated condition and was on bag and tube ventilation. Later, she was shifted to the ICU and treatment was given to her, the medical bulletin further stated. On Saturday, the third day of treatment, the girl was put off the ventilator and has been going through spontaneous respiration, it added. Three girls - aged 16, 15 and 14 - were found in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of Asoha police station area by the villagers on Wednesday night when they did not return after leaving their house to take fodder for cattle. The local residents had rushed the teenagers, who are all related to each other, to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was rushed to a district hospital and later referred to the hospital in Kanpur where she is undergoing treatment. The UP police on Friday arrested two people in connection with the deaths of the two teenage girls, accusing them of murder over a one-sided love affair. One of the accused held in the case is a teenager, according to police. "Vinay Kumar, alias Lambu, and a teenager have been held in connection with the case. The matter is a fallout of a one-side love affair. The accused gave some pesticide with water to the three girls," Lucknow Range IG Laxmi Singh had said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-case-surviving-minor-girls-condition-improves-taken-off-ventilator-953457.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bus tragedy: All 54 bodies found, search operation ends||The death toll in the February 16 bus accident in Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh touched 54 after the body of the last missing person was retrieved from a canal on Saturday, leading to the search operation being called off, officials said. A bus carrying 61 people, including the driver, had plunged into the canal near Patna village, some 80 kilometres from the district headquarters, while coming from Satna. The body of Arvind Vishwakarma, the last person whose whereabouts were unknown post the mishap, was recovered from a spot in the canal that was 30 kilometres from the accident site, said Sidhi Collector Ravindra Kumar Sharma. "The spot is in neighbouring Rewa district. With this the five-day-long rescue operation has now been called off as all bodies have been fished out," he said. The search operation was carried out on a 35-kilometre stretch of the canal, officials said. The bus, with a capacity of 32, was carrying 61 people, including the driver, when it plunged into the canal, leaving 54 dead, while seven survived.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bus-tragedy-all-54-bodies-found-search-operation-ends-953473.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Centre responsible for damages caused to J&K’s economy, tourism: Congress||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Saturday lashed out at the Centre and said it was responsible for the “damages” caused to the union territory's economy, trade and tourism. Addressing a party convention at Puhroo Peth in Langate assembly segment of Kupwara district in north Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) president G A Mir said the union territory has suffered immensely on all fronts and the developmental process has been derailed due to the lack of policies by the government. “As a result, the weaker sections and small scale businessmen are the worst hit, besides the unprecedented hike on prices of petroleum and other essentials not only in J-K, but in the entire country added miseries to people,” Mir said. The convention was part of the nationwide protests launched by the Congress against the price hike on petroleum products. The party resolves to continue to fight against the “anti-people policies” of the BJP government which are “responsible for people's hardships and the damages” caused to J-K by bringing in different new laws and ordinances in “an undemocratic way” from time to time, the JKPCC president said. “It is a general perception across India that the central government is willfully hiking the prices on petroleum products on daily basis besides other essentials under a well-planned conspiracy aiming to benefit some corporators. “Their debts have already been waved off at the cost of the country's taxpayers which are being recovered from the common people citing many baseless reasons on account of unprecedented price hike which cannot be justified,” Mir said. He said the party would not compromise on “unwanted and wrong decisions” being taken by the Centre with regards to J-K and will continue to fight against the government to make it accountable and answerable to the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-responsible-for-damages-caused-to-jk-s-economy-tourism-congress-953482.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Mentally ill woman dragged off govt hospital premises||Picutres showing a woman, apparently suffering from mental ailments, being dragged away by a security guard at the district hospital at Khargone in Madhya Pradesh went viral on Saturday. The incident had taken place on Thursday, hospital sources said. The woman was asked to go away by hospital officials, and when she did not budge, a security guard dragged her off by her arm in full public view, they said. The pictures of the incident circulated on social media, drawing angry reactions. On Saturday, the hospital's civil surgeon Dr Deevyash Verma said that guards and even doctors have been warned that such an incident should not recur. A doctor on duty had asked the guards to shift the woman, who was deranged, away from the hospital entrance as she could have been knocked down by ambulances, he said. In future, the staff have been asked to seek police's help in such situations, Dr Verma said. District collector Anugraha P on Saturday instructed the hospital officials and police to trace the woman and shift her to a hospital in Indore for treatment, an official release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-mentally-ill-woman-dragged-off-govt-hospital-premises-953493.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier tragedy: 3 more bodies recovered from hydel project site, toll rises to 65||Three more bodies were recovered from the NTPC's flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site on Saturday taking the toll in the February 7 glacial disaster in Uttarakhand to 65, officials said. The bodies were recovered from the desilting tank near the Tapovan project barrage on Saturday, NDRF Commandant P K Tiwari told PTI. Search operation at the project site has been underway on a war footing for more than 13 days since it bore the brunt of an avalanche triggered by a glacial burst over Rishiganga river in Chamoli district. The 13.2 MW Rishiganga hydel project was totally demolished in the avalanche while the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower project suffered extensive damage. With the recovery of three more bodies, the toll in the tragedy has gone up to 65 while 139 people are still missing. Meanwhile, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria on Saturday asked the NTPC to press into service additional equipment and divert the course of Dhauliganga river to the other side so that its water does not flow through the barrage into Tapovan tunnel hampering sludge clearing efforts. River water flowing into the tunnel from the barrage has been a major headache for rescuers at the tunnel making the muck clearing operations even more challenging, Bhadauria said. Deploying additional equipment at the tunnel and diverting the course of the river will speed up the debris removal exercise which has been underway for more than 13 days, the DM said. She said rescue operations at the main project site in Raini have been completed. The DM added that the debris on the upper side of Rishiganga is now being scoured for any bodies that could be trapped, if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-tragedy-3-more-bodies-recovered-from-hydel-project-site-toll-rises-to-65-953496.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||Over 2.8 lakh people vaccinated against Covid in Delhi, 1.53 lakh of them frontline workers||Over 2.8 lakh beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine jabs till date in Delhi since the start of the inoculation drive a month ago, according to data shared by officials on Saturday. Out of these, more than 1.31 lakh are healthcare workers and over 1.53 lakh frontline workers, as per the data. On Saturday, coronavirus vaccine shots were administered to over 26,000 beneficiaries in Delhi, the inoculation figures crossing the 24,000-mark for the third consecutive day. During the day, 26,110 beneficiaries received shots across 302 centres, including 4,351 people who got their second dose, as the inoculation drive picked up pace, according to data. The overall turnout was about 85 per cent. "Thirteen minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported," the official said. On Friday, 24,321 people were vaccinated in total and the final figures on Thursday had stood at 24,417. Till date, 1,31,854 healthcare workers have been vaccinated, and 1,53,037 frontline workers also received vaccine, as per the data shared by the officials. Frontline workers include police personnel, civil defence staff, sanitation workers, among others. On Wednesday, 15,337 beneficiaries got the shots in total, with an overall turnout of about 51 per cent spread across 300 vaccination centre. The vaccination drive, which started on January 16, has picked up pace in the last one week, and on Monday, 2,191 healthcare workers who had received their first shots four weeks ago, got their second dose. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on January 16, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. As per doctors, the second dose is to given to a beneficiary after a gap of 28 days. On February 13, a total of 13,768 beneficiaries received vaccine shots and second dose began to given to healthcare workers who had received the first jab 28 days ago. On the second scheduled day after the roll-out of the exercise on January 16, the figures had stood at 3,598 (44 per cent of the target). The sharp fall had come after one severe and 50 minor adverse effect cases were reported, on the opening day of the vaccination drive. The count on third schedule day was much higher, at 4,936 (48 per cent). The district-wise distribution of total four AEFI cases on Wednesday was -- Central Delhi (2), East Delhi (0), New Delhi (2), Northwest Delhi (0), North East Delhi (0), North West Delhi (0), Shahdara (4), South Delhi (0), South East Delhi (1), South West Delhi (3) and West Delhi (1), according to the data shared by authorities.  Delhi recorded 152 fresh Covid-19 cases and one new fatality on Saturday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.24 per cent, authorities said. With this the toll from coronavirus infection has grown to 10,898.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-28-lakh-people-vaccinated-against-covid-in-delhi-153-lakh-of-them-frontline-workers-953497.html
20-02-2021||North and Central||J&K aims to take exports to Rs 5,000 crore in 2 years: L-G Sinha||Asserting that his administration aims to take exports to Rs 5,000 crore from the UT in the next two years, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday requested the Centre to set up a dry port with customs clearance facility in the union territory. He also requested for regular commercial international flights for the twin capital cities of Srinagar and Jammu to boost tourism and trade and also advocated for enhancing the air cargo capacity of J&K to enable easy transportation of perishable items. Sinha was speaking at the 6th Governing Council meeting of NITI Aayog, through virtual mode. During the meeting, the Lt Governor highlighted major reformative measures taken by the UT, besides apprising the meeting about the new trajectory it has undertaken in the past 17 months, an official release said. At the outset, the Lt Governor, on behalf of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his unstinting support in accelerating the pace of development in the UT. "After 5th August 2019, Jammu & Kashmir got new opportunities of socio-economic development that were not there for many decades. J&K is passing through a period of transition for development, peace and prosperity. Today, among the people of Jammu and Kashmir, there is an outlook of hopeful optimism”, he remarked. While making suggestions for giving further push to the developmental process in Jammu and Kashmir, Sinha requested the centre for considering the demand for setting up of Dry Port in J&K with a customs clearance facility to increase the trade within and outside the Country. To give a boost to tourism and trade in J&K, he requested that Srinagar and Jammu be opened to regular commercial International flights. “We are aiming to take J&K export worth from Rs 1,400 crore to Rs 5,000 crore in the next two years. Air Cargo capacity for J&K needs to be enhanced to enable easy transportation of perishable items,” he said. He requested for simplification of certain permissions under Water Act and Air Act, 1981 along with clearances and reduction of time period from 4 months to 30 days so that clearances can be obtained easily and in a short time for setting up industrial units. The Lt Governor suggested for setting up Regional Office of MoEF in J&K for speedy disposal of Environment Clearances cases for larger projects. He also suggested that the centre may consider specific product based funding programs. National Saffron Mission has succeeded because of it focus on one product, he said. Infrastructural projects need to be devised considering the needs of 20-25 years from now, he said and suggested new road construction technology like cold mix plant and use of pre-fabricated bridges could be promoted to reduce the construction time-period. Speaking on the Economic reforms, the Lt Governor observed that the existing industrial landscape is being transformed into futuristic, profitable and sustainable ecosystem, leading to livelihood generation, better education, skill development and better quality of life. “From job creation to entrepreneurship, we are going to make J&K a model of Industry 4.0, the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The government is working on promoting institutional readiness, increasing entrepreneurship and attracting investments. The multiplier effect of industrial transformation will be felt across the entire length and breadth of the UT”, said the Lt Governor. New Industrial Development Scheme, with an outlay of Rs.28,400 Crore, has been approved by the centre for encouraging investment in manufacturing and service sectors in J&K, which will help in stepping up economic development in J&K, the Lt Governor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-aims-to-take-exports-to-rs-5000-crore-in-2-years-l-g-sinha-953531.html
20-02-2021||Opinion||Why petroleum prices may not come down anytime soon||The fact is that both the Central and State governments have focussed on off-setting lost revenues by hiking taxes on petrol and diesel. After closing in on the Rs 100 mark, individuals, especially those from the lower strata of the society, will ponder on whether a breather on petroleum prices is on the cards? The answer is probably not anytime soon.  There are a couple of reasons why the downward trajectory could be a prolonged one and even if the government steps in to reduce taxes, the relief could only be marginal.  Let’s see why this may be so. Firstly, to illustrate, the retail prices of petrol in Delhi as of February 17 was around Rs 89.6 per litre, a growth of around 25 per cent from the corresponding month last year. In this comparison, it is extremely clear that the hike in central excise duties from Rs 20 per litre in February 2020 to Rs 33 in May 2020 coupled with growth in state VAT by around 30 per cent have been the prime culprits for the increase.  The off-set effect of May 2020 may not be available in February 2021 and even with Central government intervention of lowering excise duties it may not bring the desired relief as the demand-supply dynamics of global crude oil prices will be the critical factor outweighing the impact of tax reductions.  Secondly, the inelasticity of these commodities and exclusion from the GST ambit have been an important factor in pushing up taxes.  Consumption of petroleum products during June 2020 to January 2021 have surged almost to the corresponding period last year and is 7 per cent higher than 2018-19, once the unlocking process in the economy gained traction. So, despite the retail prices picking up, consumption has been upbeat. Even the government coffers have been supported by excise tax collections with the Central government’s kitty estimated to increase to around Rs 3.6 lakh crore in FY20 (RE) as against the budgeted estimate of Rs 2.67 lakh crore in FY20 (BE), despite the pandemic.  The average monthly collections during June 2020 to December 2021 has been around Rs 27,000 crore, almost 50 per cent higher than the corresponding period last year. The Central government has estimated an average monthly excise collection of around Rs 30,000 crore for 2020-21 and around Rs 28,000 crore in the forthcoming fiscal, which shows that the reliance on these taxes is likely to continue.  Thirdly, as the unlocking phase picks up further, a gradual albeit coordinated rollback of stimulus of both government and RBI will also pick up steam. As the timing of the rollback is crucial, likewise the reversal of tax hikes is equally imperative. However, for the latter to happen, the government will closely monitor the sustained pick-up in other tax components like GST, corporate taxes, personal income taxes, state excise and sales tax before thinking of bringing about excise duty cuts.  Consumers of petrol and diesel have been adversely impacted in the last couple of months and individuals still preferring private vehicles over public transport have had to bear the brunt of rising prices. Unfortunate is also the state of cab drivers whose spending on essential items and savings is likely to have gone for a toss. Importantly, the domino effect of rising petrol prices on other components (especially food) has still not crept in and may further strain the purses of consumers. With challenges and uncertainty prevailing for both consumers and government and too many off-setting factors at play, the move from the landmark Rs 100 mark to the pre-pandemic price range of the 70s looks a distant dream and levitating in the 90s looks inevitable.  (Sushant Hede is an Associate Economist with CARE Ratings Ltd. Views are personal) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-petroleum-prices-may-not-come-down-anytime-soon-953308.html
20-02-2021||Opinion||US President Joe Biden channels FDR on STEM policy||In November 1944, President Roosevelt wrote a letter to Vannevar Bush, who was then director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSDR). From there, Bush oversaw many of the scientific advances that contributed to victory in World War II. The end of the war was yet nine months away, but FDR asked Bush to advise him on how, “in the days of peace ahead,” the experience of the OSRD could be applied for the betterment of society. Today, pushing to end a global pandemic but facing a growing climate change crisis, President Biden has sent a similar letter to Eric Lander, the incoming science adviser to the president and director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). In addition to advising the President on matters of science and technology, OSTP leads the coordination and implementation of science policies across the federal government. The parallels between the FDR and Biden letters are striking. Both emphasize the role of science in health. FDR wanted guidance on how to continue the war of “science against disease” that was pursued during WWII. President Biden seeks information on the key “lessons learned” from Covid-19. How can the federal government be better prepared to protect public health during the next pandemic? The Biden letter also includes a complementary focus on the health of the planet: it asks breakthroughs in science and technology that can help address climate change. The two letters also share a concern for the application of scientific research to the wider needs of society. FDR sought recommendations on how the government could promote the research of private and public organizations; 75 years later, President Biden asks for new ways to ensure that the U.S. is the world leader in the technologies and industries of the future. Other commonalities in the letters relate to enhancing public understanding of science and to the challenge of nurturing and retaining top scientific talent. FDR wanted to “make known to the world” the contributions science had made to the United States—and could make in the future. Specifically, he wanted a program to discover and develop scientific talent. Today, the Biden letter seeks ways to preserve and strengthen the long-term health of U.S. science: by protecting scientific integrity, improving models of research support, bringing the brightest minds to bear on the scientific issues of our time, and encouraging scientists to serve in key roles in government. The Biden letter does contain one objective that is missing from FDR’s list: ensuring that the fruits of science and technology are fully shared, not just among regions (an earlier concern), but across racial, gender and economic lines. This was a challenge coming out of the war, of course, but only in the intervening decades has it risen high on the national agenda. Bush’s report in response to FDR’s request was entitled Science: The Endless Frontier. This influential and visionary document was submitted to President Truman in July 1945. It called for a federal role in science—a role that continues today. Although President Lincoln had already created the US National Academy of Science in 1863, and had fostered agricultural research through establishment of the US Dept. of Agriculture in 1862, deeper federal involvement in directing and funding science was not common before WWII. The Bush report clearly articulated the need for broader federal involvement in science. One section of the report was explicitly headed “Science is a Proper Concern of Government.” In the wake of the report’s release, federal support for science expanded far beyond agricultural research, importantly including the creation of the National Science Foundation. Ultimately, Science: The Endless Frontier led to the embedding of science and technology research in many federal agencies. The Biden letter asks for something very similar—calling for “general strategies, specific actions, and new structures” to meet the twin challenges of global pandemics and global climate change. In responding to this request, Lander may wish longingly for the political and cultural environment in Vannevar Bush’s day: At the end of WWII, the US was not just the global scientific leader (in part because of the talent that escaped from war-torn Europe). It was also the dominant economic power; much of Europe and Asia were in ruins. Working in the dominant scientific and economic country of the post-War period, U.S. scientists did not have to deal with a fear, all too common today, of being attacked for cooperative scientific work with colleagues in nations viewed as economic competitors. The Bush proposals were presented to a public that had greater trust in public institutions. There was no need to “protect scientific integrity within government.” Science: The Infinite Frontier was received in Washington, D.C, at a time of relative political stability. For all but two of the next eight years (when the Senate switched), the same party held the White House and enjoyed substantial majorities in both houses of Congress. Now consider the stark contrast facing Lander: The U.S. has experienced a steep decline in public trust in government, a process that has been ongoing for at least the past 60 years. More recently, similar drops in confidence have been found in other public institutions, such as religious organizations, the medical establishment and news media. We now live in a time of “alternative facts,” the wielding of willful ignorance as a political tool, and widespread belief in QAnon and other conspiracies. Moreover, misinformation and disinformation can now be rapidly disseminated to millions of citizens via the internet. Making matters still worse, a huge gap exists between the two major U.S. political parties in their trust in science and scientists. Crucial scientific issues—for example, the efficacy of different Covid-19 intervention strategies and the reality and seriousness of climate change—are viewed through powerful political lenses. The incoming administration understands clearly the challenge of sustaining American science and directing its power to the frontiers of most urgent need. The president’s intense focus on this task is evident from his public statements and from his selection of Lander—a distinguished life scientist, research leader and teacher—as the director of OSTP. Biden’s unprecedented decision to elevate that office to Cabinet-level status also sends a clear signal: after four years in the wilderness, science matters again. This is good news, but executive actions by President Biden will not be enough. Restoring trust in science, and using science to tackle the most pressing problems facing humanity, is a job for all of us, not for politicians or scientists alone. FDR called for policy informed by data and scientific analysis, U.S. global leadership in science, and the use of science to improve public health. We echo those calls. We add to them the call to use science to shape a sustainable future for our planet. As we have learned during the COVID-19 pandemic, individual health depends on the health of our communities, our society, our scientific institutions and our government. Likewise, the health of our country is inextricably linked to the health of our planet’s climate system. We will not be well if our planet is on life support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/us-president-joe-biden-channels-fdr-on-stem-policy-953437.html
20-02-2021||Right in the Middle||My nephew. Phew!||My sister-in-law was confined to her bedroom in New Jersey, as she fell prey to the indomitable Coronavirus. The onus of running the household fell on my brother’s shoulders. He was working from home, his daughter had online classes, his two-year-old son needed constant watching. So, my brother timed it so that we would babysit my nephew virtually through Facetime while he did the early morning chores like getting his daughter ready for her classes. My mother and I were only too happy to babysit him. We were soon to discover that he was quite an entertainer. He had a toy that made sounds of various birds and animals at the touch of a button. He imitated all the sounds, be it the horse’s neighing; cow’s mooing; lion’s roaring; donkey’s braying; birds' chirping and the cock’s cock-a-doodle-doing. He had a soft toy of a donkey which he would hold tightly to his chest and on being asked why he did that, he said that he was giving it a big hug. It is surprising how small children can sense the undercurrents of adult conversation. When my mother and I started arguing, whether the kadha used for boosting immunity was readily available in India off the counter and could be easily purchased, my nephew said emphatically, “No fighting”. We were foxed and looked at each other sheepishly and burst into peals of laughter in embarrassment. Once when we began our session, he told my mother firmly, “No, Dadi.” It was followed with some gibberish which we could not comprehend. Each time my mother would say ‘Good morning’ he would repeat the same phrase. It was my brother who came to our rescue and solved the puzzle. He explained that he was saying, “No, Dadi. Absolutely not.” He had acquired these words in his nascent vocabulary without understanding the implication of what he said. It was quite amusing. One fine day he came, crying pitiably, to his father, “Didi, screaming.” My brother comforted him by explaining that she was concentrating on her studies and should not be disturbed. That pacified him. My brother would say ‘Good night, Pyaar’ to my niece before tucking her in bed. Not to be left behind, he too started saying ‘Pyaar, Daddy’ before sleeping. When my brother would insist on making him drink milk he would say, “Give me five minutes, Daddy.”  After the end of each babysitting session, my brother would say, “OK, guys. Thanks.” My nephew followed suit and started bidding us goodbye with, “OK, guys.” We are thankful for the turn of events that gave us the opportunity to spend quality time with him. We enjoyed bonding with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-nephew-phew-953244.html
20-02-2021||Second Edit||Key question: Why is China backing off now?||Nine rounds of talks between Indian and Chinese military commanders to defuse tensions along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh seems to have begun bearing fruit at last. The two sides have reached agreement on a disengagement plan and have completed pulling back their soldiers to agreed positions at Pangong Tso. With disengagement done at Pangong Tso, the next round of talks, where disengagement from Gogra-Hot Springs is to be discussed, begins today. Recent developments are heartening for several reasons. For one, months of impasse along the LAC in Ladakh has been broken. A beginning has been made to defuse tensions. The two sides have struck disengagement deals in the past as well, as in June at Galwan, only for them to come unstuck within hours. Unlike previous deals, the latest agreement is reported to be a written one and hence, more likely to hold. Both sides have delivered on their promises so far; satellite images show PLA soldiers withdrawing east of Finger 8 at Pangong Tso and Indian soldiers vacating most of the Kailash range. They have also dismantled structures and camps erected since April last year. There are issues of concern though. Is India’s pullback from the Kailash range, which is of immense strategic value to the Chinese, premature? Shouldn’t India have held on to these peaks at least until China vacated Depsang? By giving up the Kailash range, India may have given up key leverage too early in the disengagement process. However, apparently, both sides have agreed upon a disengagement plan for all friction points on the LAC in Eastern Ladakh and China is said to have already agreed to vacate Depsang in return for India pulling out of the Kailash range. If such an exchange is not already in place, India’s withdrawal from the Kailash range could yet prove to be a blunder. The first week since the agreement was reached has seen visible progress on the ground. This bodes well for the future. However, these are early days. The agreement’s success will ultimately depend on its full implementation. India should therefore remain cautious and not lower its guard. Parallel to the disengagement process, India must engage in brainstorming on the reasons behind China’s aggressive muscle-flexing at Ladakh and its sudden decision to back down. What strategic objectives did Beijing hope to achieve and was it successful? Quickly concluding and chest-thumping that by standing firm India scared away the PLA will do no good to our future security. India must have a clearer understanding of China’s strategic thinking to keep its territory secure from future Chinese intrusions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/key-question-why-is-china-backing-off-now-953239.html
20-02-2021||South||17-year old Kerala student found dead at remote spot near her home||A 17-year-old girl who went to school in the morning was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Pallivasal in this high range district late last night, police said on Saturday. The body of the plus-two student was found in a pool of blood at an isolated place, about half a km away from her home, they said. She had left her home on Friday morning in her uniform but did not return at the usual time, prompting her parents to lodge a missing complaint with police. "She was last seen by an autorickshaw driver. As per his statement, her paternal relative was also with her at that time. His phone has been switched off and he is missing now," a police official said, adding that efforts were already on to trace him. The exact cause of death can be ascertained only after the post-mortem, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-year-old-kerala-student-found-dead-at-remote-spot-near-her-home-953339.html
20-02-2021||South||Renowned Kerala poet Prabha Varma bags Kunchan Nambiar Award||Renowned poet Prabha Varma has bagged this year's Mahakavi Kunchan Nambiar Award for his outstanding contributions to Malayalam language and literature. The award comprises a purse of Rs 25,001, a citation and a plaque, jury chairman Indra Babu said here in a statement. The honour was instituted by the Kunchan Nambiar Memorial Trust, which works to retain the legacy of the 18th century legendary poet-performer Nambiar. The award would be presented to Varma, who is also the media advisor to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a function here in the first week of April, adhering to Covid-19 protocols, the organisers added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/renowned-kerala-poet-prabha-varma-bags-kunchan-nambiar-award-953364.html
20-02-2021||South||BJP's game plan in Tamil Nadu is to woo backward castes: Report||As poll campaigns in Tamil Nadu gather pace, the BJP is gearing up for its game plan to win votes and hearts in the Dravidian state with the help of its alliance with the ruling AIADMK.  According to the report, the party is eyeing to gather support from communities like Gounders (in western Tamil Nadu), Thevars (Madurai and south Tamil Nadu) Vaniyars (north Tamil Nadu) and the Nadars. Since the party is aware of the challenges and limitations in the southern state, the BJP plans to focus on “expansion, consolidation and penetration” as much as possible. A host of BJP leaders is set to address rallies in the state in the upcoming days. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also address an election meeting in Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore on February 25. On Sunday, Defence Minister and senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh will address the party's Yuva Morcha convention in Tamil Nadu. "On February 21, 2021, I would be in Salem to address the youth of Tamil Nadu at the state BJP yuva morcha convention and look forward to my Salem visit this Sunday," he said in a tweet. The report added that BJP president J P Nadda would also visit the state soon to boost the morale of party cadres in the state.  One of the key challenges that the BJP has to tackle is the North vs South or Hindi vs Tamil battle. “Tamilians think their language is on a par with Sanskrit and superior to Hindi in terms of richness as well as history. Any neglect to the language is treated as a humiliation,” a party leader told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-game-plan-in-tamil-nadu-is-to-woo-backward-castes-report-953378.html
20-02-2021||South||Gold smuggling clearly defined in Customs Act, case won't fall under Terrorist Act, Kerala HC observes||Gold smuggling clearly covered by the provisions of the Customs Act will not fall within the definition of "terrorist act", the Kerala High Court observed, while dismissing the appeals by NIA against a Special NIA Court order, granting conditional bail to 10 accused of smuggling of the yellow metal through diplomatic channel. "... We are unable to hold that smuggling of gold simplicitor will fall within Section 15(1)(a) (iiia) of UA(P) Act. In other words, gold smuggling clearly covered by the provisions of the Customs Act will not fall within the definition of terrorist act in Section 15 of UA(P) Act unless evidence is brought out to show that it is done with the intent to threaten or it is likely to threaten the economic security or monetary stability of India", the court said. The court noted that what is made an offence under Section 15(1)(a)(iiia) of UA(P) Act is causing damage to the monetary stability of India by producing, smuggling or circulating high quality counterfeit Indian paper currency, coin or any other material relatable to currency or coin. Upholding the Special NIA court order, the division bench of the High Court, comprising Justices A Hariprasad and M R Anitha, did not accept another contention by NIA that counterfeit currency notes cannot be smuggled because under the Customs Act, smuggling is an offence against levying duty. The court said smuggling need not be in respect of articles on which a duty could be levied. "For example, narcotic drugs or other contraband articles are smuggled at times on which no duty could be levied. In our opinion, 'smuggling' is a generic term, indicating the illegal transport of various articles. Therefore, this argument raised by NIA cannot be accepted", the court said. Referring to the special National Investigation Agency court order, it said the materials on record prima facie did not indicate that the accused to whom bail was granted had acted with an intention to damage the economic security of India. "The Trial court took note of the fact that most of the accused persons are businessmen having considerable assets. The materials on record revealed that the accused, who are enlarged on bail, were indulging in smuggling activity for illegal gain. Of course, they were using a diplomatic channel for committing the offence of smuggling. "On going through the materials placed before us, we are of the view that the court below is justified in entering such a finding', the high court said in its February 18 order. The Special NIA court on October 15 last year granted conditional bail to 10 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, observing that there was no prima facie material to show they had any links with terror outfits. The NIA, probing the terror angle in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel, initially named P S Sarith, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair and Fazil Fareed as accused in the case, which relates to seizure of 30 kg of 24 carat gold worth Rs 14.82 crore at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5 by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi. During the course of the investigation, it arraigned at least 30 others as accused and arrested many of them. Besides NIA, the Customs and Enforcement Directorate are also probing the case of smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage, addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram since November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-clearly-defined-in-customs-act-case-wont-fall-under-terrorist-act-kerala-hc-observes-953380.html
20-02-2021||South||Rapid industrialisation of Andhra possible only if special category status granted: CM||The Centre should make credit available at lower costs for infrastructure building and also for boosting (industrial) manufacturing as prohibitive costs (of debt) have become the major impediment to growth, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Saturday. Addressing the 6th Governing Council meet of the NITI Aayog through a video-conference, the AP Chief Minister said the Centre and the states should make a conscious effort to introduce reforms in the industrial sector to overcome the various hurdles and make the country a hub of global manufacturing. "There are five significant impediments to the growth of the manufacturing sector: Exorbitant cost of funds, high cost of power, delays in land procurement, delay and complexity in grant of statutory clearances and rigid labour laws," the Chief Minister pointed out. A thorough study and analysis of the factors that contributed to some countries making good progress in the manufacturing sector was essential, he mooted, adding that the Centre and the states should dive deeper to understand the root cause and introduce reforms to remove the hurdles in the country. Jagan said AP could not yet gain the required growth momentum in industrialization despite the government's commitment to provide a business-friendly environment. "The bifurcation resulted in my state being deprived of a tier-1 city, infrastructure, employment opportunities and financial resources. Rapid industrialisation of my state is possible if only Special Category Status is accorded," the Chief Minister maintained. Talking about infrastructure building, Jagan lamented that even the state governments undertakings were borrowing money from financial institutions like Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation at higher rates of interest of 10-11 per cent per annum. "With this enormous debt-servicing requirement, our manufacturing units cannot hope to offer products that can compete with products of countries where credit is available at interest rates as low as 2-3 per cent. So is the case with power, which is available in a few counties at tariffs lower than Rs 3 per unit," he noted. On improving physical infrastructure, which he said was a matter of utmost importance for economic growth and poverty alleviation, Jagan wanted the Centre to provide access to low-cost finance to the state governments for developing social infrastructure as well. "Keeping the socio-economic conditions in mind, we cannot wish away the fact that the government is and will be majorly responsible for providing critical services in the areas of health and education. Low-cost finance will enable states to provide quality services to citizens at affordable rates," he said. The CM wanted the Centre to evolve a national policy making government service in rural areas for a year compulsory for medical and nursing graduates and post-graduates. Jagan also wanted low-cost credit for creating a market stabilisation fund to procure agricultural produce in the absence of remunerative prices for the farmers. This would facilitate the state governments to provide necessary support to farmers, he added. He suggested a few other policy interventions like minimizing the cost of production, ensuring post-harvest technologies and storage and processing facilities for strengthening the agriculture sector and doubling the farmers income. Noting that AP has identified the potential to generate 33,000 MW of power using reverse-pumping technology, the CM urged the Centre to come up with a national policy to encourage the use of this technology that could mitigate the intermittency associated with renewable energy. He requested the Centre to facilitate the state power utilities to swap the high cost debt with low-cost long-term credit for the sustainability and survival of the power sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rapid-industrialisation-of-andhra-possible-only-if-special-category-status-granted-cm-953401.html
20-02-2021||South||India's first Digital University comes up in Kerala||Kerala took a major step forward in its progress towards a knowledge society with the inauguration of the country's first Digital University, based in Technocity at Mangalapuram near here on Saturday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan presided over the function, where Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology(KUDSIT), unveiled the varsity plaque. Both the Governor and the Chief Minister addressed the function through video conferencing. In his inaugural address, Khan said the launch of the Digital University is part of the states resolve to embrace new technologies and desire to use them for bringing positive changes in the life of people and become a global hub for higher learning and technology. Praising the state government for recent initiatives in higher education including the launch of Sree Narayana Guru Open University, the Governor said "In any aspect of life, knowledge brings courage, understanding, acceptance, unity and also liberates us from the clutches of ignorance." "The society expects the Digital University to provide intellectual support to lap up the new world of opportunities arising through artificial intelligence (AI), Blockchain, Data Analytics, and other digital transformation courses," he said. In his address, the CM said the launch of the first Digital University in the country would open tremendous opportunities for youngsters. "There should not be a digital divide in the society. The government is involved in the efforts of attaining digital excellence in various fields. We need to foster technically-talented people in accordance with the changes in the new world," the CM said. Noting that the Digital University aims at utilising the developments in digital technology for social progress, he said the benefits of digital technology should be made available for people in various walks of life. According to official sources, the Digital University is set up by upgrading two-decade old Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management Kerala (IIITM-K), a center of excellence in information technologies established by Government of Kerala. It is formed with a vision of creating a futuristic institution of higher learning, aspiring to set a global benchmark in Digital technologies and its management. Its focus is on post graduate programmes and research besides building strong industry-academic and academic- academic linkages with leading institutions in India and abroad, they said. The university is starting with five schools of knowledge--School of Computer Science and Engineering; School of Digital Sciences; School of Electronic Systems and Automation; School of Informatics; and School of Digital Humanities and Liberal Arts, covering science, technology and humanities aspects of the Digital world. Each school will be offering master level programmes in computer science, informatics, applied electronics and humanities with various specialization of the industry 4.0 world. The adoption of technology in design, pedagogy, assessment etc. is also a key driving factor for the new University, which focuses on early learners and re-learners with a host of programmes in cutting edge areas of technology. Towards this, specialized centres in areas like Blockchain, AI&ML, Cyber Security, Bigdata analytics, Biocomputing and Geospatial analytics are to be set up in collaboration with leading international academic, research and industry bodies. The university will also lead the Digital Transformation Initiatives announced by the Kerala government in the Budget 2021. Spread across a 10-acre campus in Technocity, the first phase of the university has been completed with an academic and a hostel block. Once fully developed, it will provide education to 1,200 residential scholars from its campus in addition to numerous learners, who will be associated with the University through various technological means.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indias-first-digital-university-comes-up-in-kerala-953441.html
20-02-2021||South||PM to lay foundation stone of Rs 2,000 crore highways project in Pondy on Feb 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of four-lane highways projectworth Rs 2,000 crore during his visit to poll-bound Puducherry on February 25. According to official sources, the project would cover Karaikal district on the Villupuram to Nagapattinam highways. The Prime Minister would also lay foundations of Rs 491 crore campus of Karaikal branch of the JIPMER and a minor port worth Rs 44 crore being developed under Sagar Mala scheme here. He would also declare open the reconstructed structure of Puducherry Municipal office (Mairie), which had been raised at a cost of Rs 14.83 crores under Coastal Disaster Risk Reduction Project. The building was earlier slated for inauguration on February 11. The PM would unveil all these projects at the A P J Abdul Kalam Convention Centre in JIPMER campus through video conference mode. Meanwhile, Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal told reporters that Modi would address a public meeting here hereafter participating in the government functions at JIPMER. Noting that the Prime Minister's visit was important, he alleged that the Congress government has done nothing for the development of Puducherry. On the coming assembly elections, he asserted that the BJP led alliance was poised to register a historic win in the polls. "Our focus would be on development of Puducherry post elections and to provide employment to the youth," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-rs-2000-crore-highways-project-in-pondy-on-feb-25-953485.html
20-02-2021||South||Kerala CM rejects Oppn charge on deep sea fishing contract with US firm||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday dismissed the opposition charge that the government has entered into an agreement for deep sea fishing contract with a US-based firm, saying no foreign company will be allowed to engage in deep sea trawling in the state waters. Vijayan asserted that his government will not deviate from its fisheries policy and will continue to encourage the traditional fishermen to become the "owners of deep sea fishing vessels". "We will continue with our fisheries policy drafted in 2019 to encourage the fishermen in the state to become the owners of deep sea fishing vessels. As per the government policy, no foreign company or Indian corporate will be allowed for deep sea trawling along the Kerala coast," he said in a press meet here. Vijayan also respondedto the allegation levelled by the Leader of Opposition earlier in the day on how the CM could not know about such a project when the KSINC, under his direct control, had signed an MoU with a US-based firm. "Neither the state government nor any of its departments have not signed any MoU in this regard. KSINC is a public sector undertaking. It is normal for such undertakings to sign MoUs in any conferences or investment meets. It would come for the consideration of the government only later. A policy decision in this regard would be taken only then," Vijayan said. He said such agreements should be brought to the attention of the government at the stage of implementation. "But, in this case, concerned officials had not brought it to the notice of the government," he added. "Actually, a memorandum submitted by the company to the industries department was actually now being propagated by the opposition as the contract agreement," Vijayan said, adding that it was an attempt by the opposition to create a smokescreen of allegations ahead of the Assembly polls. The chief minister also lashed out at the Congress and said it was the Narasimha Rao government, which had allowed the foreign corporates to engage in deep sea trawling along the coast of the country. "However, that's not our policy. We fought against the Congress policy aiding the corporates to exploit the deep seas fishing grounds of the country. This government is driven forward by such policies opposing the corporates," Vijayan said. The opposition Congress and the Left government continued to spar over the alleged deep sea fishing contract, even as Fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma dismissed the allegations and maintained there was no such agreement. The minister accused Chennithala of trying to 'mislead' the fishing community by raising baseless allegations ahead of Rahul Gandhi's expected visit in coastal district Kollam next week. Earlier in the day, Chennithala released a photo of Mercykutty purportedly holding discussions with representatives of EMCC International. Chennithala alleged that the photo, in which the minister, officials of EMCC International and the fisheries department could be seen, was proof for the discussion held here between the government and the US based company. At a press meet, he claimed there was a meeting between the minister and the company representatives in New York also, photos of which were expected to be available soon. He also released what he termed was 'documentary evidence' -- a purported concept note submitted by the company to the fisheries department and the letter sent by the fisheries principal secretary to the EMCC president on the controversial project. Though the minister admitted that the EMCC officials had met her here, she stood by her earlier stand that there was no such meeting in New York, as alleged by the opposition. "The state's fisheries' policy was formulated in 2019 after holding discussion with all trade unions and other stake holders. As per the government policy, no foreign company or Indian corporate will be allowed for deep sea trawling," she said. The policy even says that the number of fishing vessels would be regulated, she said, adding that no action would be taken in violation of this. The photos were made public a day after the state government had rejected as 'baseless' his corruption charge in an agreement inked by the state-owned Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) with the US-based EMCC International for the deep sea fishing project. "It has now been proved that whatever the minister had said were blatant lies." "The company officials have already confirmed to the media that they had held discussion with her at New York also in this regard. The photos of that meeting are also expected to be available soon," Chennithala said here on Saturday. The Congress leader alleged that there was more ample evidence to confirm that Mercykutty Amma had held discussions with the US-based firm and Industries Minister E P Jayarajan was well aware of the project and claimed that the Left government had shown keen interest to take it forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-rejects-oppn-charge-on-deep-sea-fishing-contract-with-us-firm-953491.html
20-02-2021||South||Air India Express plane hits electric pole while taxiing, minor damage to right wing; passengers safe||A Boeing aircraft of Air India Express suffered a minor damage on its right wing after it hit an electric pole while taxiing on the runway at the Vijayawada airport on Saturday evening, but all 64 passengers aboard were safe, airport officials said. The flight landed at the airport at Gannavaram from Doha, en route Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu, when the mishap occurred, according to airport director Madhusudana Rao. Of the 64, 19 passengers were to disembark at Vijayawada while the rest were bound for Tiruchirappalli. One of the passengers, Reshma of Nidadavole, said it was a happy landing finally though there was a bit of panic when there was a sudden jerk during taxiing. "By God's grace there was nothing untoward. The airlines staff said the mishap was only minor, which came as a big relief to us," another passenger Varalakshmi of Kakinada said. The aircraft had been grounded in Vijayawada even as the authorities were making alternative arrangements for flying the 45 passengers to Tiruchirappalli later tonight, airport sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/air-india-express-plane-hits-electric-pole-while-taxiing-minor-damage-to-right-wing-passengers-safe-953504.html
20-02-2021||South||River linking project: Karnataka fears Tamil Nadu may eye surplus Cauvery water||Karnataka is worried that Tamil Nadu may lay claim to surplus water on the Karnataka side of the Kaveri basin as Tamil Nadu is planning to build the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar Link scheme to provide water to its southern region. Karnataka feels that Tamil Nadu, which is opposing the Mekedatu project near Kanakapura, may demand more water from the state once its river-linking project is completed. Though the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar Link scheme is being implemented under the Centre’s river-linking project to utilise surplus Kaveri water, Tamil Nadu may put legal hurdles to Karnataka’s plan to utilise its share and the excess water generated in its basin in the coming days, said an official in Karnataka. Karnataka Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and officials of the Water Resources Department are rushing to Delhi to meet legal experts on the issue on Sunday. Jarkiholi is also likely to meet Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to apprise Karnataka’s concern. However, Jarkiholi was not available for comment. According to Karnataka, after ensuring 177.25 tmcft to Tamil Nadu at Biligundlu water gauging centre in a normal year, it can utilise the rest, which includes its share of 284.75 tmcft and any surplus available. However, Tamil Nadu has been opposing Karnataka’s view. “If Tamil Nadu says Karnataka should not utilise its surplus water, then Tamil Nadu also has no right to utilise surplus water coming from the upper riparian state (Karnataka),” said an official. Out of the 740 tmcft estimated by the Supreme Court in the entire Kaveri basin, 483 tmcft is generated up to the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border at Biligundlu. There could be another 45 tmcft surplus above 483 tmc on the Karnataka side, sources said. When Karnataka proposed to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu to utilise surplus water to provide drinking water to Ramanagara and Kanakapura towns, Tamil Nadu filed a petition in the Supreme Court opposing the project. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for the first phase of Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar Link scheme on Sunday, which will be built at a cost of Rs 6,900 crore. The project plans to take surplus water from Kaveri near Mayanur barrage in Karur to drought-hit areas of Trichy, Pudukottai, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar districts. The project involves provide water for both irrigation, drinking and filling lakes. The entire 262-km river-linking project costing Rs 14,000 crore, aims to divert 6,300 cubic feet of surplus Kaveri water. The Union Jal Shakti Ministry will fund the project substantially and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone for the entire project next month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/river-linking-project-karnataka-fears-tamil-nadu-may-eye-surplus-cauvery-water-953505.html
20-02-2021||State||Kannadathi-US scientist's touch to Mars landing||As Perseverance, the NASA rover, landed on the Martian surface on Friday, millions of miles away in the US space agency’s control room, a woman’s voice rang out: “Touchdown confirmed!” The announcement was from Indian-American scientist Swati Mohan who leads the guidance, navigation, and control operations of NASA’s Mars 2020 mission. In her role as flight controller, Swati played a pivotal role in the landing of the craft. Swati’s father Srinivas Mohan Prabandham and mother Jyoti Mohan are originally from Bengaluru and now live in Florida. Swati (38), was the first to confirm that the rover had successfully touched down on the Martian surface after surviving a particularly tricky plunge through the atmosphere of the Red Planet. “Touchdown confirmed! Perseverance safely on the surface of Mars, ready to begin seeking signs of past life,” Swati announced, prompting her colleagues at NASA to fist-bump and break into celebrations. Swati said the Guidance, Navigation, and Controls Operations (GN&C) are the “eyes and ears” of the spacecraft. Swati said she got interested in space after watching the popular TV show “Star Trek” when she was nine. “She used to read a lot on space and had attended NASA’s space camp in Alabama while at school,” said her father about Swati, who enjoys akki rotti at home and MTR’s masala dosas during the family’s visits to Bengaluru. “We moved to the US after Swati’s first birthday in 1983,” said Jyoti. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kannadathi-us-scientists-touch-to-mars-landing-953269.html
20-02-2021||State||'Don't have resources to sequence 5% Covid-19 samples for South Africa, Brazil variants'||A day after the union health ministry revealed five cases with the new variants of SARS-CoV-2 from South Africa and Brazil, Dr V Ravi, State Nodal Officer for genetic confirmation of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, said they have no resources for sequencing 5% of the samples for Covid-19 variants in the state to trace them. He said that NIMHANS has paid from its own funds for sequencing 86 samples for the UK variant. A meeting with the Department of Biotechnology is scheduled on February 25 where a proposal for funds will be submitted to the department. Bengaluru is the only city with two labs: NIMHANS and InStem, which is a part of the 10-lab Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium.  Dr Ravi told DH, "Currently, we do not have the resources to sequence five per cent samples for the new South Africa and Brazil variants. We need funding and a proposal has been drafted which will be submitted to the Department of Biotechnology in a meeting on February 25." Currently, it costs Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 25,000 to sequence a single specimen.  "We will definitely have increased activity in these labs. The mandate of these labs is to detect any emergence of new variants of the virus in India. Suddenly, we're seeing clusters of cases. We need to investigate if this is due to a mutation in the virus or the emergence of a new variant. Once the system is functional in the next ten days with funding, five per cent of routine samples in the State will be taken up for genomic sequencing," he added. "If some cluster events cross a critical point, then we will have a second wave. This is how a second wave occurs: a series of clusters build-up," he said.  Bengaluru/Mangaluru samples being sequenced He confirmed that NIMHANS had received samples on Tuesday evening from the Bengaluru nursing college cluster (where 40 students were found to be positive) and the Mangaluru nursing college cluster (where 49 nursing college students were found to be positive).  "It will take five days for the results to come as it has to be compared with global sequences and checked if it is the new variant or not. So far we have sequenced 86 samples from international passengers and 25 had the UK variant but none of them had South Africa or Brazil variant. Three of these were primary contacts," he said.  NIMHANS has uploaded 120 genomic sequences to the global database. Prior to that it had uploaded 100 sequences. "NIMHANS has uploaded 250 sequences. One can know what the circulating strains are based on these sequences," Dr Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dont-have-resources-to-sequence-5-covid-19-samples-for-south-africa-brazil-variants-953366.html
20-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt orders deletion of controversial reference to Brahmin community in textbooks||The Karnataka Education Department has officially removed the ‘controversial’ content from the textbooks that had allegedly hurt the sentiments of the Brahmin community in Karnataka. In a formal order on Friday, the Department of Public Instruction ordered to pull out two pages from the lesson—‘Birth of New Religions’ in the social studies textbook for 6th grade under state boards. As per the formal statement issued by the Karnataka Textbook Society earlier this week, the teachers were told not to teach two pages from the lesson 'Birth of new religions' which had stated rituals like animal sacrifice as brahminical practices. The lesson had stated that during the post-vedic period, there was food scarcity as animals were sacrificed during religious events. The decision to remove the content comes after a delegation from the Brahmin Development Board petitioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that certain contents in the chapter had hurt the sentiments of the community. Prof Baraguru Ramachandrappa, who headed the textbook revision committee during the previous congress the government said that the issue had raised eyebrows as a significant part of the information under the Buddhism chapter has also been deleted. “The information that has been removed now is also part of the NCERT book and was completely based on the facts. The move has now triggered an even bigger problem that whenever a controversy arises, governments cannot decide on what needs to be eliminated from the textbooks. Subject experts shall take a call on such matters based on facts,” Prof Ramachandrappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-orders-deletion-of-controversial-reference-to-brahmin-community-in-textbooks-953367.html
20-02-2021||State||Karnataka gives industry status to hotels in tourism sector||The state government has decided to accord industry status to the hotel business, Tourism Minister CP Yogeeshwara said on Saturday. With this, hotels in the tourism sector will enjoy subsidies and levies applicable to industries. Earlier, hotels were considered commercial establishments and not industrial units. Yogeeshwara said the move, approved by the Cabinet, will provide a boost to the Covid-hit tourism sector. “The Covid-19 pandemic wreaked havoc on the tourism sector. Establishments that depended on tourism took a big hit. There’s a need to rejuvenate them,” he said.“ Hotels were being set up on commercial rates. Now that they will be considered as an industry, the taxes and other levies will be reduced,” he said, adding that 62 hotels that have star classification will come under this, to begin with. “Small-scale hotels will not come under this. We’re planning to come out with a separate scheme for them.”According to Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism) TK Anil Kumar, only 62 hotels in Karnataka have star classification from the Ministry of Tourism. “The subsidies and other benefits for these hotels will be applicable for a 5-year period starting April 2021,” he said. Yogeeshwara said that Karnataka has about 1,000 2-star hotels. “The classification of hotels from 1-star to 5-star is done through a committee of the central government,” he said. “The state-run Mayura hotels have applied for star classification.”Classifying the hotel business as an industry was a long-pending demand that intensified during the Covid-19 pandemic. “This is a step in the direction of developing the tourism sector as Karnataka is still lagging behind states such as Kerala and Gujarat,” Yogeeshwara said. Asked about the development of Nandi Hills near Bengaluru, the minister said that it was only recently that the Horticulture Department handed over the management of this popular spot to the Tourism Department. “We are planning to have cable cars and other amenities. There’s scope for private investment as well,” he said. Apart from Nandi Hills, Yogeeshwara said other popular tourist destinations such as Jog Falls, Kodachadri and Kemmanugundi will be developed. “Plans are getting ready to develop Badami and Pattadakal as heritage tourist sites. Also, action is being taken to develop the Roerich and Devikarani Estate as a cultural centre,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-gives-industry-status-to-hotels-in-tourism-sector-953462.html
20-02-2021||State||K Sudhakar seeks Nirmala Sitharaman's help in setting up AIIMS in Karnataka||Karnataka Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman with a proposal to build "Health City", as he also sought her support for an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the state. On meeting Sitharaman, who is in the city, the Minister congratulated her for presenting a "pragmatic budget" with health and well-being as one of the key pillars, and sought her assistance to get an AIIMS for Karnataka and a sub-centre of NIMHANS in Kalyana Karnataka region, his office said in a statement. He also discussed the state government's plan to set up 4 state-of-the-art trauma centres to prevent fatalities due to road accidents and build a Health City with a cluster of super speciality hospitals for treatment of cancer, kidney, cardio-vascular and other chronic ailments. Hailing from the old-Mysuru region, Sudhakar also sought the Centre's support for expansion of irrigation facilities in the rain-fed Chikkaballpura and Kolar districts and bifurcation of Kolar-Chikkaballapura District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Ltd and DCC Bank, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/k-sudhakar-seeks-nirmala-sitharamans-help-in-setting-up-aiims-in-karnataka-953486.html
20-02-2021||State||Rights groups move Karnataka State Women's Commission against Disha's arrest||A coalition of women's rights activists and organisations on Saturday moved the Karnataka State Women's Commission seeking its urgent intervention in the issue of young activist Disha Ravi and order an inquiry into the entire episode. In a memorandum submitted to Commission chairperson Prameela Naidu, the activists said the incident shows the "multifarious and very real dangers" faced by young women in Karnataka who dare speak truth to power. "In this instance, our primary concern is not only with this growing trend of silencing our youth who are part of democratic protests for a more just and equitable society but with the Delhi Police's total disregard for the rule of law and that too within the state of Karnataka," the activists said. The activists said Disha was stealthily picked up by the Delhi Police and taken to Delhi, in complete violation of the established legal procedures. "It is absolutely appalling to note the brazenness with which the Delhi Police whisked away a young woman to the national Capital even as Karnataka state government, Bengaluru police and the Karnataka State Women's Commission maintained a disquieting silence over the entire episode," the memorandum said, citing orders from Delhi High Court on inter-state arrest of prisoners. The activists demanded the commission to conduct a thorough inquiry into the manner of arrest of Disha and initiate action against media outlets carrying "denigrating and misogynistic" content against the young activist. They also sought the cyber police to take action against social media accounts found spreading hate against and issuing threats to Disha Ravi. Release Disha: Teachers Against the Climate Crisis Activists under the banner of Teachers Against the Climate Crisis demanded immediate release of Disha Ravi urged the government stop victimising environmental activists.They condemned the arrest of 22-year-old Disha Ravi, a member of Fridays for Future, on charges of sedition and criminal conspiracy and issuing of non-bailable warrants against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. "Attempts by the central government to cast youth-led climate organizations, or their members, as a threat to national security defies sanity. The government has weakened environmental protection by diluting Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) measures, potentially damaging carbon sinks, the forests on which millions depend," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rights-groups-move-karnataka-state-womens-commission-against-dishas-arrest-953506.html
20-02-2021||State||Local bodies, industries to face music for polluting 17 rivers in Karnataka||To prevent pollution in the major 17 rivers of the state including Krishna and Cauvery, the Karnataka government has decided to crack whip on various local bodies and industries responsible for polluting the rivers besides initiating legal action against the officers for lapses. Holding the review meeting of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) on Saturday, CP Yogeeshwara, Minister for Environment, Ecology and Tourism said that a total of 17 rivers have been polluted in Karnataka. “Several local municipal bodies located right from the point of river origin to reservoirs have polluted the rivers by releasing untreated sewage and other effluents. This has drastically reduced the quality of water in rivers. All local bodies have been directed to discharge effluents only after processing with the latest treatment technology. The government’s objective is to ensure only rain water is drained into the rivers,” Yogeeshwara said. Pointing to the level of pollution in rivers Yogeeshwara said, “The pollution in rivers is so intense that the traces of pollution are visible even in the tender coconut. Hence, the state government has decided to strictly enforce various acts enacted to prevent pollution besides the Solid Waste Management Rules of 2016. Considering that many of the industrial suburbs across the state do not have scientific waste processing units and treatment plants resulting in pollution of water bodies. Resolving this problem, I will discuss with the industries minister to chalk out a detailed plan.” The minister said that orders have already been issued to 17 various industries categorised under pharmaceutical, cement and Paper industries. “In the coming days all tanks and lakes across Karnataka will be fitted with water quality monitoring equipment for assessing quality of water on everyday basis,” Yogeeshwara briefed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/local-bodies-industries-to-face-music-for-polluting-17-rivers-in-karnataka-953509.html
20-02-2021||State||Names of 2 ex-CMs revealed in multi-crore IMA scam: Union Minister Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has said that names of two former chief ministers have surfaced in the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) multi-crore scam. Without naming the two former chief ministers, Joshi said it is the responsibility of the two high-profile politicians, to tell the truth to the people and come out clean. Speaking to media persons in the city on Saturday, Joshi said the government has already ordered a high-level probe into the multi-crore IMA scam. The investigation is going on. However, it is learnt that the IMA director has allegedly named two former chief ministers. As their names have surfaced in this, it is their duty to tell the truth to the people of the State, he added. He said the investigation should be taken to a logical end as thousands of poor people have invested their hard earned money in the IMA and have lost their money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/names-of-2-ex-cms-revealed-in-multi-crore-ima-scam-union-minister-pralhad-joshi-953514.html
20-02-2021||State||Grey granite mining approval to create 5k jobs||Making a special exception, the Cabinet has approved a grey granite mining contract without auction, which Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said will create over 5,000 jobs.  On Thursday, the Cabinet gave its nod for the Maddakkanahalli Stone Cutters Cooperative Society to carry out grey granite mining on survey number 12 in Maddakkanahalli in Sira, Tumakuru district. “The Cabinet took the unanimous decision to approve the mining contract sans auction by considering it as a special case keeping in mind the larger public interest,” Nirani’s office said in a statement. This approval was given on humanitarian grounds as the society was not even in a position to register itself due to a financial crisis, the statement added.   Originally, the society got the mining contract for five years in 1995 and it was later renewed for 20 years. However, the society got entangled in a financial crisis and was unable to register itself within the mandatory 4-month time frame. The Cabinet decision comes after several years of delay in decision-making.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/grey-granite-mining-approval-to-create-5k-jobs-953517.html
20-02-2021||State||Pontiffs and politics: How much is too much interference?||At a recent congregation of Veerashaiva-Lingayat seers, who came together to rally for national OBC status for the community, a prominent pontiff warned the BJP national leadership that the saffron party will not be able to gain power anywhere in South India if the government failed to meet their demand. Last year, a Lingayat seer threatened Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in full public view if Panchamasali leader Murugesh Nirani was not made a minister. Irked, Yediyurappa confronted the seer. But then, Nirani was recently inducted into the Cabinet.   In 2018, in his first news conference after assuming the CM’s office, H D Kumaraswamy took head-on a seer who had declared that the Congress-JD(S) coalition would be shortlived. “Seers should not indulge in politics and stick to spirituality,” he had remarked.   Politicians patronizing mutts is not new. But recent incidents show that religious heads are increasingly wielding their influence on the government: be it reservation, Cabinet expansion or electoral politics.  The ongoing reservation protests led by seers from politically-dominant communities has yet again raised concerns not only about the blurring of lines between politics and pontiffs, but also about the extent of power vested with the Mutts. That the religious leaders have taken to streets, blatantly flexing their political muscle, has put the government in a fix.  The massive Panchamasali rally led by seer Basava Jayamruthyunjaya Swami scheduled to be held in Bengaluru on Sunday and a massive Kuruba congregation earlier this month led by Niranjanandapuri Swami of Kaginele Gurupeetha are instances that display by the clout enjoyed by pontiffs.  “The power centre has completely shifted from Vidhana Soudha to the Mutts,” former backward classes commission chairperson C S Dwarakanath says. “The seers are dictating terms to the government.” The reservation movement led by politically-dominant seers will be a threat to smaller communities that do not have such religious and political representation, he points out.  Many political leaders themselves agree that there is an unhealthy dependence on religious institutions. Requesting anonymity, a senior BJP leader called this trend a threat to democracy. “The elected representatives have surrendered the people’s mandate given to them through elections, to the seers. Unfortunately people respond to calls of religious leaders from their communities more than that of political leaders. Today, a politician cannot draw thousands of people for a movement like the ongoing reservation protests,” he says. While earlier the relationship between a politician and a seer was that of a devotee and a spiritual leader, today the latter assume they can command both the government and the people’s mandate, the BJP leader adds, tracing this shift of dynamics to Mutts taking charge of educational institutions, which drew both money and clout.  Veteran Congress leader M Veerappa Moily, too, feels the ongoing protests are unprecedented. “I don’t blame the seers. This is happening because politicians pander to them for political interests, irrespective of any political party. All political leaders should reflect upon this,” he says. As for the current crisis, he feels it is time to let go of ad-hoc approaches to reservation. “The socio-economic survey (caste census) has to be made public.”  However, not all seers concur with the way things are unfolding. Rajashekara Swami Gorata of Hiremath Samsthan, Bemalakhed, Bidar says he stands by the seers when it comes to the reservation demands. “It’s justifiable for seers to lead a movement that would benefit the larger interest of the society. However, it’s not right on part of seers to threaten to overthrow a democratically-elected government.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pontiffs-and-politics-how-much-is-too-much-interference-953518.html
20-02-2021||State||Women demand a complete ban on illegal liquor sale||Two years after 4,000 women from across Karnataka took out a padayatra to Bengaluru seeking a ban on sale of liquor in rural areas, activists who led the movement, laid siege to Excise Office in Raichur on Saturday with a renewed demand to end illegal liquor trade. Madya Nisheda Andolana, a campaign started by women in Raichur, has received wide support. The campaign has been pressing the government to look into the issue for years. On Saturday, 10 days after launching an indefinite Satyagraha, the activists laid siege to the Excise Department office in Raichur, putting forward a list ofdemands. In a memorandum, the campaign said that despite a high court order directing a ban on illegal sale of liquor in all the districts, action was yet to be taken by the officials. “We have submitted details of illegal liquor sale in 177 villages in Raichur, how long will you need to take action,” the agitating women asked. The campaign demanded to know the rights of gram panchayats and gram sabhas in the process of granting and cancelling permits to liquor shops. “As per the Karnataka Prohibition Act 1961, several committees have to be formed. Why can’t the government set up a five-member committee in villages to prohibit illegal sale of liquor,” the protesters asked. The activists said there was a conflict of interest in assigning the work of crackdown on illegal liquor sale to the Excise Department, which is also vested with the work of promoting liquor sale. “Promoting liquor sale and the crackdown on sale of illicit liquor should be done by different departments,” it said, demanding a written reply from the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/women-demand-a-complete-ban-on-illegal-liquor-sale-953521.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mescom seeks tariff hike of Rs 1.67 per unit, consumers oppose||Associations representing industries, consumers and farmers opposed Mescom’s proposal seeking an average tariff hike of Rs 1.67 per unit for dealing with a revenue deficit of Rs 943.26 crore, which the company is expected to undergo during the financial year 2021-22. The Mescom submitted its tariff revision proposal to Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC), headed by Shambhu Dayal Meena, which held a public hearing at Deputy Commissioner’s office on Friday. The hearing sought the opinions of the general public and various stakeholders for Mescom’s move. Mescom MD Prashanth Kumar Mishra presented to the Commission reasons why the company has sought the hike. He said that Mescom, whose jursidiction spreads across Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts, required revenue of Rs 5,119.61 crore. However, the earning expected from consumers was Rs 4,176.35 crore, resulting in a deficit of Rs 943.26 crore. The MD claimed that most of the revenue generated is spent on the purchase of power, around Rs 2,833.09 crore (73.84 per cent), followed by employee cost (12.86 per cent), operation and maintenance expenses (4.99 per cent) and interest (3.98 per cent) and depreciation (4.34 per cent). Representatives from KCCI said that there was an urgent need to cap the Transmission and Distribution loss to a reasonable 10 per cent. Further, Mescom has demanded tariff revision at a time when the total demand from the industrial sector is coming down. With the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns impacting their cash cycles, MSMEs, the backbone of India’s inclusive growth story, received a significant blow and faced severe bottle-necks and retardations. Devidas Shettigar from Coastal Iceplant Owners’ Association demanded that the commission announce a special tariff for ice industries operating within 5-km radius on the coast considering it as a seasonal industry. If tariff hike is approved, then the ice plants have to shell out additional Rs 50,000 every month. MLA Araga Jnanendra alleged that farmers in Sagar, Hosanagara and Theerthahalli taluks failed to get minimum of four hours of power supply in a day. In addition, the quality of power supplied is also poor. "The auto reclosures installed are not functioning effectively in various places. Poor quality electricity poles and TCs are installed. Even the compensation for the electricity mishap are not paid to the victims," he alleged. Consumer Ramakrishna Sharma said the Mescom should initiate measures to promote LED bulbs. He sought to know why Rs 10,000 are demanded from farmers for new electricity connections. Sathyanarayana Udupa from Bharathiya Kissan Sangha, Udupi, sought to know whether the hike was necessary when people are affected by the pandemic. The profit incurred from the reduction of distribution loss has not been passed on to the consumers by the company. He urged the Mescom to install meters for IP sets and to ensure that the government funds are not misused. A SOP (standard operating procedure) on utilising consumer welfare fund should be prepared by the Commission, he added. The KERC chairman warned officials of Mescom against giving a false picture of company’s accounts. “Don’t give false picture of company’s accounts to the managing director. We will have to recommend action if you don’t mend your ways,” he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mescom-seeks-tariff-hike-of-rs-167-per-unit-consumers-oppose-953346.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours compulsory for those arriving in Karnataka from Maharashtra||A negative RT-PCR certificate not older than 72 hours will be compulsory for those arriving by flights, buses, trains, personal transport from Maharashtra to Karnataka. An order to this effect was issued by the Karnataka Health Secretary on Saturday. The negative RT-PCR report shall be verified at the time of boarding by airlines staff. For those travelling by bus, tickets shall be issued on production of negative RT-PCR report or shall be checked by the bus conductor while boarding of those who have booked tickets online. In trains, the TTEs shall check the negative RT-PCR test report. A random check of the testing reports from people arriving at toll gates /point of entry shall be made for those coming by personal transport. All those arriving from Maharashtra and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, homestays, dormitories, etc. shall compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Owners of the above-mentioned places should ensure that the occupants produce negative RT-PCR certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-negative-rt-pcr-certificate-not-older-than-72-hours-compulsory-for-those-arriving-in-karnataka-from-maharashtra-953390.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Examination Authority to hold K-CET on July 7 and 8||The Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) will hold the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (K-CET) on July 7th and 8th. The dates, according to Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, were decided considering the dates of various board exams for 12th grade (II PUC) and other similar exams by other states for admission to various professional courses.  Time table:- July 7: 10.30 am to 11:50 am Biology, 2:30 pm to 3:50 pm Mathematics- July 8: 10.30 am to 11:50 am Physics, 2:30 pm to 3:50 pm Chemistry- July 9: 11.30 am to 12:30 pm Kannada test for Out of State and Border Districts Kannadiga candidates||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-examination-authority-to-hold-k-cet-on-july-7-and-8-953427.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Just 3.6% unemployment in Karnataka, CM BS Yediyurappa tells PM Narendra Modi||Karnataka has managed to maintain “one of the lowest” unemployment rates in India at 3.6%, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday.Yediyurappa said this during the 6th governing council meeting of the NITI Aayog chaired by Modi. The CM attended the meeting virtually. Speaking during the meeting, Yediyurappa said Karnataka’s fiscal indicators were within the limits prescribed under the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, despite the Covid-induced economic stress. “PM was briefed about the initiatives taken by the state for industrial development such as the new industrial policy 2020-2025, affidavit-based clearance system, steps taken to promote exports, MoUs with e-commerce players like Amazon and Flipkart to boost marketing of local products,” a statement from the chief minister’s office said. Yediyurappa listed out various pro-farmer initiatives of his government, such as setting up a task force to promote integrated farming, the establishment of single-point farmer contact centres and a scientific marketing intelligence cell to help increase farmers’ income. The state government plans to create an online marketing platform for surplus fruits and vegetables under the Atma Nirbhar scheme, Yediyurappa said. Karnataka also has the highest number of hospitals - 3,409 - enrolled under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Modicare), Yediyurappa said, adding that the government will focus on improving nutrition indicators in 67 taluks across 16 districts. During the meeting, Yediyurappa asked Modi to declare the Upper Bhadra Project and Upper Krishna Project as national projects. He also sought approvals for six proposals worth Rs 6,673 crore to modernize canals. The government urged Modi to set up a mechanism to fast-track disposal of litigation in courts as many infrastructure projects were stuck due to environmental protests, the CMO said.The Centre was asked to fund Rs 4,300 crore to create an optical fibre network covering all government offices in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/just-36-unemployment-in-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-tells-pm-narendra-modi-953428.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands accountability on Ram Mandir donations||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday said he is having a Ram temple constructed in his village, as he urged those involved in collection of donations for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya to be accountable to the people of the country, as it is public money. Accusing the BJP of playing with the emotions of people in the name of God, the former Chief Minister said he too has faith in God, but for him beliefs are personal issues and should not be used as a political tool. ".. there is nothing that only those who have given the money should ask for accounts. What I have said is, in the past too money and bricks were collected for Ram Mandir during Ayodhya agitation... did they account for it?" Siddaramaiah said. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, he said, it is said that Rs 1,500 crore has been collected so far, an account should be given, all 135 crore people might not have given, but it is public money. "I'm not mentioning about any corruption, but an account has to be given.. they are accountable... if they don't give an account, doesn't it give rise to suspicion about misuse?" he asked, adding that those collecting donations are accountable to the people of the country. He was responding to a BJP leaders' statements questioning who Siddaramaiah was to seek an account, when he has not given any donations. Siddaramaiah had earlier in the week said that he will not give a donation to build Ram Mandir in Ayodhya since it will be built in a disputed place. The Leader of Opposition in the state assembly accused theBJP of trying to gain sympathy as part of its propaganda inthe name of God. People are giving money for Sri Rama and his temple, not for BJP, he said adding that "there are Ram Mandirs everywhere, also in villages, not only in Ayodhya.. I also have a Ram temple constructed in my village..the public have contributed to it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-accountability-on-ram-mandir-donations-953461.html
20-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Malaysia anxious to woo Indian travellers amid Covid-19||The Malaysian government said it is anxious to woo Indian visitors back to the country once the international border reopens. Speaking to DH, Sulaiman Suip, director of the Malaysia Tourism Promotion Board for North and East India, explained that the Covid-19 pandemic had badly disrupted tourism numbers which had peaked in 2019. “In 2019, 7,35,309 Indians tourists visited Malaysia, which was a significant increase from the 6.31 lakh Indians who visited the year before. Consequently, there were expectations that tourism numbers would set a new milestone in 2020. Indeed, the first two months of the year were good until the Covid-19 pandemic started to gain momentum from March,” Suip said. As per the data, 1,55,488 Indians travelled to Malaysia in 2020, most of whom did so before India introduced a nationwide lockdown on March 25. “As many as 76,515 Indians travelled to Malaysia in January 2020, followed by 59,498 Indians in February,” Suip specified.  Razaidi Abd Rahim, director of the Tourism Board (South India and Sri Lanka), clarified that visitor numbers in the first two months of this year have been virtually non-existent as the border is closed.  Specific travel numbers from Karnataka were not available, although Suip specified that a big chunk of the country’s India visitors hail from the southern states. “Before the pandemic, out of the 201 flights per week from India to Malaysia, 141 were from South India,” Suip said. Hafiz Hashim, director of the Tourism Board in Mumbai, stated that vaccinations which are due to start with the frontliners in Malaysia soon will address some of the concerns of the travellers exploring the country, once travel resumes." The Malaysian government has offered incentives for corporate travellers and is giving a 30% rebate for filmmakers who shoot in the country. Growing interest According to a survey, some 89% of Indians have evinced interest in travelling overseas, out of which 67% have expressed an interest to travel in the next six months, with another 50% expressing interest in short-haul travel destinations. Malaysia said it is gearing up to reactivate destinations popular with Indians such as the Batu Caves, Langkawi, Kuala Lumpur, Sabah, Penang, Redang Island and Genting Highland, plus new locations such as Sarawak, which was visited by nearly 17,000 Indians in 2019. The average stay of Indians in Malaysia is 6.7 nights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/malaysia-anxious-to-woo-indian-travellers-amid-covid-19-953522.html
20-02-2021||West||FIR against Vivek Oberoi for not wearing mask while riding motorbike||A First Information Report was registered here against Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi on Friday for not using a mask after he shared a video of a ride on motorbike with his wife on Valentine's Day. With coronavirus cases again rising in Maharashtra, the city administration had warned on Thursday to prosecute those who violate the mandatory mask rule. The case was registered against the actor at Juhu Police Station, an official said. The video shared by the actor on social media showed him riding a brand-new motorbike without wearing either helmet or face mask. The FIR was registered against him under IPC sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) alongwith provisions of the Maharashtra COVID -19 Precautionary Measures 2020 and the Motor Vehicles Act, the official said. Besides, a fine of Rs 500 was also imposed on him for not wearing helmet, the official added. Under both IPC sections 188 and 269, an offender can be punished with upto six months in jail or fine or both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-vivek-oberoi-for-not-wearing-mask-while-riding-motorbike-953280.html
20-02-2021||West||Rakesh Tikait denied permission to hold 'mahapanchayat' in Yavatmal||Maharashtra police on Saturday denied permission to Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait to hold 'mahapanchayat' in Yavatmal district owing to rising Covid-19 cases in the state.  On Thursday, the administration in Yavatmal district ordered curbs on gatherings and also the closure of schools (which had reopened for select classes) for ten days.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rakesh-tikait-denied-permission-to-hold-mahapanchayat-in-yavatmal-953302.html
20-02-2021||West||Fire breaks out at factory in Pune district's Sanaswadi, no casualties reported||A fire broke out at a manufacturing factory in Sanaswadi area of Pune district, ANI reported. No deaths or injuries have been reported so far. A total of six fire tenders have been rushed to the spot as firefighting operations are underway. The cause of the fire is unknown. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-pune-districts-sanaswadi-no-casualties-reported-953335.html
20-02-2021||West||Tamil Nadu slashes metro rail fare by Rs 20, to come into effect from February 22||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday announced a reduction in the maximum fare for travel in the Chennai Metro rail by Rs 20, thus bringing down the fare for full length travel to Rs 50 from the present Rs 70. The new CMRL fare will come into effect from February 22. Though the commuters will have to pay Rs 10 for a distance of upto 2 kilometres, according to the new fare structure, the fare for a distance from two to five km will be Rs 20 while Rs 30 will be the fare to travel a distance of 5 to 12 km. The commuters will have to pay Rs 40 for a distance between 12 and 21 km and beyond 21 km (upto 32 km), the fare has been fixed at Rs 50. A further discount of 20 percent of the fare will be provided to those opting to book tickets using the QR code or CMRL smart cards, an official statement said. "Accepting the demands of the people that the Metro Rail fares should be decreased in order to further enhance the patronage of CMRL service, the government has announced a cut in the fares for the benefit of the public," Palaniswami said in the statement. He informed that commuters who avail unlimited day passes at Rs 100 for the 45 km stretch of phase-1 of CMRL could now enjoy unlimited day passes at the same sum for additional 9 km to travel upto Wimco Nagar from Vannarpet. Similarly, those utilising the monthly passes could travel till the newly extended line to Wimco Nagar at the current fare of Rs 2,500. Further, he announced a 50 percent discount on the daily tickets (not for daily passes) for travellers on Sundays and public holidays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tamil-nadu-slashes-metro-rail-fare-by-rs-20-to-come-into-effect-from-february-22-953379.html
20-02-2021||West||'Encounter specialist' cop Tarun Barot discharged from Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case||A special CBI court in Ahmedabad on Saturday discharged "encounter specialist" ex-Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and another co-accused retired policeman from the Sadiq Jamal Mehtar encounter case. With this four of eight accused policemen have been discharged from the case while one was abated after his death. Once known as "encounter specialist" Barot was one of the key accused in the case who, CBI alleged, took illegal custody of 19-year-old Bhavnagar resident Sadiq from Mumbai police days before he was killed in the encounter in Ahmedabad. CBI investigation established that Sadiq was illegally kept in the custody of Mumbai police too. Barot, who is also an accused in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case, and co-accused Chhatrasinh Chudasama filed a discharge application in October last year through advocates R S Verma and Brijrajsinh Jhala respectively. Barot said in his plea that he was "innocent and has been falsely implicated in the case." The application claimed,"...all the so-called statements and the documents, sought to be deliberately used as incriminating material against the present accused no. 8 (Barot), reveal nothing except the visit of the present accused no. 8 to Mumbai between 02.1.2003 to 04.1.2003. There is not a single direct statement/document in the charge-sheet which suggests that it was present accused no. 8 himself who obtained the alleged custody of Sadik from Mumbai. In view of this, the charge of the complainant CBI is based on just conjectures and surmises." The CBI had opposed the pleas, stating in an affidavit that, "There is sufficient evidence available on record against accused persons and there is a strong prima facie case against the accused persons including the applicant accused of offences punishable u/s (under section) 120-B, r/w (read with) 302 of IPC and other offences. Even otherwise the trial court would examine only prima facie case for the purpose of framing of charges." "...documents/records produced by the prosecution in the final report doesn't give two views, rather it gives only one view that the deceased Sadik Jamal was apprehended at Mumbai on 19/12/2002, present applicant accused left for Mumbai on 02.01.2003 and reached Mumbai on 03.01.2003, custody of Sadik was handed over by Mumbai police to Gujarat on 03.01.2003 for investigation at Ahmedabad & Bhavnagar and he was subsequently killed in a fake encounter in the intervening night of 12/13.01.2003," the affidavit stated. Besides Barot, another policeman Chhtrasinh Chudasama was also discharged. Last year, the special court discharged two other accused policemen-  R L Mavani and Ajaypal Yadav- from the trial after concluding that there was not enough evidence against them for trial. CBI investigation, based on Gujarat High Court order, revealed that on January 2, 2003, Barot, who was then posted with Detection of Crime Branch, took custody of Sadiq, 19, a resident of Bhavnagar, from the Mumbai Police and brought him to Ahmedabad. On January 12, he was taken in a tempo traveller to the Sai Baba Complex near Galaxy cinema in the Naroda area where he was allegedly shot dead at around 1.15 am. However, at the time of the incident, the DCB officials had claimed that Sadiq was killed in an encounter who was on a mission to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders for avenging the 2002 post-Godhra riots.  According to CBI, it was Subsidiary Intelligence Bureau (SIB), Mumbai which first generated an intelligence input claiming that Sadiq was associated with D-Gang and was allegedly planning to kill BJP leaders. The CBI chargesheet stated that before handing over Sadiq to Barot, he was arrested “in a stage-managed joint operation” conducted by the SIB, Mumbai and Central Intelligence Unit, Andheri, of Mumbai Crime Branch. Sadiq worked as domestic help for Tariq Parveen, a close associate of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, at his home in Mumbai and then in Dubai between 1996 to October 2002. The CBI has said that Sadiq left Dubai following an altercation with Parveen’s associate, a Pakistan-based gangster Salim Chiplun and within months of his arrival back home, Sadiq was killed.  The CBI was expected to file a supplementary chargesheet in this case on the role played by senior officials of Gujarat, Mumbai police as well as officials of the intelligence bureau. However, even after eight years since the CBI filed its first chargesheet, no development has taken place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/encounter-specialist-cop-tarun-barot-discharged-from-sadiq-jamal-mehtar-encounter-case-953400.html
