21-02-2021||Comment||The tragedy is not Turahalli, it is that we are having this conversation||One of Bengaluru’s priceless green spaces was up for grabs this month. Once again, because of the vigilance and swift action of citizens, damage was averted. Along with peacocks, jackals, mongoose, rock bees and other core residents, scores of birds and butterflies make their home in Turahalli forest. This 600-acre patch, one of the last remnant forest areas in Bengaluru, acts as a bridge to the Bannerghatta National Park, with many wild animals moving between these two regions. For those living in South Bengaluru, the Turahalli forest is priceless. It provides one of the few remaining opportunities to experience anything even remotely close to ‘wild’ nature in the city. Small wonder that, even in Covid times, thousands of residents came together for organised protests to save the forest from being converted into a ‘tree park’. Why do we need a forest? What’s wrong with having a tree park instead? Those who designed and implemented this effort defended their ideas saying that they were planting trees, creating play areas for children, exercise spaces for senior citizens, and developing ‘lung spaces’ for the city. Why object to these noble goals? Objectors point out that Turahalli already has a tree park, which covers over 35 acres. There are barely any people who visit this area. Of course, there aren’t. If you were to go to the forest on the weekend, wouldn’t you rather clamber up a hilly path to marvel at the rock bees that cling to the base of a boulder in a seemingly gravity-defying stunt, or to gaze in awe at the peacocks that perch on the top of the large trees? Why would you like instead to be forced to march in ordered fashion up and down a neat, brick lined walkway in the tree park, craning your neck only left or right to see trees, lined up in regimental fashion in neat rows and columns? The birds and butterflies prefer the wild part of the forest to the tree park. Why would humans be any different? Nature is not neat, tamed or predictable. We would not love her as viscerally, as wildly, if our minds and imaginations were not enthralled by nature’s wild side. We make do with the numerous tree parks across Bengaluru on weekdays, circumnavigating the park in ordered fashion, clockwise (never anti-clockwise) along well-defined walkways, because we must. Because that’s what is left for us in Bengaluru, and we have resigned ourselves to the fact that something is better than nothing. Yet, on the weekends, our hearts beat for the great outdoors. People who cannot go as far as Turahalli throng to Cubbon Park and Lal Bagh, which still retain vestiges of their wild past -- though these traces of ‘wildness’ are fast disappearing, with Cubbon Park being thrown open to traffic, and Lal Bagh constantly fighting off efforts to convert it into a large amusement park with musical fountains and loud music. If all our wild spaces need to be made financially viable, to generate income through ticketed entry fees, theme parks, food courts, and well-landscaped seating areas, we stand to lose something irreplaceable -- biodiversity – as so many well-informed protesters pointed out, a forest is vastly more than a collection of trees. We also lose something fundamental to our very consciousness and identity as humans if we force-fit nature into our vision of recreational spaces. If vibrant Turahalli becomes another anodyne urban recreational space with bright lights, graveled paths, and neatly trimmed trees forced into rows and columns like good school children on ‘March Past’, it will be a travesty from which Bengaluru might not recover. The tragedy is not Turahalli. The tragedy is that we are even having this conversation – to explain what should be obvious. The tragedy is that this is a repeating tragedy. We win one battle, only to find that ten more efforts have begun around us to snatch away our remaining green spaces. One step forward, two steps back. Yet, Bengaluru does not give up hope. And perhaps in that is the sliver of optimism that we must hold on to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-tragedy-is-not-turahalli-it-is-that-we-are-having-this-conversation-953559.html
21-02-2021||Comment||The Imitation Game: Who wants to be the next billionaire?||You want to be an entrepreneur? An innovator, perhaps? Or both. Not much has been written about the common ties that bind the entrepreneurs and innovators who run the global information technology empire. Are they any different from people such as John Rockefeller who also ran a large oil and railroad empire or just ordinary folks like you and me? I am sure you would like to know. Welcome to the imitation game being played across the globe. Not the one where, during World War II, English mathematicians including Alan Turing managed to break the German communication code by replicating the machine used by the Nazis. Dubbed the Enigma machine, copies of the machine were sold by the perfidious British to unsuspecting African countries wishing to protect their official correspondence by describing it as an unbreakable cryptographic system. This deception was kept up until the early 1960s. It has been said that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. In the 1950s and 60s, Japan was known for producing shoddy imitations of US products such as cars and household electronics. The country soon thereafter became a world leader in building excellent cars and electronics. Fifty years on, the Chinese have been imitating Japan and the US. Soon, they will surpass both, especially in AI and supercomputers. India has either purchased or imitated, rather badly, the products of science and technology emanating from elsewhere, typically the US, UK or Germany. In the IT field, unlike China, not a single piece of original software – be it in the realm of social media, search engines or browsers – worthy of adoption at the national or international level has ever been written in India. As for basic research in the sciences, nothing to speak of. Labelling mediocre or yet-to-be-established institutes as institutions of pre-eminence is absurd. Naming your child Einstein doesn’t make him or her so. The IITs have always been stillborn. Years ago, when the Chinese were about to take possession of a Boeing meant to be used by their leader, they discovered it was full of bugs. The listening kind. It is quite unfair that the US should single out Huawei for sanctions based on the perception that the company could be spying on US citizens by sending their data to China. Couldn’t Cisco be doing the same thing? Well, based on the Cambridge Analytica scandal, you do know what Facebook did with your data. John Rockefeller, America’s first billionaire and founder of Standard Oil Company, was a ruthless businessman who engaged in industrial espionage and extremely anti-competitive tactics such as buying up railroads and preventing them from transporting oil for other oil companies. He also colluded with General Motors to shut down cheap mass transit systems such as streetcars/trams, resulting in people having to buy cars. Microsoft, Apple, Amazon and Google have all been guilty of the same type of conduct – except that it happens to be in the IT industry. Don’t have any original ideas but still want to innovate? No problem, you can always borrow someone else’s idea and make money. A whole lot. And while you are busy making money, maybe you can read up on two icons of the IT world – Bill Gates and Steve Jobs – and how Windows icons came into being. Suppose you have come up with an innovative idea with two of your college buddies. Well, you can start a company with just one of them and ignore the other. When the company gets to be enormously successful, you can always pay off the college buddy you ignored when you get sued. While your lawyer is working out the settlement details, you can read about Mark Zuckerberg and his college mates at Harvard. It seems like the necessary prerequisites for becoming a successful entrepreneur and innovator are attendance at an elite institution (for example, Bill Gates went to Harvard but did not graduate), a lack of ethics, and that you come from the upper echelons of society. And atone for ethical lapses by becoming a philanthropist. The ensuing tax write-off is incidental, of course. Good luck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-imitation-game-who-wants-to-be-the-next-billionaire-953560.html
21-02-2021||Comment||Standing your ground: A toolkit||India, 2021: JNU is tukde-tukde gang, Kashmiris are terrorists, Muslims are traitors, liberals are Communists, Communists are anti-national, dissent is sedition, intellectuals are urban naxals, Congress supporters are slaves, the elite opposition is the Khan Market gang, protesters are andolanjeevis, human rights are Western propaganda, activists are anti-development, journalists are presstitutes, critics of the BJP-RSS are a cabal, opposition mobilisation is vested interest, Shaheen Bagh is Pakistan, farmers are Khalistanis, secularism is hypocritical, comedians promote hatred, Jersey cows are lazy while indigenous cow milk contains gold, academic webinars must be vetted by the Ministry of External Affairs, and toolkits are an international conspiracy to wage war on India. Oh, and dissent is sedition. How did public and official discourse become this bonkers? Since when can you make ‘toolkit’ a bad word with a straight face? Probably since the right-wing discovered how effective coordinated messaging can be, and doesn’t want anyone else to benefit from it. If you consider that it takes only the merest few strands of saffron to yellow a whole pot of biryani, you can understand how a couple of Khaki knickers, tossed into the ‘ideas’ compartment of the media laundry machine, might ruin the whole national wash. Too few media machines have followed the all-important step of first separating the colours that make the country bleed. We crossed the thin line between ‘bonkers’ and ‘dangerous’ long, long ago. And thus it is that we have gone from an imperfect but pluralist democracy to a puffed-up State that is dangerously megalomaniacal and insecure. When India arrested the barely-adult climate activist Disha Ravi, for editing an online toolkit for pro-farmer protest, our self-goals once again went from embarrassing to dangerous. The Ministry of External Affairs had already made an international ass of India by responding to posts by singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg, and making our celebrity robots at home mass-tweet hashtags like #IndiaAgainstPropaganda, without a shred of irony. Now, the State is on a hair-trigger for arresting those who support democratic dissent. Hindutva’s toolkit aims to create a monolithic Hindu Rashtra through intimidation and misinformation and lies. You can see, from the short amount of time it has taken for us to regress from 2014 to the political stone age, that it works very well. Here, therefore, is a counter toolkit to detoxify your environment, for anyone who misses rationality and freedom. 1) The BJP’s (pseudo)-nationalism rests on two ideas: a) government equals nation and b) dissent equals sedition. They’re both rubbishy lies. Do not be defensive about your patriotism, and do not be timid about critique. Power will take as much ground as you give. 2) The right-wing tries to appropriate the language of moral superiority by accusing others of its own sins. When you advocate peace and pluralism, don’t be cowed by the fact that you’re accused of promoting enmity and instability. It’s totally laughable. 3) Hindutva has weaponised pedestrian words like ‘cow’, ‘Muslim’, ‘Christian’, ‘protest’, ‘intellectual’, ‘secularism’, ‘dissent’, ‘rights’, ‘nationalism’, ‘foreign’, and ‘armed forces’. Don’t start treating these words with kid gloves, else they’ll become unusable. Use them in the space they deserve, with the weight they deserve (or don’t deserve). 4) When bhakts cannot respond to an argument, they make it about some other argument. Don’t get sucked into digressive issues and whataboutery. 5) A favourite way of getting around rational argument is to discredit the speaker. Don’t indulge talk about whom the speaker/writer is married to, or what books are on their shelves. The best response to “Her last name is Joseph!” is, “So?” 6) Demand journalism, not cheerleading. 7) Do not be gaslit into thinking that you’re the only one who thinks things are terribly wrong. You are not alone. 8) Megalomania can be contained with copious amounts of laughter. 9) Stand your ground, to protect those who cannot protect themselves. Especially if it’s the only ground you can stand. 10) Oh, and—hum dekhenge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/standing-your-ground-a-toolkit-953561.html
21-02-2021||Comment||The fantastic library of Ashurbanipal||The 7th Century BCE Assyrian conqueror Ashurbanipal considered his greatest accomplishment to be the Royal Library he built in Nineveh. The Royal Library, discovered in the 1850s, contained over 30,000 clay tablets. There were potentially a significant number of other works on perishable materials which were destroyed in attacks by rival kingdoms after Ashurbanipal’s death. The clay tablets were, ironically, baked in the fire set by the attackers and preserved for posterity. Ashurbanipal’s library is considered to be the world’s first organised library. The Epic of Gilgamesh, among other works, was part of the eclectic library collection. Ashurbanipal was a merciless warrior and fighter first, but his most prized war loot were the literary documents obtained from the conquered and later stored, copied, or transcribed for the Royal Library. His motivation could have been selfish – to gain knowledge to propagate his rule and his kingdom. Notwithstanding that, the library was a treasure trove, preserving the culture of its time for future generations. Growing up in Bengaluru, I have benefitted from membership in the city’s public libraries, with access to several of them across the city. My early readings of the Upanishads and other lesser-known philosophical works from India and across the world were at the City Central Library of Indiranagar. I have read obscure works, like the writings of Lobzang Rampa, only because of their visible access on the library’s bookshelves. While I had passed by it many times, it was only recently that I visited the beautiful State Central Library at Cubbon Park – the Seshadri Iyer Memorial Hall. Private libraries, on the other hand, were a great source for comics, mysteries, thrillers, and the like. I can never forget my pre-teen-year summers in Hyderabad -- blistering hot, but there were always Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew stories, and in later years, Perry Mason or P G Wodehouse books that were available at the heavily stocked Khan Library in Narayanaguda. Having grown up in a house of books -- my mom loved libraries, and briefly ran one in our garage in Indiranagar -- I can still spend hours in a bookstore, wandering around in the world of words. Libraries are also intended to compile and distribute information and knowledge beyond culture. In Bengaluru, the JRD Tata Memorial Library is known for its scientific and technical collection. I also admired the grand vision of the library at Infosys’ Mysuru campus. Knowledge houses of the future are already hybrid – a collection of physical copies pertinent to its locality and access, and digital access to all the knowledge of the world. Knowledge is today available in documents, audios, videos, blogs and social media posts, with a diversity of voices and a collection of thinking over time. With its technical capabilities, India can create the world’s best hybrid libraries. Beyond curation, the great libraries of Ashurbanipal, Alexandria and Nalanda have been seats of knowledge creation. India also can and needs to contribute more to knowledge creation today. The first step to be able to contribute to knowledge creating is documenting what we already have and know. India, however, has been a culture of remembering and not of documenting. In my own work with Indian industry, I have seen a significant dependence on tribal knowledge that is not documented, or at least not in sufficient detail. Documentation is not about getting the first hundred parts right but is to ensure that the millionth part is also produced to tight specifications. Documentation should be such that a shopfloor worker a decade later would be able to precisely duplicate the process with nothing other than the document in hand. Similarly, in research, documenting allows you to collaborate with others (and even with yourself at a later point in time!). In cultural documentation, we should celebrate India in all its diversity without censure. Ashurbanipal proclaimed, “I, Ashurbanipal…understood the wisdom of Nabu (god of learning). All the art of writing of every kind, I made myself the master of them all. I read the cuneiform tablets of Sumer and the dark Akkadian language, which is difficult to rightly use; I took pleasure in reading stones inscribed before the flood. The best of the scribal art, such works as none of the kings who went before me had ever learnt, remedies from the top of the head to the toenails, non-canonical selections, clever teachings, whatever pertains to the medical mastery of (the gods) Ninurta and Gala, I wrote on tablets, checked, and collated, and deposited within my palace for perusing and reading.” There’s not a word to change in Ashurbanipal’s proclamation to describe the passion with which one should go about building knowledge houses of the future!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-fantastic-library-of-ashurbanipal-953562.html
21-02-2021||Comment||US can impose sanctions on Myanmar, Delhi has to play a delicate game||This is not the first time that the Tatmadaw has seized power in Myanmar. As was expected, the army has used every letter in the country’s 2008 Constitution but glossed over its spirit. President U Win Myint, State Counsellor and popular democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi, the chief ministers of all the provinces and dozens of political leaders have been arrested and whisked away to undisclosed locations. Vice President U Myint Swe, a military appointee, has been named interim President. Unlike in democracies, armies under an authoritarian ruler are not expected to be answerable to the people, and the Myanmar military has lived up to this expectation. Only the army knows what immediate danger the country was facing that required the sacking of a duly elected government and derailing the fledgling democratic process. Perhaps the army had to do so to save itself from becoming irrelevant in the country’s politics. It is important to understand and analyse the coup as it has happened at a time of great churn in the region. Myanmar’s democratic transition began in about 2011 when the former military general changed into civilian clothes to become President in a rigged election. The real change over to democracy came about in 2015. But the military has always had a tight leash around the civilian government. Protests against the army have begun but it is unlikely to last long or succeed in bringing back democracy given the disunited political class and the strength and deep roots the army has among civilian groups. Meanwhile, the West, especially the Biden administration, has become active in doling out advice to the army in Myanmar and other countries in the region. The standard operating procedure -- warning of severe action, sanctions and boycotts – is being dusted off the files in the White House. It has ordered freezing of assets, blocking the military’s access to $1 billion in Myanmar government funds held in accounts in the US, and blacklisting of military officials responsible for the coup. Stringent export controls could be added soon. The history of US sanctions on Myanmar goes back to 1988, in the wake of a popular uprising and its brutal suppression and suspension of civil liberties by the ruling Junta, the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC). The sanctions also required China to terminate all military assistance to Myanmar failing which the US would vote against multilateral financial assistance to China as punitive action. The EU and ASEAN members were also told to fall in line and cancel Myanmar’s membership in the latter. India followed suit and ended all ties with Myanmar. The cumulative effect of all these punitive actions resulted not in the restoration of democracy but in driving Myanmar straight into the protective patronage of Beijing over the years. Finally, the sanctions were eased in 2011, when the SPDC was dissolved and power was vested with Thein Sein, the former army general and prime minister under the military Junta. Instead of blanket sanctions, this time the US sanctions apply mostly to commercial establishments associated with the Tatmadaw. But given the economic structure and long years of military rule, there are few high-value business entities in Myanmar that fall out of the ambit of the military or the government. Since the military will now be running the government, every aspect of the economy, banking, payment schedules and investments would be seen as part of government activity and fall within the ambit of sanctions. Canada and the UK have also joined the sanctions bandwagon. Delhi has so far moved cautiously on the issue of the coup as well as the reactions to it from the democratic world. This is understandable in light of the fallout – the setback to India’s strategic interests -- of the earlier sanctions, when Delhi followed the West’s lead. Beijing, too, has reacted cautiously and would prefer to wait and watch. Both Delhi and Beijing have the fact sheets of one another’s engagements with Myanmar. The army chief and coup leader Min Aung Hlaing has maintained close ties with both capitals. But a section of the army under his command strongly believes that China is arming the Rohingya groups like the Arakan Army and Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), to be used as troublemakers in case there is an unfavourable tilt towards India to the detriment of China’s BRI projects. Meanwhile, taking advantage of the window of opportunity that Myanmar’s democratic transition provided, the Modi government had moved fast and improved defence and security cooperation, after reciprocal visits by the army chiefs of both countries. This was followed by the visits of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Foreign Secretary Shringla and Army Chief Gen. Naravane. India has given the INS Sindhuvir submarine, light-weight torpedoes and other military hardware as part of Maritime Security Cooperation and White Shipping Information Sharing agreements that adds to India’s maritime strength and security in the Indo-Pacific region. Thus, Myanmar has come to occupy a position of strategic importance for India in its engagements with our immediate and extended neighbourhood in the wake of China’s rapid and hegemonic expansion plans. It is important for Delhi to apprise the White House of the delicate situation and the need to strike a balance between the urge to restore democracy and tackling changing regional equations that can tilt the balance in China’s favour in an emerging new global order. Meanwhile, Delhi should keep open all lines of communication with the army and the political leaders in Myanmar, impress upon the coup leaders to restore democracy at the earliest and nudge all stakeholders in Myanmar to prioritise the country’s development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/us-can-impose-sanctions-on-myanmar-delhi-has-to-play-a-delicate-game-953563.html
21-02-2021||First Edit||Impact of accidents needs attention||A World Bank report on road accidents in India has shed light on some aspects of accidents that have not received adequate attention till now. The statistics about accidents in the country make for terrifying reading every year. As many as 53 accidents occur every hour, and India has the third highest number of accidents in the world. But the country tops in the number of deaths, which was about 1.5 lakh in 2019. The fact that with just 1% of the total number of vehicles in the world, India accounts for 6% of the global road accidents and 11% of related deaths gives a grim perspective of the situation. In the last many years, the number of vehicles on the road has increased tremendously. The road length has also increased as part of the welcome plan to expand connectivity for economic and other reasons. Accidents have increased in proportion to the increase in road length.  But the focus of the World Bank report is on the impact of the accidents on the lives of people. It says that the poor and low-income people and households suffer more than others from accidents, as in the case of many other disasters. When the effect of accidents on low-income households (LIH) and higher-income households (HIHs) was studied, it was found that persons from LIHs were more prone to accidents and four times more likely to die in the post-accident scenario than persons from HIHs. While richer households lost 54% of their income after accidents, poorer ones lost 75%. Poorer households had twice the number of deaths and twice the disability risk. Women bear a disproportionate share of the burden, because they have to do additional work. About 50% of the women said their income was severely affected and about 11% said they had to take up additional work.  All this shows that the economic and social impact of accidents goes beyond the problems of loss of life, damage to health and immediate medical expenses. The subsequent and collateral damage is considerable and often more serious than the direct impact, especially for poor families. Accidents are caused by various factors, such as poor roads, faulty vehicles, negligence on the part of drivers and disregard for rules. All these need to be addressed to reduce the number of accidents. But an equally important challenge is to deal with the impact on families. Families fall into debt traps, the lives of women and children are adversely affected and change altogether, and psychological problems arise. These also need to be tackled, because accidents affect many more people than those who are directly involved in them, and the more vulnerable sections of society are hit the most.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/impact-of-accidents-needs-attention-953840.html
21-02-2021||In Perspective||What are sperm telling us?||Something alarming is happening between our legs. Sperm counts have been dropping; infant boys are developing more genital abnormalities; more girls are experiencing early puberty; and adult women appear to be suffering declining egg quality and more miscarriages. It’s not just humans. Scientists report genital anomalies in a range of species, including unusually small penises in alligators, otters and minks. In some areas, significant numbers of fish, frogs and turtles have exhibited both male and female organs. Four years ago, a leading scholar of reproductive health, Shanna H Swan, calculated that from 1973 to 2011, the sperm count of average men in Western countries had fallen by 59%. Inevitably, there were headlines about “Spermageddon” and the risk that humans would disappear, but then we moved on to chase other shiny objects. Now Swan, an epidemiologist at Mount Sinai Medical Centre in New York, has written a book, “Count Down,” that will be published on Tuesday and sounds a warning bell. Her subtitle is blunt: “How our modern world is threatening sperm counts, altering male and female reproductive development, and imperilling the future of the human race.” Swan and other experts say the problem is a class of chemicals called endocrine disrupters, which mimic the body’s hormones and thus fool our cells. This is a particular problem for foetuses as they sexually differentiate early in pregnancy. Endocrine disruptors can wreak reproductive havoc. These endocrine disrupters are everywhere: plastics, shampoos, cosmetics, cushions, pesticides, canned foods and ATM receipts. They often aren’t on labels and can be difficult to avoid. “In some ways, the sperm-count decline is akin to where global warming was 40 years ago,” Swan writes. “The climate crisis has been accepted — at least by most people — as a real threat. My hope is that the same will happen with the reproductive turmoil that’s upon us.” Chemical companies are as reckless as tobacco companies were a generation ago, or as opioid manufacturers were a decade ago. They lobby against even safety testing of endocrine disruptors, so that we have little idea if products we use each day are damaging our bodies or our children. We’re all guinea pigs. Aside from the decline in sperm counts, growing numbers of sperm appear defective — there’s a boom in two-headed sperm — while others loll aimlessly in circles, rather than furiously swimming in pursuit of an egg. And infants who have had greater exposures to a kind of endocrine disrupter called phthalates have smaller penises, Swan found. Uncertainty remains, research sometimes conflicts, and biological pathways aren’t always clear. There are competing theories about whether the sperm count decline is real and what might cause it and about why girls appear to be reaching puberty earlier, and it’s sometimes unclear whether an increase in male genital abnormalities reflects actual rising numbers or just better reporting. Still, the Endocrine Society, the Pediatric Endocrine Society, the President’s Cancer Panel and the World Health Organisation have all warned about endocrine disrupters, and Europe and Canada have moved to regulate them. But in the United States, Congress and the Trump administration seemed to listen more to industry lobbyists than to independent scientists. Patricia Ann Hunt, a reproductive geneticist at Washington State University, has conducted experiments on mice showing that the impact of endocrine disrupters is cumulative, generation after generation. When infant mice were exposed for just a few days to endocrine-disrupting chemicals, their testes as adults produced fewer sperm, and this incapacity was transmitted to their offspring. While findings from animal studies can’t necessarily be extended to humans, after three generations of these exposures, one-fifth of the male mice were infertile. “I find this particularly troubling,” Professor Hunt told me. “From the standpoint of human exposures, you could argue we are hitting the third generation just about now.” What, if anything, does all this mean for the future of humanity? “I do not see humans becoming extinct, but I do see family lines ending for a subset of people who are infertile,” Andrea Gore, a professor of neuroendocrinology at the University of Texas at Austin, told me. “People with impaired sperm or egg quality cannot exercise their right to choose to have a child. That may not devastate our species, but it is certainly devastating to these infertile couples.” More research is necessary, and government regulation and corporate responsibility are crucial to manage risks, but Swan offers practical suggestions for daily life for those with the resources. Store food in glass containers, not plastic. Above all, don’t microwave foods in plastic or with plastic wrap on top. Avoid pesticides. Buy organic produce if possible. Avoid tobacco or marijuana. Use a cotton or linen shower curtain, not one made of vinyl. Don’t use air fresheners. Prevent dust build-up. Vet consumer products you use with an online guide like that of the Environmental Working Group. Many issues in headlines today won’t much matter in a decade, let alone in a century. Climate change is one exception, and another may be the risks to our capacity to reproduce. The epitome of a “low blow” is a kick to the crotch. And that, friends, may be what we as a species are doing to ourselves. NYT||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-are-sperm-telling-us-953838.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Pancha Gangavali Kandla Vana to be biodiversity spot’||Karnataka Biodiversity Board president Ananth Hegde Ashisar said that 100 acres of mangrove forest near Pancha Gangavali estuary in Kundapur taluk will be declared as traditional biodiversity spot. “A cast area of Kandla (mangrove forest) is found in Pancha Gangavali in Karnataka. It has been decided to declare it as a traditional biodiversity spot. After CRZ officials and Kundapura DCF submits a report, the announcement will be made in Biodiversity Board meeting,” he told media persons on Saturday.  He said that an appeal was made to the government on distributing compensation to farmers who suffered a loss due to monkey menace. The subsidy for having installed solar fences by farmers residing on the periphery of the forest should be increased to 100% from 50%. “The Board will urge the government to make an announcement in the budget. In the pre-budget meeting, we had urged on re-implementation of Karavali Hasiru Kavacha programme,” he recollected. Pejawar Smrithi Vana Ashisar said that an appeal to construct Pejawar Smrithi Vana in memory of Pejawar seer Vishwesha Theertha Swami in Udupi was approved by the government. The district administration has received directions to identify suitable land.  ‘Biodiversity Day’ will be observed in all gram and taluk panchayats on May 22. Janata bio-diversity committee and sub-committees had been set up at the gram panchayat level. There is a need to create awareness. A special project was chalked out for the conservation of deemed forest in Udupi. The project will take a final shape by end of May, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pancha-gangavali-kandla-vana-to-be-biodiversity-spot-953616.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tiger kills 16-year-old boy in Kodagu district||A tiger attacked and killed a 16-year-old boy at Kumatoor in Kodagu district on Saturday night. Paniyaravara Ayyappa was returning home after finishing work in a coffee estate. His body was found in the coffee estate belonging to Kotrangada Ashwath. The victim stayed in Kotrangada Bidappa with his father Paniyaravara Basappa. Ayyappa had suffered injuries on his head. The fur of the tiger was found on the victim's body. Southern parts of Kodagu have recorded many cases of tiger menace in the last five months. Cattle and other domestic animals have been falling prey to the tiger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tiger-kills-16-year-old-boy-in-kodagu-district-953633.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Only 4 entry points for Kerala passengers in Dakshina Kannada||With a rise in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has issued an order to open only four interstate borders — Talapady in Mangaluru taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk and Jalsoor in Sullia for those entering the district from Kerala. All other interstate borders will be closed from Monday (February 22). Passengers from Kerala will have to enter Karnataka and return via these four check posts, said the DC who is also the Chairman of District Disaster Management Authority. The DC said that the health department will deploy teams on all four check posts to screen those entering Dakshina Kannada district. All those entering the district should produce Covid-19 negative certificate obtained 72 hours prior to their journey.   Those who are travelling in buses need to compulsorily show Covid-19 negative certificates. A separate data of daily passengers from Kerala including students and those working in various business establishments will be collected. They will be asked to produce Covid-19 negative certificates and will have to undergo tests once in 15 days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-only-4-entry-points-for-kerala-passengers-in-dakshina-kannada-953672.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five killed, 13 injured in road mishap near Hassan||Five people were killed and 13 others sustained injuries in a collision between two vehicles on national highway 75 near Kechatahalli in Hassan district on Sunday morning. The deceased have been identified as Naveen Kumar, Pradeep, Sunil Kumar, Puneeth and Anil Kumar, all from KGF. While Anil breathed his last in the hospital, four others died on the spot. All the 13 injured have been shifted to the district hospital for treatment. According to sources, eight passengers from KGF were on their way to attend a wedding in Udupi, in their Toyota Qualis, and 10 people from Mulbagal, Kolar district, were heading towards Dharmasthala in their Tata Sumo vehicle.  The driver of the Sumo vehicle slowed down at a road hump near Kenchattahalli, when the speeding Qualis rammed the car from behind. As the driver lost control over the vehicle, the Sumo toppled due to the impact of the collision. Four people, out of eight in Qualis, died on the spot. . Others, who had got stuck in the vehicle, were rescued by the locals and were later shifted to the district hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-killed-13-injured-in-road-mishap-near-hassan-953719.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yogi Adityanath visits Jogi Mutt in Mangaluru||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Kadri Yogeshwara (Jogi) Mutt before leaving for Mangalore International Airport on Sunday. The UP CM had attended BJP's Vijaya Yathre in Kasargod. Pejawar seer Sri Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swamiji met Yogi Adityanath at Jogi Mutt and interacted with him. It is said that Pejawar seer spoke to Adityanath regarding observation of next Ramanavami at Ayodhya. Yogi Adityanath is the Mahant of Nath Panth and Kadri Jogi Mutt comes under Nath Panth. This is the second time he visited Jogi Mutt after becoming the CM of Uttar Pradesh. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh CM arrived at Mangalore International Airport in a special flight. With heavy security, he left for Kasargod to take part in BJP's Vijaya yatre via road from the airport. He reached Kadri Jogi Mutt at 6.45 pm. Owing to the security reasons, public were not allowed inside the mutt. Police security had strengthened on the routes where Yogi passed through. After having dinner at the mutt, he left from Mangaluru. Earlier, speaking to mediapersons, Pejawar seer said that devotees have been supporting the cause of Ram Mandir across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yogi-adityanath-visits-jogi-mutt-in-mangaluru-953788.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal sets deadline for Yediyurappa to meet Panchamasali demands||BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal warned Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa of severe repercussions if the demands of the Panchamasali community to include them under the 2A reservation category was not met by the end of the Budget session. Speaking at a massive convention at Palace Grounds in the city, organised by Panchamasalis - a sub-caste of the Lingayat community, Yatnal said that the dharna will continue until their demands were met. "If you don't declare 2A reservation by the end of the session, Lingayat community will ..," he said, gesturing that the community would send Yediyurappa home. Yatnal said that the CM will have to respond to the 2A reservation demands when the Legislature session resumed on March 4. "If he continues his drama, two ministers from the community (CC Patil and Murugesh Nirani) and chairmen of boards and corporations should resign," he said. Rubbishing the government decided to order a study of the Panchamasali community before granting it 2A status, he said that Yediyurappa could grant the demands. "When it came to your caste, you gave it. Why are you not giving us?....... Let us know if you cannot fulfil (our demands). We know how to take it," he said, accusing the CM of turning a blind eye to petitions on revising the reservation status of several other communities in the state. Continuing his salvo against the CM, he said that nobody could shut his mouth by issuing a notice. "If anyone thinks that Basangouda will be cowed, he will have to vacate his seat soon," he said, referring to the show-cause notice issued by BJP high command recently. In the event disrupted by rains, Mines and Geology minister Nirani and Small Scale Industries minister CC Patil were jeered by the crowd during their address, forcing seers Jayamrutyunjaya Swami and Vachanaananda swami to step in the control of the crowd. Both the ministers assured the gathering of a positive response from the government. Leaders of the community decided to set up Akhila Bharata Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha, to push for their demands in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-sets-deadline-for-yediyurappa-to-meet-panchamasali-demands-953674.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Panchamasali seer launches stir for quota in Bengaluru||Pressure mounted on the B S Yediyurappa government after Panchamasali seer Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami was forced to continue the agitation demanding 2A reservation for the community. The seer, following a massive Panchamasali convention in the city on Sunday, decided to continue the dharna till March 4 at Freedom Park in Bengaluru, and launch a fast unto death agitation if the demands of the community were not met by then. The seer appeared to have been caught in two minds at the end of the convention after pleas by ministers C C Patil and Murugesh Nirani to withdraw the protest. The gathering, however, was hostile to any suggestions of ending the agitation, and backed BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal's demand to continue the agitation until their demands are met. Unhappy with the decision, C C Patil stormed off the stage at the venue. Both Patil and Nirani, along with other BJP legislators of the Panchamasali community, are scheduled to address a media briefing on Monday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa did not respond to comments on the issue. Earlier, at the rain-interrupted convention, Yatnal had continued his salvo against Yediyurappa, setting the end of the upcoming Budget session as the deadline to include the Panchamasali community under 2A reservation category. Warning of repercussions from a united Lingayat community, he urged Patil and Nirani to resign as ministers if Yediyurappa did not accord the status. Speeches of ministers Patil and Nirani, which argued the state government's case, were interrupted and jeered by the crowd. Patil had noted that it was the Yediyurappa government who included Panchamasalis under 3B, and has ordered a study from the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission to further the cause. Seers had to step in several times during the ministers' speeches to silence the crowd and allow them to express their views. At the end of the convention, which was the culmination of a padayatra launched by Jaya Mruthyunjaya seer over the issue, he decided to take out a March to Vidhana Soudha. There were several tense moments during the march and the police barricaded entry points from Palace Grounds towards the administrative centre. They were finally persuaded to move towards Freedom Park. Security was beefed around Vidhana Soudha during the unscheduled march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/panchamasali-seer-launches-stir-for-quota-in-bengaluru-953799.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) looks to balance ideology, bonhomie with BJP||Having recently joined hands with BJP in the Legislative Council, the JD(S) appears to have now taken a step back to quickly recalibrate its optics in the public eye. If former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s recent attacks against the Sangh over the Ram Mandir fund collection drive are anything to go by, the regional party is treading cautiously to ensure that it does not come across as an ideological ally of BJP, while at the same time keeping doors open for an electoral alliance in the future.  The last couple of months saw a bonhomie between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Kumaraswamy. While Kumaraswamy announced “issue-based” support to BJP, Yediyurappa was also seen criticising Congress leaders for personal attacks on JD(S). Apart from joining hands for the Council elections, several Bills in the recent legislature session were passed with the cooperation of JD(S), even as Congress leaders kept staging walkouts in protest.  However, over the last week, Kumaraswamy has repeatedly attacked Hindutva outfits collecting funds for Ram Mandir construction. Claiming to have been threatened at his doorstep by VHP volunteers who sought donation for Ram Mandir, he questioned the accountability of this drive. His comments drew sharp criticism from RSS, VHP and BJP leaders.  What caused this change of course? Speaking to DH, Kumaraswamy reiterated that his support to BJP was only “issue-based”. His party did not have any necessity to “maintain cordial ties” with either the BJP or Congress, he said. “They (the BJP) have made Hindutva their political agenda. They label everyone who doesn’t agree with them as anti-Hindus,” he said. Nonetheless, some JD(S) and BJP leaders that DH spoke to indicated that both parties had kept their doors open for a possible alliance in the upcoming 2023 Assembly polls. Sources in JD(S) also said both Yediyurappa and Kumaraswamy had already held talks in this regard and that there was an “understanding”.  JD(S) is playing pragmatic politics, explained said M J Vinod, Professor of International Studies, Politics and History at Christ University. “From the perspective of their political future, it makes sense to tie up with BJP. But the party also probably realises that its voter base is increasingly getting diluted. Ram Mandir is a sensitive issue and it cannot appear to be completely supporting BJP as it might isolate its voter base, especially in the Old Mysuru region,” he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-looks-to-balance-ideology-bonhomie-with-bjp-953808.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yatnal 'sustains' stir for Panchamasalis' quota demand||Disgruntled BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal turned out to be the man in focus at the Panchamasali convention, thwarting attempts by ministers C C Patil and Murugesh Nirani of convincing Jaya Mrutyunjaya seer to withdraw the agitation. A clear crowd favourite, his stand changed the direction of the protest, which was expected to culminate after the massive show of strength at Palace Grounds in the city on Sunday. At the end of the convention, Jaya Mrutyunjaya seer - who had launched a padayatra at Kudalasangama in January for 2A reservation to Panchamasali community - stood to announce his decision on continuing the dharna. Recalling the decision of the government to constitute a study on the Panchamasali community, he said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had sought more time to grant 2A status to the community. “I am in a dilemma. On one hand, you have backed me in large numbers and on the other hand ministers C C Patil, Murugesh Nirani and MP Karadi Sanganna are requesting (to withdraw the protest). In that context..,” he said, hinting at a possible end to the agitation. The gathering, however, was not pleased and erupted against any decision to call off the protest. Attempts by Rajya Sabha member Eranna Kadadi to convince the crowd failed, after which the seer announced that he would take opinions from all leaders at the venue before taking the final call. The seer sought BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s opinion first. Yatnal, who, in his speech earlier, had set a deadline till the end of the budget session of the legislature to fulfill the community demands, stuck to his stand. Urging the seers to continue the protest, he demanded that Yediyurappa clarify his position on granting reservation during the legislature session.  Ministers don’t matter “The movement won’t stop. You ministers (Patil and Nirani) meet Yediyurappa and tell him to fulfill our demands. If he doesn’t, tell him that you’ll resign. How Yediyurappa doesn’t fulfill our demands I too shall see,” he said, to loud cheers from the crowd. This angered minister Patil, who stormed off stage. Before this, he had attracted the wrath of the crowd thrice during the convention as he attempted to plead the government’s case.  Following the same, the seer announced to continue dharna till March 4, after which he would launch a fast-unto-death agitation, if the demands are notmet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yatnal-sustains-stir-for-panchamasalis-quota-demand-953813.html
21-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||High drama at Palace Grounds as rallyists defy curbs||Thousands of members of the Panchamasali community defied prohibitory orders and marched towards the Vidhana Soudha. This was contrary to the expectation of the police that the rally would end at the Palace Grounds. The supporters, accompanied by the seers and leaders, marched towards the Soudha. The police imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, but to no avail. The city police, led by commissioner Kamal Pant, succeeded in stopping the marchers at Cauvery junction.  Pant appealed to the Swami to end the padayatra, citing prohibitory orders. However, the Swami and supporters refused to listen and continued the march. On reaching Windsor Manor bridge, the protestors began to remove barricades. The police diverted the marchers towards Palace Guttahalli main road and railway parallel road. The rally, passing through Shivananda Circle and Anand Rao Circle, reached Freedom Park. Protesting against the police action, a few people even slept on the road, affecting vehicular traffic. At the Freedom Park, the rally was addressed by the seer and other leaders.   Criticising the government’s move to impose prohibitory orders, Jayamrutyunjaya Swami said, “Determined to scuttle our fight, the government imposed Section 144. But we will not be deterred it.” “The government and the police forced us to change the route. Yet, thousands of supporters reached Freedom Park and this has conveyed the right message. If the government does not agree to our demands, it will be responsible for future actions.” Anticipating the huge crowd in and around the Palace Grounds, the police had announced traffic diversions. But the sudden decision to take out a padayatra towards Vidhana Soudha put the police in a spot.  Sankey Road, Sadashivanagar, Vasanthanagar, Palace Road, Mysuru Bank Circle, Shivananda Circle, Race Course Road, Majestic and KR Circle witnessed huge traffic jams due to the padayatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/high-drama-at-palace-grounds-as-rallyists-defy-curbs-953827.html
21-02-2021||Main Article||New India's Diplomacy: A foreign policy for the domestic audience||When the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) released a statement on Rihanna’s tweet about the farm protests early this month, many people around the world wondered why the Indian government was picking a fight with international celebrities and pop stars. The crisis soon snowballed into a public relations disaster for Indian diplomacy, as more voices joined the chorus from around the world. Commentators pointed out that India’s official response neglected to address the real issue Rihanna had raised. While Rihanna had tweeted a CNN report on the government’s decision to cut internet access around New Delhi, the MEA’s statement alleged an international conspiracy against India by “vested interest groups” abroad and castigated celebrities for enabling them – all with no proof and few details. In a first, the MEA’s statement also included Twitter hashtags: #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. Things got worse in the wake of the MEA’s statement, when several Indian celebrities were found to be tweeting identical messages on Indian sovereignty using the MEA’s hashtags and discouraging foreign celebrities from commenting on India’s “internal matters”. But this only led to further criticism, with many observers questioning the government for attempting to turn a tweet by a pop star into an infringement on India’s sovereignty. Meanwhile, influential global personalities – including Meena Harris, the niece of the US Vice President – reacted by shedding the spotlight on what they saw as New Delhi’s attempt to dodge questions on a humanitarian crisis. This was far from the only gaffe that Indian diplomacy had to deal with this month. Not long after the MEA took heat for its statement, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, General VK Singh, made his own shocking statement on the border dispute with China. Talking about the ambiguity that surrounds the Line of Actual Control between the two countries, Singh said, “Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times.” The Chinese foreign ministry called his statement an “unwitting confession” – a vindication of Beijing’s charge that New Delhi is the real aggressor. Shortly thereafter, Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Deb claimed that the BJP has been planning to expand to Nepal and Sri Lanka, drawing official objection from Kathmandu. Chest-thumping for the domestic audience at the expense of India’s foreign policy interests is always dangerous – whether it comes from the foreign ministry or from political leaders, wrangling in India’s emotionally-charged political discourse. But what made the response to Rihanna much worse is the fact that it came from India’s foreign ministry, no less. India’s diplomatic corps has long been renowned for its professional excellence with words and messaging. India’s mastery of diplomatic rhetoric has driven New Delhi’s global soft power and credibility for decades – helping India win trust and goodwill despite raging controversies that surrounded India’s nuclear programme. Yet, India’s official diplomatic communications have increasingly begun to reflect the country’s fiery domestic political rhetoric, with serious and lasting consequences for Indian diplomacy and India’s global image. Last October, India slammed a Special Rapporteur at the United Nations, Ahmed Shaheed, for being biased towards “one religious community.” India’s charge had followed Shaheed’s report on the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the allegations of police brutality that followed it. Less than two months later, an Indian diplomat accused the UN General Assembly (UNGA) of selective condemnation of attacks on Abrahamic religions while ignoring religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism. Media outlets later fact-checked that statement by citing various UNGA resolutions that had condemned attacks on Buddhist and Hindu temples in countries like Afghanistan. Many of the aggressive and communally-charged statements emanating from the Indian foreign ministry seem to be directed more at Hindu nationalist voters back home than at the outside world. That objective is often easily achieved: Supporters of the government would often argue that these statements are a sign that the “new India” is now “standing up” for itself. Jingoists in Indian social media discourse have long believed that the world is collectively predisposed against India, for unclear reasons, and would like New Delhi to punch back. They often cheer the foreign ministry for echoing their words. But diplomatic statements must aim to build influence and political capital abroad – not at home – and hot-headed statements have very real implications for India’s credibility as an emerging power. The international community is extremely diverse, and people in most countries do not harbour Hindu nationalist sentiments. Communally-charged statements on the world stage only serve, therefore, to make countries suspicious of India’s intentions, even as New Delhi tries to make its case for global leadership. Ironically, they also give fodder to the same criticism that the foreign ministry is trying to counter – voiced by international celebrities – that India is sliding into majoritarianism. Meanwhile, expansionist comments only add to paranoia and distrust in the neighbourhood, at a time when India is competing with China for influence and goodwill. New Delhi’s shoddy handling of the Kalapani dispute with Nepal last year, which was filled with jingoistic rhetoric in India, only served to elevate a forgotten border dispute into a diplomatic crisis – uniting Kathmandu’s fractured politics and resulting in a unanimous resolution by the Nepali parliament to alter its official map. At least some part of that was driven by a comment from India’s Chief of Army Staff, General Naravane, who insinuated that Nepal was merely acting at China’s behest. Communally-charged and jingoistic rhetoric in India’s domestic politics is unfortunate, but it’s neither new nor avoidable. But the foreign ministry’s adoption of that language in its official communications with the outside world threatens to set new standards for Indian diplomacy and compromises India’s credibility as a responsible emerging power. It should be a cause for concern for Indian strategic thinkers, diplomats and policymakers. (The writer is a foreign affairscolumnist and author of Flying Blind: India’s Quest for Global Leadership)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/new-indias-diplomacy-a-foreign-policy-for-the-domestic-audience-953841.html
21-02-2021||National||With 14,264 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally nears 2 crore||Daily Covid-19 cases in India registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day with the country recording 14,264 new cases, taking the total tally to 1,09,91,651, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,56,302 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country had registered 18,855 infections in a day on January 29.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,89,715 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of  97.25 per  cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,45,634 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR,  21,09,31,530 samples have been tested up to February 20 with 6,70,050  samples being tested on Saturday. The  90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 8 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,302 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,753 from Maharashtra followed by 12,457 from Tamil Nadu, 12,292 from Karnataka, 10,898 from Delhi, 10,246 from West Bengal, 8,714 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-14264-fresh-cases-indias-covid-19-tally-nears-2-crore-953610.html
21-02-2021||National||UN chief Antonio Guterres lauds India's fight against Covid-19, vaccine assistance||UN chief Antonio Guterres has voiced appreciation for India’s leadership in the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic and its efforts to bring a “much-needed supply” of the Covid-19 vaccines to the world market. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted on Saturday that Guterres, in a letter dated February 17, “extends his personal gratitude” to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar for “India’s offer of 200,000 doses" of Covid-19 vaccines for UN peacekeepers. The Secretary-General says “India has been a global leader in pandemic response efforts”, Tirumurti tweeted, expressing his gratitude to the UN Chief. In an excerpt of the letter tweeted by Tirumurti, Guterres says, “Indeed, India has been a global leader in pandemic response efforts having provided critical medicines, diagnostic kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment to more than 150 countries. “Efforts by India in developing and manufacturing one of the two vaccines currently granted Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization bring a much-needed supply to the global vaccine market. I also appreciate your continued efforts to support and strengthen the COVAX Facility to ensure more equitable access.” COVAX is is a global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. On Wednesday, India, which has been hailed as the pharmacy of the world, announced the gift of 200,000 Covid-19 doses for UN peacekeepers. “Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 200,000 doses for them,” Jaishankar said, addressing the UN Security Council open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020) on the cessation of hostilities in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Quoting the Bhagavad Gita, Jaishankar had said “Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind.” He told the meeting that it is this spirit in which India approaches the Covid challenge and urged the Council to work collectively to address its different dimensions. The 200,000 doses essentially mean that it will be possible to administer the required double doses of Covid vaccines to all UN peacekeepers across missions. According to UN Peacekeeping, currently, a total of 94,484 personnel are serving in 12 peacekeeping operations across the world led by the Department of Peace Operations. A total of 121 nations are contributing uniformed personnel to the UN peacekeeping missions. India is traditionally among the largest troop-contributing countries to peacekeeping missions. Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, had told PTI in response to a question on the Secretary General's thoughts on the announcement by India, said that Guterres is “extremely grateful” for the gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers and the distribution will be operationalised by the UN's Department of Support. “We are extremely grateful for this donation announced today by the Indian delegation. The distribution will be operationalised by the UN's Department of Support,” Dujarric had said. Earlier this week, two versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccine were given WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL). The versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, produced by AstraZeneca-SK Bioscience (AZ-SKBio) and the Serum Institute of India (AZ-SII), are now available for global rollout through the COVAX Facility. The vaccine Covishield is the version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India. Covaxin is the indigenously developed vaccine by pharma company Bharat Biotech. Jaishankar said these two vaccines have already been granted emergency authorisation and additionally, as many as 30 candidates are under various stages of development. Under the initiative “Vaccine Maitri”, which translates into Vaccine Friendship, India is providing vaccines to the world. Last month, Guterres had said that the vaccine production capacity of India is “one of the best assets the world has today”, and had applauded India for supplying Covid-19 vaccines to nations around the world. “I would like to say how much we count on India. I mean, India has one of the most advanced pharmaceutical industries. India played a very important role in the production of generics for use that was a very important element of democratisation of access to medicines all over the world,” Guterres had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-chief-antonio-guterres-lauds-indias-fight-against-covid-19-vaccine-assistance-953617.html
21-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi addresses top BJP leaders ahead of assembly elections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Sunday, addressed Bhartiya Janata Party's (BJP) national office bearers including the national general secretaries and state presidents. "After PM addressed & guided national office bearers, discussions being held over upcoming Assembly elections in states, Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, and farm laws. State-based group meetings and future events will be discussed & announced", said BJP National General Secretary Arun Singh. This was BJP's first physical meeting of the party's new national team ahead of assembly elections in four states and Union Territories. Today's meeting assumed significance as it comes amid fierce protests by a section of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh against the three new farm laws. The farmer union leaders have been trying to spread their agitation in other parts of the country while stepping up their attack on the Modi government. The BJP is also readying for the assembly polls in four states, including West Bengal, which has been eyed by the saffron organisation as its next big prize as its footprint spreads across the country. These national official-bearers were appointed last year after Nadda took over as party president, and no physical meeting could be held so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-addresses-top-bjp-leaders-ahead-of-assembly-elections-953618.html
21-02-2021||National||Fact-check: Did Disha Ravi hire Akhil Sibal at Rs 5-7 lakh per appearance?||The Delhi High Court, on February 18, issued notices to the News Broadcasting Standards Authority and media houses News18 and Times Now regarding publishing extracts of climate activist Disha Ravi’s private chats. The court looked into a petition filed by senior advocate Akhil Sibal representing Ravi who was arrested by Delhi police on February 14 for ‘editing’ a toolkit supporting the farmers’ protest. Disha Ravi hires Akhil Sibal - that’s between 5 to 7 lakhs per appearance. Do the maths. A claim viral on social media suggests that Sibal is charging Rs 5-7 lakhs for every court appearance on Ravi’s case. Below is a tweet by columnist Abhijit Iyer Mitra that received over 22,000 likes and close to 9,000 retweets.  The claim is in fact widespread on Facebook. For all those trolls mocking Disha Ravi and saying that at the age of 21, she has accomplished nothing but indulgence in... Akhil Sibal is fighting case in favour of Disha Ravi. Akhil Sibal's fee is 4-5 lakh per hearing. 21 yrs old who is fighting for poor Farmers can afford 4-5 lakh per hearing. Disha Ravi hires Akhil Sibal, son of Kapil Sibal.He apparently charges 5-6 lacs per hearing. What kind of money a 21 year old innocent climate activist has, to be able to hire such an expensive lawyer? If not then who is funding her?    In a conversation with Alt News, Akhil Sibal informed that he is representing Disha Ravi pro bono. “I was approached by her lawyer Vrinda Bhandari and have appeared twice for her regarding the media trial petition,” he said. “I took on the case because this was an important issue to agitate before the court. We know the menace of media trials. Private messages should not be leaked during an ongoing case. It sets a dangerous precedent for due process and affects the privacy of the individual. The law has to take its course. The presumption of innocence recognised by law should not be affected,” he added. Advocate Vrinda Bhandari also clarified that the claims are untrue. “He decided to help on such short notice. He has taken up the case pro bono,” she told Alt News.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-disha-ravi-hire-akhil-sibal-at-rs-5-7-lakh-per-appearance-953628.html
21-02-2021||National||New Covid-19 strains in India could be more dangerous, says AIIMS chief||Following the spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab, questions about the possibility of a new strain of the virus emerging began to gain more traction.  The case spike in Maharashtra, which has triggered a lockdown in three districts and has seen a statewide tightening of restrictions is likely due to a number of new strains, a member of Maharashtra's Covid task force told NDTV.  The task force member — Dr Shashank Joshi — also informed the news outlet that 240 new strains of the coronavirus had emerged across India. Dr Guleria urged caution while dealing with the new strains, irrespective of whether they were seen to be more deadly or not. He added that the reason for their higher infection rate was down to their ability to evade antibodies, known as the "immune escape mechanism." This means that even after receiving the vaccine, one could still get infected by the coronavirus variants. The AIIMS chief reassured that the vaccines would work against the new strains, albeit with a lower efficacy. However, he continued to urge caution and suggested that newer strains of the virus might emerge as more individuals begin to receive the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-covid-19-strains-in-india-could-be-more-dangerous-says-aiims-chief-953641.html
21-02-2021||National||Poonawalla urges countries to be patient for Covishield, says SII directed to prioritise India's needs||Adar Poonawalla, CEO of vaccine major Serum Institute of India (SII), on Sunday urged other countries to be patient as they wait for the supplies of Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, as the company has been directed to prioritise the needs of India. Apart from making efforts to meet the requirements of India, the company is also trying its best to balance the needs of the rest of the world, he added. "Dear countries and governments, as you await #COVISHIELD supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, @SerumInstIndia has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best", Poonawalla said in a tweet.   On February 15, the World Health Organisation (WHO) listed two versions of the AstraZeneca/Oxford Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, giving the green light for these vaccines to be rolled out globally through COVAX. The vaccines are produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poonawalla-urges-countries-to-be-patient-for-covishield-says-sii-directed-to-prioritise-indias-needs-953643.html
21-02-2021||National||New edu policy reflects Modi govt's commitment to Indian languages: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages. In a message on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day, Shah said the mother tongue is a powerful medium of expression. "Our new education policy reflects the commitment of the Modi government towards the preservation, development and empowerment of all Indian languages," he tweeted in Hindi. The home minister said maximum efforts should be made for the use of mother tongue and foster the wisdom passed on by it to strengthen the foundation of the country's culture in children. "Greetings on the occasion of the International Mother Language Day. This day inspires us to stay connected with our cultural heritage," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-edu-policy-reflects-modi-govts-commitment-to-indian-languages-amit-shah-953648.html
21-02-2021||National||Centre focused on promoting rural industries, aims to take annual turnover to Rs 5L cr: Rajnath||Master artisans and craftsmen can contribute big time to the country's economy and the central government's aim is to take the rural industries' annual turnover of about Rs 80,000 crore to Rs 5 lakh crore within the next two to three years, Union minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday while inaugurating the 26th edition of 'Hunar Haat' here. More than 600 artisans and craftsmen from over 31 states and Union Territories are participating in the Minority Affairs Ministry's Hunar Haat' being held at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on the theme of "Vocal for Local" from February 20 to March 1. The official inauguration, however, was held Sunday. The artisans and craftsmen have a very important role in contributing to the country's economy and GDP, Defence Minister Singh said. "This is the irony that our rural industries did not get the kind of encouragement they should have. But our government is focused on promoting rural industries," he said. "The turnover of rural industries per year is approximately Rs 80,000 crore and our government aims to take this turnover to Rs 5 lakh crore within the next two to three years," he said. Hailing the 'Hunar Haat' initiative of the Minority Affairs Ministry, Singh said it would go a long way in achieving the objective of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. Singh said the 'Hunar Haat' brings together indigenous artisans and craftsmen from across the country "This Haat is a beautiful exhibition of our traditional art and craft and more importantly our cultural mosaic," he said. Artisans and craftsmen from states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, are participating in 'Hunar Haat' to display and sell their products. Exquisite indigenous handmade products such as brass products, wooden and clay toys, ajrakh block print, blue art pottery, pashmina shawl, khadi products, Banarasi silk, wooden furniture, Chikankari embroidery, Chanderi silk, Lac bangles, Rajasthani jewellery, jute products from West Bengal are available for sale and display at the 'Hunar Haat', an official release said. The visitors will also get to enjoy traditional delicacies from every region of the country at the "Bawarchikhana" section. it said. The people will also enjoy different cultural and musical programmes being presented by renowned artists of the country at the 'Hunar Haat' in New Delhi. Artists such as Vinod Rathore (February 21); Nizami Brothers (February 24); Sudesh Bhonsle (February 26); Kailash Kher (February 27); Shibani Kashyap (March 1) and others will present their programmes at the 'Hunar Haat'. On the occasion, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the 'Hunar Haat', which is a "perfect platform" to promote indigenous products of artisans and craftsmen, has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than five lakh artisans, craftsmen and artists. The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will provide employment and employment opportunities to 7,50,000 artisans and craftsmen through 75 'Hunar Haats' which will be organised by completion of 75 years of the country's independence in 2022. Naqvi said the 'Hunar Haat' is available on virtual and online platform http://hunarhaat.org and on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) portal where the people can buy products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen. Lok Sabha MP Meenakshi Lekhi was the Guest of Honour at the inauguration. Minority Affairs Ministry Secretary P K Das and other senior officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-focused-on-promoting-rural-industries-aims-to-take-annual-turnover-to-rs-5l-cr-rajnath-953651.html
21-02-2021||National||Britain's Cairn hopeful of solution in $1.2 bln-plus Indian govt tax tussle||Cairn Energy Plc said on Sunday it had discussed multiple proposals with Indian government officials in recent days in an attempt to find a "swift solution" to a long-drawn-out tax dispute with the South Asian nation. In December, an arbitration body awarded the British firm damages of $1.2 billion plus interest and costs, after ruling India had breached its obligations to Cairn under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty. This month, Cairn filed a case in a US district court to enforce the arbitration award, taking an initial step in its efforts toward recovering dues. The US court this week issued electronic summons to the Indian government to file its response to the lawsuit within 60 days or face a judgment by default. In a release on Sunday, Cairn said it had held "cordial and constructive discussions" with officials from the Indian finance ministry. "We remain hopeful that an acceptable solution can be found, in order to avoid further prolonging and exacerbating this negative issue for all parties," the company said, adding it is also ready to take all necessary steps to protect the interests of its shareholders. The Indian government welcomes Cairn's move to reach out for a resolution but plans to file an appeal against the arbitration award and contest its sovereign right to tax, said a government official in New Delhi, who asked not to be identified. Cairn took the case to arbitration in 2015 to fight a demand from Indian authorities in 2014 for 102 billion rupees ($1.4 billion) in taxes that India said it was owed on capital gains related to the 2007 listing of its local unit. India lost another major international arbitration case last September against telecommunications giant Vodafone over a $2 billion retrospective tax dispute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/britains-cairn-hopeful-of-solution-in-12-bln-plus-indian-govt-tax-tussle-953652.html
21-02-2021||National||Govt should find a solution: Mayawati on fuel price rise||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday expressed concern over increase in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and urged the government to take cognizance of it and find a solution. In a Hindi tweet, Mayawati said, "The prices of essential items like petrol, diesel and cooking gas (LPG) are increasing in an uncontrolled manner after government control over the prices were removed. It has created problems everywhere, and lives of the people are affected. The government should take cognizance of the seriousness of the situation and find a solution." "The increase in additional taxes, especially on petrol and diesel, by the Centre and states is resulting in sky-rocketing prices, and the burden is increasing almost everyday on crores of poor and unemployed people. Has the Constitution ensured such a welfare state principle," she said in another tweet||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-should-find-a-solution-mayawati-on-fuel-price-rise-953654.html
21-02-2021||National||Govt working on law to regulate social media, BJP leader Ram Madhav says||Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav said that social media has become so powerful that it can even topple governments, leading to anarchy and weakening democracy, and solutions to tackle this are needed to be found within the constitutional framework. Speaking at the launch of his new book 'Because India Comes First', Madhav said democracy is stressed and facing new challenges with the rise of "non-political" and "non-state" forces. "Social media is so powerful that it can even topple governments and regulating them is difficult as they are borderless. These forces can promote anarchy, which will weaken democracy but solutions should be within the constitutional framework," he said at the event hosted by the Prabha Khaitan Foundation on Saturday evening. The existing laws are not adequate for this, he said. "We require new rules and laws to tackle and manage. The government is already working in this direction," he added. Madhav's comments come amid a row between the government and Twitter over blocking of accounts with Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asking the micro-blogging site to follow the Indian law. Besides, the Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Centre and Twitter on a plea, seeking to regulate hate content and to make a law as per which action can be initiated against Twitter and their representatives in India for willfully abetting and promoting anti-India tweets and penalise them. Madhav said that in his new book he has penned his observations on several decisions of the Modi government. Answering a question on Gandhi, he said the RSS does not undermine any leader's contribution. Gandhi was a great leader and his mantra of Ahimsa has been adopted by many global leaders, he said. "There may be differences of opinion, which we even find between Nehru and Gandhi from the letters exchanged between them but that does not mean we disrespect a national leader. In the RSS morning prayer, we have Gandhi's name along with other leaders," Madhav said. On Kashmir, he said that with the abrogation of Article 370, grassroot leaders are coming up against the hegemony of a few families. He also emphasised that it is the responsibility of the people of the country to make Kashmiris feel that they are part of the 1.3-billion-strong family. "Kashmiris are victims of propaganda for long. Things are changing but may take some time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-working-on-law-to-regulate-social-media-bjp-leader-ram-madhav-says-953667.html
21-02-2021||National||India pips China, inks deal to develop, support, maintain harbour at naval base in Maldives||India on Sunday signed an agreement with the Maldives to “develop, support and maintain” a harbour at Uthuru Thila Falhu naval base in the island nation. Though the new harbour is being built officially for the use of Maldives National Defence Force Coast Guard, it is likely to turn into a strategic asset for India and give it an edge over China, which has been trying to spread its tentacles in the Indian Ocean region. The agreement was signed as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a meeting with Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi before concluding his two-day visit to Malé on. The Government of Maldives and the EXIM Bank India also signed another agreement for $50 million Line of Credit for defence projects in the archipelago. “Glad to sign with Defence Minister @MariyaDidi the UTF (Uthuru Thila Falhu) Harbour Project agreement. Will strengthen Maldivian Coast Guard capability and facilitate regional HADR (Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief) efforts. Partners in development, partners in security,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter. Mariya Didi noted that defence cooperation had been a “key element” of the “sisterly relationship” between that existed between India and Maldives. “The Coast Guard Harbour & (and) Dockyard at SIFAVARU will mark another significant milestone,” she added. A joint statement issued by the two sides noted that the agreement on building the harbour had been signed “pursuant to the request the Government of Maldives made in April 2013 for support and cooperation of the Government of India to assist the Government of Maldives for enhancing the capability of the Defence Forces of the Maldives in exercising jurisdiction and undertaking maritime surveillance of its EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zone) and islands; and subsequent requests made in October 2015 and March 2016”. Beijing was also purportedly interested in building the harbour for the Coast Guard of Maldives. China however could not make any headway after Ibrahim Mohamed Solih won the November 2018 elections and took over as President of Maldives, succeeding Abdullah Yameen. India finally elbowed China out and the both sides agreed on the terms of reference for the project in September 2019. The erstwhile government of Abdullah Yameen had leased out to China the Feydhoo Finolhu islet of Maldives for 50 years in December 2016. It had raised alarms in New Delhi, particularly after satellite images in December 2017 had revealed dredging and landfill works done to expand the islet, ostensibly by the company based in China. Solih and Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June 2019 also inaugurated the Coastal Surveillance Radar Systems, which India installed in the islands of Maldives. Though the network of radar systems New Delhi helped Male set up in the islands are officially meant to help the Indian Ocean archipelago safeguard its sovereignty in its EEZ, it also helps Indian Navy keep eyes over the Indian Ocean region, where Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy have been foraying into. Jaishankar, who is here on a two-day visit, held discussions with Maldivian Defence Minister Mariya Didi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pips-china-inks-deal-to-develop-support-maintain-harbour-at-naval-base-in-maldives-953675.html
21-02-2021||National||Centre writes to states reporting spike in daily Covid-19 cases||Amid a spike in daily new cases of Covid-19 in some states including Maharashtra and Kerala, the Centre has advised them to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests and regularly monitor mutant strains besides refocusing on strict surveillance and stringent containment in selected districts. In a letter to the states, the government has also stressed that all negative rapid antigen test results should be mandatorily followed by the RT-PCR test.  India has been witnessing a rise in the Covid-19 active caseload over the past few days which is pegged at 1,45,634 as of the date and now consists of 1.32 per cent of India's total infections. "More than 74 per cent of the active cases of the country are in Kerala and Maharashtra. Of late it is seen that there has been a spike in the daily cases in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh also. Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir too are witnessing a surge in daily new cases," the ministry said. In the last four weeks in Kerala, the average weekly cases have fluctuated between a high of 42,000 and a low of 34,800.  Similarly, in the last four weeks, the weekly positivity in Kerala has ranged from 13.9 per cent to 8.9 per cent.  In Kerala, the district of Alappuzha is a cause of special concern where the weekly positivity rate has increased to 10.7 per cent and weekly cases have increased to 2,833, the ministry underlined. In Maharashtra, in the last four weeks, the weekly cases have shown a rising trend and have increased from 18,200 to 21,300; while the weekly positivity has also increased from 4.7 per cent to 8 per cent.  The areas of concern are the Mumbai suburban areas where the weekly cases have risen by 19 per cent. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal the weekly cases have increased by 33 per cent, 47 per cent, 23 per cent, 55 per cent and 48 per cent, respectively, the ministry underscored. Punjab is rapidly assuming critical dimension in respect of the spread of Covid-19 infection, the ministry highlighted adding in the last four weeks, the weekly positivity rate in the state has increased from 1.4 per cent to 1.6 per cent, while the weekly cases in the last four weeks have seen a rise from 1300 to 1682.  In one district of SBS Nagar alone, the weekly positivity rate has become 4.9 per cent from 3.5 per cent and the weekly cases have more than doubled from 165 to 364. Five states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 1.79 per cent. Maharashtra has the highest weekly positivity rate with 8.10 per cent, the ministry said The Centre has advised all these states to work on five major areas.  They have been advised to improve the overall testing numbers by focusing on increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests. It has asked them to refocus on strict and comprehensive surveillance as well as stringent containment in selected districts and conduct regular monitoring of the mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing, as well as monitoring of the emerging cluster of cases, the ministry stated.  They have also been asked to focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-writes-to-states-reporting-spike-in-daily-covid-19-cases-953677.html
21-02-2021||National||Delimitation of J&K constituencies likely to be completed by July||The Delimitation Commission, which redraws constituency boundaries, is likely to finalize its report on Jammu and Kashmir by July with the Center set to extend the term of the Commission chairperson by another six months. The Commission was set up by the Central government on 6 March 2020, to redraw parliamentary and assembly constituencies as per the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, chairperson of the Commission, whose one-year term will come to an end on March 5, is likely to get an extension of six months, sources said. They said Desai is shortly visiting J&K to invite suggestions on delimitation and reservation of assembly constituencies in the Union Territory from the political parties. “His (Desai’s) term is set to be extended on the ground that the Commission couldn’t complete its exercise within one-year-time mainly because of Covid-19 pandemic,” sources said and added the government is confident that the Commission will finalize its report in the next six months. “In all likelihood, much-awaited assembly elections in J&K could be held by year-end,” sources said. “The Commission is learnt to have used 2011 Census data for delimiting constituencies while geographical considerations for Jammu have also been taken into account.” The Commission held its first meeting in New Delhi last week even though three of the five associate members from the UT boycotted it. National Conference MPs Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi, all from Kashmir boycotted the meeting on the pretext that the party has challenged J&K Reorganization Act in the Supreme Court under which delimitation of the constituencies has been taken up. According to the J&K Reorganisation Act, the number of seats in the UT’s assembly will be increased from 107 to 114. Out of these, 24 seats are in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir. Thus, effectively, the number of assembly seats for which elections can be held will go up from 83 to 90. In the previous Assembly, Kashmir had 46 seats, Jammu 37 and Ladakh four. The move has triggered fears in Kashmir that more seats would be given to the Jammu region, which will influence who rules J&K as and when elections are conducted. Delimitation of the Assembly constituencies was last held in J&K in 1995 during the President’s Rule when seats of the erstwhile State Assembly were raised from 76 to 87. A senior official told DH that after the delimitation there can be altogether different Assembly constituencies with different boundaries as it will not be binding on the Commission to stick to the segments, which existed in the previous Assembly. The Scheduled Castes enjoyed reservations in the previous Assembly where seven constituencies were reserved for them, while Scheduled Tribes had been denied political reservations. “The STs will get political reservations for the first time in the history of Jammu and Kashmir,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delimitation-of-jk-constituencies-likely-to-be-completed-by-july-953683.html
21-02-2021||National||Need to increase pace of vaccinations: Centre to states amid rise in Covid-19 cases||The Union Health Ministry has written to all states and UTs highlighting the need to significantly enhance the pace of Covid-19 vaccinations, noting that a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered. In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the number of days of vaccination in a week should also be increased to a minimum of four days per week at the earliest to speed up the process of vaccination and gear up the system to take up the vaccination of the 50+ population. While some states are carrying out vaccination twice a week some others are carrying out four or more than four times a week. Adequate provisions have been made in the Co-WIN software to support such expansion of services, he said.  The letter dated February 19 stated a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered and the progress is variable across several states and UTs. "As highlighted during several review meetings that have been conducted with the states and UTs, the pace of vaccination drive and its coverage needs to be accelerated exponentially to cover all identified beneficiaries in a minimum possible time. "Further, the operational strategy for initiating the vaccination of the next priority group of elderly population and persons with comorbidities to be taken up in March 2021 is also being finalised," the letter said. "In view of the anticipated high number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated at a high speed in the forthcoming days", Bhushan advised states and UTs to ensure that all public health facilities from tertiary level medical colleges, hospitals and institutes to district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, community health centres, PHCs, health and wellness centres, health sub-centres etc. should be prepared for offering Covid-19 vaccination services on all designated vaccination days beginning March 1. “You are requested to kindly direct the concerned officials to immediately undertake measures for expansion of Covid-19 vaccination drive. Your continuous guidance to the state and UT teams has been instrumental in driving the ongoing vaccination process and the same is anticipated for upcoming phases as well. I look forward to your continued collaboration in this critical mission of national importance," the letter stated.  Till February 21, a total of 1,10,85,173 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,30,888 sessions, as per the provisional report. These include 63,91,544 healthcare workers (1st dose), 9,60,642 healthcare workers (2nd dose) and 37,32,987 frontline workers (1st dose).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-increase-pace-of-vaccinations-centre-to-states-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-953685.html
21-02-2021||National||Chandrayaan-3 launch delayed further to 2022||Chandrayaan-3, India's third mission to Moon, is likely to be launched in 2022, ISRO chief K Sivan has said. The Covid-19 lockdown has hit several projects of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) including Chandrayaan-3, which was scheduled to be launched in late 2020, and Gaganyaan, the country's first manned space mission. Unlike its predecessor, Chandrayaan-3 will not have an orbiter. “We are working on it. It is the same configuration like Chandrayaan-2 but it will not have an orbiter. The orbiter launched during Chandrayaan-2 will be used for Chandrayaan-3. With that we are working on a system and mostly the launch will be next year in 2022,” Sivan told PTI. Chandrayaan-2, aimed at landing a rover on unchartered Lunar South Pole, was launched on July 22, 2019 on board the country's most powerful geosynchronous launch vehicle. However, the lander Vikram hard-landed on September 7, 2019, crashing India's dream to become the first nation to successfully land on the lunar surface in its maiden attempt. Chandrayaan-3 is critical for ISRO as it will demonstrate India's capabilities to make landing for further interplanetary missions. He said ISRO is targeting December to launch the first unmanned mission under the Gaganyaan project. The mission was originally scheduled to launch in December last year. It will be followed by another unmanned mission and the third leg is the main module, he said. Gaganyaan envisages to send three Indians to space by 2022. The four test pilots selected for the mission are currently undergoing training in Russia. When asked about the launch of the third module of Gaganyaan -- the manned mission -- Sivan said, “A lot of technology needs to be demonstrated. We will decide on the time (of the manned mission) after checking whether all the technology is perfect.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandrayaan-3-launch-delayed-further-to-2022-953686.html
21-02-2021||National||TMC, BJP take jibes at each other with parody music videos ahead of West Bengal polls||It's raining political parodies in West Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections. Whether it's the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), the BJP or the usually sombre CPI(M) all are taking comic jibes at each other with parody music videos. From contemporary viral Bengali songs from a web series to Italian folk songs of the late 19th Century, the current political parodies in Bengal have come up from many sources. The CPI(M) has recently released a cartoon music video made of a parody of a viral Bengali song from a web series. The song called ‘Tumpa Shona ’ which originally speaks of man’s newfound love after his wife eloped has been modified to that of a common man’s alleged realisation that both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, referred to as ‘Modi and Didi’ in the song, have not kept their poll promises. The video also shows a man asking his girlfriend called “Tumpa” whether she wants to attend the CPI(M)’s rally at the iconic Brigade Parade Ground in Central Kolkata on February 28. While both the TMC and the BJP said that the music video shows CPI(M)’s “political bankruptcy,” CPI(M) Central Committee member Sujan Chakraborty said that “cartoons and parodies are part of Bengal’s culture. There is nothing wrong with the video.” It was also shared on social media by CPI(M) State Secretary Surjyakanta Mishra. The BJP based its parody music video called ‘Pishi Jao’ (Aunt Please leave) on a late 19th Century Italian protest folk song ‘Bella Ciao’ (Goodbye beautiful). BJP sarcastically calls West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as ‘pishi’ (aunt). The song recreates the famous "Bella ciao" song that regained popularity in the Netflix web series 'Money Heist'.  The music video tweeted by BJP’s IT Cell chief Amit Malviya targets Mamata Banerjee and her government over alleged rise in riots, false promises, lack of industry, jobs, crimes against women and violence in Bengal. The phrase “Pishi jao” has been used as a refrain in the song. “For those simply interested in releasing slogans, in true Bangla style, here is a “Slow Gaan ” (slow music), ” tweeted Malviya. Not to be left behind, senior TMC leader and former Transport Minister Madan Mitra recently released a music video taking potshots at defectors from the party who joined the BJP.  The song, sung by Mitra, takes a dig at the TMC turncoats comparing them with pumpkins, “ green from outside and saffron from inside.” The TMC’s symbol is predominantly green while saffron is part of BJP’s symbol. Mitra is seen in the video strolling in a garden, singing the song with a pumpkin in hand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-bjp-take-jibes-at-each-other-with-parody-music-videos-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-953688.html
21-02-2021||National||Indo-US exercise 'Yudh Abhyas' comes to an end in Rajasthan||The closing ceremony of the joint military exercise between the Indian and US Army, ‘Exercise Yudh Abhyas-20’ was held at Mahajan Field Firing Range on Sunday. This was the 16th edition of the joint exercise and it began on February 8. The aim of the exercise was to focus on counter terrorism operations under the mandate of the United Nations. The training focused primarily on subject matter exchange of topical issues of contemporary significance, drills at tactical level and sharing of best practices of each other, defence spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Amitabh Sharma said. He said the joint training developed into an excellent professional forum which strengthened the capabilities of joint operations by both armies. The exercise was conducted in two phases. The first phase of combat conditioning, tactical training and inter-operability was completed successfully by both the contingents. The training received by both the armies in the first phase was validated in the second phase. The validation exercise was witnessed by Maj Gen Daniel Mc Daniel, Deputy Commander General, United States Army Pacific and Maj Gen Xavier Brunson, General Officer Commanding, 7th Infantry Division from the US Army together with Maj Gen Michael A J Fernandez and Maj Gen Gurpreet Singh, General Officer Commanding, Ranbankura Division of the Indian Army. The closing ceremony was held at Mahajan Field Firing Ranges to commemorate the successful completion of the exercise and nourishing of relations between the two Armies, the spokesperson said. He said that a series of programmes displaying the rich culture and heritage of both the nations were also witnessed by officials of both armies. The joint exercise was undoubtedly another significant milestone in the enhanced upward trajectory of India-US relations as well as towards the global war on terror was achieved, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-us-exercise-yudh-abhyas-comes-to-an-end-in-rajasthan-953689.html
21-02-2021||National||CSC SPV launches campaign in rural India to promote electric vehicles||State-run e-governance services entity CSC SPV on Saturday said it has started a rural e-mobility programme urging people to switch to electric vehicles to preserve the environment and reduce carbon emissions. Under the programme, CSC e-Governance Services will facilitate loans for the purchase of electric vehicles and focus on setting up charging infrastructure. "CSC Rural e-Mobility programme will write a new chapter in rural empowerment as it would increase mobility at low costs. It has much significance in rural India where connectivity is a major issue. It will not only add environmental benefits but also create new models of inclusive development in terms of connectivity in remote corners of our country," CSC Managing Director Dinesh Tyagi said in a statement. CSC is a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) under the Ministry of Electronics and IT and manages over 3.5 lakh common service centres (CSCs) across the country. "We are focusing on rural areas for which we have launched the Rural e-Mobility Programme at our 100 CSC centres. We are providing e-scooters and e-rickshaws in rural and semi-urban areas through CSCs. We have tied up with various e-vehicles manufacturers and also financial institutions for offering attractive loans to people in rural areas," Tyagi said. CSC will also organise roadshows and bike rallies across India to promote our Rural e-Mobility Programme. "We are also setting up charging infrastructure at our CSCs for the convenience of our customers. We will soon expand our e-mobility programme by adding more CSC centres every month in rural and semi-urban areas," Tyagi said.  "CSC Rural e-mobility utilizes electric-powered technologies. E-mobility moves away from existing carbon-emitting fossil fuels to using energy from electrical power sources through external charging capability. It encompasses the use of fully electric, conventional hybrid, plug-in hybrid vehicles. These electric vehicles are propelled by one or more electric motors, which utilise energy most typically supplied from rechargeable batteries and can be plugged into supporting charging infrastructure (at home and at CSC recharging stations)," Tyagi said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-spv-launches-campaign-in-rural-india-to-promote-electric-vehicles-953694.html
21-02-2021||National||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests negative for coronavirus||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani tested negative for coronavirus on Sunday, the CM's office said. Earlier, Rupani, 64, tested positive for the viral infection on February 15, a day after he fainted on a stage during campaigning for civic polls in Vadodara. Since then, he was undergoing treatment at the U N MehtaHeart Hospital in Ahmedabad. According to a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office on Sunday, he "tested negative for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR test done today".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-953704.html
21-02-2021||National||We cannot monitor real estate projects in view of alternate remedy: SC||The Supreme Court has said judicial time is a precious resource that needs to be zealously guarded, as it declined to consider a plea to appoint a committee presided over by a former judge of the top court to supervise a real estate project. "Real estate projects across the country may be facing difficulties. The intervention of the court cannot be confined to one or a few selected projects," a bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. "We have to always be mindful of the opportunity cost involved in exercising our discretion to admit a petition and to intervene, in terms of diversion of time and resources away from other matters where our intervention would be more apposite and necessary," the bench added. Dealing with a writ petition filed by Upendra Choudhury under Article 32 of the Constitution, the bench, also comprising Justice M R Shah, said though in the past, the top court had entertained similar petition with regard to Amrapali and Unitech real estate projects, there was nothing in the instant matter to allow plea by a single purchaser. The petitioner asked the court to cancel all the agreements with Bulandshahr Development Authority and refund of money to purchasers; or in the alternative, ensure that the construction was carried out and that the premises were handed over within a reasonable period of time. The petitioner also sought a forensic audit, an investigation by CBI and by other authorities such as the Serious Fraud Investigation Office and Enforcement Directorate. The bench, however, said that entertaining a petition of this nature will involve the court in virtually carrying out a day to day supervision of a building project. There are specific statutory provisions holding the field, like the Consumer Protection Act 1986, the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016, and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016, which can be invoked at an appropriate stage. Citing the case of Devendra Dwivedi vs Union of India (2020), the bench said recourse to the remedy under Article 32 cannot be used as a ruse to flood the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-cannot-monitor-real-estate-projects-in-view-of-alternate-remedy-sc-953710.html
21-02-2021||National||India-UK ties to touch new high post Covid: Report||India-UK bilateral relations will touch a new high in the post-Covid world, as India is likely to be a priority country for the UK, leading to an enhanced economic partnership, according to a report. According to the Britain Meets India report, developed by CII and Grant Thornton Bharat, FDI inflow from the UK to India for a particular year increased from $898 million in 2015-16 to $1,422 million in 2019-20. Sandeep Chakravorty, Joint Secretary (Western Europe), Ministry of External Affairs, said, “Besides a free trade agreement, mobility and an interim trade deal, we are working on a 10-year 360 degree roadmap to strengthen our relationship with the UK. Going forward, we see investments in India's clean energy sector coming from the UK.” Pallavi Joshi Bakhru, Partner and India-UK Corridor Leader, Grant Thornton Bharat LLP said, “Our research identified 572 UK companies in India with a combined turnover of around INR 3,390 billion, tax payment of around INR 173 billion and employing 416,121 people directly. This reflects the important contribution made by the UK companies to the Indian economy as a key ally in India's growth story.” The list of 'fastest growing UK companies in India' includes Dyson Technology, Aviva Life Insurance, Diageo Business Services, RMD Kwikform and FMC Technologies, among others, says the report. The list of 'top 20 UK companies by revenue' includes Vedanta, Vodafone, Hindustan Unilever, United Spirits India, etc. Also, G4S Group, Vedanta Resources and HSBC Holdings feature in 'top UK employers in India'. Among the states, Maharashtra tops as the leading investment destination for UK companies followed by Haryana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Karnataka. Moreover, industrial and business services are top sectors being eyed by UK firms. Gaitri Issar Kumar, High Commissioner of India to UK, said, “The governments of both India and the UK are committed to an enhanced trade partnership. We are developing a roadmap to a free trade agreement with an ambitious target of 100 billion pounds by 2030.” Alex Ellis CMG, High Commissioner of UK to India, noted, “Both India and the UK must think about coming together to create a global impact. Both the economies will have to create a lot of jobs in the next decade and build back in a more sustainable way.” For the purposes of this report, CII and GT Bharat identified 572 companies incorporated in India that are owned or controlled, directly or indirectly from the UK. Additional benchmarks were an annual turnover of more than Rs 500 million, y-o-y revenue growth of at least 10 per cent and a minimum two-year track record of filings with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-ties-to-touch-new-high-post-covid-report-953713.html
21-02-2021||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: All primary schools in Bihar to reopen from March 1||Nearly one year after they were closed following nationwide lockdown in March last year, the primary schools in Bihar, both Government as well as private institutions, will reopen from March 1. A decision to this effect was taken by Bihar Chief Secretary, Deepak Kumar, after chairing a meeting of Crisis Management Group (CMG). All the schools, teachers, children and parents will have to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines. “Fifteen days after the schools reopen, we will review the situation and then decide whether the classes should continue or not,” said the Chief Secretary, after his meeting with the top officials ended. It is pertinent to point out here that classes from IXth to XIIth started on January 4, 2021, with strictly following Covid-19 guidelines. After encouraging reports, teaching in Class VIth to VIIIth were allowed from February 8 onwards. With normalcy fast returning, the Nitish regime has now decided to open primary schools too and allow teaching in Class I to V. “All the students, from Class I to VIIIth will be promoted without appearing for the mandatory examination. The extra-ordinary decision has been taken in view of the extra-ordinary situation arising following pandemic where the students suffered a lot in the last one year,” a senior government official of the Education Department averred on Sunday. “Much like the senior classes, the students of primary classes too will have to adhere to the social distancing norms and come to the school on alternate days as only 50 per cent students will be allowed to enter their classroom at a time. Masks and sanitiser are must for everyone,” the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-all-primary-schools-in-bihar-to-reopen-from-march-1-953720.html
21-02-2021||National||Air India denies Manu Bhaker's allegation of 'harassment' at Delhi airport||State-owned Air India has denied allegation of "harassment" of Tokyo Olympic prospect Manu Bhaker by two of the airline's staff at Delhi airport. In a statement on Sunday, the flag carrier claimed that "legitimate" documents were asked for from Bhaker when she was boarding its flight along with her mother for Bhopal from Delhi on February 19, contrary to the allegations made by her against the airline. The 19-year-old Commonwealth Games and Youth Olympics gold medallist pistol shooter had sought action against two employees of the airline, for alleged "harassment" and "insulting" her. She had alleged that she had to go through the "ordeal" despite carrying all valid documents and clearance from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for travelling with her weapons and ammunition. Stating that as a responsible airline, it always "adheres" to the rules and regulations governing operations, it said that "in this case also, Air India was only following the protocol regarding such a sensitive activity like the carriage of arms on board". "Our employee Manoj Gupta was at the counter throughout and had, at no point, communicated directly with Bhaker. This is also corroborated by the CCTV footage. Hence, the allegation of misbehaviour by him simply does not arise," Air India said in the statement. The CCTV footage also nullifies the passenger's allegation of bribes being asked for and snatching of mobile phone, it said. According to Air India, during check-in at the Delhi airport counter, Bhaker told its check-in employees that she was carrying an Air Pistol and a 0.22-bore gun. "She was advised by our counter personnel to get the documents, mandatory to carry arms and ammunition, verified by Air India security officials," said the statement. After verification of documents shown by Bhaker, the security officials informed her that the document required for exemption of payment of handling charge for carriage of arms, as per laid down norms, is not there. And, they said fixed charges for the carriage of arms would have to be paid, the airline clarified in the statement. It was explained to Bhaker that the document for exemption shown by her was not "valid" as it was signed only by the assistant secretary of the National Rifle Association. As per rules, details of which are available on the Air India website, signature of only the secretary or president of a bonafide association is recognised for waiver of the charges, Air India said. "Subsequently, the applicable charges – that is Rs 5,000 along with 5 per cent GST; for two, a total Rs 10,200 – were conveyed to Bhaker, who requested for 10-15 minutes from our personnel to procure the required document for waiver of charges for carriage of her arms on board," said the statement. The moment she furnished the required document to the Air India check-in and security personnel, her baggage including the arms were accepted for carriage, the statement said. Air India said though the DGCA permit allowed her carriage of arms from February 20, in view of the Rifle Association certificate with bonafide signature, it extended courtesy to have her on board with the arms on February 19 itelf. "Subsequently, Bhaker with her mother proceeded for their security check and were facilitated to board the aircraft," the airline added. Air India has always encouraged and has the highest respect for sports and sportspersons, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-denies-manu-bhakers-allegation-of-harassment-at-delhi-airport-953739.html
21-02-2021||National||China-India disengagement process in eastern Ladakh complete, says Rajnath Singh||The disengagement process by India and China in eastern Ladakh is 'complete' after nine rounds of diplomatic and military level talks between the two neighbours, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday as he hit out at Congress for 'doubting' Indian soldiers' bravery. The country will not allow any "unilateral action" on its border and will pay any cost to thwart such attempts, he told the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha's state conference here. "After nine rounds of military and diplomatic dialogue, the disengagement process is complete. But unfortunately, the Congress is doubting the Indian army's bravery.... isn't it insulting to the soldiers who do the supreme sacrifice," he said. Twenty Indian army personnel were killed in the Galwan clash with the Chinese troops last year during the face-off. The government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi "has never compromised with country's unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty" and it shall never do so, he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-india-disengagement-process-in-eastern-ladakh-complete-says-rajnath-singh-953747.html
21-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Centre highlights need to expedite Covid-19 vaccinations||In your evening news brief, Centre highlights the need to fast track Covid-19 vaccinations; Congress MP Shashi Tharoor says  E Sreedharan is likely to have a "minimal" impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls and Novak Djokovic wins Australian Open final.      Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.   Here is the top news of February 21, 2021: With E Sreedharan throwing his hat in the political ring by deciding to join the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said the technocrat is likely to have a "minimal" impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls and asserted that the BJP is not a serious contender except in a few seats in the state. Tharoor also said it will be very difficult for the BJP to improve upon its performance of winning one seat in the 2016 assembly polls and the high point of Sreedharan's impact on Kerala elections will turn out to be the announcement of joining the BJP itself. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Union Health Ministry has written to all states and UTs highlighting the need to significantly enhance the pace of Covid-19 vaccinations, noting that a large number of healthcare and frontline workers still remain to be covered. In a letter addressed to chief secretaries of all states and UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the number of days of vaccination in a week should also be increased to a minimum of four days per week at the earliest to speed up the process of vaccination and gear up the system to take up the vaccination of the 50+ population. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Novak Djokovic crushed Daniil Medvedev in straight sets in the Australian Open final to win his 18th Grand Slam title. The Serbian edged to win the first set and dominated the remaining rest to win 7-5, 6-2, 6-2, ending Medvedev's hope for a major title. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS/ PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-centre-highlights-need-to-expedite-covid-19-vaccinations-953755.html
21-02-2021||National||West Bengal Assembly Elections: There will be only one game in 2021 and I will be goalkeeper, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday that she is not afraid of anyone and cannot be intimidated with jail or something else. Holding out a challenge without naming anyone or political party, the Trinamool Congress supremo said that they have not learnt to lose. "Don't try to intimidate us with jail, we have fought against guns and are not afraid of fighting against rats," she said. "As long as there is life in me, I will not be afraid of any intimidation," Banerjee said at a programme here on the International Mother Language Day. The chief minister's programme was after the CBI had served a notice in the name TMC MP and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee's wife and sister-in-law Sunday in connection with a case of alleged coal pilferage. "Let there be challenge in 2021, let us see whose strength is more; there will be only one game in 2021 and I will be the goalkeeper in that match and want to see who wins and who loses," Banerjee said. "We have not learnt to lose and they won't be able to defeat us," Banerjee said without naming anyone. The ruling TMC and the BJP are engaged in a fierce battle for winning the assembly elections in West Bengal expected shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-assembly-elections-there-will-be-only-one-game-in-2021-and-i-will-be-goalkeeper-says-mamata-banerjee-953761.html
21-02-2021||National||Kerala govt sleeping over 'Love Jihad': Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has alleged that the Left Front government in Kerala is trying to create a communal divide. Inaugurating a statewide march by BJP's Kerala president K Surendran from Kasargod on Sunday, Yogi said that while his government took stern measures to curb 'love jihad' by bringing in a law, the Left Front government is not taking effective steps to curb it. He said that the Communist government is not bothered about the nation's larger interests and is not taking actions to curb extremist activities. Pitching the BJP as a suitable party for Kerala, he alleged that both the CPM and Congress-led front that ruled Kerala successively over these years had indulged in corruption. Ahead of reaching Kasargod, Adityanath had made a tweet in Malayalam that he was happy to visit again the land of Shankaracharya and Sree Narayana Guru. The statewide march by Surendran, titled 'Vijay Yathra', is in connection with the upcoming Assembly elections. It would witness many national leaders of BJP visiting the state in the coming weeks. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to address a public meeting for the culmination of the march in Thiruvananthapuram on March 7. BJP, which has only one MLA in Kerala now, is now pinning hopes in 42 of the 140 seats in Kerala. Meanwhile, Popular Front of India (PFI) activists staged a protest against Yogi's visit. Adityanath also criticised the Kerala government over the increasing Covid-19 positive cases and claimed that his state had effectively tackled the pandemic. The 15-day-Vijay Yatra, covering all major constituencies in 14 districts, is seen as the official launch of the saffron party's poll campaign. Various union ministers and the saffron party's popular leaders and star campaigners at the national level are expected to join the yatra in various days. Union Minister Amit Shah is expected to inaugurate the finale of the yatra at the state capital on March 7, party sources said.    (WIth inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-sleeping-over-love-jihad-yogi-adityanath-953762.html
21-02-2021||National||Farm Laws: Farmers announce series of events to further escalate protest||From 'Pagadi Sambhal Diwas' to 'Daman Virodhi Diwas, protesting farmers Sunday announced a series of events from February 23-27 to further intensify their agitation against the three new agricultural laws as they accused the government of adopting "repressive" measures against them. They also said they will soon devise a strategy to keep the protest going for long and will make their plans public on February 28. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the protests, told a press conference here that under their proposed escalation programme, February 23 will be observed as 'Pagadi Sambhal Diwas' and February 24 as 'Daman Virodhi Diwas', essentially to underline that farmers must be respected and no "repressive measures" should be taken against them. "The 'Pagdi Sambhal Diwas' will be celebrated on February 23. This day will be celebrated in memory of Chacha Ajit Singh and Swami Sahajanand Saraswati. On this day, farmers will be wearing their regional turbans. "On February 24, 'Daman Virodhi Diwas' is announced in which the farmers and citizens will protest against overall suppression against the farmers' movement. On this day, memoranda will be given to the President of India via Tehsil and district headquarters," said Darshan Pal, a farmer leader. The Morcha said February 26 will be observed as 'Yuva Kisan Diwas' (youth farmers day) and February 27 as 'Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Divws' (farmer-labourer unity day). "On February 26, honouring the contribution of youth in this movement, a 'Yuva Kisan Diwas' will be organised. On this day all the stages of SKM will be operated by the youth. Youth from various states are requested to join the protesters at Delhi Borders. "On January 27, on Guru Ravidas Jayanti and martyrdom day of Shaheed Chandrasekhar Azad, 'Kisan Majdoor Ekta Diwas' will be celebrated. All the citizens are appealed to strengthen this movement by joining the protesters Delhi borders," Pal said. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav told the press conference, "The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulations including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. The Singhu border has been fortified and appears to be an international border". A long-term plan for movement will be discussed in view of the Parliament session from March 8, and the strategy will be shared in the next meeting of SKM, he said. Darshan Pal, also alleged "repression" by the government. He said around 32 people have got bail out of 122 arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. The three contentious agricultural laws were passed by Parliament last year with the government saying they will benefit farmers by freeing them of the clutches of the middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector. However, thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders against the laws for close to three months now, saying these legislations will remove the safety net of MSP and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-farmers-announce-series-of-events-to-further-escalate-protest-953766.html
21-02-2021||National||Nepal's ex-PM Bhattarai leaves for Delhi for treatment||Nepal's former prime minister Baburam Bhattarai flew to New Delhi on Sunday for medical treatment on the recommendation of doctors, who suspect that he is suffering from a neuro-endocrine tumour. Bhattarai, Chairman of the Federal Council of Janata Samajwadi Party, had been undergoing treatment at Nidan Hospital in Kathmandu for some time after he was diagnosed with stomach problems. He will be treated at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi, according to a statement issued prior to his departure to New Delhi. Bhattarai, 66, is being accompanied by his spouse Hisila Yami, who is also a former minister and central member of the JSP. During his stay in New Delhi, Bhattarai will also hold meetings with some Indian politicians and officials, The Kathmandu Post reported, quoting sources. His visit comes at a time when Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has dissolved the House of Representatives, declared the mid-term elections for April 30 and May 10. The Supreme Court is all set to deliver its verdict on the constitutionality of Oli’s move within a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepals-ex-pm-bhattarai-leaves-for-delhi-for-treatment-953768.html
21-02-2021||National||BJP's mission is to work for country, its development: PM Modi at party office bearers' meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked BJP workers to strengthen and expand the party with the motto of 'nation first' and said its mission is to work for the country. Modi was addressing the first meeting of the BJP's new set of national office-bearers, during which the party also passed a resolution thanking him for reforms in the agriculture sector and for his able leadership in effective handling of the Covid-19 situation. Prime Minister Modi at the meeting said the party's mission is to work for the country and its development, BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said at a press conference. He also asked BJP workers to strengthen and expand the organisation with the motto of "nation first", Yadav said. During the meeting, which was chaired by BJP chief J P Nadda, Prime Minister Modi told party leaders to take the benefits of the new farm laws to the people. The meeting was inaugurated by Modi and it started by paying tributes to those who lost their lives due to the coronavirus. The political resolution was passed thanking the prime minister for the reforms in the agriculture sector and his able leadership in effective handling of the pandemic, BJP vice president Raman Singh said. He said the resolution also highlights the Garib Kalyan Yojana during the pandemic, comprehensive budget and diligent handling of the situation on the Line of Actual Control with China. Earlier, BJP general secretary Arun Singh had informed that during the course of the meet, discussions will be held on farm laws, Aatmanirbhar Bharat and upcoming state polls. The meeting, which was also being attended by BJP state unit presidents, assumes significance as it came amid fierce protests by a section of farmers in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh against the three new farm laws. The farmer union leaders have been stepping up their attack on the Modi government over the issue. The BJP is also readying for the assembly polls in five states, including West Bengal, which is being eyed by the saffron party as its next big prize in its bid to expand its footprint across the country. These national official-bearers were appointed last year after Nadda took over as party president, and no physical meeting could be held so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-mission-is-to-work-for-country-its-development-pm-modi-at-party-office-bearers-meet-953778.html
21-02-2021||National||Gherao Delhi cops if they come to arrest you: BKU leader Rajewal to farmers||Alleging that notices are being served on people backing the agitation against the farm laws, BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Sunday asked farmers to gherao Delhi Police personnel if they come to their villages to make an arrest. The BKU (Rajewal) leader also asked the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government that the state police should not cooperate with the Delhi cops. “If the Delhi Police personnel come to arrest you, gather the entire village and oppose them," Rajewal told farmers at a "Kisan-Mazdoor Ekta Maha Rally” in Punjab's Barnala on Sunday. The rally was organised by the Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) and the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union. Two days ago, Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni had made a similar appeal. Rajewal asked farmers not to appear before the Delhi Police if they get notices for joining investigation and told them to 'gherao' the Delhi Police personnel if they come to make an arrest. Claiming that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre is scared of the farmers' agitation, he alleged that those serving 'langar' or extending help to farmers at the protest sites near Delhi borders are being issued notices by police. “Those who are bringing 'langar' material or extending help to us in whatever manner they can, they are being slapped with notices. It is in my knowledge that many FIRs have been lodged against unknown persons by the Delhi Police,” the BKU leader said. “I want to make it clear to all farmers and labourers that if anyone gets notice, do not bother, forward one copy to us. No one needs to appear before police,” he said. Rajewal said it is a “moment of test” for the Punjab government, which should tell the state police not to cooperate with the Delhi Police. Rajewal further said the farmers' agitation against the laws has now turned into a “jan andolan” (people's movement). “It is a question of your future and children,” he said, adding that they would not return until the farm laws are withdrawn. He also praised village panchayats for their decision of sending people to the protest sites on rotational basis. Rajewal said the Union government had no right to bring the laws as the agriculture is a state subject. He also defended commission agents (arhtiyas), saying they only charge for their “service” and accused the Centre of bringing corporates as “middlemen” with these laws. On farmer leaders' multiple rounds of meetings with the government earlier, Rajewal said, “We told the government that when they are ready to make many amendments in these laws, what is the problem in rolling back them.” The BJP had propagated that they framed these laws keeping in view the farmers' interests but we confronted them and asked where farmers demanded the legislations, he stated. Addressing the gathering, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said his outfit has planned to hold a big gathering in Delhi on February 27 and decided to observe International Women's Day on March 8 in the national capital. Referring to the Republic Day violence, Ugrahan said it was done by a group which acted at the behest of the government. He asked farmers to prepare for a long battle against the farm legislations. “This is not a fight of a religion or caste. It is a fight of secular people. This agitation is for occupation. It is a fight of the country's farmers,” he said. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan also sought release of labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, lodged in a Karnal jail. Kaur, a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Sonipat on January 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gherao-delhi-cops-if-they-come-to-arrest-you-bku-leader-rajewal-to-farmers-953779.html
21-02-2021||National||India’s Covid-19 vaccine diplomacy wins friends in the Caribbean||By Jim Wyss India is making tens of thousands of free Covid-19 shots available to Caribbean countries left behind by rich nations in the race to procure vaccines.The Indian-made shots offer poorer countries an alternative to Chinese vaccines, which Beijing has been pushing across the region. India’s Foreign Ministry says it plans to supply vaccines -- mostly free of charge -- to 49 countries in Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. So far, the country has distributed 22.9 million doses under its “Vaccine Friendship” program. On Thursday, Dominican Republic Vice President Raquel Pena said that India had donated 30,000 doses to her country. That’s on the heels of 100,000 doses India donated to Barbados and the 70,000 doses donated to Dominica earlier this month. In a text message Saturday, Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley said 12,000 people had been vaccinated on the island, mainly the elderly and those with chronic illnesses. The Serum Institute of India, one of the world’s largest vaccine producers, is producing Covishield, developed by AstraZeneca Plc. Poorer countries have been unable to compete for vaccines with wealthier nations which quickly sealed deals with drug makers, and many parts of the Caribbean and Central America are still weeks away from starting their campaigns. Jamaica’s Prime Minister Andrew Holness last month accused rich countries of “hoarding” vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-vaccine-diplomacy-wins-friends-in-the-caribbean-953789.html
21-02-2021||National||Saudi Arabia looks to target Indian tourists as it explores further tourism potential||Known for its oil-driven economy, Saudi Arabia is now looking to explore its tourism potential, opening up its vast expanse of beaches and high mountains for explorers. Keen on attracting tourists from India, the Arabian kingdom has turned its focus on millennials, considered to scout for new destinations offering shorter-duration packages for last-minute planners. “As the authentic home of Arabia, Saudi offers unique, diverse and unparalleled experiences, a land of natural assets, rich culture and heritage and adventure,” Fahd Hamidaddin, CEO of the Saudi Tourism Authority (STA) said during a webinar targeted to tap the Indian market. From diving in the Red Sea to explore coral reefs to ‘edge of the world’ (Jebel Fihrayn) cliffs in the rocky desert near Riyadh, the STA is pulling out all stops to emerge as a tourist destination. Saudi opened its doors to leisure tourism in September 2019 with the launch of a tourism e-visa service. The move is considered as a key step in the implementation of its Vision 2030 as the kingdom aims for economic diversification beyond the oil-driven economy. While tourists rave about snowboarding, Abdullah Al Dakhil, the International Communication Manager, Saudi Tourism Authority vouched for the thrills of sandboarding in the desert kingdom. “We are working with the private sector to provide a range of options for travellers – from the topmost luxury to varied segments,” Al Dakhil said. Besides India, Saudi Arabia is also promoting itself as a tourism destination in Germany, Britain, China, Russia and other European countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saudi-arabia-looks-to-target-indian-tourists-as-it-explores-further-tourism-potential-953793.html
21-02-2021||National||17 states and UTs witness sparse use of Covaxin||Less than 100 doses of Covaxin – the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine – have been used in as many as 17 Indian states and UTs of which six provinces didn’t use a single dose of Covaxin, according to the official vaccine distribution data. The use of Covaxin is fairly low in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu compared to the other three states. For instance, as of February 20, Karnataka used 5,40,890 doses of Covishield as against 5,873 doses of Covaxin. Similarly, Tamil Nadu used 2,50,984 doses of the former and only 4,416 doses of the latter. Among the half-a-dozen states and UTs, which did not use a single dose of Covaxin, Chhattisgarh is the only large state. Others on the list are Puducherry, Manipur, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The remaining 11 states with low use of Bharat Biotech vaccine are Tripura (30 doses), Punjab (91), Chandigarh (9), Ladakh (31), Mizoram (4), Meghalaya (49), Arunachal Pradesh (46), Nagaland (4), Goa (1), Lakshadweep (4) and Uttarakhand (69). All the data are as of February 20 and available on the government’s CoWin dashboard. Two other provinces with low Covaxin use are Jammu and Kashmir (830) and Sikkim (128). “The allocation of Covaxin to states must have been based on some rationale. I would presume that the rationale is guided by the ability to strictly monitor post-vaccination adverse events,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “Wherever allotted, there should have been efficient mechanisms for ensuring that informed consent was ethically administered and also have a robust mechanism for post-vaccination adverse effects,” he added. More than one lakh doses of Covaxin was used only in five states – Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The Serum Institute-made Covishield remains the vaccine of choice for most of the states. The homegrown vaccine was approved by the DCGI for commercial use without the efficacy data. In fact, T S Singh Deo, the Health Minister of Chhattisgarh, a state that did not use a single dose of the vaccine, wrote to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan last month on the state’s reluctance to use Covaxin in the absence of efficacy data. Developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology, Pune, the efficacy of Covaxin is being evaluated in 26,000 volunteers in India’s first and only phase-3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase-3 trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-states-and-uts-witness-sparse-use-of-covaxin-953795.html
21-02-2021||National||TRS fields former PM P V Narasimha Rao's daughter for MLC polls||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on Sunday announced SurabhiVani Devi, daughter of former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao, as it's candidate for the coming polls to the Telangana Legislative Council from the Graduates' constituency. TRS President and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao decided Vani Devi's candidature, party sources said. Vani Devi, an artist and academic,will file her nomination papers on Monday for the Mahabubnagar - Rangareddy- Hyderabad Graduates' constituency, they said. Biennial elections to the Legislative Council from two Graduates' constituencies would be held on March 14. The TRS government has been organising year-long centenary celebrations of late Narasimha Rao, a native of Telangana, since last June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trs-fields-former-pm-p-v-narasimha-raos-daughter-for-mlc-polls-953805.html
21-02-2021||National||After Pangong Tso, India, China agree to find ways to end stand-off elsewhere along LAC||After withdrawing frontline troops from the face-off points on both banks of Pangong Tso, India and China have now agreed to find mutually acceptable ways to resolve the stand-off elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) too. A day after the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had a 16-hour-long meeting, the two sides issued a joint statement noting that the recent disengagement of the frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso was “a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues” along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations. Lt. Gen. P G K Menon, the commander of the Indian Army’s 14 Corps, led the delegation from India in the talks, which was held at Moldo adjacent to Chushul across the LAC. His counterpart from the Chinese PLA, Maj Gen Liu Lin, led the delegation from the neighbouring country. They had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on other issues along the LAC in the Western Sector, according to the joint statement issued in New Delhi and Beijing. Sources in New Delhi said that the two sides had focussed on working out a plan for mutual disengagement of troops from other face-off points along the LAC, like Gogra Post, Hot Springs and Depsang. It was the 10th round of meeting between the Corps Commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA after the stand-off started in late April and early May last year. The two sides agreed “to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilize and control the situation on the ground, push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” according to the joint statement issued on Sunday. The ninth round of talks between them on January 24 last had seen a significant breakthrough which finally resulted in the disengagement of troops by both sides on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-pangong-tso-india-china-agree-to-find-ways-to-end-stand-off-elsewhere-along-lac-953812.html
21-02-2021||National||S Jaishankar arrives in Mauritius on last leg of 2-nation tour||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived in Mauritius on Sunday on the last leg of his two-nation tour during which he will hold talks with the top leadership of India's strategically key maritime neighbour in the Indian Ocean region. Jaishankar, who will be in the country for two days, will call on President Prithvirajsing Roopun and Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth - both of Indian-origin. "Namaste-Bonsoir Mauritius. Thank FM Alan Ganoo for his warm welcome. Look forward to a fruitful visit," Jaishankar tweeted soon after his arrival here. He will also meet the minister of foreign affairs, regional integration and international trade and minister for land transport and light rail. During his visit, Jaishankar will review all aspects of bilateral relations, ongoing implementation of various infrastructure projects being carried out by India in Mauritius, and hold discussions on bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest including India's assistance to Mauritius. Indian-origin people constitute nearly 70 per cent of the population of Mauritius. Their ancestors were sent there as indentured labourers during British rule. Jaishankar arrived here from the Maldives' where he reaffirmed India’s commitment to security and signed a USD 50 million defence Line of Credit agreement with the strategically vital Indian Ocean island nation to boost its maritime capabilities. He held in-depth talks with the country's top leaders to further cement bilateral ties. Both Maldives and Mauritius are India’s key maritime neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region and occupy a special place in Prime Minister’s vision of ‘SAGAR’ (Security and Growth for All in the Region). The minister’s visit is testimony to the importance that India attaches to its close and friendly relations with the Maldives and Mauritius and is expected to lend further momentum to substantive cooperation and robust people to people ties between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in New Delhi ahead of his visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-arrives-in-mauritius-on-last-leg-of-2-nation-tour-953823.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Muzzle, jail, repeat: Will scare tactics silence youth voices?||‘How dare you!’ — when Greta Thunberg thundered these words at the UN Climate Action Summit in New York in 2019, it was an attack against the biggest world leaders for ignoring the climate crisis. Today, in India, it appears these roles have been reversed. It is the Narendra Modi-led government and the BJP asking 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi and other young people like her: ‘How dare you not sit with your head down and be good students?’ ‘How dare you not follow the narrative?’ ‘How dare you protest and talk politics?’ 'How dare you move beyond planting saplings and cleaning lakes, and criticise policies?' ‘How dare you stand with ‘them’ and not ‘us’?’ And this is the message for anyone else not toeing their line: How. Dare. You. Authoritarian regimes are made uncomfortable by anybody who questions the status quo. They don’t just want to control people’s speech but dictate their thoughts as well. “There are two kinds of attacks happening on young people. One is frontal, which is bluntly telling them to shut up and stay at home. The other is poisoning the mind of young people by what they are taught in school so they can’t think freely and come to their own conclusions of complex things,” said musician and activist T M Krishna at a recent press conference. This is not the first time there has been a crackdown on dissent. But under the current regime, a narrative has been built where anybody who questions its authority is, in essence, questioning the integrity of the nation. Being against the government today is being against India. So, an arrest like Disha’s is part of a larger pattern to create an ecosystem of fear through a steady muzzling of young educated voices, believe researchers, teachers and student leaders. “The intention is to silence all criticism of the government and equate such criticism with the overthrow of the state and sedition. The only purpose is to terrorise everyone because not one of these cases will stand up in court,” says Nivedita Menon, a professor at the Centre for Comparative Politics & Political Theory at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi. It isn’t just activists that the government and its institutions have set their eyes on but anyone with a perspective that opposes the ruling party’s agenda. In the last two years, the casualties range from 19-year-old Amulya Leone, standup comic Munawar Faruqui whose unspoken joke became a ‘thought crime’, journalist Mandeep Punia, Dalit activists Nodeep Kaur and Shiv Kumar who were protesting against the farm laws. Despite a very frontal attack against youth, the recent developments don’t seem to be driving them away from the BJP. They continue to remain its core and most loyal demographic, staunch in ideology and strong in numbers. “There is a possibility that the youth haven’t recovered from the image trap the party laid. Modi is projected as the man who will build a New India, not to be confused with Modern India, for which, he has fashioned himself like a sage, a Bheeshma Pitamaha. Another is the creation of a section that sees enemies on the outside, not within — like Pakistan or Rahul or Mamata. These mythical images are being constantly constructed and reproduced to obfuscate real issues. So despite the pandemic, the migration, the price rise, youth continue to support the BJP,” says Prof Muzaffar Assadi, a political scientist. Parents' dilemma Arrests like these are a warning to parents as well. While some parents are sympathetic to their children’s fight, driven by fear, they ask that children choose between family or the cause. Meanwhile, others approve as long as the issue is not political, policy-related or attacking the government. Fighting for civic or environmental issues, they believe, is less risky. But after the Disha Ravi case, even that illusion seems to have lifted. There is also a section of teachers who feels that students jump into activism without really understanding the full extent of what they are up against. Educational institutions themselves are not too keen on having their names associated with activism and prefer to distance themselves from anything political. “The government knows how to arm-twist the media, businesses and education institutions where it controls the funds and grants. Faculty stay quiet because there’s a lot at stake, including their livelihood. Colleges are also worried about their reputation and endangering other students,” says a lecturer. Yes, young minds are impressionable, and this is why it becomes all the more important that parents and teachers guide students rather than admonish them and shy away from political discourse. Expressing shock at this trend, a group of more than 200 parents issued an open letter to the media. “As parents, we know that all-round development of children and youth is only possible when they are exposed to different viewpoints when they can debate and stand for or against any position… We are dismayed at the exhortations to youth to “keep their heads down” and “focus on their studies", it read. Due process as a punishment What has helped the government push its skewed view of dissent is also the repeated misuse of Section 124A of IPC on sedition and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), whereby dissenting voices standing up for their constitutional right are portrayed as traitors. “Instead of engaging in constructive dialogue with protesters, they are using sections of the law arbitrarily, causing a ‘chilling effect’,” says advocate Vinay K Sreenivasa. “Under UAPA, no chargesheet is filed for six months. This long-drawn-out process itself becomes the punishment,” he adds. A worrying development is also a perversion of the criminal justice system by the government to crush its opponent. For instance, Haryana Cabinet Minister Anil Vij, who openly called for Disha’s killing, or Kapil Mishra’s Hindu Ecosystem toolkit on Telegram, have seen no registering of an FIR, pointing to a selective application of the law. If the state or its draconian laws don’t come for you, mainstream TV channels and right-wing trolls definitely will. Social media has become a powerful tool where words are peddled around with conspiracy theories, and people are branded anti-nationals, Urban Naxals and andolanjeevis. The cost of dissent There is, unfortunately, a cost of dissent. “I was in prison for a month, whereas these days people are in prison for years. Nobody is going to compensate for the time I lost in prison or the mental trauma my father suffered. Ultimately, we know what kind of hazard there is and we have accepted that as a new normal,” says Anirban Bhattacharya, a researcher and activist, who was arrested along with Kanhaiya Kumar and Umar Khalid for sedition during the 2016 JNU agitations. The cost is even greater and more damaging for some than others. “The UAPA, and its predecessors like TADA and POTA, have always been used to quell dissent from marginalised groups,” says Shireen Azam, a researcher with Oxford University. Outspoken youth from Muslim or DBA (Dalit, Bahujan and Adivasi) communities are prime targets. Women, more so, face extreme vilification. “When these arrests happen, they are sensationalised on television and print media... But there is very little reportage when they are proven innocent and acquitted years later, conveniently leading to a national impression that some groups commit more crimes,” says Shireen. Gopi Swamy, the convener of Ambedkar Students’ Association at the University of Hyderabad, feels the impact is also hard on first-generation students. “My parents know that I’m the general secretary of the students' union but they don’t know that I have charges against me in connection with the anti-CAA protests. If they find out, they will ask me to stop my studies and return home immediately. But when you are socially boycotted and atrocities are committed against you, it’s impossible to remain silent,” he says. And this is where the government seems to have lost its plot. Youngsters may be vulnerable but they are also fearless, critical and educated. To them, the memory of fear is very short-lived but the memory of resistance is longer. And in the long run, the ecosystem of fear will fail to sustain. “Fear will percolate but only temporarily. Every time you push one down, a hundred others come up,” says Bhavya Narasimhamurthy, who was detained during the anti-CAA protests in Bengaluru. Yet, the future of youth activism in India is not for the students to decide. In a country where merely thinking is a crime, where the government is insecure and people are paranoid of each other, “We must continue to seek accountability from the state, and not get swayed by the narrative. We must continue to ask the questions raised by Disha, Amulya, Umar, Devangana, Safoora and Rohith Vemula. Whether the institution is functioning or not, we must not stop making demands of it,” says Vinay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/muzzle-jail-repeat-will-scare-tactics-silence-youth-voices-953591.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers at Ghazipur border get social media crash course||Members of the All India Students Federation (AISF) at the Ghazipur border have been organising sessions for farmers to teach them how to set up and use a social media account of their liking - Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. The sessions, the report says, are held in the afternoon. After setting up the account, the farmers are also taught how to update posts, the significance of a hashtag, and how to best convey their message and point of view.  Sant Kumar, a 28-year-old farmer from Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district was one such farmer who set up a Twitter account, the report said. He told Indian Express that he, along with many others, wanted to join the social media platform to "respond with our truth" against the "negative things" written about protesting farmers. The workshops have been attended by farmers both young and old. While some own a smartphone but are unfamiliar with social media, others were only familiar with one social media platform, noted a student at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-at-ghazipur-border-get-social-media-crash-course-953699.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Congress, Left fueling farm protests; door open for talks: BJP||The BJP on Sunday hit out at the Congress and the Left parties, accusing them of fueling the farmers’ agitation against agricultural reforms even as it held the door open for fresh round of talks with the protesters. The BJP, at a meeting of its newly appointed national office bearers, passed a resolution thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for initiating the farm sector reforms and steering the nation as it “successfully” dealt with the Covid-19 pandemic. Briefing reporters on the day-long deliberations, former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh said the farmers' agitation on the borders of the national capital was “politically driven” and accused the Congress and the Left parties of fueling it in a bid to “keeping it alive”. Singh, a BJP vice president, said the central government was aware of the seriousness of the farmers’ issue, particularly in a border state like Punjab, and had kept the doors open for talks with the farmers. However, he asked the agitating farmers to highlight the shortcomings in the farm laws and not just insist on a complete repeal of the laws. “The issue is the shortcomings in the three laws, let them spell out the lacunae and not just insist on repeal,” Singh said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had sought an “urgent resolution” to the farmers’ agitation contending that the state had witnessed a surge in smuggling of weapons from across the border over the past five to six months. During the meeting, the prime minister asked BJP office bearers to explain the benefits of farm laws to the people. The political resolution was passed thanking the prime minister for the reforms in the agriculture sector and his able leadership in effective handling of the pandemic, Singh said. He said the resolution also highlighted the Garib Kalyan Yojana during the pandemic, comprehensive budget and diligent handling of the situation on the Line of Actual Control with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-left-fueling-farm-protests-door-open-for-talks-bjp-953712.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Won't be cowed down by CBI notice to wife: Abhishek Banerjee||Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday asserted that the party will not be cowed down by the CBI notice to his wife Rujira, asking her to join the probe in a coal pilferage case. The notice had asked Rujira to be present at their Harish Mukherjee Road residence at 3 pm to reply to queries related to the case. "If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down," Abhishek, the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said in a tweet. "We have full faith in the law of the land," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-be-cowed-down-by-cbi-notice-to-wife-abhishek-banerjee-953723.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||20-odd BJP MLAs resent over ‘not being given’ time to speak in Rajasthan Assembly House||In a hint of intra-party differences, around 20 BJP MLAs have written to the party’s state president expressing their dissatisfaction over allegedly not being given time by their legislature party leaders to raise public issues in the Rajasthan assembly. In the 200-strong state assembly, the opposition BJP has 71 MLAs with the right to allocate time to them to speak in the assembly reserved with Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore. In their letter to BJP’s Rajasthan unit president Satish Poonia, the legislators’ group led by senior BJP MLA Kailash Meghwal has also asked him to instruct Kataria and Rathore to allocate equal time to all party MLAs without any bias to raise public issues in the assembly. The letter to Poonia was written over a fortnight ago but the entire matter came to light on Sunday ahead of a meeting of party leaders of various states with the Central leadership. "There are several senior legislators who should be taken into confidence and be allowed to speak on special issues. But it is not so,” Meghwal told PTI. He said it is the right of the leader of the opposition or chief whip to decide who should speak on an issue in the House, but the BJP legislature party has not appointed its chief whip till date. "So, senior party MLAs are disappointed with whatever is happening and a letter has been written to the state party president over the issue,” he said. The legislators have said in their letter that they are not being given any chance to speak despite moving an adjournment motion in the House on various issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/20-odd-bjp-mlas-resent-over-not-being-given-time-to-speak-in-rajasthan-assembly-house-953736.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Centre profiteering off people’s misery and suffering: Sonia Gandhi on fuel price rise||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over “spiralling” fuel and gas prices, accusing his government of “profiteering” off “people's misery” and demanded a rollback of the increase in prices. In a three-page letter, Gandhi also slammed the prime minister for blaming previous governments for the “economic mismanagement” of his own government. “I hope you will agree that it is time for your government to focus on solutions instead of looking for excuses. India deserves better,” the Congress president said. Petrol price on Saturday touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark. It was the 12th straight day of price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. Gandhi said that governments were elected to ease the burden of the people and at the very least, not do something that is contrary to their interests. “Sadly, in these distressing times, the government has chosen to profiteer off people’s misery and suffering,” Gandhi said, noting that the Modi government has levied “excessive excise duties on petrol and diesel” which are higher than the base price of the fuel. “What baffles most citizens is that these prices have been increased despite moderate prices of international crude oil. To put it in context, the crude oil price is nearly half of what it was during the UPA government's tenure,” she said. She said that domestic crude oil production had fallen to an 18-year low in 2020. She urged the prime minister to roll back the increase and pass on the benefits to the common man. “Your government has increased excise duty on diesel by 820% & on petrol by 258% over and collected upwards of Rs 21 lakh crore in the last six and a half years. This unaccounted-for windfall is yet to be passed to the people for whose benefit it was ostensibly collected,” she said. She added it is “cruel” on part of the government to refuse to reduce the fuel prices when global crude oil prices had crashed to 20-dollars a barrel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-profiteering-off-people-s-misery-and-suffering-sonia-gandhi-on-fuel-price-rise-953737.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Farm laws are death warrant for farmers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a meeting with farmer leaders, on Sunday said that the three farm laws are a "death warrant" to the farmers. Kejriwal had invited farmer leaders from Western Uttar Pradesh for lunch at the Delhi Assembly. "The three antifarmer laws are death warrant to the farmers. If these laws are implemented then the agriculture of India will go into the hands of some industrialists and the farmers will be devastated," the CM said. He added that if these laws are implemented, the farmers of India will become labourers in their own land. He also demanded that the central government immediately withdraw all the three "black laws" and the legal guarantee of MSP be granted to all the 23 crops following the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The meeting was attended by over 40 farmer leaders from western UP. Talking to the media, farmer leader Rohit Jakhar of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh said that while the UP government cut electricity and water supply at the Ghazipur protest site, Kejriwal''s government-supported farmers'' protest by providing them water and toilets. "Our support will go to those who will talk about our problems. The BJP government has hurt our self-respect, we will give our reply through our votes," Jakhar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-are-death-warrant-for-farmers-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-953765.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||Expand party, says PM Modi as BJP eyes West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu elections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked BJP workers to strengthen and expand the party with the motto of ‘nation first’ as it set its eyes on the elections to five states, including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Addressing the first meeting of the BJP’s new set of national office-bearers after JP Nadda became party chief, Modi said the party’s mission was to work for the country and its development. A resolution adopted at the day-long meeting lauded the initiatives of the Modi government such as the Svamitva scheme, new education policy, “comprehensive and all inclusive budget”, merger of 10 public sector banks and handling of the stand-off with China. “India’s position has been clear on the situation that has developed with China. India will not let any expansionist strategy succeed on its borders,” the BJP resolution said. It noted that the elections in the Bihar Assembly, J&K’s district development council and Hyderabad municipal corporation were proof of rising confidence of the people in the leadership of the BJP and Modi. It expressed the resolve to work towards forming a “full-majority” government in West Bengal, retain power in Assam and emerge as a political alternative in Kerala. The BJP also expressed confidence in retaining power in Tamil Nadu along with its coalition partner AIADMK and a clutch of smaller outfits and was gung-ho about Puducherry. “No election is small or insignificant for the party. Even elections in Puducherry are a matter of pride for the NDA,” the BJP resolution said, adding that the people of the Union Territory were keen to replace the “anti-people Congress government”. With farmers’ issue dominating the political narrative, the BJP also outlined plans to unite people in far-flung areas through farmer producer organisation, the national nutrition mission and the Van Dhan scheme aimed at tribals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/expand-party-says-pm-modi-as-bjp-eyes-west-bengal-kerala-and-tamil-nadu-elections-953801.html
21-02-2021||National Politics||BJP resolution lauds PM Modi, Centre for farm laws, effectively handling Covid-19 pandemic||Amid the ongoing protests against the three new agricultural laws, the ruling BJP Sunday passed a resolution lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Centre for bringing these legislations, saying they are in farmers' interest and will ensure better prices for their produce. The resolution, passed in the first physical meeting of the newly appointed office-bearers of the BJP, comes ahead of assembly elections in several states including West Bengal and Assam. It also praises Modi for neither being meek, nor unnecessarily aggressive in dealing with China during the LAC standoff, for his able leadership in effectively handling the Covid-19 pandemic, and for ushering in labour reforms. The 'political resolution' was introduced by BJP vice-president Raman Singh and backed by the head of the party's Haryana unit OP Dhankar. "The government brought in three farm laws in the interest of farmers to ensure they get the right price for their produce, their income doubles and that they have the freedom to sell their farm produce where they want to," reads the resolution. Taking on the Congress for opposing these laws, the resolution said the Opposition party joined by other parties and some people is trying to "mislead" the farmers only for their politics. "It is for this reason that the Congress, which has been repeatedly talking about discussions (on these laws), has not been able to highlight the points in the farm laws which it disagrees with," the resolution reads, underlining that the BJP believes that the laws were necessary for the welfare of India's farmers and had been in demand for a long time. The resolution states India has emerged as a strong nation with clear policy under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi. In its foreign policy, according to the resolution, India has abided by the principle that it would neither be meek, nor unnecessarily aggressive in dealing with any nation. India will not let any expansionist strategy succeed on its borders, it said, adding under the leadership of PM Modi, India has proved this at every given opportunity. On the fight against the pandemic, the resolution says India not only defeated Covid-19 under the able and sensitive leadership of PM Modi, but also infused in all its citizens the confidence to build an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. "The party unequivocally hails its leadership for introducing India to the world as a proud and victorious nation in the fight against Covid-19," it states. The resolution describes in detail the initiatives taken by the Modi government such as the New Education Policy, labour reforms and other measures while asking the party workers to take a pledge to win assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. The three contentious agricultural laws were passed by the parliament last year with the government saying they will benefit farmers by freeing them of the clutches of the middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector. However, thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders against the laws for close to three months now, saying these legislations will remove the safety net of MSP and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-resolution-lauds-pm-modi-centre-for-farm-laws-effectively-handling-covid-19-pandemic-953822.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||10 round of India-China talks conclude after 16 hours, next phase of disengagement discussed||India and China held extensive deliberations on expanding the disengagement process in eastern Ladakh at the 10th round of the military talks that lasted for around 16 hours, official sources said on Sunday. The Corps Commander-level talks at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control began at around 10 am on Saturday and ended at 2 am on Sunday, they said. The sources said that the focus of the talks was to take forward the disengagement process in friction points like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh. However, there was no official word on the talks so far. The talks took place two days after both militaries concluded the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. In the talks, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region. On Saturday evening, sources had said that bringing down the tension in the region was the broad priority of the talks. India has all along been maintaining that disengagement at all the friction points was necessary to de-escalate the situation in the region. On February 11, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Under the agreement, he said China will pull back its troops to the east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action would take place on the south bank of the lake as well, he said. The sources said troops of both sides have retreated to positions in line with the agreement. The disengagement process began on February 10. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks was led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. In his statement in Parliament, the defence minister also said that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake areas so as to resolve all other remaining issues. Days later, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering a strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on the withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on the withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-round-of-india-china-talks-conclude-after-16-hours-next-phase-of-disengagement-discussed-953609.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan site||Two more bodies were recovered from the flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site, taking the death toll in the calamity in Uttarakhand to 67 even as search operations continued there for the 15th day on Sunday. Three bodies had been recovered from the desilting tank near the Tapovan project barrage by Saturday evening while two more were extricated late at night, district administration officials said. Search operation at the project site has been underway on a war footing basis for a fortnight since it bore the brunt of an avalanche triggered by a glacier burst over Rishi Ganga in Chamoli district on February 7. The 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga hydel project was totally demolished in the avalanche while the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project suffered extensive damage. The recovery of five bodies on Saturday takes the toll in the tragedy to 67 while 137 are still missing. Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria had asked the NTPC to press into service additional excavators and divert the course of Dhauli Ganga to the other side so that its water does not flow through the barrage into Tapovan tunnel hampering sludge clearing efforts. River water flowing into the tunnel from the barrage has been a major headache for rescuers at the tunnel making the muck clearing operations even more challenging, Bhadauria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-two-more-bodies-recovered-from-tapovan-site-953613.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Indian Navy divers determined depth of artificial lake in Rishi Ganga||In a challenging mission, Indian Navy divers have measured the depth of the glacial lake formed at an altitude of 14,000 ft near Rishiganga dam following the devastating flash flood in Chamoli, Uttarakhand. The scientists will use this critical data to determine the pressure on the mud wall of the dam.  The divers were winched by IAF Advanced Light Helicopter into the lake on Saturday to measure the depth of the glacial lake formed 5 km upstream of Tapovan. They recorded the depth using a handheld echo sounder (depth measuring equipment) in the near-freezing waters, said a Navy spokesperson. Throughout the evaluation, the IAF pilots maintained accurate positioning in difficult terrain. Due to the avalanche that ravaged two power projects and has claimed 67 lives so far, there was a formation of an artificial reservoir of water or mini lake on Rishi Ganga river.  The administration urgently needed to assess the condition of the catchment by measuring the depth of water as it was not natural. With no road access and time criticality, the naval diving team was quickly mobilised and dispatched onboard the IAF ALH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-navy-divers-determined-depth-of-artificial-lake-in-rishi-ganga-953630.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Militant hideout unearthed in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||Security forces on Sunday busted a militant hideout and recovered a cache of arms and ammunition in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The cache was recovered after the arrest of the conspirator of the attack on a popular restaurant owner's son in the city, a police official said. “A hideout was busted in forest area of Anantnag by police and security forces after the arrest of conspirator of Krishna Dhaba attack,” the official said. He said arms and ammunition, including three AK 56 rifles, two Chinese pistols, two grenades, telescope, AK and pistol magazines, and other incriminating material were recovered from the hideout. Police on Friday arrested three persons involved in the Wednesday's attack on the son of the owner of the popular eatery Krishna Dhaba in Durganag area of the city here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-hideout-unearthed-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-953631.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Four more arrested in Rinku Sharma murder case||Four more people have been arrested in connection with the killing of 25-year-old Rinku Sharma in the Mangolpuri area, police said on Sunday. Deen Mohd (40), Dilshan (22), Fayaiz (21) and Faizan (21), all residents of Mangolapuri, were arrested by a team of the Delhi Police's Crime Branch, which is probing the case currently. So far, nine men have been arrested in connection with the killing of Sharma, police said. Additional PRO (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said after examining witnesses and analysing the CCTV footage, the Crime Branch team probing the case has arrested four more men. The accused were identified and arrested on the basis of CCTV footage in which they were seen attacking Sharma, he said. On the night of February 10, when the victim and the accused were attending a birthday party, an argument broke out between them over their food joints in Rohini. They also allegedly slapped and threatened each other at the party, following which they left. The two parties had similar tussles over the same issue sometime back as well, police had said. Later, the four men went to Sharma's house where the victim, along with his elder brother, was already standing outside with sticks. A scuffle broke out between the two sides again during which the accused stabbed Sharma and fled from the spot, a senior police officer had said. The victim's brother Mannu (19), however, had alleged that Rinku was killed as he was actively participating in the donation drive for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. However, the Delhi Police had denied any communal angle to the murder and said the fight at the birthday party took place over a business rivalry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-four-more-arrested-in-rinku-sharma-murder-case-953637.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||101% overreaction: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Disha Ravi's arrest, threats to Greta Thunberg||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said actions taken against young activists in the Toolkit case is a “101 per cent overreaction” by the government, dubbing the arrest of Disha Ravi and others in the case as ‘absurd’. “Is Greta going to tell us how to run the Rashtriya system?” Singh asked. “What is the benefit of locking up these children (Disha Ravi and others booked in Delhi)?” Singh said by that logic, the government should pick up MPs in UK Parliament and in other countries who are supporting the farmers. He also said that he favours releasing those arrested in the Red Fort incident, saying that arresting means provocation and that the whole lot should be released. “This is a provocation and our Punjabis react badly to provocation. As you know, we have our own temperament,” he is quoted as saying. Talking about the Centre-farmer talks about the laws, Singh said there is a possibility that the government may compromise and suspend the laws for 2 years. Singh said his government has information that Pakistan is using the farmers’ agitation to send weapons to Punjab to recruit people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/101-overreaction-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-on-disha-ravis-arrest-threats-to-greta-thunberg-953640.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Delimiting Jammu and Kashmir Assembly part of BJP's plan to divide communities, says Mehbooba Mufti||The delimitation of assembly constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir is a part of the BJP's "larger plan to divide and pit" regions, religions and communities against each other, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged. Taking to Twitter, Mehbooba on Sunday said that the Centre was "railroading" delimitation in Jammu and Kashmir with a "tearing hurry", raising serious apprehensions about the motives of the exercise. "The tearing hurry with which GOI (the Government of India) is railroading delimitation in J&K has raised genuine & serious apprehensions about the motives of this exercise. It's a part of BJP's larger plan to divide & pit regions, religions & communities against each other,” she said. The Delimitation Commission for Jammu and Kashmir was constituted by the Centre on March 6 last year. The commission held its first meeting on Thursday to seek suggestion/views on the process of delimitation in respect of the union territory. The meeting of the commission was attended by two of the five associated members - Union Minister Jitendra Singh and BJP leader and MP from Jammu, Jugal Kishore Sharma. The other three associated members of the commission - National Conference MPs Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi – did not attend the meeting. The NC MPs informed the commission that they would not be participating in its proceedings as the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status was pending adjudication before the Supreme Court. In a letter to Chairperson Delimitation Commission Justice (Retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, they expressed their inability to associate with the commission. They also urged the chairperson not to go ahead with the delimitation process as the J-K Reorganisation Act, 2019 is under judicial scrutiny in the Supreme Court. "In our view, the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 is palpably unconstitutional and has been enacted in disregard and violation of mandate and spirit of the Constitution of India and therefore not to be acted upon," the MPs said. "We have thrown challenge to constitutional validity of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, exercise of powers where-under the meeting in question is proposed to be held," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimiting-jammu-and-kashmir-assembly-part-of-bjps-plan-to-divide-communities-says-mehbooba-mufti-953646.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||I-T detects tax evasion after raids on group running largest Srinagar hospital||The Income Tax Department has detected multiple instances of alleged tax evasion after it raided a business group that runs the "biggest private" multi-speciality hospital in Srinagar, the CBDT said on Sunday. The searches were launched on Friday, and seven premises including four residential were covered. While an official statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) did not name the entity raided, official sources in the department identified it as the group that runs the Noora hospital located in Zainakote, Srinagar. The statement said Rs 82.75 lakh cash and jewellery and bullion worth Rs 35.7 lakh were seized "as the concerned persons from whose custody these were found were not able to explain the same".  The department has also "sealed" a bank locker found during the raids. The core business of the group includes running of the over 100-bed multi-speciality hospital, real estate and trading of household consumables, it said. "The group is in the practice of buying large chunks of lands in piecemeal and aggregating them. Thereafter, it develops the land and carves out plots and sells them. "Evidence showing more than 50 per cent of consideration (over and above the registered value of the property) received in cash from buyers, has been seized during the search operation," the CBDT said. Such sale consideration received in cash, it alleged, has "never" been offered to tax. "The group has made unaccounted property transactions of more than Rs 100 crore in cash since finanical year 2013-14." "The payments/investments made through banking channels by the buyers of plots are also under investigation as prima-facie verification has shown that the investments have not been made using tax-paid income," it alleged. Thus, taxes will be leviable not only on the seller group but the buyers also, depending on the facts of the cases, it added. "There is substantial default of TDS on almost all purchases and sales of land and plots," the Board, that frames policy for the tax department, said. The action also "revealed substantial evasion of stamp duty due to the government on cash paid as sale consideration over and above the registered value of the property". "The information in this regard will be shared with the J-K UT authority for levy of stamp duty on the entire sale consideration, as evident from the seized documents and notification of circle rates as per the prevailing market rates," it said. The CBDT claimed that individuals linked to the group "have taken a number of plots/land as gifts from various unrelated individuals and they have not shown any income on this score...even though the same is chargeable to tax in the hands of the donee as income from other sources." "The cases of the donors are also under investigation from the perspective of evasion of income tax," the statement said. Describing another instance of alleged tax evasion, the CBDT said that "one of the taxpayers of this group engaged in trading of household consumables has made cash purchases of these items worth Rs 2 crore in 6 months (FY 2019-20) in violation of tax provisions which mandate payment of more than Rs 10,000 at a time through banking channels only." "Evidence of various benami properties has also been unearthed and seized during the search. The same is under investigation," it said. "Suppression of receipts from the running of the hospital is under investigation. The average turnover shown by the hospital is around Rs 10-12 crore since FY 2015-16, however, seized evidence shows actual receipts to be at least four times more," the CBDT claimed. Evidence showing cash payments of Rs 3 crore, made to various doctors in the current year, has been seized during the search, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-detects-tax-evasion-after-raids-on-group-running-largest-srinagar-hospital-953687.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Complacency causing spike in Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh: Experts||After registering a drop in Covid-19 cases for some weeks, the viral disease is again showing an upward trend in Madhya Pradesh, specially its industrial hub Indore, with experts blaming people for lowering their guard against the pandemic. Since the past one week, more than 200 Covid-19 cases are being reported daily in MP, prompting the state government to send some samples of patients to labs in Delhi and Pune to check whether a new variant of the virus has found its way into the state, a government official said. The Centre recently said four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 in India in January, while one tested positive for the Brazil variant strain in the first week of February. In September 2020, Madhya Pradesh witnessed a daily count of more than 2,000 cases for 10 consecutive days, but the graph started going down by the year-end. Earlier this month, the daily Covid-19 cases were below 200 in the state but crossed the mark on February 14. So far, the state has reported a total of 2,59,128 Covid-19 cases and 3,850 deaths due to the disease. Out of 257 cases recorded in MP on Saturday, 131 were from Indore, which has been the worst-hit by Covid-19 in the state, as per official figures. Indore has so far reported 929 deaths due to Covid-19, the highest among all districts in the state. All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Bhopal, Director Dr Sarman Singh told PTI that the cases were swelling as MP shares borders with Maharashtra, which has been badly hit by the pandemic. Besides, people have become complacent against the pandemic, he said. "The infection was expected to re-surge. Therefore, people should not be complacent till the last man in the country is cured of the pandemic," he said. Amid the spike, 100 samples of patients, mostly from Indore, have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control in New Delhi and the Pune-based National Institute of Virology to check whether a new virus strain has entered MP, a government official said. Indore's nodal officer for Covid-19 prevention, Amit Malakar, also said the spurt in cases of late is due to the "careless approach of people", after the graph of cases showed a downward trajectory last month. "Nowadays, people in many places are seen without masks or not wearing face coverings properly. Besides, adherence to physical distancing norms and use of sanitisers have also gone down drastically," he said. An analysis of the government data shows the virus positivity rate - proportion of positive cases from the total number of samples - which was 0.9 per cent in MP on February 12, shot up to 1.9 per cent on February 19. A total of 161 people in MP tested positive on February 12, and the number rose to 297 on February 19. The number of daily Covid-19 cases has been above the 200-mark since February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/complacency-causing-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-experts-953701.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Everything including agenda of House, questions & answers to become paperless: Assembly speaker||Ahead of the presentation of 'paperless' Budget in Uttar Pradesh, the state legislative assembly speaker on Sunday said that subsequently everything including the agenda of the House, and questions and answers will become paperless. "There is a plan to implement the e-Vidhan in all the legislative assemblies of the country. It will be implemented in Uttar Pradesh as well, and the required money for its implementation will also be paid by us. For this project, the Union Parliamentary Affairs minister has been made the nodal," UP's Legislative Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit told PTI on Sunday. Uttar Pradesh has filled all the required documents, and it is ready to ink an MoU with the Centre on this. They are moving ahead on this, and the necessary equipment have been installed, he added. "The 'paperless' budget is a part of the e-vidhan. Now, this (budget) is going to be paperless. Subsequently, everything will be paperless. Once the e-vidhan is implemented then the agenda will also become paperless, and the question and answers will also become paperless. "At this time, it will be only the budget, which will be paperless, rest of the things are yet to be made paperless including the agenda and copies of bills," Dixit said. He also informed that as the finance minister will read his budget speech on his tablet and the MLAs will be able to see it on their tablets. To a question on whether e-Vidhan will be implemented by the Monsoon Session of the Assembly, Dixit said, "Nothing can be said as of now. It may or may not be implemented. But, the Centre wants that it should be speedily implemented. We also want that it should be implemented at the earliest." Implementation of e-Vidhan will help in putting many things including the agenda in the public domain. "Things which the public used to know through the newspaper will be known to them rather fast. 60 per cent of cost will be borne by the Centre, while 40 per cent of the cost will be borne by the state," he said. 'e-Vidhan' is one of the 44 Mission Mode Projects (MMPs) under Digital India Programme launched by Government of India with a vision to transform the country into a Digitally Empowered Society and knowledge economy. The Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs has been made the 'Nodal Ministry' for the implementation of e-Vidhan MMP re-designating it as National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA) in all the 31 States/ UTs with Legislatures on the line of Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly to make the functioning of State Legislative Houses paperless. e-Vidhan software of Himachal Pradesh Vidhan Sabha was upgraded as National eVidhan Application (NeVA), a single application covering all 39 Houses (Lok Sabha+ Rajya Sabha+ 31 Assemblies+ 6 Councils) to bring all the legislatures of the country together, on one platform, thereby creating a massive data depository without having the complexity of multiple applications. Earlier this month, the Uttar Pradesh government had asked members of the state''s legislative assembly and council to purchase tablets for a paperless budget session. On February 2, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed that the state cabinet should hold a virtual meeting in future for which ministers must be given training. Adityanath had said, "Modern technology is extremely helpful in performing various works quickly and in a transparent manner. Ministers should be imparted training for e-cabinet meetings at their official residence and office. Information regarding the security features for the e-cabinet meeting should be given to them." He said the initiative will help the state cabinet go paperless. "Efforts should also be made to make the state budget paperless on the lines of the Union Budget," he had said. On February 1, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had read out the Union Budget speech in the Lok Sabha from a tablet instead of a conventional paper document.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/everything-including-agenda-of-house-questions-answers-to-become-paperless-assembly-speaker-953716.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi woos 'Nishad' community ahead of Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Apparently keeping in mind the next assembly poll in Uttar Pradesh, which was due early next year, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday met the members of the electorally crucial 'Nishad' (boatmen) community in Prayagraj, about 200 kilometres from here, and asked them to ''teach a lesson'' to the BJP. Priyanka also interacted with the families of the boatmen who were beaten by the police a few days back for allegedly carrying on illegal sand mining in the Yamuna river. The police had also allegedly broken several boats and roughed up the women members of the community. ''The police action is shameful....you (boatmen) supported the BJP in the elections but it did not do anything for you....you should teach the party a lesson,'' she said while addressing the community members at Baswara village in the district. Priyanka assured the boatmen that her party would extend all support to them and sought their support. ''This government only cares for the industrialists,'' she said. According to the sources, during her last trip to Prayagraj, when Priyanka had taken a dip at the holy 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) on the occasion of 'Mauni Amavasya' (a scared day on which millions take a dip in holy rivers across India), she also had a brief boat ride in the river. The boatman, Sujeet Nishad had then told the Congress leader about the police action and requested her to visit the affected families.  Priyanka has been visiting temples and holding 'kisan mahapanchayats' in the state to capitalise on the anger among the farmers over the new farm laws. She has already addressed four meetings of the farmers in western UP districts and plans to address many more in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-woos-nishad-community-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-953729.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Gulabi Gang faction forms teams in UP's Mahoba to stop crime against women||Gulabi Mahila Uthan Samiti, a faction of the Bundelkhand-based women vigilante group Gulabi Gang, has formed teams in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district that will identify those committing crimes against women and hand them over to police. The Gulabi Gang started in the state's Banda district as a response to widespread domestic abuse and other violence against women, and was headed by Sampat Pal Devi. Currently, it has three factions -- one headed by Sampat Pal in Banda, and the others by Suman Singh Chauhan in Mahoba and Asha Nigam in Kanpur. Chauhan, who heads the Gulabi Mahila Uthan Samiti, said the teams will try to stop crime against girls and women in the vicinity of schools, colleges, temples and markets, and at homes. "The 60-member 'jhapattamaar dal' has been formed by the faction of the Gulabi Gang headed by me. This team in Mahoba will work to catch those committing violence against girls and women, and handover them to the police," she said. Chauhan said, "In the team of 60 women, 10 each will be posted in Charkhari and Kulpaharh tehsils, 20 will be posted in the district headquarters, while the rest of 20 women will be posted in rural areas. The 'jhapattamaar dal' will work in coordination with the anti-Romeo squad of the police and the Dial-112 PRV."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gulabi-gang-faction-forms-teams-in-ups-mahoba-to-stop-crime-against-women-953749.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||MP minister climbs atop village fair swing for phone signal||A photograph and a video of a Madhya Pradesh minister sitting atop a 50-foot high swing in Ashok Nagar district to get a robust signal on his cellphone network led to a plethora of memes and jokes centred around the government's much-vaunted 'Digital India' thrust. The photograph of MP Minister of State for Public Health Engineering Brajendra Singh Yadav on the swing in Amkho village was published in newspapers while the video went viral on social media on Sunday. The village is surrounded by hills and is hosting a 'Bhagwad Katha' (recitation) programme amid a fair that has a 50-foot high swing as one its attractions, eye witnesses said. Yadav told reporters local residents were approaching him with problems but he was not being able to help them due to the poor mobile phone network in the area. "So I climbed atop the swing to get a clear signal in order to contact officials to get people's problems solved. I am in the village for nine days as I am the host of the Bhagwad Katha and Sriram Mahayagya," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-minister-climbs-atop-village-fair-swing-for-phone-signal-953757.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||UP man arrested after video of him spitting on rotis goes viral on social media||Remember the scene from '3 Idiots' where Raju Rastogi's mother scratches his father's chest and then goes on to make rotis with hairs sticking on to the belan? The disgust in the face of Rancho and Farhan was a feeling shared by all of us while watching it. Well, it is time to relive those feelings back and try not to develop a sense of apathy towards our favourite tandoori roti while watching this viral video. Meerut Police has arrested a man after the video of him spitting on rotis (bread) before baking them in a tandoor went viral on social media.  In the video, which has disgusted a lot of social media users, the man seems to be using his saliva to make sure the rotis stay intact in the tandoor. The video appears to be from a wedding ceremony. Police took stock of the situation after the video surfaced online and arrested the man. “The station in-charge of Partapur has been conveyed to launch necessary action or investigation in connection with the case,” the police said.  The accused is also a resident of Meerut and has been identified as one Naushad aka Sohail. Sources said that one of the employees of the catering company made the video and uploaded it on social media. Enraged over the incident, workers of a saffron outfit contacted the catering company and asked it to produce the youth before them. They thrashed the youth and later handed him over to the cops. Police said that Naushad had admitted to doing the act but did not reveal what led him to do it. The incident threatened to take a communal turn as the youth hailed from the Muslim community after the saffron activists alleged that there was a conspiracy behind it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-arrested-after-video-of-him-spitting-on-rotis-goes-viral-on-social-media-953760.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Navy divers measure depth of glacial lake at 14,000 feet altitude||In a challenging mission, Indian Navy divers have measured the depth of a glacial lake formed at an altitude of nearly 14,000 ft near Tapovan in Uttarakhand following the devastating flash flood earlier this month. The scientists will now use this critical data to determine the pressure on the mud wall of the dam so that the administration can take a decision on releasing the water. The divers were winched by Indian Air Force Advanced Light Helicopter into the lake on Saturday to measure the depth of the glacial lake formed 5 km upstream of Tapovan. They recorded the data using a handheld echo sounder (depth measuring equipment) in near-freezing waters, said a Navy spokesperson. Throughout the evaluation, the IAF pilots maintained accurate positioning in difficult terrain to ensure the operation went ahead smoothly. The lake was formed due to the avalanche that triggered the flood. The water catchment not being natural, the administration urgently needed to assess the condition of the catchment by measuring the depth of water. Earlier a team of mountaineers and disaster relief personnel had trekked to the location to make an on-the-spot assessment at the location where the avalanche crashed into Rishiganga river, leaving behind a trail of death and destruction. Naresh Rana, a geologist with Hemavati Nandan Bahuguna University had shared a video showing the lake and cautioned that it could lead to another flash flood. With no road access to the lake and time criticality, the naval diving team was quickly mobilised and dispatched onboard the IAF ALH so that they could collect the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/navy-divers-measure-depth-of-glacial-lake-at-14000-feet-altitude-953773.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||Woman forced to drink liquor, gang-raped in farmhouse in Madhya Pradesh||A 20-year-old woman was gang-raped allegedly by four persons in Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol district, police said on Sunday. She was forced to drink liquor in a farmhouse in Gadaghat area under Jaitpur police station limits and then gang-raped on February 18 and 19, said Shahdol Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Mukesh Vaishya. "On February 20, the four accused left her in front of her house. Her kin later filed a police complaint. The victim was first taken to Jaitpur health centre and then shifted to the district hospital for treatment. Efforts are on to nab the four," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-forced-to-drink-liquor-gang-raped-in-farmhouse-in-madhya-pradesh-953780.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||UP: 2 youths drown after boat overturns in lake during Facebook live||Two men drowned in a lake in Bansdih area here after their boat overturned while they were streaming a live video on social media on Sunday, police said. SHO of Bansdih police station Rajesh Kumar Singh said that six youths of Mairitar village in Bansdih area were riding a boat in Surha Taal, and moving towards an island. At the time, some of the youths were enjoying their ride and went live on Facebook to record their outing. "As a result, the boat overturned, and the six youths started drowning. The boatmen took out the youths from the pond. The condition of two men was serious, and they were taken to the district hospital, where Anuj Gupta (25) and Deepak Gupta (26) were declared dead by the doctors," the SHO said. The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-2-youths-drown-after-boat-overturns-in-lake-during-facebook-live-953782.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||11 boys working as bonded labourers rescued from north Delhi||Eleven boys, including an eight-year-old, working as bonded labourers were rescued from several places in north Delhi's Samaypur Badli area, a child rights body said on Sunday. Raids were conducted in seven places under the Samaypur Badli police station area on Friday following reports of children working as labourers in hazardous conditions, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) said. Eleven children were rescued during the operation, it added. "These children were working in hazardous conditions as bonded labour in bakery units, kharat machine units and auto center units of Alipur area of North Delhi district. One child was rescued from a residential place where he was working as domestic help,” the DCPCR said in a statement. “The rescued children were exposed to all kinds of physical and mental trauma, especially in the times of a Covid pandemic," it added. The children were sent to child care institutions in the city and would be reunited with their families, the commission said. According to the child rights body, in another rescue operation conducted on January 28, 51 minors were rescued. Of these, 10 were boys and the rest 41 girls. The rescue mission was undertaken at sawmill, shoe and scrap units in the Nangloi area in West Delhi. "In both the rescue operations, the children were mostly found to be working for over 12 hours a day and were paid a bare minimum amount of Rs 100-150 per day. “Furthermore, these children were found working in extremely unhygienic and unhealthy conditions with no face masks, posing a serious threat to their lives especially during these times of pandemic," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-boys-working-as-bonded-labourers-rescued-from-north-delhi-953790.html
21-02-2021||North and Central||In six months, all leased, hired cars for commute of Delhi govt officials will be EVs: Gahlot||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday said that within a period of six months, all leased or hired cars used for commute by Delhi government officials will be electric vehicles. He also urged four-wheeler owners in the city to switch to electric vehicles (EVs) and claimed that the subsides being offered by the Delhi government are one of the highest in the country on purchase of EVs. "Incentives of up to Rs three lakh are provided under the Delhi EV policy, which includes 1.5 lakh subsidy, registration, and road tax exemption. This is the highest subsidy in India and makes the total cost of ownership of an electric car in Delhi exactly the same as a diesel car," Gahlot said as the eight-week Switch Delhi entered its third week. Subsidies provided on electric cars in Delhi's EV policy are reducing the total cost of ownership of electric cars by up to 30 per cent, he said. The minister said that an individual can save up to Rs 1,050 per month by switching to an EV from a diesel car. The campaign by the Delhi government aims to sensitise people about the benefits of switching to EVs and make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed. Under Delhi's EV policy, 12 four-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives, according to a statement There are significant financial benefits that e-cars offer. The total cost of ownership of a private electric car and a private diesel car travelling approximately 30 km per day in Delhi is Rs 19.04 and Rs 19.11 per km respectively, according to the statement. "To set an example for the city, the Delhi government has taken lead by starting the transition of its entire fleet to electric (vehicles). All leased/hired cars used for the commute of Delhi government officers shall be transitioned to electric within a period of six months," Gahlot said. To help people overcome the apprehensions regarding the charging of EV vehicles in the city and enable a smooth transition, over 70 public charging stations are already operational in Delhi, the statement said. It said that additionally, 500 charging points are coming up on 100 locations soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-six-months-all-leased-hired-cars-for-commute-of-delhi-govt-officials-will-be-evs-gahlot-953798.html
21-02-2021||Opinion||PM Narendra Modi's plan to make a Singapore in Gujarat falls flat||By Andy Mukherjee When Singapore set up an international financial hub in the late 1960s, the city-state was thinking both fast and slow — seizing an immediate opportunity and opening a path to long-term economic development. Half a century later, India is attempting something similar in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat. But without much thought going into what exactly it’s building, for whom and for what purpose, all it may get is a casino for the local rich.  Channelling these regional savings into local investments and diversifying the Singapore economy was the longer-term impetus for starting a dollar-denominated banking hub, according to Oxford University historian Catherine Schenk. Bank of America’s local branch was the first to get permission to open a separate set of books purely for international business.  All new stores need their early patrons. Had India pursued Singapore’s strategy, it would have begun by targeting nonresident Indians to keep some of their wealth with their banks’ branches in the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City — more popularly known as Gift City — luring them with simple products not available commercially in global markets, such as dollar-denominated sovereign Indian bonds. Corporate issuers would have followed. But banks are run by bankers, who need good schools and better pubs. Three high-rise buildings situated 10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from Gandhinagar — the capital of a state where alcohol is prohibited — offer neither. Since a bank-led approach wasn’t feasible, minders of Modi’s favourite project turned toward capital markets, in the hope that with sufficient inducement brokers would book trades in Gift City without having to set foot there. As a result, the joyless place has spent years trying to become a marketplace for foreign currency-denominated contracts, hoping to capture some of the financial intermediation that now takes place in London, Singapore, Hong Kong or Dubai, but where the ultimate risk resides in India.  Now comes another strategic wrong turn. Just last week, the central bank allowed resident individuals to open foreign-currency accounts in Gift City to invest in securities issued by overseas firms. This isn’t a step toward the original goal of capital-account convertibility. India already permits all adults and minors an annual $250,000 quota for overseas remittances. Worse, if the money placed in Gift isn’t invested in 15 days, it returns home to a rupee account. Loose change of retail Indian cash parked temporarily in Gujarat is hardly going to entice a pedigreed global issuer to hawk equities or bonds there. The price signals these offshore derivatives emit tend to become a headache for a central bank trying to manage a controlled home currency in times of balance-of-payment stress, like during the 2013 taper tantrum. Rather than wanting these potentially destabilizing flows to come closer home, India ought to be deepening the onshore rupee market in Mumbai instead. It should also be paying more attention to interest-rate derivatives, like Mexico and South Africa have. In hosting an international financial center, Singapore stole a march over rival Hong Kong, where the bankers were initially against more competition. But it wasn’t tall buildings that made the experiment a success. A freely convertible currency, pragmatic regulation, a stable tax regime, rule of law and speedy dispute resolution played a huge role. (Good schools and pubs helped, too.) Opening up after the pandemic, the Indian economy is awash in central bank-sponsored liquidity. What it lacks is capital, and the preconditions to establish a truly international financial center. Gujarat was never the right place to build a global mart. Bereft of any economic logic, Gift may only appeal to the local wealthy shopping for a bit of tax-free dollar riches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pm-narendra-modis-plan-to-make-a-singapore-in-gujarat-falls-flat-953629.html
21-02-2021||Opinion||Are dolphins right-handed or left-handed?||Humans do not act symmetrically. Most of us prefer, and are better at, using one hand rather than the other; balancing on one leg rather than the other; and for those of us who spin (gymnasts, dancers or divers, for example), spinning in one direction rather than the other. Brains also do not function symmetrically. A version of this idea has long lived in pop psychology, where people are sometimes characterized as being either left-brained (analytical) or right-brained (creative). And although the pop-psych version of this may rest on questionable data, the underlying idea of asymmetrical brain function (what scientists call lateralization) is well-established. For example, in humans, language is typically processed in the left hemisphere, while spatial information is processed in the right. Because each side of the brain controls a different side of the body, studying asymmetrical behaviours can provide us with information about asymmetrical brain function. And if we study this in animals, it may give us insights into brain evolution. Handedness without hands The type of lateralization most familiar to people is undoubtedly handedness. This has been studied in animals by looking at things like which hand monkeys use to grab something, which paw dogs use to knock food out of a container, and so on. But what do you do when the animal you're studying doesn't have hands (or paws)? How do you study lateralization in an animal like a dolphin? It turns out that behavioural asymmetries come in various types, not just limb biases like handedness and footedness, but also sensory asymmetries, in which we do better on different types of tasks depending on which eye (or visual field) we use; and turning biases, where we prefer turning in one direction rather than the other. Because different types of biases may come from different underlying causes, studying many different behaviour types, across many different animals, can provide us with a fuller understanding of brain lateralization and its evolution. A new spin on spinning This is where it gets tricky. When comparing across animals, we have to take account of the fact that body plans and typical ways of moving may be different. For example, if the animal walks upright (like humans and birds) the long axis of its body is vertical, but if it walks on all fours, the long axis of its body is horizontal. This means that “turning” can involve very different types of movements. For an animal on all fours, turning involves crunching the long axis of its body to one side or the other. For an animal on two legs, turning involves spinning around the long axis of its body, which is kept straight. And for an animal like a dolphin who locomotes in three-dimensional space, either type of turning is possible. When we set out to study lateralization in dolphins, we were careful to separate these two different types of turning, but we ran into another problem when our researchers kept disagreeing about what counts as a spin “to the right” (or left). After a lot of discussion (and sometimes argument), we realized that we had stumbled upon a weird quirk of human perception. Apparently, humans interpret the direction of spinning in opposite ways depending on the orientation of the animal. To get a feel for this, try the following: First, stand up and spin “right.” Then lie down face-down on the floor and roll “right.” If you are like most people, in the upright case your right shoulder moved toward your back, while in the horizontal case your right shoulder moved toward your belly. That is, you made the exact opposite rotation. (And in case you’re wondering, no, you can't get around this by describing spins as clockwise/counterclockwise instead of right/left. You get the same results if you substitute “clockwise” for “right” in the examples above.) Before this, almost all scientific studies of lateralization of turning or spinning motions had studied a single species in a single orientation, like a human turning (upright) or a whale breaching (horizontal)—so the issue had never come up. However, this meant that published research studies had in fact been using opposite coding systems for different animals, depending on their orientation. A spinning turn in which the animal’s right side moved towards its front was typically coded as left/ counterclockwise in studies of humans and walking birds, but as right/clockwise in studies of dolphins and whales. But of course, if we want to look at turning lateralization across different species, we all need to agree on the direction of a turn. This meant we needed a new coding system. Remember that thing from Physics class? The system we came up with was actually inspired by the “right-hand rule” of electromagnetism that many of us learned in high-school or college physics. According to that rule, if you point your right thumb in the direction in which an electrical current flows through a wire, the curve of your fingers shows you the direction of the magnetic field flowing around that wire. We adopted the general outline of this schematic model to create the Right-Fingered Spin (RiFS) versus Left-Fingered Spin (LeFS) coding system. In this system, when a coder’s outstretched thumb is oriented along the animal’s long axis, pointed toward its head, the curled fingers of the relevant hand describe the direction of rotation. This allowed us to quickly and unambiguously code spinning/turning behaviours no matter the animal’s orientation or direction of movement. So, what did we find? Some previous scientific papers had claimed that dolphins show strong rightward behavioural asymmetries, similar to human right-handedness, and therefore had a left-hemisphere specialization for action. But since “right” didn't always mean the same thing in the earlier coding systems, it wasn’t clear if this claim was really true. To test it, we examined different types of behavioural asymmetries in a group of 26 dolphins, such as “Which direction do they swim around a lagoon?,” “Which side of their body do they touch things with?” and “Which direction do they spin if they dive up and to the side?” By making sure to separate out the different types of motion, and using the unambiguous RiFS/LeFS coding system, we found that—contrary to previous claims—dolphins do not have a general rightward asymmetry after all. People often think that scientific progress happens when we learn something new that we didn't know before. But another kind of scientific progress happens when we realize that there is a problem with the way we’ve been looking at things all along. In those cases, figuring out a different way of looking can lead to seeing things more clearly. And as science fiction writer Isaac Asimov once pointed out, “The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not “Eureka!’ but ‘That’s funny...’”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-dolphins-right-handed-or-left-handed-953786.html
21-02-2021||Opinion||The big question: Can the world learn to live with Covid-19?||By Romesh Ratnesar, This is one of a series of interviews by Bloomberg Opinion columnists on how to solve today’s most pressing policy challenges. Romesh Ratnesar: It’s been nearly a year since the World Health Organization declared Covid-19 a global pandemic. At least 2.4 million people have died from the disease worldwide and an estimated 120 million people have been pushed into extreme poverty. You’re the author of a new book, 'The Plague Cycle: The Unending War Between Humanity and Infectious Disease.' Judged by the length of this pandemic and its severity, how does Covid compare with other plagues over the course of human history? Charles Kenny, senior fellow, Center for Global Development: In grand historical perspective, Covid-19 is not nearly as bad as say, the Black Death, where a third to a half of the European population died, or the afflictions that hit the Americas after Columbus arrived, where up to 80% or more of the population died. But it’s still awful. And it’s so much more awful than it needed to be. The interesting thing about Covid is that the first year was basically taken up trying to use responses we’ve known about for a while. On the cover of my book is a picture published in a French newspaper from 1911. It’s an image of Death stalking Manchuria, which at the time was suffering pneumonic plague. That plague outbreak, thankfully, only lasted a few months. And one of the reasons why was that people were masking and they were socially distancing and there were travel restrictions. Those technologies have been around a while, and yet we don’t seem to have got too much better at using them — if anything, we got worse at using them in large parts of the world. On the other hand, two or three decades ago the technologies behind the Covid vaccines that have been rolled out didn’t exist. We certainly would have been waiting a lot longer for a vaccine even a few decades ago. And a century and a half ago, we would have been waiting forever for a vaccine against Covid-19. So in some ways, we’re in a much better place. RR: As you note in the book, the world has seen a highly uneven response — countries that had more recent experience with epidemics benefited from having already put into place the necessary measures to deal with this kind of outbreak. CK: The last big pandemic health scare in the United States was Ebola, which wasn’t really a threat to the US at all. The countries where the last big infectious disease threat was SARS, on the other hand — a disease much closer to Covid-19 — have responded much better. If you look at South Korea or Taiwan, they very rapidly locked down and brought this disease under control using testing and tracing and quarantining people who had the infection. The disease is not a public health threat there at the moment in the way that it is here and in most of the rest of the world. They learned the lessons from SARS, which is that we really need to track and test and so on. Meanwhile we were busy going, “Oh, look, we handled Ebola, it was nothing; we must be well-prepared for pandemics.” Clearly we weren’t ready for Covid-19. RR: Were there missed policy opportunities that could have stopped this at an earlier stage? CK: Very early on, the World Health Organization said, Look, this is an infection to really worry about. But in most European countries and in North America, five or six weeks passed after that before governments started to spring into action. Within weeks, the WHO had models for how to design a good Covid test; one of the things we got wrong in the United States early on was not designing and rolling out at-scale testing. I think the WHO largely got this pandemic right. One of the big lessons coming out of this is that if the WHO had had more power and money and the ears of the leaders in Europe and the Americas, this thing wouldn’t have got as bad as it did. RR: Your book discusses the “exclusion instinct” — how throughout history, the natural human response to disease has been to try to shut ourselves off from it. We’re continuing to see that now, as countries close their borders to try to keep variants of the virus out. Is that sustainable going forward? CK: The exclusion instinct makes an immense amount of sense if there’s a sick, infectious person near you. Keeping them further away is a wise move as a general rule — it’s what lies behind social distancing, for example. But applying it to borders in the 21st century is the wrong way to do it. The world became a global disease pool, if you will, pretty soon after Columbus hit the Americas. It only took four caravels crossing the Atlantic to bring a chunk of disease over. Those four caravels brought back syphilis to the Old World, which then was spread around, partially by Vasco de Gama going around the coast of Africa and to India. It doesn’t take very many people moving in order to move infections around. We didn’t manage travel bans well at the start of Covid-19 for a number of reasons. The bans were put in too late. A lot of people with Covid-19 are asymptomatic and we didn’t fully understand the danger of the disease until long after it had already spread across most of the world. Also, when we put the travel bans in place, the immediate result was that a whole load of people traveled to get home because the bans weren’t absolute. Instead, countries said, “In a week, we are going to stop all travel unless you’re a citizen.” That gave people time to respond, time to hop on a plane and time to arrive at incredibly crowded airports, and hang around for hours next to a lot of other people. Exactly the kind of thing you don’t want happening in a pandemic, we helped to make happen. The much more effective way to reduce new mutations and the threat of spread is to control this disease where it is out of control. There aren’t new variants emerging in New Zealand or in Taiwan because they’ve got the disease under control. It’s in the places where it is raging and hundreds of thousands or millions of people have it that the problem emerges. So the best response is to use local methods — use social distancing, use lockdowns, use masks to reduce local spread. That’s the way we get this disease under control, not travel bans. RR: There’s a great deal of frustration about the pace of vaccinations. Does that fit the historical pattern? And should we expect that things will get better? CK: The global vaccine campaign, much like our response to Covid as a whole, has been terrible, but better than ever before. For a start, we have seen this amazingly fast timeline between the first emergence of Covid-19 and the rollout of very effective vaccines. Usually, that’s a process that takes 10 or 15 years, in the best of circumstances. That we managed to do it so fast is an amazing statement of human ingenuity. Various different countries have produced really effective vaccines, which is also great, because it means we’ve got a wider spread of different types of vaccine, which makes it more likely that some will be more robust against future mutations should they occur. And even if the rather grim forecasts that it will take another two years until most countries in Africa get fully vaccinated turn out to be right — and I hope they’re wrong — that would still be, by far, the fastest ever in history that we’ve managed to vaccinate the entire planet. We wiped out smallpox, partially through a global vaccination campaign, but it was nearly two centuries after the vaccine had been invented. So we’re moving a lot faster than we have in the past. But we could be moving so much faster, and we could be getting the death rate down so much faster, if we were doing this in a more globally equitable way. I admit I’m part of the problem — I want my vaccine now. And despite the fact that I’m at a much lower risk than an 80-year-old person in Brazil, I want the US government to vaccinate me first. A bunch of people acting like me are pushing the United States to keep the vaccines for itself and sign contracts with vaccine manufacturers saying you can’t sell vaccines to anybody else until you’ve given the U.S. this many vaccines. And that means that more people will die. RR: You spent 15 years as an economist at the World Bank. When did you start to see a connection between combating infectious disease and economic development? CK: When I was at the World Bank, everybody was doing what was called cross-country growth regressions. You basically stick all countries’ experiences into one big algorithm and try to explain why some countries grew fast and some countries grew slow. While doing that, I started wondering, why are we only measuring per capita income? I started playing around with health measures, among other things. And I found what others, including the demographer Samuel Preston, had seen before: that if you looked at countries at the same income over time — so, say, a country with a per capita GDP of about $1,000 — the health outcomes they were getting for their money kept on improving. The life expectancy in a country like that 100 years ago might have been 30; now it’s closer to 70. Same money, much better results. And that led me to ask why. And the answer is, we’ve got a whole bunch of cheap health technologies that we didn’t have 100 years ago. We’ve got vaccines, we’ve got antibiotics, we understand about oral rehydration, which stops people dying from diarrheal diseases. So we’ve got all of these new cheap techniques that allow us to save lives at much lower cost. And that sort of led me down the road of looking at what effects that’s had. In the book, I suggest there are connections between the decline of infection and everything from economic growth to changing social attitudes toward homosexuality to the role of women in society to war and peace and education — name your subject and you can make a link back to the levels of infectious disease declining over the last two centuries. Even with Covid being a very sad coda, it is a good news story. It’s a story of why humans have progressed. RR: A decade ago you wrote a book called “Getting Better,” which documented this progress, particularly the massive drop we’ve seen in the number of people living in extreme poverty. How much will the Covid crisis jeopardize those gains?   CK: For all of the misery of the last year, to some extent it puts our progress in even starker relief. Covid has knocked us back maybe five years in terms of poverty reduction. It knocked us back maybe a few more, maybe a few less, in terms of life expectancy worldwide. But we’re going to recover those losses and we’re going to keep on seeing progress. It’s certainly not that the world is in a perfect place, or that we’re making progress as fast as we did in many of these dimensions 10 years ago, but I still think that the long-term trend is positive. It’s possible that 2019 marked the peak for global carbon dioxide emissions, for example. As with Covid, our response to the global challenge of climate change has been disastrous, but we are still making progress. I think there’s grounds for optimism, with the caveat that it’ll take a lot of people working really hard to keep on making the world a better place. Without that, we’re stuck. RR: Speaking of which, in recent weeks there’s been wider acknowledgement among public-health authorities that Covid is going to be endemic and that we’re going to be living with this virus globally for years even decades to come. Drawing on history, what are the implications of this? How can societies successfully deal with endemic disease? CK: Covid-19 will probably be endemic but a rather minor killer. With the vaccines, only 5% of people still get the virus. If you look at their impact on death rates and serious cases, the effectiveness of the vaccines is above 95%. Put that together with the fact that we hope nearly everybody worldwide will eventually be vaccinated — remember at the start of all of this when people were saying, “Oh, it’s no worse than the flu?” That will become true. History tells you that even really horrible diseases become comparatively bush league killers, if you make sure you vaccinate everybody and figure out decent treatments. It is what we’ve done with measles. We’re making remarkable progress against malaria, which is a much more difficult disease to wipe out. We know how to turn diseases from major killers into minor killers. And I think all the signs are we should manage it with Covid-19. RR: What’s the bottom line? What should policy makers learn from history about how to manage future pandemics? CK: Infectious disease risks are largely a result of progress. They are the result of a lot of people and animals living closely together in a connected environment. They’re the result of urbanization and globalization and all sorts of things that have made the world the place it is today, and a much better place for it. Of course, it’s much easier for a disease to spread globally now than it was 200 years ago. So we really have to be on our game — but not cut ourselves off from the rest of the planet or go back to living in the countryside and so on. We have to take advantage of the massive economic, social and technological power that we’ve been bequeathed by globalization and urbanization to make further progress. That does mean working together, it does mean a stronger World Health Organization, it does mean accepting the fact that the risk of a pandemic somewhere is a risk of a pandemic everywhere. We have to support other countries to be better prepared. And we have to do a better job of preparation here at home, not just for our own sake, but for the sake of the rest of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-big-question-can-the-world-learn-to-live-with-covid-19-953791.html
21-02-2021||Panorama||Off the record: February 22, 2021||In a spot  A fresh row has erupted in Kerala over a deal being initiated by the Kerala government with US-based firm EMCC International to develop 400 deep sea fishing trawlers. The CPM-led Left Democratic Front government is on the defensive over the allegations by Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, that too when the Assembly elections are looming. Defending his government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that none of the government departments inked an MoU with the US firm and that Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) that signed the MoU with the US firm was only a public sector undertaking under the state government. He even said that the IAS officer now heading KSINC was a former private secretary of the opposition leader. However, a few advertisements issued by the LDF government which hail the government’s achievements included one of KSINC’s initiatives with the CM’s picture. This has weakened the government’s attempts to distance itself from the public sector undertaking.  Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Nana goes all out As Nana Patole took over as the new Maharashtra Congress president, he has launched an all-out war against the opposition BJP. He often articulates his criticisms well, lacing them with a sense of humour. Amid the rage over the celebrity tweets and toolkit issue, Nana Bhau, as he is popularly known, said that he would not allow films of Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar to be shot or screened in the state – as they targeted the Dr Manmohan Singh government but now remain silent in the Narendra Modi regime. Now, he had described the two actors as “kagaz ke sher” and that they were not real heroes. Though the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis described Nana’s outburst as a “publicity stunt”, Nana shot back “we are not ‘Godse wale’ but ‘Gandhi wale’” and will continue to protest democratically. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Woman power As Uttarakhand witnessed a massive natural disaster, women officers played a key role in launching rescue, relief and rehabilitation operations at the disaster sites. While Aparna Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police led the rescue efforts, Swati Bhadoriya, the District Magistrate of Chamoli camped at Joshimath to coordinate relief efforts. Neeru Garg, the Deputy Inspector General of the Uttarakhand Police in-charge of the Garhwal Range too camped at Joshimath to help coordinate relief efforts. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  Historic moment In what was termed by many as historic, the National anthem was sung inside Nagaland Assembly on December 12 for the first time since it attained statehood in 1962. The anthem was sung before and after Governor R N Ravi addressed the Assembly on the first day of the budget session. Although it is the protocol for all state Assemblies, the same was not followed for years in Nagaland mainly due to the secessionist movement that has ravaged the Northeastern state since Independence. This invited attention of many as it happened at a time the process to sign the final agreement to end the decades-long Naga conflict was put on hold mainly due to rebel group NSCN-IM’s insistence for recognition of a separate flag and Constitution of the Nagas. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Long vacation Schools in Kashmir valley have almost remained closed for the last 19-months, first on account of lockdown imposed after revocation of J&K’s special status in August 2019 and subsequently due to Covid-19 pandemic. As the Covid-19 situation eased out since December, a hope had generated among children that the day was not far away when they will be back to their classes. They were waiting for March 1 when winter vacations would come to an end. Surprisingly, as March 1 is just a week away, some experts have already started warning of a possible second Covid-19 wave and urging the government not to reopen the schools. Looks like the virus is going to prevail for a long time and cause more disruptions in the opening of schools in Kashmir! Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-february-22-2021-953842.html
21-02-2021||Second Edit||Air pollution is costing us heavily||India is incurring heavy costs, financial and in terms of human lives, on account of air pollution. According to a Greenpeace Southeast Asia analysis of the cost of air pollution, the death of some 119,700 people in six Indian cities, which figured in the global analysis, can be attributed to high PM2.5 air pollution. Polluted air resulted in the death of 54,000 people in Delhi, 25,000 in Mumbai, 12,000 in Bengaluru, 11,000 each in Chennai and Hyderabad and 6,700 in Lucknow. Air pollution inflicted enormous economic costs, too, on these cities. Air pollution in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru annually cost these cities $8.1 billion, $3.7 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Of course, air pollution is not a problem that afflicts India alone. This is a global problem that claimed the lives of 160,000 people in the world’s five most populous cities — Delhi, Mexico City, Sao Paulo, Shanghai and Tokyo. What makes the latest figures in the Greenpeace report particularly concerning is that for a few months last year, air pollution had dipped due to lockdowns imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. With industrial activity put on hold and vehicular movement down, the quality of air improved noticeably, if only temporarily. Air pollution costs incurred last year would have been far more serious than that revealed by the Greenpeace survey had it been a ‘normal’ year. Breathing is a life-sustaining activity. It should not be dangerous. Yet, breathing polluted air is causing diseases like asthma and cancer. We have seen how it has impacted our capacity to fight coronavirus infections. Weakened respiratory systems, often the result of air pollution, were less able to fight the coronavirus. There has been a sharp rise in the number of respiratory illnesses in cities with high pollution in recent years. Bengaluru saw an 80% increase in respiratory illnesses between 2015 and 2020. According to a study by The Energy and Resources Institute, vehicles and road dust contribute to much of the air pollution in our cities. Since road dust is stirred up by vehicles, we can conclude that transport accounts for around 60% of urban air pollution, with diesel vehicles, SUVs and taxis being the main polluters. Although awareness of air pollution and its implications is slowly growing, it has not resulted in people changing their lifestyles to reduce such pollution. Governments have not acted robustly to improve public transport and discourage use of private vehicles. Pollution is costing us heavily and polluters must be made to pay for the burden they are imposing on society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/air-pollution-is-costing-us-heavily-953839.html
21-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt lays foundation stone for Cauvery-Gundar interlinking||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the first phase of the Rs 14,400 crore Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river interlinking project, aimed at diverting over 6,000 cubic ft of surplus water to drier areas in the southern parts of the state. Chief Minister K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the first phase, to be taken up at an estimated Rs 6,941 crore, along with his deputy O Panneerselvam at Kunnathur in this district. They participated in the 'bhumi puja' (groundbreaking ceremony) held for the project. The total 262 km project envisages diverting surplus water in Cauvery to Gundar river through a canal and the first of the three phases will cover about 118 km, the government said, adding Cauvery, South Vellar, Vaigai and Gundar rivers will be interlinked in this major intra-state water project. Upon completion, 6,300 cubic ft of surplus water realised during 'flood times' will be diverted and will help in increase in groundwater in southern districts and also help them meet their drinking water requirements. Tiruchirappalli, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Karur will gain from the initiative as over 1,000 lakes and one lakh plus acres of land in these districts will benefit, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-lays-foundation-stone-for-cauvery-gundar-interlinking-953655.html
21-02-2021||South||I neither had a dream nor role-model: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman||One had expected Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to say that she had a dream and a role-model in life, but alas it wasn't so and she was quite candid about it. "When you were young, what was your dream, who was your role-model to get you to this position", she was asked at an interactive session hosted by Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) on Sunday. "Absolutely sweet question," responded Sitharaman. "But I am not even sure I had a dream. I just kept doing what was before me and went along the flow." "I don't think I chart any course in my life. I walked along the path which was before me and that destiny has taken me wherever I am", the Minister said. "Only thing is I better perform so that I don't disappoint people who have given me the responsibility and I don't want to disappoint the people of India," Sitharaman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-neither-had-a-dream-nor-role-model-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-953664.html
21-02-2021||South||Kerala government urges Centre to release more Covid-19 vaccine doses||The Kerala government has asked the Centre to release more doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the state and sought permission for health workers, who missed the opportunity, to register again to receive the shot. State Health Minister K K Shailaja shot off a letter to her counterpart at the Centre, Harsh Vardhan in this regard. Though most of the health workers in the southern state registered within the stipulated time, a few of them could not, she stated in the letter adding that they should be given a chance to register again. More doses of vaccine should be provided for the vaccination of the third priority group-those aged above 50 years, the minister said. Pointing out that Kerala has the highest elderly population in the country, Shailaja wanted the Health Ministry to issue immediate guidelines on the registration and vaccination of the third priority group and provide adequate additional doses of vaccine for them. So far, 3,36,327 (94 per cent of the revised target) health workers and 57,658 frontline fighters (38 per cent) have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the state. In addition,23,707 health workers have got the second dose also, she said. Noting that Kerala had taken effective steps to check the spread of the pandemic, Shailaja said the recent ICMR Zero Surveillance study has found that only very few people in the state were infected by the viral infection. Well-coordinated activities and interventions had helped the southern state to put up a good fight against the disease, she added in the letter. Kerala on Saturday registered 4,650 new Covid-19 cases and 13 related deaths taking the total number of those affected in the state by the deadly virus to 10.30 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-urges-centre-to-release-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-953684.html
21-02-2021||South||Sreedharan's impact likely to be 'minimal'; BJP not a serious contender in Kerala: Shashi Tharoor||With E Sreedharan throwing his hat in the political ring by deciding to join the BJP, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said the technocrat is likely to have a "minimal" impact on the upcoming Kerala Assembly polls and asserted that the BJP is not a serious contender except in a few seats in the state. Tharoor also said it will be very difficult for the BJP to improve upon its performance of winning one seat in the 2016 assembly polls and the high point of Sreedharan's impact on Kerala elections will turn out to be the announcement of joining the BJP itself. In an interview with PTI, Tharoor said he was surprised at the announcement that Sreedharan was going to enter the political fray and join the BJP. He said Sreedharan's entry came as a surprise to him because the technocrat had a long innings executing engineering projects, not making or implementing policies in a fractious democracy. "It's a very different world," he added. Asked what kind of impact Sreedharan could have on the Kerala Assembly polls, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said, "Since he has no political background or experience, I think his impact is likely to be minimal." "When I joined politics at 53, I thought I had left it too late to make the kind of impact I felt I was capable of. What can I say about someone who is 88?" Tharoor said. On whether Sreedharan's entry will make the Kerala polls a three-way contest and the BJP will emerge as a serious contender alongside the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF), he said the BJP is not a serious contender at all except in a handful of seats, and it will be very difficult for the party to improve upon the one seat it won last time. "The high point of the impact (of Sreedharan) will turn out to be this announcement itself," the 64-year-old former Union minister said. Sreedharan, who recently announced that he will enter the political fray by joining the BJP, had told PTI last week that he will contest the assembly elections if the BJP wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks. Known as the 'Metroman' and for completing big infrastructure projects, the 88-year-old technocrat has also said his main aim is to help the BJP come to power in Kerala. Sreedharan's entry into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is being seen as a major boost for the party in election-bound Kerala. The state has been ruled by the LDF and the Congress-led UDF alternately for the past many years. Tharoor said the UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future of Kerala. "What I am working on is intended to be, above all, a 'people's manifesto' -- not just about what the Congress will do for the people of Kerala, but what the people of Kerala want and expect the Congress to do for them," said Tharoor, who has been entrusted by the Congress in bringing various pertinent issues into the UDF’s election manifesto. "That is why it is so important to seek suggestions and inputs from the people, about what they judge to be lacking in their lives that a receptive and inclusive government would seek to provide," he said. The end product should reflect a vision for 21st century Kerala and lay out some practical directions for the state to unleash its true potential and develop into a progressive and self-reliant place, offering abundant opportunities to its people, especially the youth, Tharoor said. "I see our 'Talk To Tharoor' campaign as an opportunity for the UDF to serve the people of Kerala through creative ideas, responsible governance and the courage and confidence to rise to the aspirations of our people," he said. It is sad but true that Keralites flourish everywhere in the world they go to, more easily than in Kerala, Tharoor argued. "We must remove the obstacles that prevent Keralites from thriving in Kerala. The UDF has the talent, the experience and the creative energy to build a new narrative for the future," he said. The polls for the 140-member Kerala Assembly are likely to be held in April-May this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sreedharans-impact-likely-to-be-minimal-bjp-not-a-serious-contender-in-kerala-shashi-tharoor-953695.html
21-02-2021||South||Outfit in Kerala wants exam on 'cow science' scrapped||The Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad has sought to cancel the national-level voluntary online exam on 'gau vigyan' (cow science), saying it was an attempt to spread superstition and to saffronise the education sector in the country. The parishad, a progressive outfit in the state conceived as a people's science movement, asked civil society to disregard a recent directive issued to all Vice-Chancellors by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to encourage students to take up the exam organised by Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA). The Central government had, on January 5, announced the gau vigyan to be held on February 25 in a bid to generate interest among students and general public about the native breed of cow and its benefits. "It's condemnable and shocking that the UGC, an apex body of university education in the country, is encouraging the students to take part in an exam based on an unscientific text full of blunders," the Parishad said in a press release. The Aayog had said the syllabus of the objective model exam would be recommended on the website of the RKA. The parishad said there are so many nonsensical claims on the website which does not have any scientific backing. "The website contains claims that there are traces of gold in the milk of indigenous cows due to which its milk has a light yellowish tint. It also says the cow's milk protects humans from nuclear radiations and many more," the parishad said. The parishad pointed out that the Article 51A (h) of the Constitution of India says it shall be the duty of every citizen to develop the scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform. "It's a disgrace that a government agency in a country with a Constitution, which emphasis on scientific awareness, was associating in spreading superstitious propaganda," the organisation said. The parishad, in a statement, said the move was part of a concerted effort to saffronise the country's educational process, which is supposed to be secular and scientifically based. "This will embarrass Indian universities and the education system before the world," it said. The parishad asked the UGC to withdraw its letter to the universities and cancel the examination. The RKA had said the exam would infuse curiosity into all Indians about cows and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk. The RKA, which comes under the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, was set up by the Centre in February 2019 and is aimed at conservation, protection and development of cows and their progeny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/outfit-in-kerala-wants-exam-on-cow-science-scrapped-953703.html
21-02-2021||South||How successive Kerala governments facilitated backdoor appointments||Making a mockery of the recruitment process based on merit and reservations, recruitments to thousands of posts in over 50 government institutions in Kerala are yet to be handed over to Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). Even as the successive CPM and Congress-led governments in Kerala had made assurances that recruitment to all state government institutions would be done through the PSC, steps in this regard have been progressing not even at a snail’s pace. Recruitment to institutions that were formed decades back are still not being made through the PSC, but directly. Facilitating backdoor appointments and nepotism are alleged to be the reasons behind not recruiting through PSC. Even now Kerala is witnessing a row over backdoor appointments by the ruling Left Front government. While Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to defend the process, saying that the previous Congress regime regularised over 5,000 temporary employees in various government institutions, he is yet to clarify the number of temporary employees regularised by the current government. Towards the end of the Congress government's tenure also, the state witnessed agitations by the then opposition CPM alleging backdoor appointments. According to Indian Union Muslim League MLA Abid Hussain Thangal, who has been regularly raising the issue in the state Assembly, recruitments to around 60 government institutions, each having hundreds of posts, have not been reported to the PSC so far. It includes around 40 public sector undertakings, around ten institutions under the cultural affairs departments, several welfare fund boards and several cooperative institutions. He said that in a reply to a calling attention motion in the Assembly in this regard in 2019 November, he had pointed out that reservation norms are also being scuttled. CM Vijayan replied that steps would be expedited to make recruitments through PSC. However, the situation still remains almost the same. Former PSC chairman K S Radhakrishnan said that he had written to the government several times highlighting the need for making appointments through PSC to ensure fairness. However, neither the present government nor the Opposition seemed to be interested in taking the issue forward as it would plug the chances of nepotism and backdoor appointments, he flayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-successive-kerala-governments-facilitated-backdoor-appointments-953705.html
21-02-2021||South||Two more MLAs quit in Puducherry; govt's strength drops to 11||On the eve of the trust vote, the Congress government in Puducherry plunged into further crisis with two legislators resigning as MLAs reducing the strength of the ruling party in the Assembly to 12, including the Speaker. Congress MLA from Raj Bhavan constituency K Lakshminarayanan and DMK legislator from Thattanchavady K Venkatesan submitted their resignation letters to Assembly Speaker V P Sivakolundhu on Sunday. The Puducherry Assembly will convene for a day-long session on Monday to facilitate Chief Minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority on the floor of the House. The Puducherry Assembly has 30 elected and three nominated members. With the new resignations and counting an MLA who was disqualified a few months ago, the strength of the Assembly has come down to 26, including three nominated members who belong to the BJP. The term of the Assembly ends in June this year. As things stood on Sunday evening, the Congress has the support of 12 MLAs, including the Speaker, while the Opposition side consisted of 14 members, including those nominated to the House. Though odds are stacked against its government, Congress is pinning hopes on the Speaker to decide whether the nominated members can participate in the voting to save the government. An indication to this effect was given by Narayanasamy during an interview with DH. “The Opposition combine has only 11 elected MLAs. The remaining three are not elected MLAs, but nominated. The Hon'ble Supreme Court did give a verdict on the validity of their nomination. But there is a question mark (whether they can vote). The ruling of the SC can be interpreted in either way. So, the Hon'ble Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly will take a call on this,” he said. If the Speaker allows the nominated MLAs to participate in the motion and they vote against Narayanasamy, the government is certain to fall. The issue of nominated MLAs has been a controversial topic in Puducherry with the then Speaker V Vaithilingam refusing permission for them to enter the Assembly premises. Narayanasamy has been battling rebellion from within for the past few months with five legislators from Congress resigning since last month. A Namassivayam, Malladi Krishna Rao, E Theepainathan, A Johnkumar, and K Lakshminarayanan resigned expressing displeasure at Narayanasamy's style of functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-more-mlas-quit-in-puducherry-govts-strength-drops-to-11-953711.html
21-02-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi to attend tractor rally, interact with fishermen in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will attend a tractor rally at Wayanad in Kerala on Monday expressing solidarity with the ongoing farmers stir. Rahul, who is coming on a three day Kerala visit, will attend various functions in his constituency Wayanad and will also address a public meeting in Thiruvananthapuram, marking the end of statewide march by Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday. He would also interact with fishermen in the Kollam district in the backdrop of the fresh allegation over the left-front government in Kerala's deal with a US-based firm for building 400 deep-sea trawlers in Kerala. Congress local leaders said that around 100 tractors will be included in the three-kilometre tractor rally by farmers to be held from Mandad to Muttil near Kalpetta in Wayanad on Monday. Rahul will also address a farmers meeting. Rahul will be attending a series of functions in Wayanad and Malappuram on Monday and Tuesday and will go to Thiruvananthapuram by Tuesday afternoon to address the public meeting. He will return to Delhi on Wednesday afternoon after the interaction with fishermen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-to-attend-tractor-rally-interact-with-fishermen-in-kerala-953721.html
21-02-2021||South||Running a software company from a village: Meet Zoho's Sridhar Vembu||Village life is very hard to resist for Sridhar Vembu, the founder and CEO of Zoho Corporation. The 54-year-old moved to Mathalamparai, a nondescript village near Tenkasi, in the picturesque Western Ghats in November 2019, much before the Covid-19 pandemic struck India and the rest of the world. The motive was to encourage more people and facilities to shift to villages as Indian cities started to face major challenges. The pandemic not just made things easy for Vembu but also vindicated him as people living in cities began moving to their towns and villages. The reason: Work from home became the order of the day, with the world going in for a lockdown fearing the spread of the novel coronavirus. The village life More than a year later, Vembu has a tight schedule apart from his official work. He goes for a walk in the morning and evening, ensures to turn off his gadgets for a few hours for a “face to face” interaction with villagers, visit the village ponds and creeks, and rides an electric auto rickshaw. And he has also donned a new avatar – teaching students at an “unconventional school” run by Zoho. “Going for a walk in a village is a divine experience. After tasting this life in a village, it would be very hard for me to move to any major city anywhere now. That is the truth. I can almost say that I am addicted to this rural life. I have always loved it, and now I love it even more,” Vembu told DH over a video call on the Zoho Meeting application. And, another thing that Vembu loves doing in the village that he cannot do in cities – watching snakes. “I like watching snakes. Actually, the truth is that the land is deemed healthy if you have snakes. If we destroy snakes, we are destroying the land. We need snakes for the land to be fine,” Vembu said, with a smile. Vembu, whose net worth is $2.5 billion as of 2020, was recently in the news as the Union government conferred Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award in the country, on him and appointed him as a member of the National Security Advisory Board (NSAB). Running a software empire from a village Over the video call that lasted for nearly 25 minutes, Vembu attributed the rapid expansion of cities that have been facing “serious issues” for his reason. “Where we create jobs is where people flock. It is even more than that. Where we create the job is important because that determines whether our cities get overcrowded or not,” he explained. What began as just one rural centre in Tenkasi, Zoho Corporation now has 15 such centres in India's hinterland with at least 15 to 20 people working in each of them. It is from this obscure village that Vembu spearheaded the efforts by Zoho to improve the tools and required software to enable people to work from their homes without much trouble. “We are actually working very hard to create the software tools to make this work. In a way, it is ideal that we are one of the first companies to adapt to this model and we are working on those very technologies just like Zoho Meetings and Zoho Cliq. All of this will improve much more in the next one or two years. And to enable us to work much better this way,” Vembu said. And Zoho does not recruit people for its rural centres. The company identifies employees who may want to shift to their native towns or villages and use them as the “seed to grow” the centre. ”We now have 15 rural centres and we are now growing those aggressively because more people are transferring to rural centres, and we are space-constrained in some of our offices and we are leasing bigger spaces. We plan to have at least 25 rural offices by the end of 2021. It might be more because it all depends on the demand from our own employees,” he said. How Zoho rose to the pandemic challenge? On the productivity of Zoho employees during the pandemic, Vembu said that though working from home is challenging, it is a “lot more fulfilling” for many as this is going to be the way for the future. “We are actually working very hard to create the software tools to make this work... In a way, it is ideal that we are one of the first companies to adapt to this model and we are working on those very technologies just like Zoho Meetings and Zoho Cliq and all this will improve much more in the next one or two years,” he added. The icing on the cake of his village stay is an unconventional school that Zoho runs in the hamlet, aiming at transforming how children learn – the institution now has over 120 students. In the beginning, Vembu began teaching at the school but now he has recruited professional teachers with an increased intake of students. “I am no longer a teacher at the school which now has 120 students. I am now involved in deciding what should be taught in school. I also talk to the kids to understand what is interesting and what is not interesting,” Vembu added. He said education needs to be “interactive and fun” and the challenge is to educate children without “any exams and homework”. “We plan to start a school in every rural centre. We are learning a lot of lessons, and we need to create a poll of talent to run these schools,” Vembu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/running-a-software-company-from-a-village-meet-zohos-sridhar-vembu-953754.html
21-02-2021||South||Covid-19 positive woman delivers baby in ambulance in Kerala||A 26-year-old Covid-19 positive woman gave birth to a baby girl in an ambulance on her way to a hospital in northern Malappuram district of Kerala on Sunday, thanks to the presence of mind of emergency care personnel. The woman, a native of neighbouring Tamil Nadu, and her newborn were doing well now, health department sources here said. This is the third such instance of Covid-19 positive women giving birth in Kerala Ambulance Network for Injured Victims (KANIV-108) vehicles. State Health Minister K K Shailaja congratulated the emergency care staff of the ambulance who intervened in time and provided expert care to save the lives of the mother and baby. According to health department sources, the woman was admitted to the Perinthalmanna General Hospital for delivery in the morning. As she was tested positive for the novel coronavirus, doctors directed shifting her to the Manjeri Medical College Hospital for expert care. While on the way to Manjeri hospital in the ambulance with the support of two emergency care staff, the woman developed labour pain. The ambulance staff parked the vehicle on the wayside and made arrangements for the delivery. After she delivered a baby girl, they gave first aid and shifted the mother and the infant to the medical college hospital at the earliest, health department sources added. Earlier, in Malappuramand Kasaragod, coronavirus infected women had given safe birth to babies while being rushed to hospitals in ambulances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-in-ambulance-in-kerala-953764.html
21-02-2021||South||Pre-poll survey predicts LDF retaining power in Kerala||A pre-poll survey in Kerala has predicted that the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front may retain power in Kerala in the coming Assembly polls. The survey by Asianet News and C fore research organisation found that the LDF may win 72 to 78 seats in the 140-member Kerala Assembly, while Congress-led United Democratic Front may get 59 to 65 seats and the BJP-led NDA may get three to seven seats. In a poll on who should be the next Chief Minister of Kerala, 39 per cent of participants preferred Pinarayi Vijayan to remain as the next chief minister, while 18 per cent preferred Congress leader Oommen Chandy. Nine per cent preferred Shashi Tharoor as chief minister, seven per cent preferred  Health Minister K K Shailaja and six per cent each preferred Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress and BJP Kerala president K Surendran. Over the years, Kerala had been witnessing the Congress and CPI(M)-led fronts exchanging power and hence if the left-front manages to retain power this time, it would be a major achievement. The survey also found that free ration supply to all during Covid-19 lockdown and enhancing social welfare pensions were the major achievements of the LDF government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pre-poll-survey-predicts-ldf-retaining-power-in-kerala-953803.html
21-02-2021||State||Panchamasali seer forced to continue agitation; Karnataka Minister CC Patil storms off stage as crowd backs Yatnal||The Panchamasali convention held at Palace Grounds was witness to dramatic scenes, after severe opposition by the gathering to withdraw the dharna demanding 2A reservation for the community. Small Scale Industries minister CC Patil, who had plead the case of the government at the gathering, stormed off the venue after Jayamrutyunjaya seer was forced by the crowd to continue the agitation. Seers and leaders of Panchamasali community will also march to Vidhana Soudha during the day, demanding reservation for the Lingayat subcaste. At the end of the convention, held at Palace Grounds in the city, Jayamrutyunjaya seer - who had launched a padayatra at Kudalasangama in January for 2A reservation to Panchamasali community - stood to announce his decision on continuing the dharna. Recalling the decision of the government to constitute of study on Panchamasali community, he said that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had sought more time to grant 2A status to the community. "I am in a dilemma. On one hand, you have backed me in large numbers, and on the other hand ministers CC Patil, Murugesh Nirani and MP Karadi Sanganna are requesting (to withdraw the protest). In that context..," he said, to which the crowd erupted against any decision to call off the protest. Attempts by Rajya Sabha MP Eranna Kadadi to convince the crowd failed, after which Jayamrutyunjaya seer announced that he would take opinions from all leaders at the venue, before taking the final call. The seer sought BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal's opinion first. Yatnal, who in his speech earlier had set a deadline till end of budget session to fulfill the community demands, stuck to his stand. Urging the seers to continue the protest, he demanded Yediyurappa to clarify his position on granting reservation during the upcoming Legislature session. "The movement won't stop. You ministers (Patil and Nirani), meet Yediyurappa and tell him to fulfill our demands. If he doesn't, tell him that you'll resign. How Yediyurappa doesn't fulfill our demands, I too shall see," he said, to loud cheers from the crowd. When Jayamrutyunjaya seer turned towards Patil to seek his opinion, he was on his way off the stage, and did not heed requests to stay. The seer then announced his decision to continue demonstration till March 4th, after which he would launch a hunger strike seeking 2A reservation for Panchamasali's. He said that the protestors would March to Vidhana Soudha, and continue the dharna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasali-seer-forced-to-continue-agitation-karnataka-minister-cc-patil-storms-off-stage-as-crowd-backs-yatnal-953714.html
21-02-2021||State||Tiger claims one more life in Kodagu||Within a day after a tiger attacked and killed a 16-year-old boy, another woman lost her life to tiger attack, at T Shettigeri in Srimangala in Kodagu on Sunday. The woman was attacked while she was working in the estate of Somanna. Fear has gripped the residents after two lives were lost in tiger attack. “We have been losing cattle for the last five months. Now, the tiger has attacked humanbeing. The authorities should have captured the tiger in the past. The mishap has occurred owing to the negligence of the forest department officials,” alleged local residents while staging a protest. The protest was supported by Raitha Sangha members as well. Following the mishap, the forest officials have started a drive to campaign the tiger using tamed elephants from Mathigodu elephant camp. The tamed elephants of Abhimanyu and Balakrishna are being used for the purpose. A cage has also been placed in the area to capture the tiger. In the meantime, Chief Conservator of Forest of Kodagu Circle has said that the forest department will continue the drive to capture the tiger that had attacked a human. The public should be cautious while moving around plantations and paddy fields in the early morning and evening hours at Kumaturu, T Shettigeri, Harihara, Bellur, Nemmale and other areas. If public spot a tiger, then they should immediately inform forest officials by dialing 9611758153  or 9480992292.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tiger-claims-one-more-life-in-kodagu-953743.html
21-02-2021||State||Karnataka to discuss TN's river-linking project with Centre||Karnataka will apprise to the Centre its concern over Tamil Nadu's plan to build the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar link scheme to utilise surplus Cauvery water, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said here on Sunday. Jarkiholi, who held a meeting with Karnataka's legal team on inter-state water dispute here, told reporters that the state will take all steps to protect its interests. It will take up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon, he said. Meeting today The minister is likely to meet Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in this regard on Monday. "Soon, an all-party leaders' meeting will be convened in Bengaluru to seek their opinion to protect the interests of the state in water disputes," he said. The link scheme falls within the Cauvery basin of Tamil Nadu. So, the neighbouring state should not put hurdles to any projects proposed by Karnataka within its Cauvery basin, he said. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the first phase of the link scheme on Sunday. "If the Centre gives approval to Tamil Nadu to utilise its surplus Cauvery water, similar approval should be given to Karnataka to build projects within its Cauvery basin area, including Mekedatu, to utilise surplus water," an official from the state said. Tamil Nadu is implementing the link scheme to provide water to its southern region under the Centre's river-linking project. However, Karnataka apprehends that the neighbouring state may put legal hurdles for it to utilise its share and excess water generated in its basin in future. According to Karnataka, after ensuring 177.25 tmc feet to Tamil Nadu at Biligundlu water gauging centre in a normal year, the rest belongs to Karnataka, which includes its share of 284.75 tmc feet and 45 tmc feet surplus water, whenever available. However, Tamil Nadu has been opposing Karnataka's stand. When Karnataka proposed to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu to utilise surplus water to provide drinking water to Ramanagar and Kanakapura towns, Tamil Nadu filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the project. The 262-km river-linking project, costing Rs 14,000 crore, aims to divert 6,300 cubic feet of surplus Cauvery water to the southern districts of TN. The Jal Shakti Ministry will fund the project substantially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-discuss-tns-river-linking-project-with-centre-953785.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KEA to hold K-CET on July 7 & 8||The Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) will hold the Common Entrance Test on July 7 and 8. The dates were finalised after considering the time table of various board exams for Class 12 (II PUC) and similar exams by other states for admission to various professional courses, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said. A committee led by Narayan announced the dates after holding a discussion with officials and other stakeholders. K-CET is usually held in April-May. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic which has delayed the academic year, the higher education department decided to hold the exams in July. Last year also, the exams were held in July-end due to the lockdown. Around 1.5 lakh to 1.75 lakh students appear for K-CET every year. An additional 50,000 from border districts and other states also take the examination for admission to various professional courses across Karnataka. Time table: July 7: Biology, Mathematics July 8: Physics, Chemistry July 9: Kannada test for out-of-state and border district Kannadiga candidates||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kea-to-hold-k-cet-on-july-7-8-953570.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gives industry status to hotels in tourism sector||The state government has decided to accord industry status to the hotel business, Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara said on Saturday. With this, hotels in the tourism sector will enjoy subsidies and levies applicable for industries. Earlier, hotels were considered as commercial establishments and not industrial units.  Yogeeshwara said the move, approved by the Cabinet, will provide a boost to the Covid-hit tourism sector. “The pandemic wreaked havoc on the sector. Establishments that depended on tourism took a big hit. There’s a need to rejuvenate them,” he said. “Hotels were being set up on commercial rates. Now that they will be considered as an industry, the taxes and other levies will be reduced,” he said, adding that 62 hotels that have star classification will come under this to begin with. “Small-scale hotels will not come under this. We’re planning to come out with a separate scheme for them.”  According to Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism) T K Anil Kumar, only 62 hotels in Karnataka have star classification from the Ministry of Tourism. “The subsidies and other benefits for these hotels will be applicable for a five-year period starting April 2021,” he said.  Yogeeshwara said that Karnataka has about 1,000 2-star hotels. “The classification of hotels from 1-star to 5-star is done through a committee of the central government,” he said. “The state-run Mayura hotels have applied for star classification.”  Classifying the hotel business as an industry was a long-pending demand that intensified during the pandemic. “This is a step in the direction of developing the tourism sector as Karnataka is still lagging behind states such as Kerala and Gujarat,” Yogeeshwara said. Asked about the development of Nandi Hills near Bengaluru, the minister said it was only recently that the Horticulture Department handed over the management of the popular spot to the Tourism Department. “We are planning to have cable cars and other amenities. There’s scope for private investment as well,” he said. Apart from Nandi Hills, Yogeeshwara said other popular tourist destinations such as Jog Falls, Kodachadri and Kemmanugundi will be developed. “Plans are getting ready to develop Badami and Pattadakal as heritage tourist sites. Also, action is being taken to develop the Roerich and Devikarani Estate as a cultural centre,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gives-industry-status-to-hotels-in-tourism-sector-953573.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Healthcare workers' vaccination deadline ends; 52% vaccinated with first Covid dose||Karnataka till Saturday vaccinated 6,54,646 individuals but a cause for concern is that Saturday was the last day for health workers to get their first dose and only 52% had gotten vaccinated till Saturday. Till 5.30 pm, out of a target of 8,21,939 health workers, only 4,23,603 were vaccinated, which is 52%. As many as 1,11,935 have taken the second dose so far among healthcare workers. Over 42% of total healthcare workers were vaccinated, which is 1,19,108 out of 2,84,950. Till 5.30 pm on Saturday, day 36 of Covid vaccination, which started on January 16, around 59% of healthcare workers were given the vaccine out of a target of 11,06,889. On Saturday alone 21,935 were vaccinated out of the target of 66,848 which is 33% coverage. So far there have been two severe AEFIs (adverse events following immunisation) and 20 serious AEFIs including four deaths. Saturday alone saw two serious AEFIs. "All healthcare and frontline warriors should take Covid-19 vaccination to prevent the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in the state. Being health workers, if you do not get vaccinated, how can we expect the general public to show up? Chief Minister himself will reach out to all the front line staff regarding this," said Health & Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. He was speaking to the media here on Saturday morning. "Only 51% have taken the vaccine, 49% have not taken the vaccine. The districts that have more than 70% coverage are Tumakuru (78%), Chikkabalapur (78%), Uttara Kannada (73%), Gadag (71%), Mandya (70%), Chamrajnagar (70%). Those districts below 50% coverage are Bengaluru (36%), Bagalkot (43%), Davanagere (45%), Dakshina Kannada (49%), and Dharwad (49%)," he said. He said that when top officials like Chief Secretary, Principal Secretaries, Deputy Commissioners and Commissioners have taken the vaccine, there's no reason why others shouldn't. "When top cops and top doctors have taken it, does that mean they're not conscious of their health?" he questioned. The Government is providing free of cost vaccination to all. "There is no reason for anyone to hesitate from taking a vaccine. All front line staff should take the jab. The Chief Minister will hold a video conference with all district administrations regarding this," he said. "The severity of the infection will be reduced after the vaccination thereby reducing the mortality rate," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/healthcare-workers-vaccination-deadline-ends-52-vaccinated-with-first-covid-dose-953638.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka food handlers to be Covid tested every 14 days||Following recommendations from the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and other experts, the Health Department has made it mandatory to conduct RT-PCR testing for all catering staff every 14 days. "Given the current Covid-19 situation with opening up of all activities in Karnataka and imminent danger of the second wave of Covid-19, it is important that the food handlers who are working in catering services for functions like marriages, birthdays, social, religious, political gatherings, and in hotels, restaurants, resorts and dhabas take suitable measures to restrict any further transmission of the virus while providing their services", said a circular from Health Commissioner Dr KV Trilok Chandra here on Saturday. Food handlers and catering services in containment zones shall remain closed. Only those outside containment zones will be allowed. The physical distancing of at least six feet to be followed as far as feasible. Use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory. Practice frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty. Use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds) wherever feasible. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed.  This involves the strict practice of covering one's mouth and nose while coughing, sneezing, with a tissue or a handkerchief or flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly. Spitting and blowing of the nose shall be strictly prohibited. Those who prepare food should wear disposable gloves at all times, even during serving food items.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-food-handlers-to-be-covid-tested-every-14-days-953639.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 2 serious AEFIs recorded in Ballari, Dharwad||Karnataka reported two serious AEFIs (adverse events following immunisation) on Saturday, one each from Dharwad and Ballari.  A 38-year-old male pourakarmika, with no history of epilepsy, was vaccinated on February 19, as per Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare. After vaccination, he was normal for two hours but later developed high-grade fever, chills, and one episode of convulsions. He was shifted to Ballari district hospital for further management. Asked if convulsions without a history of epilepsy post-vaccination is a cause for concern, Nageshrao said the patient is being examined. There has been a previous case of convulsions after inoculation in Kalaburagi but that patient had a medical history. A 40-year-old female pourakarmika vaccinated on February 10, developed fever and chills at the end of the day she was vaccinated. She was treated at SDM hospital on an outpatient basis on February 18, where she is currently being treated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-2-serious-aefis-recorded-in-ballari-dharwad-953678.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid guidelines to be implemented strictly from Feb 22 in Karnataka: K Sudhakar||In the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala states, Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday that the guidelines released on Saturday to check Covid-19 cases will strictly be implemented from Monday in the districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala. Speaking to media persons here on the sidelines of the inauguration of the administrative building of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences regional centre, he stated stricter measures will be taken to implement the guidelines. The government has no plans to reintroduce lockdown, the minister reiterated. Deadline must not be set On the demand for reservation by Panchamasali seers, Sudhakar said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has told a decision will be taken in the ambit of law. After consulting legal experts, he will try to do justice to the communities which are deprived of facilities. "It is unfair to set a deadline to the government to fulfil their demand. Providing reservation is a sensitive issue and hence, a decision have to be taken without doing injustice to other communities, he opined. Regarding the establishment of the branch of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Kalyana Karnataka, the minister said the centre has been appealed to sanction two AIIMS to the state-one for Kalyana Karnataka and another for North Karnataka. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been appealed in this regard on Saturday. Let us see what kind of decision the centre will take, he added. AIIMS model reg centres Delivering the inaugural address at RGUHS's new regional centre, the minister said on the model of AIIMS, the state government has proposed to set up nephrology, urology, cancer and trauma centres in the old hospital buildings in the regional headquarters. There is a proposal before the government to appoint two or three doctors at Primary Health Centres by recruiting more doctors. The process of recruiting over 2000 doctors is underway, he explained exuding confidence that the chief minister will announce 100 more PHCs to the state in the upcoming budget. Expressing his displeasure over the health care workers who are hesitating to receive Covid vaccine, he said about 60 % of health workers have taken the jab and the remaining 40% are yet to turn up to receive the vaccine which is safe. There is a demand for the indigenous vaccine in 25 foreign countries, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-guidelines-to-be-implemented-strictly-from-feb-22-in-karnataka-k-sudhakar-953696.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to host Khelo India University Games 2021||Karnataka will host the second Khelo India University Games (KIUG) later this year, state chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju announced on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Games to be held in the city-based Jain University and other venues, Rijiju told a press conference here. "We have decided that the second edition of Khelo India University Games will be given to Karnataka and the university is Jain University," he said, in the presence of Yediyurappa and state Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda. The union minister said he was confident that Jain University would organise one of the best university games in the country's history. It would be held in partnership with Association of Indian Universities (AIU). KIUG is the largest University Games in the country and is aimed at tapping sporting talent, who can represent India in international events, including the Olympics. The first edition of KIUG was held in Bhubaneswar in February last year and saw a total participation of 3,182 athletes in the U-25 age group, across 158 universities and colleges from all states. This year, Yogasana and Mallakhamb have been added to the roster, with an effort to preserve and promote the century-old sporting disciplines of the country. With the inclusion of these disciplines, the athlete participation figure is expected to cross 4000, this year. Earlier in the day, Rijiju visited Shivamogga where he announced a Rs 50 crore project comprising a multi-purpose sports centre of high standards in the district. Rijiju underlined that a large and young country like India with the highest number of young people in the world must be in the top rank in the Olympics in the future. "India cannot afford to be satisfied with one or two medals. We Indians have talents, Indians have all the potential but unfortunately we could not focus, we lacked vision in the past," he pointed out. The Minister explained that the Centre has also started indigenous games and recognised five indigenous games, which are Malkhamb, Kallaripayattu, Gatka, Thang Ta and Yogasana. "We are going to provide lots of funding of indigenous sports. We have to play international sports and we have to play our traditional indigenous sports," he added. Rijiju said the state will have many facilities similar to the Sports Authority of India facility in Bengaluru. Yediyurappa said about 150 universities are likely to participate in the event. The sports meet will be organised at the Kanteerava Stadium and hockey matches will be organised at the General Cariappa Hockey Stadium. All the arrangements will be borne by the state government and the university, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-host-khelo-india-university-games-2021-953787.html
21-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sports hostels to be upgraded to be like 3-star hotels: Kiren Rijiju||Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports Kiren Rijiju said on Sunday that all sports hostels and academies in the country would be upgraded on a par with three-star hotels.  Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the upgradation of Nehru stadium here, he said, in order to provide best facilities to sportspersons, the Centre had decided to upgrade sports hostels. Inmates of the hostels will get nutritious food and professional chefs will be appointed, the minister said. On a pilot basis, the sports facility centre in Delhi, National Sports Institute in Patiala, Punjab and Regional Sports Authority of India in Bengaluru will be upgraded. Tenders will be invited to ensure that only professionals manage them. He said 23 national centres of excellence in India were being managed by professional managers to ensure that international players get nutritious food and all required facilities. Sports facility centres in the country would be transformed into world-class centres. Rijiju said the Modi government was providing financial assistance of Rs 50,000 to potential international players along with free food, accommodation and other training facilities. Five regional committees have been formed to identify sporting talents across the country and train them to become international players.  Referring to Los Angeles-2028 Olympics, he said the Centre wants India to figure in the list of top 10 countries winning gold medals there. In order to achieve the target, Khelo India centres would be set up in each district. Around 1,000 such centres have been announced so far. “We will provide basic facilities to such centres, which could be set up either in school or college.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sports-hostels-to-be-upgraded-to-be-like-3-star-hotels-kiren-rijiju-953817.html
21-02-2021||West||Modi made Abdul Kalam President, says Maharashtra BJP chief||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday faced flak after claiming that it was Narendra Modi who made APJ Abdul Kalam the President of India in 2002. Speaking at a party function in Pune on Friday, Patil said the BJP was not against patriotic Muslims but it opposed only those "who work as sleeper cells" (work for subversive elements). "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given opportunity to many common people....He made APJ Abdul Kalam the President of India," he said. The BJP leader then went on to say that Kalam was made president not because of his religion but because of his exemplary contribution as a scientist. Patil's statement raised eyebrows as Kalam became president in July 2002 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister. Modi was then Gujarat chief minister. On Saturday, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said making Kalam president was a "masterstroke" of Vajpayee. "Those who are trying to take credit for it now are inviting ridicule," he added. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe also slammed Patil over the apparent gaffe. "Patil should not commit a sin by defaming a true patriot like Kalam. His comments are ridiculous," Londhe said. "Kalam was made president with the support of all the parties when then prime minister Vajpayee nominated him," the Congress leader said. Kalam had shown us the dream of India becoming a world power by 2020, but Modi has junked that dream, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/modi-made-abdul-kalam-president-says-maharashtra-bjp-chief-953557.html
21-02-2021||West||Voting under way in Gujarat for polls to six municipal corporations||Elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat are being held on Sunday amid tight security and adherence to Covid-19 norms. People started queuing up outside polling booths soon after the voting began at 7 am across various wards in the six municipal corporations in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar. The voting will continue till 5 pm. In the morning, elderly voters were also seen at various booths, where precautions have been taken to follow Covid-19 prevention norms, including use of masks and sanitisers and maintaining social distance. Local MPs, MLAs and leaders of different political parties also arrived at various polling booths in the morning to vote. Among those who cast their votes in the initial hours were BJP MP Kirit Solanki and party MLA Rakesh Shah. Solanki voted at a booth in Ranip area of Ahmedabad along with his wife and family members, while Shah cast his vote at a booth in Ellisbridge area of the city. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is also scheduled to cast his vote at a booth in Naranpura area of Ahmedabad. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who tested positive for coronavirus during the campaign some days back, is likely to vote in his hometown Rajkot. The main contest is between the BJP, which has ruled the six corporations for last several terms, and the main opposition Congress. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has claimed it would be an effective alternative to the BJP and Congress, while Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is making its debut in the local bodies polls, having fielded 21 candidates in six wards of Ahmedabad. Around 32,000 policemen have been deployed for voting in 575 seats, with each ward having four corporators, officials said. A total of 2,276 candidates are contesting the polls in the six municipal corporations. Besides, nine candidates are also in the fray for by-elections to two seats in the Junagadh Municipal Corporation. Those contesting include 577 from the BJP, 566 from the Congress, 470 from the AAP, 91 from the NCP, 353 from other parties and 228 Independents, the officials said. The municipal corporation elections are being seen as a test for Rupani as it may set the tone for the state Assembly polls due next year. As per the State Election Commission, there are a total of 1.14 crore voters, including 60.60 lakh men and 54.06 lakh women. Of the 11,121 polling booths, 2,255 are marked sensitive and 1,188 have been designated as very sensitive. Votes will be counted on February 23. On February 28, elections to 31 district and 231 taluka panchayats and 81 municipalities will also be held in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/voting-under-way-in-gujarat-for-polls-to-six-municipal-corporations-953612.html
21-02-2021||West||Harper Collins publishes illustrative book about Indian cities' trivia||Did you know that Chennai houses India’s oldest jail?  Are aware that of the 570 Andaman and Nicobar Islands, only 36 have people living in them? The logo of the State Bank of India was inspired by Kankaria Lake. Kaziranga is the home of the Big Five — the greater one-horned rhino, Asian elephant,  wild water buffalo, swamp deer and tiger. Harper Collins is releasing ‘A to Z of Indian Cities: Ahmedabad to Zunheboto, an illustrative book with unknown facts of 26 Indian cities. The book captures local traditions and festivals, uncover myths and legends, spot iconic monuments and people, and get a taste of local crafts and cuisine. It has facts about cities like Yavatmal in Maharashtra which houses the Chintamani Ganesh temple, an ancient underground temple, which attracts people from far and wide. It also explains where the city of Varanasi got its name from. It has facts about Indore being the prime trading hub between Delhi and Deccan once.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/harper-collins-publishes-illustrative-book-about-indian-cities-trivia-953622.html
21-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: Union minister Athawale calls for caste-based census||Union minister Ramdas Athawale has called for a caste-based census in the country but said that his demand is not aimed at giving rise to casteism. Addressing tribals at Vikramgad in Maharashtra's Palghar district on Saturday, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment also demanded that Marathas be given reservation without a disturbing quota for other castes and communities. The Supreme Court last year stayed the implementation of the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs but made it clear that the status of those who have availed of the benefits will not be disturbed. "The next census should also include data regarding various castes so that people know where they stand in the total population. This is not aimed at giving rise to casteism," the Republican Party of India (A) chief said. He further said his party will carry out an all India agitation at the headquarters of various states and districts on February 25 to demand five acres of land for those who do not have any source of income, to enable them to earn their livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-union-minister-athawale-calls-for-caste-based-census-953634.html
21-02-2021||West||Night curfew announced in Pune amid rising Covid-19 cases||In a significant step to combat the spread of Covid-19 in Pune, night curfew was clamped in Maharashtra’s cultural capital. Schools and colleges in Pune and its sister city of Pimpri-Chinchwad have been shut till February 28. According to Pune’s divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, the situation would be reviewed at the end of the month. During the night curfew, the movement of people will be restricted between 11 pm and 6 am and only essential activities like medical services, milk supply will be allowed. The hotels, restaurants and bars will not be allowed to operate beyond 11 pm. Meanwhile, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to address the state at 7 pm on Sunday, during which some measures are expected to be announced. In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has sealed 1,305 buildings in the wake of rising cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-announced-in-pune-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-953642.html
21-02-2021||West||Gujarat civic polls: Amit Shah casts his vote in Ahmedabad||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday cast his vote at a polling booth here for election to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and expressed confidence that the BJP will win the civic polls in Gujarat. Voting is currently underway for elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat - Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar. The BJP has ruled the six corporations for the last several terms. Shah, who is enrolled as a voter here, exercised his franchise at a polling booth in the Naranpura sub-divisional office of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation along with his family members. After casting his vote, the senior BJP leader and his family members also offered prayers at the Kamnath Mahadev temple located nearby. Later, talking to reporters, Shah expressed confidence that the BJP will win the civic polls in Gujarat. "The BJP has emerged victorious across the country under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I am sure that Gujarat, from where the BJP's victory journey started, will again establish itself as a stronghold of the BJP," he said. Shah said the development journey started by the BJP under Modi's leadership continues across the country, and many states have taken inspiration from it. "I am sure that voters will turn out in large numbers and development will win," he added. Tight security arrangements were made at the polling booth where Shah and his family members cast their votes. The counting of votes will take place on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-civic-polls-amit-shah-casts-his-vote-in-ahmedabad-953645.html
21-02-2021||West||Health experts say people's 'laxity', 'negligence' towards protocol led to Maharashtra Covid-19 case spike||As Maharashtra grapples with a spike in coronavirus cases, health experts and government officials are putting the onus for the surge on people not following face mask and social distancing norms. There is also talk of a fresh lockdown, days after the reopening of public transport, educational institutions and religious places, as fresh cases from rural areas of the state and non-slum areas in Mumbai continue to increase. The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in Maharashtra for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday, with 6281 new cases, the highest daily addition in 85 days, taking the state's caseload to 20,93,913. Maharashtra's death toll now stands at 51753, with the case fatality rate at 2.47 per cent, well above the national figure of 1.42 per cent. Dr Sanjay Oak, who heads the coronavirus task force comprising senior specialist doctors constituted on April 13 last year, said the latest spike cannot be termed a "second wave" of the coronavirus pandemic. "People are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. They need to restrain themselves," he said. Maharashtra Government's Principal Secretary (Health) Pradeep Vyas blamed people's "indiscipline and negligence" for the spike. "There is laxity in following protocols. People are not adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour," he said. "Authorities have to tell people that coronavirus is still around and the masses should not be lax and negligent," Vyas said. Maharashtra reported 6,112 new cases on Friday, the highest daily addition in 84 days, taking the caseload to 20,87,632. The last time Maharashtra had reported over 6,112 cases was on November 27 last year (6,185 cases). In Mumbai, as the number of positive cases rose to 3.17 lakh, with the recent daily increase, BMC officials said the surge is being led by non-slum areas. "Almost 90 per cent of the new cases are coming from buildings. Most of them are either asymptomatic or mild and prefer to stay at home, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The spike is due to increased testing and an intense surveillance process, he said. Between Monday and Friday, the state added 23,354 cases, much higher than the 15,149 cases that were added in the same duration the previous week. The doubling rate has dropped from 600-plus days to 393 days, another civic official said, attributing the rise to reopening of various services. "More international travellers are landing in Mumbai; domestic travellers from Kerala are being tested apart from those from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa. More services have opened up since February 1, leading to a rise in cases," he said. Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola districts of Vidarbha are seeing a sudden spurt, reporting over 1,400 new cases per day. Kakani said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had no plans for a lockdown in Mumbai for now and would instead focus on increased testing and treatment, and strict implementation of face masks in public places. Mumbai recorded 897 new cases on Saturday. The BMC has sealed 1,305 buildings or floors across Mumbai to contain 71,838 households. At least 2,749 cases have been found across these houses and can affect 2.75 lakh population in the vicinity, an official said. BMC has instructed all jumbo Covid centres in the city to inspect ventilators, para-monitors, housekeeping, medicines, supplies, oxygen, fire equipment and security so that when patients increase they are ready to admit them at once, the official said. There are 11,968 isolation beds in Mumbai, and of them around 9,000 are vacant across government and private hospitals. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Communicable Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said he noticed a sudden surge in Amravati and Akola in the last few days, adding inter-district travel could lead to a spike all over the state. The BMC on Friday penalised 13,592 people for not wearing masks in public places, and collected Rs 27.18 lakh as fine. Officials have been directed to increase scrutiny and ensure people comply with the face mask rule. In trains and local stations a special squad of 300 officials has been formed to check for compliance by commuters. The BMC has so far penalised 15.71 lakh people in Mumbai and collected Rs 31.7 crore as fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/health-experts-say-peoples-laxity-negligence-towards-protocol-led-to-maharashtra-covid-19-case-spike-953663.html
21-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Congress to conduct marathon meetings in state||Ahead of the local bodies polls in Maharashtra, the state Congress would hold a series of meetings to launch preparations of the ensuing polls to municipalities corporations and municipal councils. The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state and it would not like equations at the local, district and state level for the alliance. In Mumbai, however, where elections would be held in February 2022, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap have conveyed to Congress high-command for the party to go alone. The meeting is being held in the backdrop of forthcoming 2021 elections to the five big corporations of Navi Mumbai, Aurangabad, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar and Kolhapur and 98 municipal councils. The Parliamentary Board of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) will meet on Wednesday in Mumbai under the chairmanship of Patole. AICC in-charge of Maharashtra HK Patil, revenue minister and Congress legislature party leader Balasaheb Thorat, state public works minister and former chief minister and ex-MPCC chief Ashok Chavan, former chief minister and ex-union ministers Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde will be present. On Thursday and Friday, Patole will preside over meetings of city and district units. The meetings will be held at the auditorium of Mahila Vikas Mahamandal in Nariman Point. The political situation in the country vis-a-vis farm laws and fuel price hike would also be discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-to-conduct-marathon-meetings-in-state-953671.html
21-02-2021||West||Female leopard radio-collared in Mumbai's Sanjay Gandhi National Park||For the first time in the history of Mumbai, a female leopard was radio-collared at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), the only national park in the world to be located in metropolitan limits and having the highest leopard density. The female leopard, Savitri, was radio-collared on Saturday under the guidance of G Mallikarjuna, Conservator of Forests and Director, SGNP. The leopard was named Savitri after the legendary Indian social reformer and educationist  Savitribai Phule, the wife of social reformer and thinker Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. The project that involves GPS telemetry where radio collars that communicate via satellite will be used on the Mumbai leopards so that we understand them better and can implement better conservation models for their protection. This work will be done in collaboration with Wildlife Conservation Society - India and Wildlife Conservation Trust. It is supported by Rohini Nilekani Philanthropies (RNP) and the Reliance Foundation. The SGNP and its peripheral areas is home to 45-odd leopards – and is a matter of animal-human interaction studies. Mumbai has always been famous for being one of the most unique homes to wild leopards and has also shown how Mumbaikars co-exist with these large cats. The Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) in SGNP and Thane Forest Division regularly monitor the leopards using camera traps for better management of leopards in this urban landscape. “Since leopards are extremely secretive animals, we know very little about them. To understand these big cats of Mumbai better, there is the need to use the latest technology like using satellite collars to study them. This study will play a key role in helping the forest department answer questions like their land-use patterns, their movements across roads with busy traffic, how they avoid humans,” said Mallikarjuna. It may be recalled a decade ago, a radio-collared leopard walked 125 km from Malshej Ghat to SGNP and its entire journey was documented by wildlife researchers. Its road trip not only provided some vital information on its behaviour but even fascinated journalists who did several news stories about it that even helped the common man understand. It even inspired a Marathi movie named Ajoba. A total of five leopards will be collared with GPS collars which are similar to the one the leopard Ajoba wore. Three females and two male leopards will be collared over the two-year project period.“We are hoping that this Savitri will also enlighten and educate us and show us a way ahead in terms of knowledge about the leopards in Mumbai,” he added.Spread in 103 sq km in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), the SGNP is home to 254 species of birds, 40 species of animals, 78 species of reptiles and amphibians, 150 species of butterflies and a staggering 1,300 species of plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/female-leopard-radio-collared-in-mumbais-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-953730.html
21-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 spike: One-week lockdown in Amravati||Amid rising cases of Covid-19, a one-week lockdown has been imposed in Amravati district’s municipal areas of Amravati and Achalpur. The lockdown starts on February 22 and ends on March 1. The announcement was made by the state's Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is also the guardian minister of Amravati. "One-week complete lockdown remains in force in Amravati district excluding Achalpur city, beginning 8 pm tomorrow,” she said, adding whatever necessary needs to be done before that the administration has given 24 hours time. “There is no other option,” she said while speaking to the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-spike-one-week-lockdown-in-amravati-953744.html
21-02-2021||West||Avoid political, social, religious gatherings: Maharashtra CM Thackeray gives 1 week ultimatum for 2nd lockdown||Amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s urban areas and hinterland, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday issued an ultimatum saying that decision on another lockdown would be taken in eight to 10 days if people do not mend ways and align to the new normal. The statement of the chief minister came on a day when several restrictions were put in place in urban centres like Mumbai, Pune and Nashik and week-long lockdown was clamped in Amravati in the Vidarbha region, where cases are multiplying fast. “You all will ask...whether there would be lockdown...but it entirely depends on you....wear masks and say no to lockdown, sanitize and wash hands and say no to lockdown, maintain social distancing and say no to lockdown...let us see how we all go in the next seven to eight to 10 days,” Thackeray said, warning: "For past two weeks the cases are increasing....the second wave is knocking our doors". The chief minister said that last year he had launched ‘Majhi Kutumb, Maji Jawabdari’ (My Family, My Responsibility) and now he would like to initiate ‘Mi Jawabdar’ (I am Responsible) to inculcate Covid-appropriate behaviour. Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, also cancelled political meetings, rallies, morchas and protests for the time being as these attracts large gatherings - a decision that sends out a strong message to the public and what may follow. “I appeal, let us avoid political, social and religious gatherings,” he said, and complimented state’s energy minister Dr Nitin Raut for scaling down functions of his son’s marriage. "We are reducing the number of public events. We are cancelling many of our events. If we don't follow the rules then we will have to impose a strict lockdown," he said. “Cases have risen...we have to take steps,” he said, pointing out that on Sunday cases have risen by nearly 7,000 whereas the same was between 2,000 to 2,500 a fortnight ago while on the other hand the active cases that were around 40,000 is now around 53,000. “These are the indicators...that cases are rising but we cannot stop running the economy,” Thackeray said, pointing out that people’s demand like opening of restaurants, reopening of temples, restarting of local trains for the general public in Mumbai have been met by the government as the situation improved. “But at the same time, I would like to point out that people have stopped taking precautions and not wearing masks,” he said. At a meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Schools and colleges were in Pune and its sister city of Pimpri-Chinchwad were shut till February 28.  Movement of people will also be restricted between 11pm and 6am when only essential activities like medical services, milk supply will be allowed.  The hotels, restaurants and bars will not be allowed to operate beyond 11pm.   "One-week complete lockdown remains in force in Amravati district excluding Achalpur city, beginning 8 pm tomorrow,” women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur, adding whatever necessary needs to be done before that the administration has given 24 hours time. In Nashik, food and civil minister Chhagan Bhujbal reviewed the situation and said whether you want a mini lockdown or major lockdown depends on people. Prohibitory orders will be in place between 11 pm to 6 am in Nashik for a week. In Mumbai, over 1,300 buildings have been sealed in the wake of rising cases – and Thackeray has appealed to stagger office timings and rotate work-from-home in batches for office staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/avoid-political-social-religious-gatherings-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-gives-1-week-ultimatum-for-2nd-lockdown-953771.html
