22-02-2021||First Edit||A contentious trust vote result in Puducherry||The spectre that has haunted the small states in the North-East and the bigger ones like Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh has visited Puducherry also, resulting in the fall of the Congress-DMK government. Chief Minister V Narayanaswamy resigned on Monday as he lost his majority in the Assembly after a series of resignations of Congress and DMK MLAs. It was clear that he would not survive the floor test ordered by Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan, who is holding charge of Puducherry after Kiran Bedi was removed from the position of Lt. Governor of the Union Territory last week. The Opposition had sought a floor test after the ruling party’s strength depleted with the many resignations from the House of 30 members. The Assembly also has three nominated members who sided with the BJP, and they tilted the scale against the Congress government.  Narayanaswamy has said that the Centre and the Opposition NR Congress and AIADMK had ousted him with the help of the nominated members who, as per the Speaker’s ruling, had voting power. But the fact also remains that the Congress could not hold its fold together, just as it failed to do so elsewhere in the country. Nominated members have all the rights of other members but it is a contentious issue whether they can exercise their voting right in a floor test. Opinion on the matter is divided though there are rulings, including a Supreme Court ruling, that there is no provision that denies a nominated member the right to vote on the Budget or a no-confidence motion. But whether it is right and ethical for nominated members to take part in an important trial of strength is open to question because that would mean that a Governor can change the political complexion of an elected Assembly through nominations. The nomination of three members of the BJP in the UT had been objected to by the Congress but the court had cleared it.   With the fall of the Narayanaswamy government, Congress has lost its last tenuous outpost in the South. The political upheaval has taken place a few weeks before the term of the Assembly is to expire, and fresh elections are to be held. The Opposition, including the NR Congress and the AIADMK, are exploring the possibility of forming a new government for the remaining weeks. This may even be possible with a sympathetic Lieutenant Governor and a favourable central government in place. Narayanaswamy is looking beyond that and hopes that his image as the victim of a destabilisation plan enacted by the Centre would help in the coming elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-contentious-trust-vote-result-in-puducherry-954208.html
22-02-2021||In Perspective||Make farming an attractive profession||India will surpass China by 2030 to become the world’s most populous country, with 1.5 billion people. India, with only 4% of the water resources of the world and agricultural land of 95 million hectares, as per the NSSO study of 2012-13, will not be able to meet the food and nutrition needs of such a huge population unless it makes agriculture an attractive profession for the educated youth.  The three recently-passed farm laws purport to help farmers sell their produce anywhere in the country; they can benefit from contract farming with legal back-up and there will be no limit while storing farm products, except in extraordinary circumstances like natural calamities and war. If the majority of our farmers were rich, educated and computer-savvy and had marketing and management skills, they could have reaped the benefit from these reforms. Unfortunately, 86% of Indian farmers are poor, illiterate or have only school-level qualifications; and much of their joint bargaining power has been eroded due to politicisation of farmers’ bodies. Now, private investors equipped with funds, advanced farm technology, storage capacity and marketing skills may scale up crop production, boost food processing and exports, but the use of machines and automation in farming will not create enough jobs for the local villagers. It may increase the rate of rural to urban migration; currently already, 10 million villagers migrate to cities for work every year. Let alone middle-aged farmers, can even younger rural folks get jobs in industries in the age of artificial intelligence, robots and automation when traditional jobs are fast disappearing? If some of the big investors in agriculture willfully default on bank loans, there would be another pile of bad loans at a time when loan defaults and frauds by some corporates have already shaken the Indian economy to its roots. The new laws must be amended to include an accountability clause if there is job loss, loan default, any deterioration in soil and ground water, excess price rise in food and in other essential commodities, etc. The laws should also safeguard against crop diversity loss, overuse of chemical fertilizers, harmful pesticides and misuse of water. Once a contract period ends, the farmland should be returned to the farmer without any damage.  Unlimited storage, on the other hand, may boost food processing, but it could also create artificial shortages, health hazards and price rise. In the recent past, the amendment to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act 2013 fast-tracked industrial corridors, construction of various infrastructures and housing projects. It has also led to the concretisation of thousands of hectares of fertile farmlands. The NSSO study 2012-13 indicated that agricultural land was rapidly shrinking.  As land prices rose phenomenally since then, a large number of farmers sold their agriculture land and put their money in banks. They started small businesses, bought houses and luxury items, etc. Some have thrived but the majority have suffered losses. Their money in the bank earns less interest income, their business enterprises fail to survive amid competition; they buy food and other essential items at a higher cost. A large number of villagers now work as guards, housemaids, drivers and gardeners in the housing colonies where they once grew their crops. A few simple steps can make agriculture an attractive profession. Political leaders in the states should show courage to bring transparency in the 2,477 APMCs and 4,843 sub-market yards across the country. Both APMCs and private mandis can help farmers sell their produce at a good margin. Second, all water bodies and cultivable land should be protected from encroachment. No grant or subsidy should be given to a village if the village fails to protect the water bodies and agricultural land from encroachment. A conducive environment should be created for the educated village youth, particularly for agriculture graduates, to start agriculture and related activities in their villages. Practical classes on sustainable agriculture should be included in the school curriculum; farm experts and senior farmers should be consulted for making farm policy. Third, multiple income-generating activities like handicrafts, weaving, cottage industries and making eatables, etc., can add to farmers’ incomes.  Fourth, our villages have rich crop diversity, with more than 1,000 crops; many nutritious and tasty fruits and vegetables disappear due to overcultivation of a few crops. Farmers should be encouraged to cultivate native crops and sell those crops to traders at farm gates. The joint bargaining power of farmers can be increased if positive political energy protects the village work culture. Fifth, the money spent toward loan waivers, interest waivers, on subsidies and free food should be stopped and the amount should be utilised for developing water bodies, village schools, hospitals, playgrounds and for developing sustainable agriculture practices. Agriculture reforms help when farmers are educated, well-informed and are capable of safeguarding their interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/make-farming-an-attractive-profession-954211.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Koraga's wait for home sites gets longer||The Council of Mangaluru City Corporation had resolved to earmark 1.21 acres of land, on survey number 85/1, in Kudupu, for siteless and shelterless members of Koraga community and civic workers in 2018. However, till today, the families have not got the sites. The Koragas, considered as aboriginal tribes of the region, who are also serving as civic workers, have been residing in survey number 85/1 for the last three to four generations. In spite of it, the families have neither received sites nor the title deeds for the land where they are residing. “Now, the officials are citing the reason of ‘buffer zone’ to hand over the sites,” said Laxmana, president of Koragajja Seva Trust in Vamanjoor, who has been fighting for the cause of these families. The Council in its meeting in 2018 had resolved to hand over sites measuring 30X40 (2.45 cents land) to each family and use 31 cents land for the road development in the area. As per the survey conducted by the authorities, there were 40 families who are eligible for the sites. “We have been fighting for the sites since the 1970s," he informed DH. “If the land identified comes under the buffer zone, what about the houses already constructed at Mangalanagara, Devinagara, Basavalingappa Nagara and Santhosh Nagara?” asked residents. “We have even applied under 94CC under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act seeking RTC. However, the applications have not been cleared so far as the MCC had failed to issue a no-objection certificate to the Tahsildar to process the applications,” he said. Even National Safai Karmachari Commission member, during his visit to Mangaluru in 2018, had directed initiating of measures to distribute sites to the Koragas and to the civic workers at the earliest. Inspired from Kudmal Rao, it was Venkoji Rao who had earmarked the said land to Koraga families through ‘Daanapatra’ way back in 1912. In 1942, the then Municipality had set aside the land for dumping yard. In 1960, the RTC was made in the name of the municipality. Even Adongal registry of Kudupu grama mentions the name of Venkoji Rao. When the issue was brought to the notice of Mangalore North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty recently, the MLA, in turn, wrote to the revenue inspector of Gurupura hobli for further action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/koragas-wait-for-home-sites-gets-longer-953961.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||In a first, three generations from a Davangere family become monks||Six people from a single-family belonging to the Jain community from three generations took deeksha in Nageshwara Pashwa Bhairava Jain temple at Avaragere on the outskirts of the Davangere on Monday. This initiative is said to be the first of its kind in India where three generations of a single-family renounced worldly pleasures to become monks. Varadichand Ji (75), son Ashok Kumar Jain (47), daughter-in-law Bhavana Ashok Jain (45), grandchildren Pakshal Jain (17), Jinak Kumar Jain (15) and Lakhakumar Jain (23) took deeksha, the first step of their initiation into monkhood, as per Jainism. Acharya Srimad Vijaya Uday Prabh Sureeshwara Ji gave deeksha to them. Thousands of people participated in the farewell programme held on Sunday night. They decided to renounce worldly pleasures. Jain community leader Goutham Jain said that they transferred immovable properties to their relatives legally before taking deeksha. They donated cash, gold and other ornaments to people. At present, they have only 13 things including cloth, broomstick and other essential things. He said that they would walk barefoot for about eight months in a year and teach the principles of non-violence. A 13-year old boy Harshakumar from Kalaburgi has decided to take deeksha in Susheel Dhama on June 13 in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/in-a-first-three-generations-from-a-davangere-family-become-monks-954049.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Restrictions for Kerala travellers invite public wrath at Talapady||With the rise in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala, the district administration has intensified the surveillance in border areas in the Dakshina Kannada district on Monday.  As a part of the surveillance, the screening has commenced. The entry to the district is allowed only through four checkpoints— Talapady, Saradka, Nettanige Mudnoor, and Jalsoor and others have been closed. The Covid negative certificate is mandatory for those arriving in DK from Kerala.  All the border roads except four have been closed for interstate travel since the morning. At the check post, officials from the health department, police and others are allowing only those with a negative report to enter the district. At Sullia, border routes at Batoli on Sullia-Panathur road, Kannadithodi on Sullia-Bandadka road, Mandekolu on Sullia-Adoor roads have been closed using barricades. Police personnel have been deployed for security.  Opposing the guidelines of district administration, Gadinadu Kannadigas staged a protest at the toll gate in Talapady.  Protesters from Kerala warned of blocking the Mangaluru-Kerala National Highway if restrictions continued at Talapady. Kasaragod district panchayat standing committee chairman Arshad Vorkady said that restricting the movement of people and vehicles on interstate borders is a clear violation of the Centre's unlock notification. “The Home Ministry in its unlock guidelines had clearly stated in January that there shall be no restrictions on interstate movement of people and vehicles. The protest will be intensified blocking the highway if the Karnataka government continues the travel restrictions on borders,” he said. A K M Ashraf, former block panchayat president of Kasaragod said DK DC and Kasargod District Collector should discuss the issue immediately.  Meanwhile, BJP Kasaragod district president K Shreekanth also has appealed to chief minister B S Yediyurappa to lift the travel restrictions at the border. “Whoever imposed the travel restriction, it is the people of Kasaragod who have suffered every time due to issues related to the job, medical treatment, education etc. I request @CMofKarnataka, @BSYBJP, @nalinkateel, @DCDK9 to involve and kindly lift travel restriction at the interstate border,” the BJP leader tweeted. #There is no lockdown imposed in both states, it's unfair to restrict ppl which impacts the daily life of the people of #Kasaragod,” he tweeted further. Meanwhile, the DYFI DK unit too urged the district administration to drop the decision of closing the border areas. The decision of the administration will have an impact on the people of Dakshina Kannada.  On the other hand, public interest litigation has been filed in the High Court of Karnataka, opposing the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/restrictions-for-kerala-travellers-invite-public-wrath-at-talapady-954117.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boy pierces leopard's eye, escapes attack||A 12-year-old boy is said to have escaped a leopard attack by piercing its eye with his finger, at Beeregowdanahundi, near Kadakola, in Mysuru taluk, on Monday. Nandan Kumar is the boy, who was successful in chasing the wild cat. But, he sustained bite injuries on his neck and shoulders, as the animal attacked him. He is being treated at a private hospital in Mysuru and is recuperating. According to villagers, Nandan Kumar was feeding his cow at his farmhouse near Kadakola. There is a 140-acres vacant land that belongs to KPTCL, adjoining their farmhouse. The vacant land has wild growth of bushes. The leopard that was hiding nearby suddenly pounced on Nandan, when he was feeding the cow. The boy, in an effort to escape from its hold, without fear, pierced his finger on one of its eyes. The wild cat, which did not expect the counter-attack, released its hold on him and escaped into the bushes. Irked over the incident, the residents of Kadakola, KM Hundi, BG Hundi and K N Hundi staged a protest in front of the KPTCL office, demanding them to clear the bushes on the premises. Speaking to DH, RFO Girish said, "Usually leopards do not attack humans. For the first time, a leopard attacking a boy has been reported in the district. The boy is out of danger and is responding to the treatment. However, there is no information on the boy piercing the leopard's eye."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-pierces-leopards-eye-escapes-attack-954175.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boy ‘pierces’ leopard’s eye, escapes from attack||A 12-year-old boy is said to have escaped from the leopard attack, by piercing its eye with his finger, at Beeregowdanahundi near Kadakola in Mysuru taluk, on Monday. Nandan Kumar, is the boy, who was successful in chasing the wild cat. But, he sustained bite injuries on his neck and shoulders, as the animal attacked him. He is being treated at a private hospital in Mysuru and is recuperating. According to villagers, Nandan Kumar was feeding his cow at his farmhouse near Kadakola. There is a 140-acres vacant land that belongs to KPTCL, adjoining their farmhouse. The vacant land has wild growth of bushes. The leopard that was hiding nearby, suddenly pounced on Nandan, when he was feeding the cow. The boy, in an effort to escape from its hold, without fear, pierced his finger on one of its eyes. The wild cat, which did not expect the counter attack, released its hold on him and escaped into the bushes. Irked over the incident, the residents of Kadakola, K M Hundi, B G Hundi and K N Hundi staged a protest in front of the KPTCL office, demanding them to clear the bushes on the premises. Speaking to DH, RFO Girish said, "Usually leopards do not attack humans. For the first time, a leopard attacking a boy has been reported in the district. The boy is out of danger and is responding to the treatment. However, there is no information on the boy piercing the leopard's eye."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-pierces-leopard-s-eye-escapes-from-attack-954184.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||New policy to check illegal mining: Nirani||Minister of Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani on Monday said that new policy will be implemented to control illegal mining activities. The minister, who inspected the mining activities of DBL Company at the forest area in Kalenahalli, Srirangapatna taluk, said, "Mining activities are inevitable for development activities. The government will introduce a policy to ensure that mining activities will be taken up legally." Nirani warned legal action against illegal mining activities. MP Sumalatha said, "Stone quarrying is posing a threat to Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk and the farmers in the region are under fear. I have raised the issue in the Parliament and we are ready for an agitation to protect the dam." The minister said, "It appears that DBL Company, which has taken up Mysuru-Bengaluru National highway project, has involved in illegal mining activities in Srirangapatna taluk. I have directed the officials concerned to give a detailed report after investigation. According to the officials, the company has mined 1.5 lakh tonne stones and measures will be taken to collect royalty for it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-policy-to-check-illegal-mining-nirani-954186.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Face action for unscientific disposal of construction debris’||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar warned stringent action against unscientific disposal of construction debris at the public places. Speaking to reporters after launching asphalting works on Outer Ring Road (ORR), here, on Monday, the minister said, “The construction debris dumped beside the ORR has been totally cleared. From now, stern action would be initiated against the people dumping debris anywhere on the stretch.” “There are provisions for imprisonment and penalty. The vehicle used for dumping the debris will be seized and the owner of the vehicle would be imprisoned. Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will allot place to dump construction waste, he said. The minister said that the asphalting works have been taken at a cost of Rs 120 crore. The minister said, “BJP corporator will be made as the Mayor of Mysuru, with the support of JD(S). I will speak to JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy in this regard. The final decision will be taken after discussion with the MLAs, MP and others.” When asked about private agriculture market in Chitradurga, Somashekar said, “It is said that the market will be established on 100-acre on the lines of APMC. The development is good and much needed. I will inspect the market during my visit to Chitradurga.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/face-action-for-unscientific-disposal-of-construction-debris-954188.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister directs measures at Kerala-Karnataka border||With the Covid-19 cases on the rise, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar directed Health and Police department officials to be cautious about inter-state travellers. In a meeting with the officials concerned here, on Monday, the minister directed to keep a watch on the movement of vehicles between Kerala and Karnataka via Mysuru. As thousands of people travel between the two states every day, it is necessary to take precautionary measures at the border of the states, to ensure safety of the people. The minister said, “The vegetables and foodgrains will be transported between Kerala and Karnataka via Mysuru as it will have adverse effect if the vehicular movement restricted between the states. The officials must take measures without disturbing the public or business.” The minister urged the Health department officials to depute staff to conduct test at the border. MP Pratap Simha, Inspector General of Police Southern Range Pawar Praveen Madhukar, City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-directs-measures-at-kerala-karnataka-border-954189.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Officials told to monitor Kerala students in Mandya||In an effort to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the Mandya district administration has decided to monitor the students, migrants and tourists from Kerala in Mandya district. Hundreds of students have arrived at various colleges in the district to pursue nursing, pharmacy, medical, para-medical, engineering and law courses. The nursing colleges in the city are dependent on the students from Kerala. The students have been staying at the respective college hostels. Health Minister K Sudhakar held a meeting with the authorities concerned through video-conference and directed the officials to keep a vigil on the students and visitors from other states. As there is an anxiety at several places in the state, that hints at the second wave, he told the officials to ensure that the Covid guidelines are strictly followed. The officials too have made all arrangements to tackle the new mutated coronavirus spread. District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda said, “The students, especially those returned from Kerala will be closely observed and the employees have been directed in this regard. The students would be subjected to Covid tests.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-officials-told-to-monitor-kerala-students-in-mandya-954191.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Siddaramaiah might have donated for Ram Mandir, but not revealing'||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar slammed Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for his comments on fundraiser for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, and said that Siddaramaiah might have donated, but not revealing it in the public. Speaking to reporters here, on Monday, the minister said, Siddaramaiah has no other issues to raise against the government and hence, taken up Ram Mandir fundraising programme, he said. Somashekar said, “We have maintained accounts to ensure transparency and the fund raising system is planned in such a way that not even a single paisa will be misused.”   Somashekar said, “Common people, irrespective of caste, creed, religion and political party are donating for Ram Mandir. The people are donating voluntarily and we are not forcing anyone. The accounts will be available 100%. A 82-year-old retired teacher has given as donation in Mysuru.” MP Pratap Simha said, “Siddaramaiah has refused to give details of expenses on the Ram Mandir being constructed at Siddaramaiah’s native village, Siddaramanahundi. We can give him the same reply, but we give accounts in detail.” Simha also alleged that Siddaramaiah doubled the burden on the state by obtaining heavy loans. The state had a loan of Rs 1 lakh crore, but Siddaramaiah increased it to 2.8 lakh crore. “First, let him give the accounts of the expenditure and where he misused the funds,” he said. When asked about the series of protests from different communities demanding reservation, Somashekar said, “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel will take a final call in this regard.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-might-have-donated-for-ram-mandir-but-not-revealing-954194.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Century-old ‘carriage-cum-lift’ upgraded at Chamundeshwari temple ||The century-old ‘Carriage-cum-lift’ of Chamundeshwari temple has been repaired and is ready to be used.  The Central Workshop of South Western Railways (SWR), Mysuru Division, renovated the unit and handed it over to the temple authorities, on Monday. The lift was used to place the idol to the elevated seat on temple chariot. The unit was in a dilapidated condition and the repair works could not be taken up as the original drawings of the lift were not available. The temple administration, led by chief priest N Shashishekara Dixit and MP Pratap Simha had approached General Manager, SWR in October and requested to renovate the lift. As per the instructions from the head quarters, the Central workshop, Mysuru, took up the task as a challenge and renovated it. Cradle lifting mechanism is provided with locking and anti-fall arrangement and a new ladder provided with anti-skid plates and hand rail. Rigidity of the structure is made thorough with additional propping arrangement and the whole unit is beautifully painted without losing its antique look. The whole work to this heritage structure was completed in 45 days time. The manually-operated crane weighs anywhere between five to six tonnes and is 5.5-metre tall. It has a capacity to lift 300 kg. MP Pratap Simha said that the unit was in a dilapidated state since many years and the chief priest had requested to make arrangements for the lift. The unit required Rs 5.5 lakh for repair and the District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar managed to get the funds from the state government, he said. Now, the lift is ready for operation, he said. Minister Somashekar and the authorities of SWR were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/century-old-carriage-cum-lift-upgraded-at-chamundeshwari-temple-954196.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah might have donated for Ram Mandir: S T Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah, who demanded an account of donations made for Ram Mandir, might himself have donated funds for the cause but he is not revealing it in public. Speaking to reporters, Somashekar said that Siddaramaiah has no issues to target the BJP government with, as the government has been functioning successfully, and thus raising the Ram Mandir issue.   Somashekar said that every house in the state, irrespective of caste, creed, political party are donating funds. "There is full transparency in the fundraising event," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-might-have-donated-for-ram-mandir-s-t-somashekar-953967.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||A BJP corporator will be Mysuru Mayor: S T Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Monday said that a BJP corporator will be the Mayor of Mysuru. Speaking to reporters, Somashekar said that he has not spoken to JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy asking him to support BJP in the Mayor election. "Even I am not informed about the opinion of corporators but, a BJP corporator will become the Mayor," he hopes. The Mayor election is scheduled for February 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/a-bjp-corporator-will-be-mysuru-mayor-s-t-somashekar-953971.html
22-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Panchamasali stir: J P Nadda slams Yatnal for not toeing party line||In a warning, BJP leader Basangouda Patil Yatnal was told not to cross the party line in relation to the Panchamasali reservation issue. Yatnal, a BJP MLA from Vijayapura city, was summoned by the party to Delhi on Monday. He briefly met BJP national president J P Nadda, who warned of action if Yatnal did not follow the party's line. Expressing displeasure over Yatnal's actions over the past few months, Nadda asked him to raise any issues with the party forum, not publicly and asked him to appear before the disciplinary committee. The committee comprising two members- Satyadev Singh, BJP MP from Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh and Bijoya Chakravarty, Lok Sabha MP from Guwahati. Yatnal is likely to meet other leaders including Nadda on Tuesday.  The party's top leaders are of the view that enough opportunity was given to Yatnal in the party forum to raise issues related to party affairs in Karnataka. "When the party is seized of the matters flagged by him, he should not have continued to attack the CM publicly," said a leader. By attacking the CM, Yatnal has damaged both the government and the party's reputation, said the leader. The party has already served a notice to Yatnal and sought his explanation about his open criticism against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and his family members. However, the party leaders were upset when Yatnal continued his attack against the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/panchamasali-stir-j-p-nadda-slams-yatnal-for-not-toeing-party-line-954172.html
22-02-2021||Main Article||LAC Row: Strategic options, post-Ladakh||The disengagement process in Ladakh is hopefully the concluding scene of another military episode in India-China relations. Political and strategic relationships, especially those involving neighbours with whom we have disputes, are in reality an unending mind game, with the parties concerned competing for advantages aimed to protect, preserve and promote their vital interests. In this episode, China threatened India’s territorial integrity, India reacted firmly, and if the disengagement goes according to plan, India would seem to have quite successfully defended its interests for the time being.  A deepened military mind game can be expected to endure in the form of military preparations. The scene now shifts to where it finally matters the most – in the minds of the opposing political leaderships, which will be reflected in the future politico-diplomatic manoeuvres. China’s military aggressiveness in the Himalayas must be viewed as part of the big picture of the larger global geopolitical contestation. A rising China that is economically buoyant, politically authoritarian, assertive and aggressive, is being increasingly opposed by the US, which is slipping from its status as the lone Superpower. Paradoxically, for India, while the military tensions may ease, political tensions are likely to increase. India’s moves to alter its strategic posture with the key nations in the neighbourhood and especially in the maritime spaces of the Indo-Pacific will form the primary political landscape. The world seems to be between orders. Possibilities of alliances and partnerships are being explored and preparations are ongoing for large-scale war in the name of preventing one. Some believe that with Biden’s election, global geopolitical turbulence could ease and that the worst may be over. Such notions ignore the pervasive presence of underlying geopolitical forces that have produced the contemporary situation. Economic, social, technological and environmental disruptions are widening rifts and are creating frictions through distrust and fear between constituents of the international geopolitical structure. India, as a medium power, is inevitably drawn in. Going forward, the political impact of the Ladakh episode must be judged by how India attempts to shape its relations with the big, medium and the smaller powers in its neighbourhood.  At the global level, India’s challenges are framed within the US, China, India, Russia quartet. The primary driver of tensions in this cluster is one where China sees India ‘ganging up’ with the US against it. A resultant tension that India experiences would arise from Russia’s perceived proximity to China, though it is mostly driven by strategic competition between the US and Russia. India’s deal with Russia for the S-400 air and missile defence system is symptomatic of the complications wrought by bilateral interdependence running afoul of superpower rivalries. The US is threatening to apply to India a domestic legislation that invites sanctions on countries sourcing arms from Russia and China. Even if a waiver is given, it might come only as a payoff to nudge India towards deeper cooperation aimed against China. In essence, the form and substance of relationships that India now seeks bilaterally and multilaterally with the US, China and Russia could well underscore the strategic legacy of the Ladakh episode. Will India go back to business-as-usual with China once territorial status quo is restored? If that happens, would there be a concomitant weakening in India’s role in the QUAD and strengthening of its economic relations with China? If so, it might also signify that China came out on top in the mind game that was played out in Ladakh. China would have succeeded in weakening the QUAD and strengthened its economic leverage with India. Considering the setbacks suffered by the Indian economy, the logic of geoeconomics might dictate that China will retain a major role in India’s economic growth though there would be an ever-pervasive influence of security factors. It is therefore important that India avoids knee-jerk reactions favouring China which would muddy the waters, making things difficult for ourselves, and complicate equations with other players. Politically and strategically, India must deal with China based on the assumption that its security concerns regarding its trade routes and India’s strategic posture will only deepen. China will therefore attempt military and economic coercion to keep India from playing a significant role in strategic partnerships like the QUAD, which it has described as an ‘Asian NATO’. Russia, too, is averse to the QUAD. The Indian Ocean Region (IOR) is strategically vital, however, and India’s foreign policy and diplomatic challenge is to be uncompromising in dealing with the security concerns in the IOR. India’s role in the IOR must have as its primary focus maritime initiatives encompassing the nations of the littoral. This should include the US, France and the UK, who have territories in the IOR. India must play a key role for coordination and fostering interoperability. It must also prioritise for the development of maritime power, the Bay of Bengal, including the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. China will make all possible attempts to impede India’s growth as a maritime power. No amount of bilateral understandings is going to change this fundamental posture as it derives its logic from the contestation with the US on the global stage. India should therefore act to preserve the growth of its maritime power even while China and Pakistan up the ante in the continental domain. This calls for a political and military understanding that looks beyond Ladakh and the disputed borders. No doubt, defence of continental borders cannot be neglected. What is feasible is a transformation in doctrine, strategy and tactics of land and maritime warfare. This calls for adoption of methods that are attuned to the imperatives of India’s political objectives and detached from the flights of military imagination that often ignore the type of wars that can be fought under the nuclear shadow. Any deeper exploration of using force below the threshold of war should not be ruled out. Politically, deepening cooperation based on common interests is the way forward. We should not get misled by a seeming concession here and a seeming allowance there by the Chinese. We should look at the Chinese withdrawal as the sacrifice of a pawn in an ongoing game of chess for grabbing one of our major pieces down the line. Clearly, there are no free lunches on offer. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/lac-row-strategic-options-post-ladakh-954210.html
22-02-2021||National||Centre advises states to increase use of RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 detection as cases surge||With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise in several states, the Centre on Sunday asked states to increase the proportion of the gold standard RT-PCR tests in the overall diagnostic mix and undertake an RT-PCR retest for those who tested negative in rapid antigen tests widely used by the states for surveillance. India has been witnessing a rise in the active caseload over the past few days. More than 74% of the active cases are in Kerala and Maharashtra, however a spike has been seen in the daily cases in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Punjab and J&K. In Maharashtra, in the last four weeks, the weekly cases have shown a rising trend and have increased from 18,200 to 21,300 while the weekly positivity has increased from 4.7% to 8%. The zones of concern are Mumbai's suburban areas where the weekly cases shot up by 19%. In Nagpur, Amravati, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal the weekly cases rose by 33%, 47%, 23%, 55% and 48%, respectively. In Kerala during the same period, the average weekly cases fluctuated between a high of 42,000 to a low of 34,800. While the weekly positivity rate ranged from 13.9% to 8.9% in the state, a special cause of concern is Alappuzha where the rate went up to 10.7%. Punjab too is rapidly assuming critical dimension as the weekly cases in the last four weeks saw a rise from 1,300 to 1,682. In one district of SBS Nagar alone, the weekly positivity rate stands at 4.9% and the weekly cases have more than doubled from 165 to 364. In five states - Maharashtra (8.1%), Kerala (7.9%), Andhra Pradesh (3.3%), Goa (3%) and Chandigarh (1.8%) - the weekly positivity rate is more than the national average of 1.79%. The Union Health Ministry advised states to improve the quality of overall testing by increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests. Moreover, negative rapid antigen test results are to be mandatorily followed by an RT-PCR test and no such negative persons are to be missed. The states have also been asked to refocus on strict and comprehensive surveillance as well as stringent containment in selected districts. Regular monitoring of the mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing, monitoring of the emerging cluster of cases and improving the clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths are other strategies that should be followed up to arrest the upsurge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-advises-states-to-increase-use-of-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19-detection-as-cases-surge-953862.html
22-02-2021||National||Kamal Nath narrowly escapes as lift collapses in Madhya Pradesh hospital||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath and around a dozen other people escaped unhurt after an overcrowded lift plunged from a height of 10 feet in an Indore hospital and its doors got jammed on Sunday. "The grace of Lord Hanumanji has always been with me. Jai Hanuman," Nath tweeted later. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called up Nath to inquire about his health and also ordered Indore Collector Manish Singh to start a probe into the incident, officials said. Other Congress leaders who were in the lift with Nath were Sajjan Singh Verma, Jitu Patwari, Vishal Patel and Vinay Bakaliwal. Nath and the other leaders had gone to DNS Hospital to meet ailing party colleague Rameshwar Patel. In a release, Indore Collector Manish Singh said an additional magistrate will carry out the probe. MP Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja demanded action against hospital authorities. A hospital functionary said the lift was overcrowded and had 13-14 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-nath-narrowly-escapes-as-lift-collapses-in-madhya-pradesh-hospital-953886.html
22-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 23||Petrol and diesel prices continued to soar to new highs as fuel rates were hiked agin on Tuesday.  While the petrol price was hiked by 25 paise in Delhi, the diesel price was increased by 35 paise. In the national capital, petrol now costs Rs 90.83 per litre, while diesel Rs 81.32 per litre. Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 22:   Rs 87.41/L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-23-953429.html
22-02-2021||National||India Pharmaceutical Forum to focus on patients, Covid-19||The sixth edition of the India Pharmaceutical Forum, the  annual flagship event hosted by the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance, will be focusing on patients and quality and the response to the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping the globe.  The IPF, scheduled from 24-26 February, will be hosted virtually. The theme of this edition of  the IPF is ‘Patient Centricity: New Paradigm in Quality Management’ and is centred around the various aspects that define quality management in the pharmaceutical industry in post-Covid-19 era, reinstating patient centricity as its focus. The three-day conference will see dignitaries from the healthcare industry and subject-matter experts expressing their views through discussions.  An exclusive CEO panel discussion on ‘The Impact of Covid-19 on Pharmaceutical Industry and the way forward’ where chiefs of leading Indian pharma companies such as Cadila Healthcare, Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s, Lupin, Sun Pharma, and Torrent Pharma will deliberate on Covid-19 response by pharma companies. The conference will commence with a keynote address by S Aparna, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, and inauguration of IPA’s Best Practices document. This will be followed by sessions on topics under quality management, including a talk on Inspection during Covid-19 and GDUFA III Negotiation by David Gaugh, Senior Vice President for Sciences and Regulatory Affairs, AAM. An update on the USFDA Quality Standard Control will be presented by Francis Godwin, Director, Office of Manufacturing Quality, Office of Compliance, USFDA. “Covid-19 has once again reinforced the efforts of the healthcare industry towards a patient-centric approach. This year, the 6th Indian Pharmaceutical Forum will provide an engaging platform to facilitate a comprehensive discussion on the everchanging shift in quality management, led by significant voices of the industry. It will bring together relevant stakeholders from prominent organisations, leading pharma companies and regulatory bodies to discuss an action-oriented approach to operate in the future,” said Sudarshan Jain, Secretary-General, IPA. “The Indian pharmaceutical industry effectively rose to the challenges of Covid-19 and reinstated its potential in the global pharma landscape. Maintaining benchmark quality standards is pivotal for all IPAmember companies,” said Satish Reddy, President, IPA. The forum will also encompass five panel discussions on contemporary subjects such as new paradigm in quality management, digitisation/automation, and AI in operations and more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pharmaceutical-forum-to-focus-on-patients-covid-19-953904.html
22-02-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload rises above 1.5 lakh after over 2 weeks||India saw a spike of 14,199 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 1,10,05,850, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,56,385 with 83 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 9 am showed. The country had registered 18,855 infections in a day on January 29.   The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,99,410 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of  97.22 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload rose above 1.5 lakh. There are 1,50,055 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.36 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The active Covid-19 cases caseload topped 1.5 lakh after 17 days.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-rises-above-15-lakh-after-over-2-weeks-953912.html
22-02-2021||National||WHO says it hasn’t reviewed Coronil for Covid-19 treatment||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has clarified in a tweet that it has not approved or certified the Patanjali Ayurved-promoted Coronil medicine for Covid-19. This comes after Patanjali Ayurved said it received Ayush Ministry’s approval for the Covid-19 medicine as per WHO norms. WHO’s South-East Asia regional office tweeted on its official page that it has certified no traditional medicines for the treatment of Covid-19. Clarifying the company’s stance on the issue, Patanjali Ayurved MD Acharya Balkrishna tweeted saying that the Goods Manufacturing Practice (GMP) compliant Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CPP) has been given to the medicine by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). “It is clear that WHO does not approve or disapprove any drugs,” Balkrishna added in his tweet. Patanjali had introduced Ayurveda-based Coronil on June 23 last year, when the pandemic was at its peak. It faced severe criticism as it lacked scientific evidence regarding its efficacy. The Ayush Ministry had classified it as an "immuno-booster" only. The ministry earlier this month recognised Coronil as medicine for "supporting the measure in Covid-19" treatment, Ramdev said. "This certification will remove the misconception about it in people's mind as it cures Covid also," Ramdev said, adding "it will work against asymptomatic, symptomatic and severe (cases) also. We have data for that." "It received a huge response despite all controversies. We have data which suggests that more than one crore people have consumed it," he added. Ramdev further said Coronil will help humanity while providing sustainable and affordable treatment. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-says-it-hasn-t-reviewed-coronil-for-covid-19-treatment-953919.html
22-02-2021||National||Supreme Court allows Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad but on condition||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, who is facing criminal cases that are being probed by the ED and the CBI, to travel abroad. A bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, asked Chidambaram to deposit Rs 2 crore with the registry and submit details on the places to be visited and the place where he would stay. Opposing the application, Additional Solicitor General S V Raju said earlier Chidambaram was earlier allowed to travel abroad, but with a deposit of Rs 10 crore. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for Chidambaram, said the condition was not justified for a member of Parliament and he would not run away anywhere. The apex court said the amount be deposited in a nationalised bank and allowed Chidambaram to travel for six months. Earlier, it had allowed him to travel to the UK, the US, France, Germany and Spain. The Congress leader is facing several criminal cases related to the Aircel-Maxis deal and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to the INX Media for receiving foreign funds of Rs 305 crore when his father, P Chidambaram, was the Union finance minister. The cases are being probed by the ED and the CBI. The ED had earlier claimed that Karti Chidambaram had been trying to protract the investigation by "blatantly misusing" the liberty granted by the court in allowing him to travel abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-karti-chidambaram-to-travel-abroad-but-on-condition-953936.html
22-02-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi hits out at Modi govt over rising fuel prices||Hitting out at the Modi government over rising fuel prices, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused it of emptying the pockets of the common man and filling the pockets of its friends for free. The Congress has accused the Centre of looting people by imposing high taxes on petrol and diesel and has demanded its rollback to provide relief to the common man from the onslaught of rising prices. "When you see the fast moving meter while filling fuel in your car at the petrol pump, do remember that the crude oil rates have not risen but fallen," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Petrol is at Rs 100 a litre. The Modi government is doing the great work of emptying your pockets and filling the pockets of its friends," the Congress leader tweeted. पेट्रोल पम्प पर गाड़ी में तेल डालते समय जब आपकी नज़र तेज़ी से बढ़ते मीटर पर पड़े, तब ये ज़रूर याद रखिएगा कि कच्चे तेल का दाम बढ़ा नहीं, बल्कि कम हुआ है। पेट्रोल 100 रुपय/लीटर है। Gandhi also used the hashtag "FuelLootByBJP" in his tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-modi-govt-over-rising-fuel-prices-953941.html
22-02-2021||National||Dalit girl raped by 2 men in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba||A 16-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped by two men here, following which the accused were arrested, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Friday night when the minor was standing outside her house. Jai Hind (23) and Ashish Sen (22) forcibly took her to a secluded place and allegedly raped her, SHO Sunil Kumar Tiwari said. The girl later narrated her ordeal to her elder sister who filed a police complaint and on the basis of that, an FIR was registered on Sunday, the SHO said. Both the accused were arrested and the girl was sent for a medical examination, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalit-girl-raped-by-2-men-in-uttar-pradeshs-mahoba-953948.html
22-02-2021||National||Congress-DMK MLAs follow suit after Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy resigns||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues besides ruling side MLAs in the union territory resigned on Monday after the government lost the confidence vote sought by him in the face of its depleted strength of 11 against opposition's 14 in the House. After staging a walkout from the Assembly before the motion seeking confidence vote was put up for voting in the House, Narayanasamy proceeded to the Raj Nivas and submitted his resignation to Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. "Myself, ministers, Congress and DMK MLAs and independent legislator have tendered resignation and sought it be accepted," he told reporters but did not answer queries on the next course of action. Earlier, the government was supported by the DMK MLAs and the independent legisalator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-dmk-mlas-follow-suit-after-puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-resigns-953951.html
22-02-2021||National||In both the World Wars, arms were exported from India: PM Modi||India had an age-old experience in making arms and military equipment but after Independence, this capacity was not strengthened, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that now the country is committed to enhancing its capabilities in defence manufacturing at a fast pace. Addressing a webinar on the effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the defence sector, the prime minister listed a series of measures taken by his government to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. "Before Independence, we used to have hundreds of ordnance factories. In both the World Wars, arms were exported from India on a large scale, but after Independence due to a number of reasons, this system was not strengthened as much as it should have," he said. "The condition is such that even for small arms we have to look at other nations. India is amongst the biggest defence importers and this is not a matter of pride," Modi stressed. He said it was not that the people of India do not have the talent or capability and pointed out that India did not make ventilators before the coronavirus period but now manufactures thousands of ventilators. "An India that could reach Mars, could have made modern weapons also but it became an easy way to import weapons from abroad," he said. But now India is working hard to change the situation and India is committed to enhancing its capacities and capabilities at a fast pace, the prime minister asserted. Modi said with initiatives like de-licensing, de-regulation, export promotion, foreign investment liberalisation, the government has taken several measures to give the defence manufacturing sector a boost. He said with the establishment of the chief of defence staff post, bringing uniformity in the procurement process and induction of equipment has become easy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-both-the-world-wars-arms-were-exported-from-india-pm-modi-953952.html
22-02-2021||National||Hearing in defamation case against Rahul Gandhi on May 15||A court at Bhiwandi in Maharashtra has posted a defamation case against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for hearing on May 15. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh local functionary Rajesh Kunte filed the case against Gandhi in 2014 after watching his speech in Thane's Bhiwandi township, where the Congress leader alleged that the RSS was behind the killing of Mahatma Gandhi. In 2018, Gandhi appeared before the magistrate court in Bhiwandi and pleaded not guilty following which charges were framed and the case was set for trial. When the case was taken up for hearing on Saturday by magistrate J V Paliwal, Gandhi's advocate Narayan Iyer sought exemption from appearance for the Congress leader as he could not travel due to Covid-19 restrictions. The court allowed the exemption. Kunte's advocate P P Jaywant sought an adjournment, citing a petition filed in the Bombay High Court in this case pertaining to allowing certain documents to be presented as evidence in the trial. Magistrate Paliwal, however, noted that the HC has not ordered for a stay on proceedings before the lower court. Jaywant urged for an adjournment, which the court allowed. The court posted the matter for hearing on May 15, and the complainant's statement is also likely to be recorded that day.v||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hearing-in-defamation-case-against-rahul-gandhi-on-may-15-953954.html
22-02-2021||National||Dharmendra Pradhan explains why petrol, diesel prices are rising||A steady increase in fuel prices has gathered protests from the Opposition and the public who want answers. Union Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, says it is a result of diminishing production by the international market.  "We have continuously been urging the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and OPEC plus countries that it should not happen. We hope there will be a change", he continued. "Another reason is Covid-19. We have to do various development work. For this, centre and state governments collect the tax. Spending on development work will generate more jobs. The government has increased its investment and 34 per cent more capital spending will be done in this budget. State governments will also increase spending. This is why we need this tax but there is also the need for balance. I believe the Finance Minister and state governments can find a way". Congress leaders and other Opposition members, however, have trained guns against the Centre, blaming it solely for the hike in  fuel rates.  Earlier, on Saturday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, "It’s a very vexatious issue in which no answer except for reducing the price (of fuel) will convince anyone. I know I am trading on an area where whatever I may say to bring the reality into picture will only sound like I’m obfuscating, I’m avoiding the answer, I am shifting the blame…,".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dharmendra-pradhan-explains-why-petrol-diesel-prices-are-rising-953963.html
22-02-2021||National||Construction of new parliament building not necessary now, says NCP MP Supriya Sule||NCP MP Supriya Sule has said the Centre has suspended the MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) fund scheme but is going ahead with the construction of a new Parliament building, which is not a necessity now in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a party rally in Ambernath town of Thane district in Maharashtra on Sunday for the forthcoming civic polls here, Sule said the Union government is going to spend Rs 800 crore to Rs 1,000 crore on the Central Vista project. "We did not not ask for it. It is not a necessity now in this pandemic period. If they had constructed a hospital and cut our funds for five years (for such purpose), I would have gladly given it," said the Lok Sabha member from Baramati in Maharashtra. The Union Cabinet last year approved temporary suspension of the MPLAD fund scheme during 2020-21 and 2021- 22, to use the funds for managing health services and the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/construction-of-new-parliament-building-not-necessary-now-says-ncp-mp-supriya-sule-953966.html
22-02-2021||National||Delhi now not too distant from Dispur: PM Modi in poll-bound Assam||Opening the coffers of his government for election-bound Assam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Monday slammed the successive Congress dispensations that ruled the country since Independence for the "neglect" of the state and the northeast for decades. On his third visit to Assam in a month, Modi, who dedicated to the nation three major projects in the petroleum sector worth over Rs 3,222 crore, enumerated steps taken by the state government led by Sarbananda Sonowal and the centre over the past few years for its balanced growth. He also inaugurated Dhemaji Engineering College and laid the foundation stone for Sualkuchi Engineering College with an initial project cost of Rs 45 crore and Rs 55 crore respectively in this town on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra. He had unleashed a major development offensive in the run-up to the state polls on February 7 when he laid the foundation of and dedicated to the national infrastructure projects involving Rs 9,310 crore. Again, on February 18, he had gifted a bouquet of development projects worth about Rs 10,000 crore to the state. "Those who ruled for decades since Independence believed Dispur was too distant from Delhi. 'Dilli ab door nahi aapke darwaaze par hai' (Delhi is not far now, it stands at your doorstep," he told a massive gathering. The previous governments adopted a "step-motherly" approach to the north bank region and neglected connectivity, health, education and industry, he alleged. "I had come earlier to Gogamuk in the state's north bank and said that Assam and the northeast will become the new growth engine of the country and now we see this belief bear fruit," he said. The prime minister said due to sustained efforts by the Assam government more than 20 engineering colleges have been set up. Referring to the new National Education Policy (NEP), he said its emphasis on teaching in local languages will help children from even poor families become doctors and engineers. Modi said hardly 40 per cent of families in Assam had cooking gas connections till 2014 despite the state being rich in oil and natural gas and refineries. The almost entire population of the state has now been covered under the Ujjwala Yojana and one crore women have benefited, he said. "The gas pipelines, optical fibre networks and piped water supply initiatives are not mere iron pipes and fibre. These are the new fate lines of India," he asserted. He said the improvement in energy and infrastructure development will make life easier for the people of Assam and the northeast and create fresh job opportunities for youth. Oil storage capacity has been strengthened for the purpose of refining and meeting emergency situations, he said. "Assam is known the world over for its tea, tourism, handloom and handicraft. The growth of these sectors will generate more employment and strengthen the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' mission," he said. Reaching out to tea garden workers, a solid support base of the BJP, Modi said improving their living condition was a priority of both the state and the central governments. "With the blessings of the Brahmaputra, the land in this region is fertile. We are working for improving farm income, providing agriculturists better seeds, soil health cards and introducing pension schemes," he said. Farm laws have been amended to ensure their produce reaches international markets, the prime minister said. He said his government has earmarked Rs 20,000 crore for strengthening the fisheries sector and Assam will hugely benefit from it. Modi said he will visit Assam and other poll-bound states as many times as possible before elections are announced, likely in the first week of March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-now-not-too-distant-from-dispur-pm-modi-in-poll-bound-assam-953970.html
22-02-2021||National||India's weekly Covid-19 cases up 31%, first rise since November||India's active Covid-19 cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day, taking the total tally above 1.10 crore on February 22, 2021. Although the daily cases have seen a considerable dip in the past few months, last week there has been an increase for the first time in 15 days. Between February 15 and 21, India saw 1,00,900 new cases —  31 per cent higher than the 77,284 cases registered in the week before. The country registered the slowest 10-lakh cases rise in a period of 65 days since the first 10-lakh. The steady rise in active cases over the past few days with a surge in daily infections in five states and Jammu and Kashmir has sparked fears of a second wave, prompting the Centre to direct them to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR-testing. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,99,410  which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.22 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent.   On January 29, India registered 18,855 infections in a day. However, the daily cases have remained below 20,000 since January 1, 2021. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-weekly-covid-19-cases-up-31-first-rise-since-november-953984.html
22-02-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks reply from Sonia, Rahul Gandhi, others on Subramanian Swamy's plea to lead evidence in National Herald case||The Delhi High Court Monday sought responses of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, her son Rahul and others accused in the National Herald case, on a plea by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy seeking to lead evidence before the trial court. Justice Suresh Kait, while issuing notice to the Gandhis, AICC general secretary Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and Young India (YI), sought their stand on Swamy's plea by April 12 and stayed the proceedings in the case till then. Advocate Satya Sabharwal, appearing for the BJP MP, and advocate Tarannum Cheema, appearing for the Gandhis and others, confirmed that the high court has issued notice in the matter and stayed the trial court proceedings till April 12. Swamy has moved the high court aggrieved by a trial court order of February 11 declining, for now, his plea to lead evidence to prosecute the Gandhis and the other accused in the case. The trial court had said that Swamy's application under section 244 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to lead evidence would be considered after his examination in the case was over. Swamy has sought summoning of certain witnesses, including the secretary general (registry officer) of the Supreme Court, a deputy land and development officer, and a deputy commissioner of Income Tax, and also directions to them to prove certain documents which are part of the case. In a private criminal complaint in the trial court, the BJP leader had accused the Gandhis and others of conspiring to cheat and misappropriate funds by paying only Rs 50 lakh, through which Young Indian Pvt Ltd (YI) obtained the right to recover Rs 90.25 crore that Associate Journals Ltd, owner of National Herald, owed to the Congress. All the seven accused - the Gandhis, AICC treasurer Motilal Vora, AICC general secretary Oscar Fernandes, Suman Dubey, Sam Pitroda and YI - had denied the allegations. Proceedings against Vora abated subsequent to his death, while the others were summoned by the trial court in 2014 for the alleged offences of misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust and cheating, read with criminal conspiracy of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-reply-from-sonia-rahul-gandhi-others-on-subramanian-swamys-plea-to-lead-evidence-in-national-herald-case-953989.html
22-02-2021||National||SC reserves order on former judge's plea against enquiry into taped conversation||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on Andhra Pradesh High Court's directions to conduct an enquiry into a secretly recorded conversation of former judge V Eswaraiah with a suspended district munsif magistrate, about a sitting top court's judge and then chief justice. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said it will consider the contention by the former judge that the High Court's order has to be set aside as serious observations were made without issuing a notice or hearing him. The top court wrapped up hearing on Justice Eswaraiah's petition against the August 13, 2020 order by the High Court which directed an enquiry into a conversation into "conspiracy". Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for an intervenor, said that a table has been made of the conversations that the judge admits and that which he does not admit. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for Justice Eswaraiah, contended that when the HC was hearing a case relating to Covid issues, the district magistrate filed an intervention application in which he annexed a pen drive and later leaked the conversation to the media. "There is no criminal conspiracy in the conversation. Even if one goes through the transcript filed by the district magistrate there is nothing to show that a crime has been committed," Bhushan said. "If an inquiry is to be conducted then a complete enquiry must be conducted into the transactions also," he added. The counsel objected to the contention by Sibal that the transcript may have been edited. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for an intervenor, said that the affidavit filed by Justice Eswaraiah stated that certain parts of the transcript may not be correct or edited. This itself made his case worse because there has to be a complete transcript. In a special leave petition, the 69-year-old retired judge and chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission contended that the HC "erred" in ordering the enquiry on the basis of an unverified pen-drive to conclude a plot was hatched against judges. He claimed he had openly exposed various improper acts of the sitting judge of the Supreme Court in various press conferences in the past, which he considered against judicial propriety and misuse of power, such as his close proximity to the former Chief Minister N Chandra Babu Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-order-on-former-judges-plea-against-enquiry-into-taped-conversation-954004.html
22-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Lawyer Nikita Jacob, engineer Shantanu Muluk being questioned by Delhi police||Lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk on Monday joined the probe in connection with the toolkit case and are being questioned at the Delhi Police's Cyber cell office in Dwarka, a senior police officer said. The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by a court. "Both Jacob and Muluk were served notice to join the probe and are currently being quizzed in connection with their alleged role in the toolkit case," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-lawyer-nikita-jacob-engineer-shantanu-muluk-being-questioned-by-delhi-police-954014.html
22-02-2021||National||IMA 'shocked' over Patanjali’s claim on Coronil; demands explanation from Harsh Vardhan||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday slammed yoga guru Ramdev for the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Patanjali's Coronil tablet and asked Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to explain his presence at the launch of the medicine, which the manufacturer claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight the Covid-19. In a statement, the IMA asked Harsh Vardhan how is it justified to release such falsely fabricated unscientific products to people of the whole country. "Can you clarify the time frame, timeline for the so-called clinical trial of this said anti-corona product?...The country needs an explanation from the minister. The IMA will also write to the National Medical Commission seeking suo moto explanation for his blatant disrespect to the code of conduct of Medical Council of India,” the IMA said. The World Health Organisation had earlier clarified that it has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19. Ramdev had on February 19 claimed that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush Ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment as per the WHO's certification scheme. Later, Patanjali’s Managing Director Acharya Balkrishna clarified Coronil had got Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme. "It was claimed by Ramdev along with our health minister that the said Coronil ayurvedic medicine has got WHO certification. This has been clearly denied by WHO in an official tweet. The said false and fabricated projection of an unscientific medicine by the health minister to the entire country and being rejected by WHO is a slap and insult to the people of the country," the IMA statement said. The Union health minister had attended the event on February 19 where Patanjali Ayurveda had released what it claimed was research work supporting Coronil's efficacy in Covid-19 treatment. During the event, an announcement regarding the Ayush certification for Coronil and the release of a research paper calling it the "first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19" was done. "All these were witnessed in person by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who is a modern medical doctor by qualification," the IMA statement said. "Being a health minister of the country, how ethical is to promote the product in unethical, wrong and false ways to the whole country...how ethical is to promote the unscientific product to the citizens of the country," it added. It also asked the Minister to clarify the nature of clinical trials done for the medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-shocked-over-patanjali-s-claim-on-coronil-demands-explanation-from-harsh-vardhan-954018.html
22-02-2021||National||Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar found dead in Mumbai hotel||In a shocking incident, Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP and senior politician Mohan Delkar died by suicide at a hotel in the Marine Drive area of Mumbai on Monday. Delkar (58), an independent MP, died by hanging from the ceiling fan of his hotel room, according to initial investigations by the Mumbai Police. Delkar, a senior Parliamentarian, had checked into the Sea Green South Hotel on Sunday evening and his body was found in his hotel room on Monday noon. “A suicide note was found at the spot. The body has been set for post-mortem,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations) Chaitanya S, the Mumbai Police spokesperson. An accidental death report (ADR) has been registered by the Marine Drive police station and investigations were in progress.  The suicide note is written in Gujarati. According to reports, in the suicide note he has blamed the bureaucracy for alleged harrassment, however, the Mumbai Police has not commented on it. Forensic evidence is being collected from the hotel room and the timings of his visit to the hotel and movements are being analysed.  The investigation is being supervised by the Assistant Commissioner of Police of Colaba division. "Marine Drive police station reached the spot and conducted a panchnama. Prima facie it appears to be a case of suicide. However, the body has been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the exact cause of death," Director-cum-Deputy Secretary said in a statement.  Delkar, popularly known as Mohanbhai, was elected to the 17th Lok Sabha in May, 2019. He was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs. He had represented the seat seven times – the earlier being in 1989 as an Independent, 1991 and 1996 from the Congress, 1998 as a BJP candidate, 1999 as an Independent and in 2004 representing Bharatiya Navshakti Party, a political outfit floated by him. In 2009 and 2014, he lost the polls to BJP’s Nathubhai Patel but won the 2019 polls as an Independent. In 2020, he made an alliance with the Janata Dal (United) for local body polls. The body has been sent to Sir JJ Hospital after which it is likely to be taken to his Silvassa home. Top police officials including Joint Commissioner of Police (Law & Order) Vishwas Nangre Patil, Additional Commissioner of Police (South Region) Satyanarayan Chaudhary rushed to the hotel to supervise the investigations. Meanwhile, AAP national Executive Member Preeti Sharma Menon said: "Sources claim his suicide note cites harassment from the bureaucracy. India needs widespread bureaucratic reforms. And all UTs need complete democracy, they are haven for arrogant officers." Delkar is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. An advocate for tribal rights, Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. Later, he started Adivasi Vikas Sangathan for the tribals in 1985. Delkar’s father Sanjibhai Delkar was elected to Lok Sabha from Dadra and Nagar Haveli in 1967 as Congress candidate, later joined Morarji Desai's NCO faction when the party split in 1969 and lost 1971 Lok Sabha election as NCO candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dadra-and-nagar-haveli-mp-mohan-delkar-found-dead-in-mumbai-hotel-954025.html
22-02-2021||National||Mayawati terms UP govt budget 'extremely disappointing'||BSP president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati Monday termed the state government's budget "extremely disappointing", saying it just has promises for people but nothing to address unemployment. The Adityanath-led BJP government presented a Rs 5.5-lakh crore budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly with a target of making Uttar Pradesh self-reliant. With the Assembly election a year away, the budget includes new schemes worth Rs 27,598 crore. "The BJP government's budget presented in the UP assembly today, like the central government's budget, is extremely disappointing in the state, especially in terms of ending the cruelty of employment, and creating jobs. Like in the central government's budget, in the UP budget too, an attempt has been made to make promises and make people have beautiful dreams," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. 1.यूपी विधानसभा में आज पेश बीजेपी सरकार का बजट भी केन्द्र सरकार के बजट की तरह ही यहाँ प्रदेश में खासकर बेरोजगारी की क्रूरता दूर करने हेतु रोजगार आदि के मामले में अति-निराश करने वाला है। केन्द्र सरकार की तरह यूपी के बजट में भी वायदे व हसीन सपने जनता को दिखाने का प्रयास किया गया है She alleged that the Adityanath government's record on fulfilling its promises to the 23 crore people of Uttar Pradesh has not been "satisfactory" despite the fact the both the state and the Centre have the BJP-ruled dispensations. "This budget is extremely disappointing especially in terms of addressing the problems of the poor, weaker sections and farmers," she said in her second tweet. 2. यूपी की लगभग 23 करोड़ जनता के विकास की लालसा की तृप्ति के मामले में यूपी सरकार का रिकार्ड केन्द्र व यूपी में एक ही पार्टी की सरकार होने के बावजूद भी वायदे के अनुसार संतोषजनक नहीं रहा। खासकर गरीबों, कमजोर वर्गों व किसानों की समस्याओं के मामले में भी यूपी का बजट अति-निराशाजनक।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-terms-up-govt-budget-extremely-disappointing-954043.html
22-02-2021||National||China backs India hosting 2021 BRICS summit||China on Monday expressed its support for India in hosting this year’s BRICS summit and said it will work with New Delhi to strengthen the cooperation among the five-member grouping of emerging economies. India has assumed the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa) Chairmanship for 2021 and is set to hold this year’s summit. On February 19, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar launched India’s BRICS 2021 website at the BRICS Secretariat at Sushma Swaraj Bhawan in New Delhi. Asked about India assuming the BRICS Chairmanship this year, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a media briefing here that Beijing backs New Delhi in hosting the summit. "The BRICS is a cooperation mechanism with global influence consisting of emerging economies and developing countries. In recent years, it has seen greater solidarity and deeper practical cooperation and greater influence,” Wang said. BRICS is now a “positive, stable and constructive force” in international affairs, he said, adding that China attaches importance to this mechanism. "We are committed to deepening strategic partnership within it to consolidate solidarity and cooperation,” Wang said. "We support India hosting this year’s meeting and will work with it and other members to strengthen communication dialogue and consolidate the three-pillar cooperation, expand BRICS plus cooperation and work for greater progress under BRICS and also help the world to defeat Covid-19, resume economic growth and improve global governance,” he said. Wang, however, did not specify whether Chinese President Xi Jinping would attend the summit expected to be held later this year. Xi has attended all the annual summits of the five-member bloc in the past, including the one last year hosted by Russia in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi took part. China’s announcement backing India to host the BRICS summit came as the armies of the two countries began disengagement of troops locked in over eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh. Both countries have reached a mutual agreement for disengagement of troops from the most contentious area of North and South Pangong Lake. Military commanders of both armies held the 10th round of talks on the Chinese side of the Moldo/Chushul border meeting point on February 20. A joint statement issued at the end of a lengthy round of talks said the two sides positively appraised the smooth completion of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area, noting that it was a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC in the Western Sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-backs-india-hosting-2021-brics-summit-954055.html
22-02-2021||National||India offers $100 million line of credit to Mauritius to facilitate procurement of defence assets||India on Monday signed a free trade agreement with Mauritius, in addition to offering the Indian Ocean island nation a new Line of Credit (LoC) of $ 100 million to help it procure defence assets. New Delhi also agreed with Prime Minister Pravin Jugnauth’s government in Port Louis to provide a Dornier aircraft and a Dhruv Advanced Light helicopter on lease to Mauritius for two years, in order to help the island nation shore up its capabilities to patrol and monitor its extensive maritime domain more effectively. “These initiatives underline once again that the security of Mauritius is the security of India; in the prosperity of Mauritius is our prosperity,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in Port Louis on Monday. He was addressing a joint press conference with Jugnauth. New Delhi’s LoC of $100 million will help Mauritius buy defence assets from India. The move appears to be a part of India’s endeavours to counter China’s attempts to spread its geo-strategic tentacles in Indian Ocean region. The India-Mauritius Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) was also inked just weeks after a similar pact was signed by China and the Indian Ocean nation. The CECPA between India and Mauritius covers 310 export items for India, including food items and beverages, agricultural products, textile and textile articles, base metals and articles made with base metals, electricals and electronic items, plastics and chemicals, wood and articles made with wood, and others. Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. “This is, therefore, a significant opportunity for Mauritius to benefit from access to the Indian market,” the External Affairs Minister said. “Just to illustrate some of the benefits, Mauritius will get preferential access for export of 40,000 tonnes of sugar into India at an early time frame. Similarly, there will also be access for the export of 7.5 million pieces of apparel.” Mauritius will grant service providers of India access to around 115 sub-sectors from the 11 broad service sectors. India has offered Mauritius access to around 95 service sub-sectors. The two sides agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the CECPA. The bilateral trade between India and Mauritius registered a growth of 233 per cent from $206.76 million in 2005-06 to $690.02 million in 2019-20. India’s exports to Mauritius surged 232 per cent from $199.43 million to $662.13 million during the period. India’s imports from Mauritius increased 280 per cent from $7.33 million to $27.89 million. Though China remains the largest trading partner of Mauritius, India hopes that the new CECPA will give a boost to its bilateral commerce with the Indian Ocean nation. Jaishankar, who visited Malé before travelling to Port Louis, had on Sunday announced India’s decision to extend a similar LoC of $50 million to Maldives to support defence projects in the archipelago. India on Sunday signed an agreement with Maldives to “develop, support and maintain” a harbour at Uthuru Thila Falhu naval base in the island nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-inks-trade-deal-with-mauritius-offers-100-million-loc-to-help-buy-defence-assets-954056.html
22-02-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Mauritius foreign minister; reviews 'excellent' bilateral relations||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday called on Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth and held talks with Foreign Minister M Alan Ganoo during which they reviewed the "excellent” bilateral relations and successful development partnership. Jaishankar, who arrived here in India's strategically key maritime neighbour in the Indian Ocean region on Sunday night from the Maldives on the last leg of his two-nation tour, also reiterated that India will be a ready partner in Mauritius’ economic recovery and revival efforts. "Delighted to begin Mauritius visit with a meeting with FM Alan Ganoo. Reviewed our excellent bilateral relations & successful development partnership. Reiterated that India will be a ready partner in Mauritius’ economic recovery & revival efforts," Jaishankar tweeted. Later, Jaishankar called on Prime Minister Jugnauth, who is of Indian-origin, and handed him over 100,000 additional doses of commercially procured ‘Made in India’ Covid-19 vaccines. "India’s helping hand - always over the horizon. Symbolically handed over 100,000 additional doses of commercially procured Made in India Covid vaccines," he tweeted. India’s helping hand - always over the horizon. He also conveyed warm greetings from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Prime Minister Jugnauth. "Commend management of the pandemic under his leadership," Jaishankar tweeted. Comprehensive discussions on the status of implementation of various infrastructure projects. Appreciate the efficiency of the Mauritius side in taking them forward. "Comprehensive discussions on the status of implementation of various infrastructure projects. Appreciate the efficiency of the Mauritius side in taking them forward," he said in another tweet. He will also call on President Prithvirajsing Roopun, who is also of Indian-origin. During his visit, Jaishankar will review all aspects of bilateral relations, ongoing implementation of various infrastructure projects being carried out by India in Mauritius, and hold discussions on bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest including India's assistance to Mauritius. Indian-origin people constitute nearly 70 per cent of the population of Mauritius. Their ancestors were sent there as indentured labourers during the British rule. Before arriving here on Sunday, Jaishankar visited Maldives and met the top leadership of the key Indian Ocean island nation. Both Maldives and Mauritius are India’s key maritime neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region and occupy a special place in Prime Minister’s vision of ‘SAGAR’ (Security and Growth for All in the Region). The minister’s visit is testimony to the importance that India attaches to its close and friendly relations with the Maldives and Mauritius and is expected to lend further momentum to substantive cooperation and robust people to people ties between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in New Delhi ahead of his visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-mauritius-foreign-minister-reviews-excellent-bilateral-relations-954063.html
22-02-2021||National||Asymptomatic patients, high-risk contacts contributing to spread in Mumbai||Asymptomatic patients and high-risk contacts – who are stepping out of their homes and going to public places flouting protocols and SOPs – are contributing to the spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai. Over the last couple of days, cases have multiplied in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). The main reasons for the increase in Mumbai are restarting of local trains in the MMR from Feb 1 for the general public, lackadaisical attitude of citizens towards masks and also patients and contacts coming to the streets. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has come out with a strategy to counter the situation vis-a-vis the asymptomatic patients and high-risk contacts. The BMC has decided to lodge FIR and fine people if they break home-quarantine norms. It has come to BMC’s notice that asymptomatic patients and high-risk contacts have visited public places like shops, malls and garden areas – risking others. “In the last two days there have been 1,500-odd cases who are asymptomatic...there are no symptoms at all...if these 1,500 people start roaming in the streets, in a fortnight’s time it would be 15,000,” municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said. According to him, recently a lady from Powai, who is a high-risk contact travelled out of Mumbai and stayed in Nashik for a couple of days. “Asymptomatic patients and high-risk contacts are supposed to be in home-quarantine,” he said. Chahal pointed out that asymptomatic patients would be stamped.  “We will request them and ask them to be at home, it would be an appeal. If they do not follow, we will put them in institutional quarantine,” he said, adding that the housing society managements are also being told to ensure that unless the patients test negative they should not be allowed to step out of their homes. Besides, BMC staff will call five times in a day with those having landline numbers to check that asymptomatic patients are at homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asymptomatic-patients-high-risk-contacts-contributing-to-spread-in-mumbai-954067.html
22-02-2021||National||Delhi court sends Disha Ravi to one-day police custody in toolkit case||A Delhi court on Monday sent climate activist Disha Ravi to one day of further police custody in the Google Toolkit document case. Arrested on February 13, Disha was produced before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma after three days of judicial custody. She had already faced five-day of custodial interrogation. She is likely to be confronted with co-accused Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mukul, who allegedly played a role in the creation of the toolkit and participated in a Zoom meeting with members from 'Poetic Justice Foundation'. Both Jacob, a lawyer and Mukul, an engineer and activist, have joined the probe on Monday after obtaining anticipatory bail from the Bombay High Court. In Disha's case, the court allowed just one additional day of police remand. She would be produced before the court again on Tuesday. On Monday, Delhi police, for their part, sought five-day of further custodial interrogation of Disha saying she has to be confronted with Jacob and Mukul.  The public prosecutor claimed she had blamed the co-accused for creating the document to gather social media support for farmers protest. Advocate Siddarth Aggarwal, appearing for Disha, opposed the contention by the police, by saying there was nothing that can be achieved only through police custody. He pointed out the bail order for the accused has been reserved for pronouncement of order on Tuesday. He also submitted the police custody cannot be granted just on asking by the prosecutor. The Delhi police contended if the police remand was not allowed, other accused may take advantage. They also said the case was a complex one with international implication and their effort to finish the investigation at the earliest. A sessions court is likely to pronounce its order on a bail plea by Disha on February 23. It had questioned police on her connection to Republic day violence in Delhi that preceded the Google Toolkit document case. The police opposed the bail application by the activist by saying she remained constantly in touch with people associated with the banned outfit 'Sikhs for Justice' other organisation 'Poetic Justice Foundation' and tried to destroy the evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-sends-disha-ravi-to-one-day-police-custody-in-toolkit-case-954070.html
22-02-2021||National||Five labour surveys including on migrants, domestic workers to begin across India by April 1||The Labour Bureau is all set to launch its five major surveys, including on migrant and domestic workers, across the country by April 1 as two out of three mandated pre-testings of the studies yielded "encouraging and positive results". The third pre-testing of the five surveys would be conducted in the next ten days and then the studies would begin across the country by the Labour Bureau, which is a wing of the Ministry of Labour & Employment. Talking to PTI, Director General Labour Bureau D P S Negi said, "There are very encouraging and positive results of two pre-testing of these five surveys. The third testing in a certain pocket would be done in the next ten days. We are hopeful to launch all five surveys across the country by April 1 and work on the ground to release results in seven to eight-month." Last week on February 20, Labour Bureau Chandigarh, an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment, organised a training of trainers for the five all-India surveys relating to domestic workers, migrant workers, employment generated by the professionals, the employment generated in the transport sector and the all India quarterly establishment-based employment survey. The all-India training of trainers was presided over by Prof. S P Mukherjee, the chairman of the expert group; Dr Amitabh Kundu, the co-chairman of the expert group and D P S Negi, the Director-General of Labour Bureau. The back-to-back training sessions were a part of the three-day comprehensive training sessions to be imparted to the officers/officials of the Labour Bureau, the officers from the seven regional offices of the Labour Bureau and the officials from various state governments. Detailed powerpoint presentations explaining the objectives, sampling design and schedules for each of the five surveys viz. All India Surveys relating to domestic workers, migrant workers, employment generated by the professionals, the employment generated in the transport sector, and the all-India quarterly establishment-based employment survey were made by the officers of the Labour Bureau. The schedules to be canvassed were deconstructed block-wise for each of the five all-India surveys in detail. There was also a detailed question and answer session in which field investigators raised questions and sought clarifications regarding various questions in the schedules to be canvassed. These training are a precursor to the training that will eventually be imparted to the field officers who will ultimately undertake the surveys across the country. The field investigators were sent out to the field for a pre-testing survey to canvass the schedules for each of the five all-India surveys. The sample included both rural and urban pockets. Each team comprised of 7 to 8 Investigators and they were accompanied by officers of the IES (Indian Economic Services) and ISS (Indian Statistical Services) to supervise the pre-testing exercise. Thereafter, detailed presentations were made by each team in order to apprise Prof. S P Mukherjee, Dr. Amitabh Kundu, D P S Negi and other senior officers about the learnings from the field visit. The learnings included observations, problems faced while canvassing the schedules, etc. The field investigators flagged a few teething issues that they encountered while canvassing the schedules. The chairman and other members of the expert group took note of all these issues. For example, in case of the pre-testing exercise of the all-India survey on employment generated by professionals, the investigators suggested that prior appointments with professionals may be sought for smooth canvassing of the schedules. The training session concluded with the inspiring remarks of D P S Negi, who deeply appreciated the efforts put in by the field investigators as well as the officers for making the pre-testing exercise a huge success. He further stated that the data collected through these five all-India surveys will provide important inputs for evidence-based policy making. Besides, data thus collected would help to fill the data gaps that existed until now as far as migrant and domestic workers are concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-labour-surveys-including-on-migrants-domestic-workers-to-begin-across-india-by-april-1-954076.html
22-02-2021||National||12,000 Uttarakhand villages to get net connectivity under BharatNet project 2.0||Twelve thousand villages of Uttarakhand will get internet connectivity in the second phase of the BharatNet project. The Centre gave its nod to implement the BharatNet 2.0 project in Uttarakhand on Monday when Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met IT Minister Ravishankar Prasad in New Delhi. A time-bound implementation of the state-led model of the BharatNet project is very necessary because of Uttarakhand's difficult geographic location, strategic significance and vulnerability to natural disasters, Rawat told the Union minister during his meeting with him. He sought the Centre's administrative and financial approvals for the project at the earliest to avoid unnecessary delay. They also agreed during the meeting to strengthen digital connectivity in the Chardham area and boost internet connectivity in border areas of the state, an official release here said. The chief minister also requested the Union minister to implement the India Enterprise Architecture project in Uttarakhand on a priority basis so that key departments like agriculture, health and education could be computerised all over the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12000-uttarakhand-villages-to-get-net-connectivity-under-bharatnet-project-20-954084.html
22-02-2021||National||PM inaugurates Kolkata Metro extension from Noapara to Dakshineswar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the extension of Kolkata Metro Railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, revered for the over 160-year-old temple of Goddess Kali. He virtually flagged off the inaugural train from Noapara to Dakshineswar in the 4.1-km stretch of the north-south corridor of the metro railway from here. Modi also dedicated to the nation the third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram, doubling of Azimganj to Khagraghat Road section, fourth line between Dankuni and Baruipara, and the third line between Rasulpur and Magra. He said that the new lines will reduce congestion and ensure better connectivity. The prime minister added that the metro railway extension will ensure easier and faster connectivity between the city's Kalighat Temple and the Dakshineswar Kali Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-inaugurates-kolkata-metro-extension-from-noapara-to-dakshineswar-954088.html
22-02-2021||National||India committed to goal of non-discriminatory, verifiable nuclear disarmament: Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla||India, as a responsible nuclear weapon state, is committed to maintaining credible minimum deterrence with the posture of no-first-use and non-use against non-nuclear-weapon states, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday. Addressing the high-level segment of the Conference on Disarmament, Shringla said India is also committed to the goal of universal, non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament. "We need to rise above our differences, and demonstrate political will and genuine intent to find consensus to deliver on our collective mandate. Those resorting to politicisation only weaken the mandate of this body," he said. As the world's single multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, as mandated by the Special Session on Disarmament (SSOD)-1, the Conference on Disarmament's agenda deals with critical challenges of disarmament and international security facing the international community, he noted. Shringla asserted that India advocates a comprehensive and balanced programme of work to enable the conference to commence negotiations on issues of pressing global importance. "India is committed to the goal of universal, non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament. Our call for complete elimination of nuclear weapons through a step-by-step process, as also outlined in our Working Paper on Nuclear Disarmament submitted to the Conference on Disarmament in 2007 has an enduring relevance," he said. India reiterates its call to undertake the steps outlined in the working paper, including negotiation in the Conference on Disarmament of a Comprehensive Nuclear Weapons Convention, the foreign secretary said. He said India has supported the immediate commencement of negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament (CD) on a Fissile Material Cutoff Treaty (FMCT). "I reaffirm today, India’s readiness to participate in FMCT negotiations in the CD," Shringla said. India, as a responsible nuclear weapon state, is committed as per its nuclear doctrine, to maintain credible minimum deterrence with the posture of no-first use and non-use against non-nuclear weapon states, he said. Shringla said Prevention of an Arms Race in Outer Space (PAROS), is another long standing item on the Conference on Disarmament’s agenda and India looks forward to an early start of negotiations of a legally binding instrument on PAROS to address pressing issues relating to space security. The High-Level Segment of the Conference on Disarmament is being held under the presidency of Brazil. In his address, Shringla pointed out that the COVID-19 pandemic has been perhaps the most disruptive global event in our collective memory and while the pandemic exposed the vulnerabilities, it has also underlined the need for global solidarity and strengthened multilateralism. "Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi, by delivering on his promise at the UNGA to make Indian manufactured vaccines affordable and accessible to all of humanity, has once again shown that India is a force for global good," he said. "We have the same approach to global issues, including those pertaining to international security and peace. In this regard, India is also making an important contribution as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2021-22," Shringla said. India has welcomed the extension of the New START Treaty between the Russian Federation and the United States, he said but added that much work needs to be done by "us in the Conference on Disarmament". In line with the SSOD-1’s emphasis on promoting expertise in disarmament and in empowering younger generations, India has hosted a fully funded Annual Disarmament and International Security Fellowship Programme for the last two years to advance disarmament education, he pointed out. Shringla invited fellow member states to participate in this programme. He also said this conference has been plagued for too long by fear, suspicion and mistrust. "As Mahatma Gandhi said, the only cure for fear is faith; for suspicion, sincerity; and for mistrust, trust," the foreign secretary said. This is just what the conference needs today, to break its long deadlock and make concrete progress, he asserted. India stands ready to play its role and work with fellow member states to achieve our collective objectives, Shringla added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-goal-of-non-discriminatory-verifiable-nuclear-disarmament-foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-954089.html
22-02-2021||National||Rs 70,221 crore allocated for domestic defence procurement, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday assured the private sector that India will not import defence equipment that can be manufactured locally even as the government set aside Rs 70,221 crore procurement from domestic manufacturers. Addressing a webinar organised by the Department of Defence Production, Modi exhorted the private sector to explore avenues for the design and development of defence equipment as assured the industry that they would be involved in such projects from the initial stages. “The private sector should learn from the experience of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in the area of indigenous design and development. Reforms are underway in DRDO to ensure that rules and regulations do not become a hindrance in this regard,” the prime minister said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the government was planning to issue a second negative list of items that can be procured locally by the armed forces. “My Ministry has planned to invest about 63% of the outlay for 2021-22 on domestic procurement, i.e. about Rs.70221 crore for domestic defence procurement during 2021-22,” Singh said. He said the ministry was also working on bringing down the delays in timelines of capital acquisition. “We will make efforts to complete the defence acquisition within two years, instead of the existing 3-4 years being taken on the average,” Singh said. The Prime Minister said a total amount of Rs 4.78 lakh crore has been earmarked for the defence ministry in the 2021-22 budget, with a nearly 19% increase in capital outlay. The prime minister said many small nations were now worried about security given the changing geopolitical reality. “These nations will look towards India as we have the strength of low cost, high-quality production. We are exporting to over 40 nations now. We now have to emerge as a global exporter,” Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-70221-crore-allocated-for-domestic-defence-procurement-says-pm-narendra-modi-954099.html
22-02-2021||National||BJP destabilising Congress govts: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday accused the BJP of luring Congress MLAs and destabilising party-led governments as Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayansamy resigned after failing to muster up numbers in the Assembly. “What has happened in Puducherry is most unfortunate and yet another case of how the BJP is destabilising Congress governments to grab power through unethical means,” Gehlot said. His remarks came as Narayanasamy quit as Puducherry chief minister after his government was reduced to a minority as six MLAs supporting him quit over the past one month, two months ahead of the assembly elections. “First, they created problems in running the administration through the Lieutenant Governor and now this has happened,” Gehlot said, targeting the BJP for the loss of the Congress government. “Luring Congress MLAs has been their modus operandi in all Congress-ruled states. We saw this in Karnataka, MP and now in Puducherry. They tried it in Rajasthan but people of Rajasthan taught them a lesson,” he said. “The people are watching what tactics BJP is adopting and the party will be taught a lesson by electorates in the next elections in Puducherry,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-destabilising-congress-govts-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-954114.html
22-02-2021||National||SC for joint committee inspection on Kalasa-Banduri project site||The Supreme Court on Monday directed a joint committee to inspect the site of the Kalasa-Banduri project to ascertain whether any water was being diverted by Karnataka into the Malaprabha basin. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah allowed inspection by the committee as Goa sought contempt action against Karnataka government officers, on the ground that water was unplugged without the Central government's clearance. The court sought a report from the monitoring committee within four weeks. The August 14, 2018 order of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal allocating 13.42 thousand million cubic feet of water from the Mahadayi to Karnataka has been challenged by Goa and Maharashtra through separate petitions. Senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for Goa, contended that there been a clear violation of this court’s order of March 2020.  An undertaking was filed by Karnataka that water from the Mahadayi basin would not get automatically unplugged. However, during the Covid-19 period, it was found that there was a diversion of water. Karnataka's Advocate General Prabhulinga Navadgi, senior advocate Mohan Katarki and advocate Nishanth Patil denied the contention by Goa. However, all the counsel, including from Goa and Maharasthra agreed to a joint inspection. In March 2020, the top court had declined to entertain a plea by Goa against a statement made by Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for making budget allocation for the Kalasa-Banduri drinking water project in Hubballi-Dharwad and other parts in North Karnataka. The court had then clarified that the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal's order of April 17, 2014, restraining any blocking of the flow of river water or its diversion into the Malaprabha basin would continue to operate till other conditions were fulfilled. The Centre had on February 27, 2020, notified the tribunal's decision of August 14, 2018, for its implementation.  This has prompted Karnataka to go ahead and allocate funds for the project. Goa, for its part, opposed the diversion of water, saying its lifeline faced an imminent threat of choking because of the reduction of water flow and consequent disruption of its ecology.  The tribunal has allocated Karnataka 13.42 tmcft, Goa 24 tmcft and Maharashtra 1.3 tmcft in its final decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-joint-committee-inspection-on-kalasa-banduri-project-site-954115.html
22-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Congress govt in Puducherry falls; CM Narayanasamy resigns||Congress govt in Puducherry toppled after CM Narayanasamy failed to win the trust vote in the Assembly. He has resigned as the CM of the Union Territory. Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar was found dead in a hotel in the Marine Drive area of Mumbai. A Delhi court sent 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi to one-day police custody. Tomorrow, February 23, order on her bail will be issued.  Here is the top stories of February 22, 2021: V Narayanasamy resigned as Chief Minister of Puducherry after he failed to prove his government's majority on the floor of the Assembly.  Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly, V P Sivakolundhu, announced that the motion of confidence moved by Narayanasamy stands defeated after the chief minister and members of the ruling party staged a walkout.  Minutes later, Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted his resignation. In the morning, Narayanasamy moved the motion and made a long speech during which he accused the BJP and N R Congress of toppling his government.  Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar was found dead in a hotel in the Marine Drive area of Mumbai. Delkar (58) is a senior politician and activist, who had represented  Dadra and Nagar Haveli several times. His body was found dead at the Sea Green Hotel. A note written in Gujrati has been found. The Mumbai Police is investigating the case. The body has been sent for post-mortem. A Delhi court sent 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, to one-day police custody.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma allowed custodial interrogation of Ravi after police said she was required to be confronted with co-accused. Ravi was produced before the court on the expiry of her three-day judicial custody. India is set to clear 45 investment proposals from China, which are likely to include those from Great Wall Motor and SAIC Motor Corp, government and industry sources told news agency Reuters, as military tensions between the two countries ease at the disputed border. The proposals have been held up since last year after India tightened controls on Chinese investment in the country in retaliation against alleged Chinese troop incursions in the western Himalayan region. China blamed Indian troops for the standoff. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-congress-govt-in-puducherry-falls-cm-narayanasamy-resigns-954122.html
22-02-2021||National||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife responds to CBI notice||The wife of Trinamool Congress (MP) Abhishek Banerjee responded to CBI’s summon on Monday asking the Central agency to send its team to her residence for questioning. Rujira Banerjee, Abhishek’s wife, stated in her response to the Central agency’s summon that she was unaware of the reason why she was being called for questioning. "Though I am unaware of the reason for me bring called for questioning or subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence, at your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow, i,e, 23 February 2021. You are requested to kindly inform me of your schedule,” stated Rujira in her response. She also stated that she was “unavailable” when the notice was delivered to her on Sunday. The CBI issued a notice to Rujira on Sunday asking her to join the probe in a coal pilferage scam. Meanwhile, CBI officials quizzed Abhishek’s sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in the coal pilferage case during the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-s-wife-responds-to-cbi-notice-954142.html
22-02-2021||National||SC pulls up Centre for failing to respond on plea against RTI amendments||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Union government for failing to file its response to a plea by Congress leader Jairam Ramesh challenging amendments made in the Right to Information Act. "What is wrong with you? It is a very important matter," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah asked a central government counsel who sought further time to file the response in the matter. The court pointed out that the notice was issued in January 2020. "It has been a year. How have you not filed a reply yet," the bench wondered as the bench sought one or two weeks further time.  At his request, the court finally gave two weeks time to file the affidavit. Ramesh alleged that the amendments diluted powers of the transparency panel by giving power to the Union government to decide the salary and tenure of the Information Commissioners. Advocate Sunil Fernandes appeared for Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-pulls-up-centre-for-failing-to-respond-on-plea-against-rti-amendments-954153.html
22-02-2021||National||Covid-19: India's active cases cross 1.5 lakh-mark amid surge in some states||India added 14,119 new Covid-19 cases on Monday as the total number of active cases crossed 1.5 lakh after 17 days. The total number of coronavirus cases in the country stands at 1,10,05,850. The death toll increased to 1,56,385 with 83 new fatalities, the Health Ministry said. According to the health ministry, the surge in active cases is due to a spike in the number of daily infections in Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation across the country and the progress in the vaccination drive.   According to the health ministry, 3.07 lakh beneficiaries were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday with Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka being the top two states in the immunization drive on Monday. Of the 3,07,238 persons who received the jab on Monday, 50,201 were from Uttar Pradesh while 30,586 were from Karnataka. Of the 3.07 lakh vaccinated till 6 pm on Monday, 1,59,550 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,47,688 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report.   A total of 1,14,24,094 vaccine doses have been given through 2,44,071 sessions, as per the provisional report till 6 pm on Monday. Two deaths: Two women died in Kerala after vaccination in the last 24 hours ending 6:00 pm on Monday. A 24-year-old woman, a resident of Kannur, died after 17 days of vaccination due to intracranial bleeding, the health ministry said. A 49-year-old woman, a resident of Wayanad, died after two days of vaccination, the ministry said adding that the suspected reason for her death was myocardial infarction. Post-mortem has been done in both cases and reports were awaited. These include 64,25,060 HCWs (67.3%) who have taken the 1st dose and 11,15,542 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, along with 38,83,492 FLWs (1st dose) (40.1%).  While the countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on 16th Jan 2021, vaccination of the FLWs started from 2nd Feb 2021. Four States/UTs – Lakshadweep, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan -- have vaccinated more than 75% of registered HCWs and FLWs for the first dose.  Eight States – Bihar, Tripura, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh --  have vaccinated more than 75% of the registered HCWs for the first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indias-active-cases-cross-15-lakh-mark-amid-surge-in-some-states-954166.html
22-02-2021||National||Delhi govt pays Rs 26-cr compensation to 2,221 victims of northeast Delhi riots: Sources||The Delhi government has so far disbursed compensation of over Rs 26 crore to 2,221 victims of last year’s northeast Delhi riots, official sources said on Monday. The communal violence across northeast Delhi erupted in the backdrop of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests on February 23 last year, claiming 53 lives, injuring over 500 and causing extensive damage to property. The total compensation of Rs 26.09 crore has been paid so far. It included Rs 4.25 crore provided to kin of 44 people killed in the riots and Rs 1.75 crore to 233 injured persons, the government sources said. The highest amount of Rs 11.28 crore was given in 1,176 cases of damage to residential property, followed by Rs 8.51 crore to 731 persons whose commercial establishments were destroyed during violence and arson, they said. Further, Rs 5.50 lakh was paid in cases of 22 damaged jhuggis, Rs 20 lakh to three schools and Rs 4.42 lakh for losses of animals, e-rickshaws and two-wheelers, they added. As per compensation announced by the Delhi government for riots’ victims, kin of those who were killed received Rs 10 lakh, those with permanent disability were given Rs 5 lakh. A total of Rs 2 lakh was given to those with serious injuries and Rs 20,000 for those with minor injuries. Loss of property compensation included Rs 5 lakh for completely damaged houses, Rs 1 lakh for complete loot and Rs 50,000 for partial loot at commercial establishments. Scores of riots-affected persons have approached the compensation claims commission and the minority welfare committee of the Delhi Assembly, with complaints of being given less compensation or being denied it altogether. The commission has received around 2,600 applications related to riots’ compensation so far, officials said. The Assembly panel had also directed scrutiny of over 700 complaints about the rejection of applications for compensation and directed officials in connection with cases where less compensation was paid, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-pays-rs-26-cr-compensation-to-2221-victims-of-northeast-delhi-riots-sources-954171.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||BJP's Girish Goutam unanimously elected Speaker of Madhya Pradesh Assembly||BJP MLA Girish Gautam was unanimously elected as Speaker of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly on the first day of the state budget session on Monday. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan moved a proposal in the House to elect Gautam as the Assembly's Speaker. The proposal was seconded by Home Minister Narottam Mishra, Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang and Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel, besides other members from the treasury benches and Leader of the Opposition Kamal Nath. Later, pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma declared Gautam elected to the spot. Gautam filed his nomination for the post on Sunday. The opposition Congress earlier said it had decided not to field its candidate for the post. The post was lying vacant since March last year when N P Prajapati quit as the Speaker following collapse of the then Congress-led government, after several MLAs resigned from the party and their Assembly membership. The BJP subsequently returned to power in the state under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Chief Minister Chouhan, Nath and some other House members flanked Gautam to the Speaker's chair as a tradition. Gautam (68), is a four-term MLA from Deotalab constituency in Rewa district. He was first elected as a legislator in 2003. Later, he again got elected as MLA in 2008, 2013 and 2018. Earlier, Sharma, who completed nearly eight months as the pro-tem speaker, said he remained on the august Chair for such a long time due to the COVID-19 situation. Both Chouhan and Nath congratulated Gautam on becoming the Speaker and expressed hope that he will conduct business of the House as per best traditions of the Assembly. "Gautam is a leader who has been always rooted to the ground since the beginning. He fought against injustice faced by the poor and downtrodden," Chouhan said. On the occasion, Gautam said now, he neither belongs to the treasury or the opposition. "I will remain unbiased in conducting proceedings of the House," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-girish-goutam-unanimously-elected-speaker-of-madhya-pradesh-assembly-953980.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||He was forced to accept its importance during Covid-19: Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at PM Narendra Modi over MGNREGA||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said Narendra Modi, who "ridiculed" MGNREGA when he took over as Prime Minister in 2014, was "forced to accept" the fact that the ambitious rural job scheme brought in by the previous UPA government played the role of "saviour" of people of the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. Inaugurating a Kudumbasree Sangamam at Poothadi Grama Panchayat in his constituency here, the Congress leader said the Congress works for the empowerment of the poor and alleged that the idea of the ruling BJP was to empower the most powerful. "When Modi became Prime Minister, in the Parliament House, in front of all of us, he ridiculed MGNREGA. He said MGNREGA was an insult to the Indian people," Gandhi alleged, as he began his two-day visit to his constituency in poll-bound Kerala. He said the Prime Minister was forced to increase the work and money of the scheme during the spread of coronavirus in the country. "And he was forced to accept during Covid-19 that the only MGNREGA played the role of saviour of our people," Gandhi said. He noted that the demand for MGNREGA, which provides social protection for the most vulnerable people living in rural India by guaranteeing wage employment opportunities, "skyrocketed" during Covid-19. The Wayanad MP said both SHGs and the MGNREGA were brought in by the UPA government not as a "gift" but as "tools for empowerment for making our people stronger." He said when the MGNREGA was brought in to provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work, lots of people questioned it asking why we are spoiling our people by giving charity. Many claimed the MGNREGA scheme was going to ruin the people but the same people are not saying anything while the government is "giving lakhs of crores of rupees to the big business" and "privatising huge public sector companies," Gandhi alleged. He also said implementation of the MGNREGA scheme was the major reason for the "tremendous economic growth" during the UPA period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/he-was-forced-to-accept-its-importance-during-covid-19-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-pm-narendra-modi-over-mgnrega-954009.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||Agriculture is the only business that belongs to 'Bharat Mata': Rahul Gandhi||After taking out a tractor rally in his constituency in solidarity with the agitating farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said agriculture is the only business that belongs to "Bharat Mata" and called upon the people to "force" the government to take back three farm laws brought the BJP-led central government. "The entire world can see the difficulties faced by Indian farmers. But the government in Delhi is unable to understand the pain of the farmers," Gandhi said addressing a meeting organised after the six-kilometre tractor rally between Thrikkaipatta to Muttil in this hill district. "We have pop stars who are commenting on the situation of Indian farmers but the Indian government is not interested. They are not going to take back three laws unless they are forced," the Wayanad MP said. He alleged that the three laws are designed to destroy the agriculture system in India and give the entire business to 2 to 3 friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Stating that agriculture is the biggest business in the country worth Rs 40 lakh crore and it is owned by millions and millions of Indians, the Congress leader said, "agriculture is the only business that belongs to Bharat Mata" and a few people want to own this business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/agriculture-is-the-only-business-that-belongs-to-bharat-mata-rahul-gandhi-954023.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||EC says West Bengal not singled out, central forces deployment a routine practice in all poll-bound states||The Election Commission on Monday said that central police forces are being sent to all poll-bound states and not specifically to West Bengal, stressing that it is a routine practice for several decades. In a statement, the poll panel said the CPFs are routinely sent to all the states and UTs where Lok Sabha or assembly elections are to take place, for advance area domination, especially in the critical and vulnerable sectors. It said that these sectors are identified by meticulous advance reviews and concrete feedback from various sources, including political parties and entities. This practice is going on since the late 1980s, it observed. The Commission was responding to certain reports claiming that central forces were being specifically sent to West Bengal. During the 2019 Lok Sabha elections also, central forces were sent to all states and UTs, and the same has been done in all assembly polls. "In the instant case also, the CPFs have been sent to all the four states namely Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the UT of Puducherry where assembly elections are to take place," the statement said. It also said that the orders for CPF deployment were issued to the chief secretaries, the DGPs and the chief electoral officers of the four states and one UT on the same day --  February 16. At least 25,000 Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel have been earmarked to be deployed for the forthcoming assembly polls in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The terms of their legislative assemblies are ending on separate dates in May and June and elections are likely to be held in April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-says-west-bengal-not-singled-out-central-forces-deployment-a-routine-practice-in-all-poll-bound-states-954045.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi attacks Mamata Banerjee over 'cut money', insulting Bengali pride||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched a scathing attack on the Mamata Banerjee government accusing it of obstructing development in West Bengal by creating a culture of "cut money" ( bribe to access government services) and syndicates. Speaking at a BJP rally in Hooghly district, the Prime Minister said that the current situation in Bengal can only be changed by bringing “ashol poribortan” (real change) in the state. “There is no lack of interest in investment in West Bengal. But the problem is the atmosphere created by the state government here. The culture of cut money and syndicate is creating hurdles in the path of development . We have to change this situation by bringing in ‘ashol porobartan’ and ensure that lotus blooms here,” said Modi. He said that it would not be possible to usher in development in Bengal as long as “syndicate raj” and extortionists rule the state. The Prime Minister also said that development in the state will not take place till “cut money culture” persists and the administration continues to "provide shelter" to criminals. “Development in West Bengal is not possible till a government comes to power in Bengal which listens to the common people.  People want real change,” said Modi.  Lashing out at the TMC, the Prime Minister alleged that “grave injustice” has been committed to the “pride of Bengal” by those who resort to “politics that favors vote bank over patriotism” and “appeasement over development.” He said that the people of Bengal would “never forgive” those who resorted to such politics. The Prime Minister said that once the BJP comes to power in Bengal, people would be able to “celebrate their culture without any fear” and would work to create a “Shonar Bangla” (Golden Bengal). He alleged that those who ruled West Bengal for decades have “dragged it down” and accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of blocking development in the state. “Those who speak of Maa, Mati, Manush (Mother, Soil and the People) are standing like a wall in the path of Bengal’s development.. The people of Bengal have decided to bring change” said Modi. He also slammed the TMC Government for not implementing Central projects in Bengal.   Later in the day, the Prime Minister inaugurated the extension of Kolkata Metro from Noapara to Dakhineswar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-attacks-mamata-banerjee-over-cut-money-insulting-bengali-pride-954071.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||We are not going to allow Bharat Mata's business to be owned by Modi's two or three friends, says Rahul Gandhi||After taking out a tractor rally in his constituency in solidarity with agitating farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the BJP-led NDA government and said agriculture is the only business that belongs to "Bharat Mata" and urged the people to "force" the government to take back the three farm laws. The Wayanad MP, who is on a two-day visit to his constituency in poll-bound Kerala, also took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on MGNREGA. The Congress leader alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi had "ridiculed" the rural job scheme when he took over as PM in 2014 but was later "forced to accept" the fact that the programme brought in by the previous UPA government played the role of "saviour" of people of the country during the Covid-19 pandemic. "We have pop stars who are commenting on the situation of Indian farmers but the Indian government is not interested. They are not going to take back three laws unless they are forced," he said, addressing a meeting organised after the six km tractor rally between Thrikkaipatta to Muttil in this hill district. "The entire world can see the difficulties faced by Indian farmers. But the government in Delhi is unable to understand the pain of the farmers," Gandhi said. He alleged the three laws are designed to destroy the agriculture system in India and give the entire business to 2 to 3 friends of Prime Minister Modi. Stating that agriculture is the biggest business in the country worth Rs 40 lakh crore and it is owned by millions and millions of Indians, the Congress leader said, "agriculture is the only business that belongs to Bharat Mata" and a few people want to own this business. He referred to the recent "hum do, hamare do" jibe he had made in Parliament to give a narrative that two people in the government are partnering with two people outside the government to control Indian agriculture. The idea is that farmers should sell their produces directly to these people. They want to destroy the entire agricultural chain that protects 40 per cent of people of this country," Gandhi said. "We are not going to allow Bharat Mata's business to be taken over by two or three Narendra Modi's friends. That is why we drove tractors here to make farmers understand that we are standing with them, we are going to help them and we are going to make sure this BJP government takes back these laws," the former Congress president said. Earlier, inaugurating a Kudumbasree Sangamam at Poothadi Grama Panchayat, Gandhi said the Congress works for the empowerment of the poor and alleged that the idea of the ruling BJP was to empower the most powerful. "When Modi became Prime Minister, in Parliament House, in front of all of us, he ridiculed MGNREGA. He said MGNREGA was an insult to the Indian people," Gandhi alleged. He claimed the Prime Minister was forced to increase the work and money of the scheme during the spread of coronavirus in the country. "And he was forced to accept during Covid-19 that the only MGNREGA played the role of saviour of our people," Gandhi said. He noted that the demand for MGNREGA, which provides social protection for the most vulnerable people living in rural India by guaranteeing wage employment opportunities, "skyrocketed" during Covid-19. The Wayanad MP said both SHGs and the MGNREGA were brought in by the UPA government not as a "gift" but as "tools for empowerment for making our people stronger." He said when the MGNREGA was brought in to provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work, "lots of people questioned it asking why we are spoiling our people by giving charity." Many claimed the MGNREGA scheme was going to ruin the people but the same people are not saying anything while the government is "giving lakhs of crores of rupees to the big business" and "privatising huge public sector companies," Gandhi alleged. He also said implementation of the MGNREGA scheme was the major reason for the "tremendous economic growth" during the UPA period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-are-not-going-to-allow-bharat-matas-business-to-be-owned-by-modis-two-or-three-friends-says-rahul-gandhi-954105.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||Bihar govt presents Rs 2.18 lakh crore budget for FY22, no new tax imposed||The Bihar government on Monday presented a Rs 2.18 lakh crore budget, with no new tax and a thrust on infrastructure and social sectors, besides giving a fillip to entrepreneurship. Presenting the revenue-surplus budget in the assembly, Deputy Chief Minister Tarkishore Prasad, who holds the finance portfolio, proposed to create a separate department for skill development and entrepreneurship. The decision would ensure better coordination for running ITIs and polytechnic colleges which are now run by the labour department and the science and technology department respectively, he said. Prasad also reaffirmed the government's promise of creating 20 lakh employment opportunities, in private and public sectors combined, by the time it completes its term in 2025, and to this end, a sum of Rs 200 crore has been allocated for the industries department. To encourage entrepreneurship, grants will be given by the government for startups which could be to the tune of 50 per cent of one's project cost or up to Rs 5 lakh in addition to loans of up to Rs five lakh at a nominal one per cent interest rate, he said. Women entrepreneurs will be given special incentives in the form of interest-free loans of up to Rs 5 lakh, he said. Prasad, who took over as Deputy CM in November last year, said in his maiden budget speech that the highest allocation of Rs 38,035.93 crore has been made for education, followed by Rs 16,835.67 crore for rural development, Rs 15,227.74 crore for roads, Rs 13,264.87 crore for health and Rs 8,560 crore for energy. The deputy chief minister said an allocation of Rs 4,671 crore was made for the second phase of 'Saat Nischay' (seven resolves) programme, implemented immediately after the Nitish Kumar-led NDA's return to power. Kumar had, in 2015, announced the first phase of Rs 2.7-lakh crore 'Saat Nischay', and promised to implement the second phase during the assembly polls. Promotion of entrepreneurship, enhancement of skill, improvement of irrigation facilities, strengthening of health infrastructure, better connectivity and development of clean and prosperous villages and cities are some of the components of the seven resolves. Addressing a press conference after presenting the budget, Prasad said, "We have not imposed any new tax. We have presented a budget of Rs 2,18,302.70 crore for 2021-22, which is Rs 6,541.21 crore more than the current year's estimates of Rs 2,11,761.49 crore. The revenue surplus is estimated at Rs 9,195.90 crore." The state's fiscal deficit has been estimated at Rs 22,510.78 crore in the budget, which is 2.97 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product, estimated at Rs 7,57,026 crore, the deputy CM said. "We have kept the fiscal deficit target within the three per cent limit," he said. Lauding the "balanced" budget, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said in a statement that it has been prepared, keeping in mind the interests of all sections of people in the society. He also expressed confidence that the budget will keep up the growth momentum in the state, which has witnessed double-digit annual growth rates since 2004-05. Other highlights of the budget include proposals for setting up of universities devoted to imparting higher learning in medical, engineering and sports. Rajgir, one of the state's most popular tourist destinations, has been proposed as the site for the sports university besides an international cricket stadium and sports academy, Prasad said. He also announced that solar street light will be installed in village roads under the second phase of "Saat Nischay" scheme for which Rs 150 crore has been allocated in 2021-22. He declined to comment when asked whether the state government will consider a proposal to lower sales tax on petrol and diesel to provide relief to the people. Responding to a query if the government will make any proposal to bring the petroleum products under the GST regime, principal secretary, finance, S Siddhartha, who was present at the press conference interjected, saying "we are not taking up any such suggestion for discussion."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-govt-presents-rs-218-lakh-crore-budget-for-fy22-no-new-tax-imposed-954132.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||BJP is a non-starter in Puducherry, cannot win seats: V Narayanasamy||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will not make any impact in Puducherry in the ensuing Assembly elections as it is a “non-starter” in the Union Territory, said V Narayanasamy, who resigned as Chief Minister on Monday. In an interview with DH's E T B Sivapriyan after the assembly session, Narayanasamy spoke in detail on why the BJP toppled his dispensation. Excerpts: Your government has fallen today due to lack of majority. What do you have to say about this development? I am a happy man, today. Our government assumed office in 2016 with the support of 18 MLAs. The NR Congress and BJP began targeting me after I won the Nellithope Assembly by-election in November 2016. Since then, I have been thwarting all their plans to destabilise the government I led. While these parties were targeting me, the then Lt Governor Kiran Bedi interfered in the day-to-day affairs and was trying to run a parallel government by holding review meetings of departments. She is an incorrigible element and nobody can correct her. I fought her every single day, and ultimately we succeeded when she was thrown out of Puducherry last week. The new L-G Tamilisai Soundararajan, who also belongs to the BJP breed, began acting in a biased manner. Whatever be the situation, I am a fully satisfied man. We have almost completed our tenure and hardly 10 to 15 days are left before the Model Code of Conduct comes into effect. The BJP has toppled our government at the fag end of our tenure. We will not repent but will fight against the BJP. What does the BJP gain from toppling your government with just two months left for the tenure to end? The BJP did not want the Congress government to be in power during elections. They did not even want a Congress caretaker government. The BJP always wanted to rule Puducherry by proxy and have plans to merge the Union Territory with Tamil Nadu. They tried to topple my government for the past four years but they failed. However, the people of Puducherry will teach a lesson to (the BJP). Five MLAs of your party and one legislator from your ally, DMK, has resigned in the past few weeks. Does this mean that your MLAs did not have confidence in their own government? Let me tell you why they left Congress. They were lured by the BJP through false promises. The BJP has been using investigating agencies to lure people in Puducherry much like other states where they toppled governments. Why did these people leave the party after enjoying power for five years? Why did they not complain four years back? Why did not they raise issues two years back or even last year? They knew the term of the government is going to end and joined BJP since it is lucrative for them. Why did they find BJP lucrative? I know the game plan of the BJP. But these MLAs who went do not. Except for those from the RSS, none can occupy positions in the BJP. They will lure people from other parties, use them and dump them. This is what happened in Madhya Pradesh. They took Jyotiraditya Scindia into the party. He was the No. 2 in Congress in the state, but today he is nowhere to be seen. The DMK and Congress now say that they will go to the people. What will you tell them? Our election agenda will be disclosed at the time of the campaign. We cannot disclose it to the media. Will the BJP be able to make an impact in Puducherry this election? In 2016, 18 BJP candidates forfeited their deposits. Even the BJP state unit president got just 1,400 votes, but he was nominated to the Assembly. Another MLA who has been nominated got just 165 votes. This is the pathetic condition of the BJP in Puducherry. BJP is a non-starter in Puducherry. The people of Puducherry want a secular front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-is-a-non-starter-in-puducherry-cannot-win-seats-v-narayanasamy-954138.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah threatened MLAs to resign, says Congress in-charge in Puducherry||After losing its government in Puducherry, the Congress on Monday pinned the blame on the BJP alleging that Union Home Minister Amit Shah “threatened” the party MLAs to resign as legislators or face action by Central investigating agencies. Dinesh Gundu Rao, in-charge for Congress affairs in Puducherry, told Deccan Herald that the BJP “toppled” the V Narayanasamy government in the Union Territory to “embarrass” the party at the fag end of its tenure. In a no holds barred attack on BJP, Rao said that the saffron party is hell-bent on “destabilising” democratically elected governments led by opposition political parties. “The BJP has been using unethical means and taking the help of investigating agencies to topple governments. They want to destabilise governments led by opposition parties by hook or crook. They do not allow elected governments to function. First they used the L-G to disrupt the functioning of the government, and now they have bought our MLAs,” Rao said. He also alleged that the “rebellion” within the Puducherry Congress was engineered by the BJP leadership in New Delhi. Rao added that the BJP used investigating agencies like the ED and CBI to threaten the legislators to quit their posts. “Amit Shah personally called a few MLAs and threatened them. They were threatened that cases will be filed against them if they do not listen to the BJP. Some of the legislators quit their posts out of fear and the rest due to lust for power. The BJP will go to any extent to capture power,” Rao alleged. Admitting that some of the MLAs who resigned had grievances, the former Karnataka Minister said that Rahul Gandhi did speak to all the party legislators through video-conferencing and that efforts were taken to retain them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-threatened-mlas-to-resign-says-congress-in-charge-in-puducherry-954156.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers look for fresh support as numbers dwindle at protest sites||As numbers dwindle at protest sites, farmers agitating against the farm laws have tried to infuse fresh energy by announcing a protest schedule for the coming week and roll out plans for the next stage of the three-month-old agitation. The farmers also slammed Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's remarks that laws cannot be revoked by gathering crowds. “When crowds gather, governments get changed,” Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait told a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' at Sonipat in Haryana. Tikait, who has emerged as the face of the farmers' agitation, said that the protests would continue at the Delhi borders till the three farm laws were repealed. On Sunday, Tomar had said that the Modi government was ready for talks with farmers and they should spell out the shortcomings in the farm laws. “You flatly say revoke the laws...It doesn't happen that crowd gathers and the laws get revoked,” the agriculture minister said in Gwalior on Sunday. In Delhi, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced a series of events beginning on Tuesday to shore up fresh support for the protests. The farmers will observe 'Pagdi Sambhal Divas' tomorrow and sport colourful turbans to remember farmer leaders Chacha Ajit Singh and Swami Sahajananda Saraswati. “On February 24, 'Daman Virodhi Divas' is announced in which the farmers and citizens will protest against overall suppression against the farmers' movement. On this day, memoranda will be given to the President of India via Tehsil and district headquarters,” said Darshan Pal, a farmer leader. Pal said that February 26 will be observed as 'Yuva Kisan Divas' and February 27 as 'Mazdoor Kisan Ekta Divas'. “We appeal to all the citizens to strengthen this movement by joining the protesters at Delhi borders,” Pal said. The agitating farmers were also planning to launch the next stage of protests in March when Parliament resumes the Budget Session after a three-week recess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-look-for-fresh-support-as-numbers-dwindle-at-protest-sites-954167.html
22-02-2021||National Politics||Robert Vadra cycles to office as protest against rising fuel prices||Congress president Sonia Gandhi's son-in-law Robert Vadra rode a bicycle from his residence to office on Monday, marking his protest against the rising petrol and diesel prices. Vadra was, however, trolled on social media, including by some BJP leaders, for wearing a suit while riding the bicycle with his luxury vehicle and security men in tow. "I do what I say. A long bicycle ride from home to office on a Monday morning amidst a lot of traffic. I feel for the masses and understand what they must be going through daily due to petrol and diesel price hike. The government must roll back fuel prices," Vadra said on his unverified Twitter handle. Vadra said he was speaking for the common people who were upset due to the rising petrol and diesel prices in the country, even though crude oil prices were on the decline. He also demanded a rollback of the hike in petrol and diesel prices. BJP general secretary C T Ravi took a dig at Vadra, the husband of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, saying he was wearing an expensive suit while riding the bicycle with his "diesel guzzling Land Cruiser" in tow. Sonia Gandhi's "Damad" Robert Vadra goes cycling wearing an expensive suit with his diesel guzzling Land Cruiser trailing him. "Sonia Gandhi's 'Damad' Robert Vadra goes cycling wearing an expensive suit with his diesel guzzling Land Cruiser trailing him. So much for protest against fuel hike," he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/robert-vadra-cycles-to-office-as-protest-against-rising-fuel-prices-954178.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||L-G Sinha assures tourists safe, pleasant, memorable visit to J&K||Extending an invitation to the holiday-makers to visit Jammu and Kashmir, Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday said his administration assures tourists a safe, pleasant and memorable visit to the 'paradise on earth'. He said the tourism sector in the union territory is getting back on track with the increasing tourist influx. “I assure the tourists across the globe a safe, pleasant and memorable visit to J&K, the paradise on earth. Come and witness the scenic beauty, rich culture and heritage of J&K,” the Lt Governor said attending the closing ceremony of Pahalgam winter carnival thorough virtual mode from here. In his address, Sinha congratulated the Tourism Department and other stakeholders for the successful conduct of the two-day long carnival and providing opportunities to the local artists to display their talent in various fields. “Footfall of tourists has increased manifold in the last three months. Local community and stakeholders must come together to ensure the development of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. Laying emphasis on taking innovative measures for the promotion of the tourism sector and tapping its immense potential, the Lt Governor directed the tourism department for putting concerted efforts on promoting sustainable destinations and developing unexplored places of tourism potential while branding J&K in the international tourism circuit. “We should never forget that every tourist destination has its own strengths and all we need to do is to focus on involving local communities, creating sustainable tourism and addressing the needs of tourists,” he said. Underlining the significance of optimum utilisation of new technologies and various modern tools of communication, Sinha called for regular updates on social media and websites of departments and agencies, besides promoting places of tourism through small promotional videos. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, J&K has witnessed a huge rise in tourists' footfall with the administration following all the Covid-related SoPs and testing at all tourist arrival places, he said. While speaking on various potential areas of the tourism sector, the Lt Governor said the UT administration is putting up committed efforts to make J&K the most favourite destination of filmmakers which will also go a long way in giving a fillip to the socio-economic development of the region. Sinha directed the tourism department to work on broader framework and explore possibilities to conduct a programme on lines of the 'Dekho Apna Desh', besides imparting training to local tourist guides. He stressed on making strategic planning which is imperative for bringing competitiveness in regional development and destination. “Like Gulmarg, Pahalgam also has huge potential for adventure tourism. Other places of tourism potential in the UT need to be promoted through various platforms,” he said. Sinha said the tourism department, local community, artists, and other stakeholders are together providing an attractive environment for the tourists coming to J&K. “The way we have made a successful comeback in the tourism sector, more favourable results can be witnessed in coming days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/l-g-sinha-assures-tourists-safe-pleasant-memorable-visit-to-jk-953857.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Get Covid-19 vaccine or forget quarantine leave: Punjab minister to health workers||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday warned healthcare workers who do not get the Covid-19 vaccine shot of not allowing them quarantine leave if they get infected at a later stage. He further said they will have to bear the cost of their treatment. “The healthcare workers who do not get vaccinated to boost their immunity for Covid-19 despite being given repeated opportunities and in case they get the infection at a later stage, they will have to bear the cost of their treatment and they will not be allowed to avail quarantine/isolation leave,” said Sidhu in an official statement here. He further pointed out that recent days have seen an uptick in Covid-19 cases in Punjab. With 358 infections reported on February 20, now there are about 3,000 active cases in the state as against only 2,000 three weeks ago, he said. “There is a dire need that all healthcare workers should get themselves vaccinated to deal with any unprecedented situation,” he said. He said Punjab is among the six states of the country where Covid cases are rising “and we should prepare to fight it like a second wave”. “These rising cases indicate that Covid-19 is not over yet and Punjab may witness a surge in the number of cases. Therefore, this highlights the need for following coronavirus appropriate behaviour like social distancing, wearing of a mask hand sanitisation and respiratory etiquette,” he said. Sidhu said the healthcare workers should shun hesitancy and come forward to get vaccinated at the earliest for the sake of their own safety and that of their near and dear ones. Expressing concern over the low rate of vaccination among healthcare and frontline workers, Sidhu said so far 2.06 lakh healthcare workers and 1.82 lakh frontline workers have registered for Covid-19 vaccination. He said about 79,000 healthcare (HCW) and 4,000 frontline workers (FLW) have been vaccinated, saying this coverage has not been up to the mark. “The vaccine is safe and effective and not even a single case of death or any serious adverse effect has been reported in Punjab regarding vaccine administration so far,” he said. Sidhu stressed that no one should be misled by rumours and misinformation. He informed that the last date of availing the first dose of vaccination has been extended from February 19 to 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/get-covid-19-vaccine-or-forget-quarantine-leave-punjab-minister-to-health-workers-953910.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||A year later, 557 out of 1,753 people arrested over Delhi riots out on bail||1,753 arrests in 755 FIRs, 1,553 named in 342 charge sheets, 53 killed and 581 injured including 108 police personnel — this is north-east Delhi riots in nutshell as the first anniversary of the communal riots approaches on Tuesday. Police say investigations are on to solve the remaining almost 350 unsolved riots cases even as it faces criticism of targeting Muslims and anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (anti-CAA) protesters in the name of Delhi riots, a charge vehemently denied by the force. The Delhi Police 2020 report, released on February 19, and response to DH’s RTI received on February 4 provide some insights into the events of the past one year with regard to investigations of the riot cases though both differ on some points. One of the points on which the Delhi Police 2020 and the RTI differ is on the starting day of the riots with the former putting it on February 23, 2020. The RTI claims that the north-east Delhi district police put the start of the communal clashes “as per the report of all SHOs (Station House Officers/NED (North-East Delhi)” a day later on February 24, 2020. The first clash erupted on the afternoon of February 23 soon after BJP leader Kapil Mishra, in presence of his supporters, warned police to remove anti-CAA protesters blocking traffic near Jaffrabad metro station. Mishra’s name does not find a place in the report, though the incident is mentioned. The hotspots of riots were Khajuri Khas, Bhajanpura, Karawal Nagar, Gokalpuri, Jaffrabad and Dayalpur. Khajuri Khas registered the highest number of cases at 153 followed by Bhajanpura (137) and Gokalpuri (118), according to Delhi Police 2020.  A total of 755 cases, including one by the Special Cell into the larger conspiracy, were registered. The RTI said 754 cases were registered by local police as on January 27 this year. Of this, the Delhi Police 2020 report said 62 cases, including all the 53 murder cases, were transferred to the Crime Branch and the rest 692 were handled by local police. Amid the accusation that Delhi Police are targeting the minority community, the report said that a “fair number” of accused were from both Hindu and Muslim communities — 820 Hindus and 933 Muslims. Of the 1,753 people arrested, 1,204 are still in custody, “which speaks volume about the quality of investigation”. The Delhi Police providing religion-wise data assumes importance as it had faced criticism after Special Commissioner (Crime and Economic Offences Wing) Praveer Ranjan had asked investigators on July 8 to exercise “due care and precaution” to avoid “Hindu resentment” while making arrests in riots cases, citing "intelligence input" about the arrest of “some Hindu youth from Chand Bagh and Khajuri Khas areas”. The police, however, did not provide religion-wise data of people who have received bail or against whom charge sheets have been filed. According to the police report, 544 people are out on bail while the RTI pegged the number at 557 as on January 27. The report also said 342 charge sheets against 1,553 people have been filed by December 2020 (RTI says 300 by north-east Delhi police). Out of these, the trial courts have taken cognizance of 250 cases and in some important cases, 'arguments on charge' has begun. However, north-east Delhi police refused to provide the names of arrested persons through RTI saying revealing "sensitive" information would have an adverse impact on investigations. It has also denied information on the number of people charge-sheeted as well as courts taking cognizance of charges though the Delhi Police 2020 provides those details. From the report as well as RTI, it comes to light that charges have not been framed against any of the accused so far. Police said it used video analytics and facial recognition system to analyse 945 CCTV footage and video recordings obtained from multiple sources, dump data analysis, geo location, facial reconstruction and e-Vahan access database to identify the accused. According to the police report, the Muslim community "nurtured a feeling of discrimination" on the grounds of National Register of Citizens (NRC) and CAA and certain groups with "vested interests capitalised on this feeling and further aroused the sentiments of this community against the central government". It also goes on to say that the protesters saw an "opportunity to embarrass the Union government" during the visit of the then United States President Donald Trump by organising road blockades and attacks on the police to create disturbances in communally sensitive pockets of Delhi in the name of protest against CAA and NRC. Seeking to link the anti-CAA protests with the riots, the report says that 23 illegal sit-in protest spots sprang up in the capital, including nine in north-east Delhi. During Trump's visit, the "conspirators" blocked and choked major arterial roads of north-east Delhi to grab the attention of international media. It argues that the organisers of riots were aware of the fact that any communal violence in Delhi during Trump's visit would immediately be picked up by the international media and would cause huge embarrassment to the Indian government. The Ministry of Home Affairs has also defended Delhi Police in Parliament during the first leg of the Budget session, even as there were complaints that the police did not help minority community members during the riots and were biased in their actions. In a written reply in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the police acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner. "Proportionate and appropriate actions were taken by Delhi Police to control the situation. Sincere, dedicated and incessant efforts made by Delhi Police brought the riotous situation to normalcy within a short span of time and also prevented the riots from spreading across to other areas of Delhi/NCR," Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-year-later-557-out-of-1753-people-arrested-over-delhi-riots-out-on-bail-953916.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||UP govt presents first paperless Budget in Assembly||The Yogi Adityanath government on Monday presented its first paperless budget in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly. The budget for 2021-22 was presented by the state's Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna in the presence of the chief minister. Reading out the budget speech from a laptop, Khanna said the target was to make Uttar Pradesh "Aatmanirbhar" and ensure the all-round development of the state. This is the fifth budget of the present government in the state before the UP Assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-presents-first-paperless-budget-in-assembly-953947.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Intra-Kashmir train service resumes after 11 months||After remaining suspended for 11 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, intra-Kashmir train services resumed on Monday. The Railways resumed train operations on the Banihal-Baramulla section with two services initially. “The first train departed from Baramulla at 9.10 am while the second train left Banihal at 11.25 am,” said Chief Area Manager, Northern Railways, Srinagar, Saqib Yousuf. Commuters have been asked to avoid unnecessary travel and maintain social distance inside the trains. On a normal day, at least 15 pairs of the train run regularly from Baramulla in north Kashmir to Banihal in Jammu region (138 km) and carry almost 30,000 passengers, including students and employees. The rail services were suspended on March 19 last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The suspension of the train service had put commuters to immense hardships. Thousands of employees and students from north and south Kashmir, who have to travel to Srinagar daily, were the worst affected by the suspension of train service. “It is a welcome decision by the Railway authorities and will enhance ease of movement and provide a big boost to the tourism sector,” said Waseem, a businessman. Pertinently, Banihal-Baramulla train services resumed on November 11, 2019, after remaining suspended for around 100 days after the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 that year. In 2016, after the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani, the services remained suspended for six months. The government of India plans to connect Kashmir to Kanyakumari through train service and work on the project has been going on for years. However, it has been delayed due to several reasons which include hilly terrain where the train has to pass. Last week, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted that the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL), which would connect Kashmir with the rest of the country, would be completed by next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intra-kashmir-train-service-resumes-after-11-months-953955.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh presents over Rs 5.5 lakh crore Budget to make state 'Aatmanirbhar'||With a target of making Uttar Pradesh 'Aatmanirbhar', the Yogi Adityanath government on Monday presented a Rs 5,50,270.78 crore budget for 2021-22 in the state Assembly. With Assembly elections in the state less than a year away, the budget includes new schemes of Rs 27,598.40 crore. The budget presented by Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, in the presence of the chief minister, is over Rs 37,410 crore more than the previous year's budget size, making it the largest fund allocation. Reading out the budget speech from a laptop, Khanna said the target was to make Uttar Pradesh "Aatmanirbhar" and ensure the all-round development of the state. This is the Adityanath government's first paperless budget. It is also the fifth budget of the present government in the state before the next UP Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-presents-over-rs-55-lakh-crore-budget-to-make-state-aatmanirbhar-953957.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Tragedy averted as security forces defuse IED along Srinagar-Jammu highway||Security forces on Monday averted a major tragedy when they detected and defused an improvised explosive device (IED) near the railway crossing in Nowgam area of central Kashmir's Budgam district on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway. A police official said that the IED was planted a few hundred meters away from the Nowgam Railway station near a bridge.  The rail service between Banihal in the Jammu division and Baramulla in Kashmir division resumed earlier in the day after remaining suspended for 11 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The object was spotted by the Road Opening Party (RoP) of the army and the police team early this morning. A bomb disposal squad (BDS) was called to check the object that turned out to be an IED fitted in a tin box,” he said. The traffic on the road was suspended till the BDS defused the IED. “The IED has been defused and traffic has been restored in the area,” the official said and added the IED may have been planted to target the security forces, especially convoys. Earlier on February 14, a seven-kg IED was detected and defused near the crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city. Pertinently, Srinagar is on a high alert with intense frisking and nakas of joint teams of police and CRPF in the wake of recent militant strikes in the city that left two policemen dead in Barzulla areas of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tragedy-averted-as-security-forces-defuse-ied-along-srinagar-jammu-highway-953959.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti re-elected PDP president for 3 years||The former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, was re-elected as the president of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday for a three-year term. A PDP spokesman said that Mehbooba was unanimously re-elected as party president for the period of three years. For the elections, electoral college from Kashmir and Jammu provinces voted to elect the party president in Srinagar and Jammu, respectively. The 61-year-old firebrand leader was first elected as the PDP president after her father Mufti Muhammad Sayeed passed away in January 2016. Notably, her three-year term ended on October 31 last year but fresh elections as per the spokesman were not held due to Covid–19 pandemic. At the age of 57, Mehbooba became the first woman chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir in April 2016 and remained in office till June 2018 when the BJP withdrew its support from the alliance government. From her personal life as a single mother to being a driving force at the grassroots in the rise of PDP against traditional politics of the National Conference, Mehbooba has faced multiple challenges and emerged more successful than before. After the abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 on August 5, 2019, she was jailed for a year. However, the challenges before Mehbooba in her second innings as the PDP president are much bigger than before. Her party is in shambles ever since she lost power in 2018 as a large number of senior leaders have left the party. She is in direct confrontation with the BJP over its August 5 decision than any other leader in the region. Born on May 22, 1959, in Bijbehara town of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, Mehbooba is one of a few female politicians from Jammu and Kashmir who enjoys recognition across the country. A law graduate from the University of Kashmir and a single mother of two daughters - Illtija and Irtiqa - Mehbooba won her first election as a Congress candidate in the 1996 Assembly polls, when militant strikes were frequent. Controversies have surrounded the Mufti family since Mehbooba’s sister Rubaiya was kidnapped when their father was appointed India’s first Muslim Home Minister in 1989. When insurgency was at its peak during the 90s and politicians were afraid to move freely even in the secure pockets of Srinagar, Mehbooba braved to tread into the volatile areas, where militancy was raging. She even visited families of slain militants. In 1999, she visited the residence of the then Hizbul Mujahideen operations chief Aamir Khan whose teenage son, Abdul Hameed, had allegedly been killed in custody by the security forces. This path-breaking strategy paid off as Mehbooba was successful in enlisting the electoral support of the Valley’s separatist constituency, particularly the cadre of the Jamaat-i-Islami, and covert help from the Hizbul. But it equally dented her image in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-re-elected-pdp-president-for-3-years-953976.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||HC seeks AAP govt stand on pleas to vaccinate prisoners before they surrender||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the AAP government on two pleas seeking vaccination of all the prisoners who were out on bail or parole before they surrender so as to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection inside prisons. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government seeking its stand on the pleas by March 26 and also asked it to take action on the issue "immediately". Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra assured the bench that "there was nothing to worry about as everything is under control". He also told the court that there has been "no outbreak of Covid-19 in the jails". The bench directed the government to indicate in its affidavit steps it has already taken and what it proposes to take. The court also remarked that the pleas appeared to be an excuse to keep the prisoners who were out on bail, parole or furlough, out for a longer duration. The bench said when committing a crime or offence, such persons should know what all could happen when they are sent to jail by the courts. One of the two petitions has been moved by a 63-year-old woman convict serving life imprisonment in a murder case who has sought that all prisoners, particularly those above 60 years who were out on bail, parole or furlough be vaccinated before their surrender. In her plea, filed through advocate Amit Sahni, the woman has also sought vaccination of jail staff, security persons and all prisoners lodged in prisons in the national capital. A similar plea has also been moved by four lawyers -- advocates Abhilasha Shrawat, Prabhash, Kartik Malhotra and Manav Narula -- seeking directions to the Delhi government to "arrange and facilitate Covid-19 vaccination to all the prisoners who were out on bail". The two petitions have claimed that as on January 14, there were 16,396 inmates in the three prisons in Delhi which together have a capacity of 10,026 and therefore, there was not sufficient space for maintaining social distancing. The petitioners have contended that with more prisoners scheduled to surrender in the coming days, there may not be sufficient space to keep them in quarantine for 14 days and therefore, it was necessary to vaccinate the prisoners who were out on bail, parole or furlough before lodging them back in the jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-aap-govt-stand-on-pleas-to-vaccinate-prisoners-before-they-surrender-953997.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Fuel price rise: Congress MLAs ride bicycles to Madhya Pradesh Assembly complex||Legislators of the opposition Congress on Monday reached the Madhya Pradesh Assembly complex here on bicycles as a mark of protest against the rise in fuel prices. The budget session of the state Assembly began on Monday. Congress MLAs P C Sharma, Jitu Patwari, Kunal Choudhary, Shashank Bhargava and Arif Masood rode bicycles to the Assembly complex from Vyapam Square in the city. Sharma told reporters that crude oil prices in the international market almost doubled during the previous UPA regime at the Centre, but the rates of petrol, diesel and LPG in the country were lower at that time. "Now, when the prices of crude oil are lower in the international market, the fuel is being sold at much higher rate," the MLA from Bhopal South-West said. Demanding a rollback of the fuel prices, Sharma said MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should also now ride a bicycle. Notably, during the previous UPA regime at the Centre, Chouhan had registered his protest against fuel price hike at that time by riding a bicycle. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Medical Education Vishvas Sarang claimed the previous Congress government increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in the state. "A new jet was purchased and a huge amount of money was spent on bungalows during the Congress regime," the BJP leader alleged while talking to reporters. Sarang said the Congress legislators did "this drama" on Monday only to grab media attention. They should use bicycle every day if their protest is real, he added. The budget session of the state Assembly will continue till March 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fuel-price-rise-congress-mlas-ride-bicycles-to-madhya-pradesh-assembly-complex-954016.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Unnao case: FIR against eight Twitter handles for 'fake news'||An FIR has been lodged against eight Twitter handles for allegedly propagating fake news in connection with the death of two girls here last week, police said on Monday. The Twitter handles include news portal 'Mojo Story', led by senior journalist Barkha Dutt who termed the FIR a case of brazen "harassment and bullying". The case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station area in Unnao on Sunday against seven more Twitter accounts: Janjagran Live, Aazad Samaj Party spokesperson Suraj Kumar Boudh, Nilim Dutta, Vijay Ambedkar, Abhay Kumar Azad, Rahul Diwakar, Nawab Satpal Tanwar. The FIR has been lodged for propagating "fake and misleading news" regarding the incident, Assistant Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Pandey said on Monday. Reacting to the FIR, Dutt said, "We've followed journalistic principles by reporting all sides of an evolving story. To use IPC sections that are punishable with prison is pure intimidation. I am very ready to fight it and face it in court." The 'Mojo Story' editor alleged that the Unnao Police had refused to even give a copy of the FIR without which one cannot appeal for judicial intervention. "Brazen Harassment and bullying," she said. "Even more suspicious is how Unnao Police has clubbed us with a bunch of politicians." Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, had left home to bring fodder for cattle on Wednesday night. They were found lying in an agriculture field when they did not return home. Local residents had rushed them to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl is presently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kanpur, police said. The last rites of the deceased girls were performed on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements. The Unnao Police has held two people in this connection, accusing them of murder over one-sided love. On Saturday, Congress leader Udit Raj was booked for alleging propagating fake news in a tweet that the teenagers were raped and their bodies cremated against the will of their family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unnao-case-fir-against-eight-twitter-handles-for-fake-news-954020.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||'No one heard us': Deadly Uttarakhand floods reveal conflicts from hydropower boom||Growing up in a remote tribal village high in the Indian Himalayas, Kundan Singh loved to play on a field by the sparkling Rishiganga river. The 48-year-old recalls afternoons there competing in sports tournaments, surrounded by forests of pine. Fifteen years ago, bulldozers descended on Raini village to build a dam, part of a push by India to increase hydroelectric power. The field was lost, and villagers have been in conflict with the Rishiganga Hydropower Project ever since. The dam was swept away two weeks ago in a flash flood that also smashed bridges and another hydroelectric power station in the Dhauliganga river valley of Uttarakhand state, leaving over 200 feared dead. Whatever the role of climate change, which is rapidly heating the world's highest mountains, experts say rampant construction is adding to the burden weighing on rural communities across the Himalayas. This building boom is creating conflict across the region, as shown by interviews with nearly two dozen Raini villagers, legal and technical documents, satellite imagery and photographs, and correspondence with local officials, some of it not previously reported. “We wrote letters, we protested, we went to court, we did everything,” Singh said. “But no one heard us.” Jobs didn't come The 150 villagers are members of the Bhutia tribe of historically nomadic shepherds from Tibet, some of whom settled in India after a 1962 war with China closed the border. Granted protected status with government quotas for jobs and education, many nonetheless live in poverty in the mountainous state, labouring on roads and construction sites, weaving woollen rugs and growing potatoes and pulses on small plots around a bend in the river. Villagers were initially enthusiastic at the prospect of a power plant that promised jobs, according to court documents, the project’s impact assessment and minutes of a 2006 meeting between village leaders and representatives of the dam. But the jobs did not come, Singh and other locals said. Those who managed to find work on the dam clashed with the owners over unpaid wages and alleged construction violations, according to court documents. A paint company from Punjab controlled the dam during initial construction. It has not filed accounts since 2015, and its current directors could not be reached for comment. The project entered bankruptcy before being bought by the Kundan Group in 2018, and finally started operations last year. Executives at the conglomerate did not respond to calls and emails seeking comment. As India seeks to nearly double its hydropower capacity by 2030, construction of dams in the region is increasingly leading to disagreements between plant owners and locals, said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, which has studied the conflicts. “It happens with many projects,” he said. “People want to resist and oppose, but project developers… will always make promises of employment and development.” In the Alaknanda basin, a cluster of streams that feeds the Ganges river – worshipped as a god by many Hindus – six hydroelectric dams have been constructed, according to Thakkar's nonprofit. Eight more, including the Tapovan dam that was severely damaged in the Feb. 7 floods, are under construction, while a further 24 have been proposed. A spokeswoman for India’s power ministry said the country has strict measures in place regarding the planning of hydropower projects and the rights of local people are always considered. Muddy banknotes, rubble During the dam’s construction, blasts from explosives were frequent, according to interviews with about 20 residents and court documents. The use of explosives in construction in the region was criticised after devastating floods in Uttarakhand in 2013, dubbed a "Himalayan tsunami" that claimed some 6,000 lives. In 2019, Singh and his brother took a two-day bus journey to meet with lawyer Abhijay Negi, who recalled them arriving with a bundle of muddy banknotes collected from other residents as payment. “Please help us save our village,” Singh told him. Negi helped the men file a case against the Kundan Group unit operating the dam, alleging construction had left behind loose rubble and rocks, according to photographs and diagrams submitted as evidence. Uttarakhand’s top court ruled there was evidence of “substantial damage” to the area that suggested explosives were being used for illegal mining, though it did not rule on when the damage occurred. The court ordered a local investigation, but it is not clear if this has happened and officials involved could not be reached. High up on the mountain, almost all the Raini residents survived the floods. But Singh said the disaster has left many dreaming of escape. “Many want to leave, but I will stay because I have no other option,” he said. “I will stay because of poverty.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-one-heard-us-deadly-uttarakhand-floods-reveal-conflicts-from-hydropower-boom-954042.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||If police want to arrest me for my work, let them: Mehbooba||After being re-elected as president of the PDP, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said that “if the police want to arrest me for my work, let them.” "Let the IGP Kashmir do his duty. I will do my job the way I am doing. If the police want to arrest me for what I am doing, so be it,” she told reporters at her posh Gupkar residence. Interestingly, in his recent presser, Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, without naming anybody said that some political leaders were instigating people by spreading false rumours. He said that police won’t hesitate in preparing a dossier and if needed, action would also be taken against such politicians. Responding to the police chief’s warning, the PDP president said that she continues to strive hard to take forward her father late Mufti Muhammad Sayed’s mission and vision. “I want to see the end to the sufferings of people that include denial of the body of a slain son to his father. I won’t allow Kashmir to become a ring of war for India and Pakistan and instead, Kashmir should become a bridge of peace between the two nations,” Mehbooba asserted. "Dialogue is the best way to resolve issues," she reiterated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-police-want-to-arrest-me-for-my-work-let-them-mehbooba-954044.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||EC to announce polls dates after delimitation process is over: J&K LG||Jammu and Kashmir’s Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Monday said the Election Commission will assess the situation and announce the poll dates in the union territory (UT) once the delimitation process is over. “Once the Delimitation exercise ends in J&K, the Election Commission will assess the situation and accordingly announce the poll dates,” the LG told reporters in Jammu. He advised the politicians, who are demanding early assembly elections in the UT to cooperate with the Delimitation Commission so that “exercise is completed at the earliest.” “Those demanding early Assembly polls in J&K must help and cooperate with the Delimitation Commission so that the process is completed and Assembly polls are held in the UT,” he said while responding to a question when assembly polls would be held in the UT Without naming the National Conference (NC), Sinha said, “Instead of criticizing the delimitation process and staying away from the exercise, the politicians who want early assembly polls must help to end the exercise.” The three NC MPs, Farooq Abdullah, Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi, who are associate members of the Delimitation Commission, boycotted the first meeting of the Commission on the pretext that the party has challenged J&K Reorganization Act in the Supreme Court under which delimitation of the constituencies has been taken up. On PDP president Mehbooba Mufti advocating dialogue with Pakistan to end violence in Kashmir, the LG said the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) will take care of such things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-to-announce-polls-dates-after-delimitation-process-is-over-jk-lg-954053.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Private firm starts chopper service in UP's Vrindavan||A private company has started a chopper service for people to have a bird’s-eye view of the Vrindavan Kumbh fair and temples in surrounding areas, an official of the company said on Monday. The service was started on Sunday, he added. “It would facilitate people visiting Vrindavan Kumbh to watch majestic events like ‘Shahi Snan’ besides camps of saints and ‘akharas’ with their flags in the Kumbh,” said the firm’s Managing Director Vishal Jain. He said the chopper service would be a boon for senior citizens, who are unable to walk for long distances to watch the Kumbh fair. “The ride would be for five to six minutes, starting and ending at the same place and carry four persons at a time,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-firm-starts-chopper-service-in-ups-vrindavan-954054.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Jilted lovers open tea stall, names it ‘Bewafa Chai-wala’||It’s not only the country’s top executive who wants to be remembered as a ‘Chai-wala’. There are many others who want to follow suit. But in a different style. Bitten by the love bug, but rejected by their respective lady love, two friends Sandeep and Ankit decided to open a tea stall at Boring Road, the State Capital’s posh area. So what’s new? The tea stall, aptly named ‘Bewafa Chai-wala’, is drawing a huge crowd, particularly among the youth, for its unique nomenclature. The owners have fixed two different rates for their customers. For a normal customer, be it a love-bird or any other person, a cup of tea is served for Rs 15, that too in an earthen cup. For those who are jilted lovers, dejected and rejected by their lady love, they are offered the same tea for a discount and are charged Rs 10 for a cup of tea. Since both Sandeep and Ankit have maintained the quality of tea, it’s selling like hot cake. “The name (Bewafa Chai-wala) itself draws attention. Besides, tea is special. One can see large number of youth, mostly students, including girls, visiting the tea stall to have their beverages,” said Sujit Kumar, one of the customers. Inaugurated on Valentine’s Day, the tea stall is now getting popular among the office goers too. Many of them prefer to have a cup of tea while returning home. “But there are many love-birds who throng there during day time too. According to an estimate, Sandeep and Ankit sell tea worth Rs 4000 every day and save around Rs 1500 daily,” said one of the regular customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jilted-lovers-open-tea-stall-name-it-bewafa-chai-wala-954064.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Ayodhya airport to be renamed as Maryada Purushottam Sri Ram Airport||The under-construction airport in Ayodhya will be named Maryada Purushottam Sri Ram Airport, Ayodhya after Lord Ram and a provision of Rs 101 crore has been made for it in the budget presented in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Monday. Besides the provision for the Ayodhya airport which will subsequently be made an international airport, the budget also provides for Rs 2,000 crore for increasing the number of airstrips at Jewar Airport from 2 to 6. Cities like Aligarh, Moradabad, Meerut will also be linked through air service soon, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath told reporters after the presentation of the budget by Finance Minister Suresh Khanna.  Under the Special Area Programme, a budget of Rs 300 crore is proposed for special schemes of Purvanchal and a budget of Rs 210 crore has been proposed for special schemes of the Bundelkhand region. Stressing on industrial and infrastructure development, a budgetary provision of Rs 1,107 crore has been made for the Purvanchal Expressway Project, Rs 1,492 crore for Bundelkhand Expressway Project and Rs 860 crore for Gorakhpur Link Expressway Project. For the Ganga Expressway Project, which links Meerut to Allahabad, a provision of Rs 7,200 crore has been made for land acquisition and Rs 489 crore for construction work. A provision of Rs 12,441 crore has been made for the construction of roads and bridges under the Public Works Department and a budget of Rs 4,135 crore proposed for the maintenance of roads and bridges. A budget of Rs 695 crore has been proposed for connecting villages and habitations with pucca link roads. It also provides for a budget of Rs 440 crore for construction of roads under the World Bank Aided Uttar Pradesh Core Road Network Project and Rs 208 crore for construction of roads under the Asian Development Bank assisted UP Mukhya Zila Vikas Pariyojna. Besides, a budget of Rs 1,192 crore is proposed for the construction of railway overbridges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-airport-to-be-renamed-as-maryada-purushottam-sri-ram-airport-954075.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||AAP to hold 'Kisan Mahasammelan' in Punjab's Moga on March 21||Punjab's main opposition party AAP on Monday said it will organise a 'Kisan Mahasammelan' in the Moga district on March 21 in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's contentious agri laws. Party's national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be invited to attend the event, it said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's border points for nearly three months to press for the repeal of the three agri laws enacted in September last year and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP). "The AAP has decided to hold a 'Kisan Maha Sammelan' at Bagha Purana in Moga on March 21 in order to further strengthen the ongoing farmers' agitation," party MP Bhagwant Mann said. He said farmers from across Punjab will be invited to participate in the event. "We want Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to take part in this 'mahasammelan'," he added. The Aam Aadmi Party has been vocal about its support for the farmers' agitation. Kejriwal is set to address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut on February 28 in support of the protest. Mann, flanked by AAP's Punjab unit in charge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, said the Centre should withdraw the three farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP. The government has said the new farm laws will benefit farmers by freeing them from the clutches of the middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector. However, farmers say these legislations will remove the safety net of MSP and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-hold-kisan-mahasammelan-in-punjabs-moga-on-march-21-954086.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Republic Day Violence: Man who climbed Red Fort tomb arrested||A 29-year-old man who allegedly climbed one of the tombs of the Red Fort during the violence in Delhi on Republic day has been arrested, police said on Monday. Jaspreet Singh is one of the associates of Maninder Singh, who was arrested last Tuesday for allegedly swinging swords with the intent of "motivating" and "energising" the protesters at the historic monument. Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Swaroop Nagar in northwest Delhi, was arrested by a Crime Branch team on Saturday. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 demanding repeal of the Centre's contentious farm laws. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort driving tractors and entered the monument, and some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts. "Jaspreet Singh is the person who was standing behind accused Maninder Singh and also climbed up one of the tombs located on both the sides of rampart at Red Fort," an officer said. "In one of the pictures, he is also seen in offensive gesture holding steel tensile installed at Red Fort." According to police, Maninder Singh, 30, had "motivated" six people of the neighbourhood who had accompanied the tractor parade that headed from the Singhu border towards Mukarba Chowk. Jaspreet Singh is one of the associates and was identified from the pictures and videos in which he was purportedly standing behind Maninder Singh, police said. Maninder Singh, who works as a car AC mechanic, was arrested from in Pitampura in northwest Delhi last week, police had said. According to the police, Maninder Singh was seen in a video swinging two swords at Red Fort "with the intent of motivating or radicalising and energising violent anti-national elements indulging in brutal assault and attacking police persons on duty". Maninder Singh was "radicalised" by seeing "provoking" Facebook posts of various groups, police had said, adding he would frequently visit the Singhu border and was "highly motivated" by speeches made by leaders there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-man-who-climbed-red-fort-tomb-arrested-954119.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Central govt looting people: Sachin Pilot on rising fuel prices||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Monday questioned the silence of BJP leaders on inflation and rising fuel prices. “The central government is looting people of their hard-earned money by unexpectedly increasing the prices of petrol, diesel, and domestic gas,” the Congress leader said in a tweet in Hindi. He said that during the tenure of the Congress-led UPA government, BJP leaders used to "make a lot of noise” over the issue of inflation but now they are silent. In 12 days, retail petrol prices have risen by Rs 3.63 a litre, a record since the pricing was deregulated in 2010, and diesel rates have gone up by Rs 3.84. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel. On Saturday, petrol price touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai while the diesel rate crossed Rs 88-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-govt-looting-people-sachin-pilot-on-rising-fuel-prices-954127.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Jamia students stage protest; demand reopening of campus, resumption of physical classes||A group of Jamia Millia Islamia students staged a protest outside the campus here on Monday demanding the reopening of the university which has been closed since last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The students raised slogans demanding that the varsity should proceed with phase-wise reopenings like the Delhi University and the Jawaharlal Nehru University. A larger group of students had staged a protest last week questioning the university's decision to keep the campus shut when other educational institutions were reopening with Covid-19 protocols. A senior police officer said a group of around 20 students gathered outside the campus of Jamia Milia Islamia demanding the reopening of the varsity. “They want the university to resume classes, canteen and library. They staged a protest and left after a while. Nobody was detained," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-students-stage-protest-demand-reopening-of-campus-resumption-of-physical-classes-954155.html
22-02-2021||North and Central||Smriti Irani buys land in Amethi for house, takes a dig at Rahul Gandhi||Union minister Smriti Irani on Monday bought a plot of land in Amethi to make a house for herself and, in an apparent dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, said no MP from here ever made the constituency his home. Without taking names, she said the history is witness to the fact that no Amethi MP ever built his house and stayed here. "The people of Amethi always wondered if their MP would ever reside here after building his house,” she claimed while talking to reporters. Irani had won the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Amethi after defeating the then MP, Rahul Gandhi. “During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, I had promised that I would make my house here and do all my work from here. For this I have got a plot of land registered," she added. Irani bought the land at Medan Mawai area of Gauriganj in Amethi for a sum of Rs 12 lakh and got it registered here on Monday. “I have been residing in a rented accommodation here till now,” she said, adding she would invite all the people from her constituency during the “bhoomi poojan” for the construction of her house here. She said she had promised to set up a medical college and an army school in Amethi besides getting built a bypass road for the city. She said she has fulfilled all her promises till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/smriti-irani-buys-land-in-amethi-for-house-takes-a-dig-at-rahul-gandhi-954165.html
22-02-2021||Oasis||The face of Narayan||The doorbell rang incessantly. I sleepily squinted at the alarm clock. It was 5 am the lazy Sunday morning, in the freezing month of December. “For god’s sake, who the hell is at the door at this ungodly hour?,” I murmured angrily even as I reluctantly ditched my fuzzy, warm quilt. A draught of icy cold waft hit me as I opened the inner wooden panel of the door. “Please help me, call the police, they will kill me,” a husky, broken male voice pierced the pitch darkness outside. The silhouette of a shaggy, middle-aged man appeared across the iron grill gate.  “Don’t open the door,” my husband’s voice reverberated from behind me. He had, by then, sensed that something was not normal and had rushed after me. “Who are you? What are you doing here at this hour?” he charged a volley of queries at the stranger. I dialled the police. “They are after me, are waiting for me downstairs, can I have some water?” his parched voice pleaded. My husband stopped me again from opening the door to give him water. “He may be armed and may mortally harm us,” he reasoned. I froze. The cops came and whisked him away.  “You never know how Narayan (the Lord) would show up,” Bhakti saint, Tulsidas had remarked when asked why he was nice to everyone. What if that was the Lord Himself who had appeared before us? But I was suspicious, burdened by the baggage of memories, past experiences and preconceived notions about people and situations. Gautam Buddha was not when he encountered the highway robber who famously wore a garland of the chopped fingers of his victims, Angulimal. And it transformed the criminal. However, the villagers, his past victims, could not discard the baggage and lynched him to death. Angulimal’s past sins, eventually, caught up with him. There, perhaps lies our folly…our inability to let go of our ego and completely surrender to His will. “We will partake whatever you earn through unscrupulous means but we won’t be party to your sins,” Ratnakar, another robber’s family told him. Jolted out of his abysmal existence by the unsavoury answer, he evolved into Valmiki, the ‘Adikavi’ who scripted the epic, Ramayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-face-of-narayan-954215.html
22-02-2021||Panorama||BJP caused the January 26 violence to divide farmers, says Mallikarjun Kharge||Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge, 78, has been picked as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. DH’s Bharath Joshi caught up with Kharge to talk about his new role, the farm laws and the Congress’ leadership crisis. Excerpts:  In a political career spanning 50 years, how significant is your new assignment?  This is a role in the Opposition that isn’t new to me. I was an Opposition leader in Karnataka for 11 years, in which time I tried to agitate on various issues. We started the saga of staying overnight on protest in the legislature. Again, I got to be the leader in the Lok Sabha although I wasn’t keen on it since I’m not a North Indian (native Hindi-speaker). It was a challenging five years for me. When you’re in Opposition, it’s rare to earn a good name because the entire government is hostile and they're mostly prejudiced. PM Modi harbours personal prejudices. After my speech (in 2018), he said it could well be my last one in Parliament. He vowed to defeat me. I lost my 12th election (in 2019) after winning 11 times in a row. The regret is that I didn’t get recognition for the work I had done. But I see myself as a political student who is listening to what everyone has to say. That's an advantage.  Does your outlook change in the Rajya Sabha, compared with what you did in Lok Sabha?  We have to play the same role, be it Lok Sabha or Rajya Sabha. When Ghulam Nabi Azad became Leader of the Opposition, our strength in the Rajya Sabha was 72. Now, it has come down to 35. So, naturally, there's a lot of difference. If 72 people were to stand up together, any law could've been stopped. Now, we have to take other political parties into confidence. Unity is necessary in these circumstances. We hear voices of concern from your own party that they are unable to take a stand on many ideological issues.  I don't agree. Religious matters have nothing to do with politics. If we keep using religion in politics, where's the end to that? Why should we need democracy and the Constitution? We fight on issues and based on whatever there’s in the Constitution on fundamental rights and directive principles. Take the Ram Mandir, for example. Has Congress destroyed any mandir when it was in power? You (BJP) create that to polarise votes. One man can construct a golden temple in Vellore, but you (BJP) can't do that. Instead, you ask people to give Rs 5-10, again to polarise voters. That's wrong. Because our (Congress) strength has declined, they go on passing laws. It might look like the Congress isn't doing anything. They have a brute majority. It's not that we don't put up a fight.  On many occasions, you've had to ask your own party colleagues not to let go of the Congress’ ideology. Isn’t that a worrisome situation? Usually, in party meetings, youngsters and new blood will be there. I became a Congress member 55 years ago, and I’ve every right to say that. Many of our Congress people have joined BJP. Where did they get that ideology from? People who enjoyed here (in Congress) for 20-30 years and whose parents were in Congress are now criticising Nehru and Gandhi. That’s bad. So, I have to tell people about our ideology to remind them. It's not that there's a collapse.  On the farm laws, BJP repeatedly points to the Congress’ 2019 manifesto and says your party has double standards.  They should read the manifesto properly, not out of context. What kind of reforms did we talk about? Did we say that Adani should construct all godowns and store unlimited supplies of essential commodities? Yes, reforms are needed, but you can’t err in them. A reform is that which does good to the farmer. Did we say that small farmers should give away their land to big companies under contract farming? Nearly 86.4% farmers have below two hectares of land, but they are producing sufficient food grains. That being the case, why is contract farming needed? What will happen if (companies) stop paying farmers after 1-2 years citing quality issues? And did we say we’d dismantle the mandis? These were systems conceived by our elders -- S Nijalingappa, SR Kanthi, Veerendra Patil, BD Jatti, etc. Were they not farmers themselves?  Why then would you say the protests are confined to Punjab and Haryana?  Procurement happens heavily -- almost 80% -- only in Punjab and Haryana. That's what comes into our public distribution system (PDS) or fair price shops. If this procurement stops, it will affect PDS. Why are farmers fighting for over 90 days? Because there are defects in all three laws. You (BJP) caused the January 26 violence to divide farmers; you also created splinter cells to say farmers are in support of the laws; and you are calling farmers Khalistanis, Pakistanis and saying there’s a foreign hand (in the protests). The fact is, these are well-educated farmers who are protesting.  In all this, your party is suffering due to a leadership crisis, which the BJP picks on. There's no leadership crisis. There's Sonia Gandhi and everybody accepts her leadership. All state units are independently doing their work. Don't worry about our crisis. You (BJP) focus on what you have to do for the poor and farmers. You are the one who lured our elected leaders to topple governments in Goa, Karnataka, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh and other states. It was under Rahul Gandhi’s leadership we fought neck-to-neck in Gujarat.  It is said that your unhappiness with the one-upmanship between Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar in Karnataka makes you chant the 'unity' mantra.  I'm not unhappy. Definitely, Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar will work unitedly. We have leaders to sort out differences. Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar have worked together in the past. Now, both of them have matured politically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-caused-the-january-26-violence-to-divide-farmers-says-mallikarjun-kharge-954213.html
22-02-2021||Panorama||Cybercriminals do not discriminate||While there has been a drastic uptick in cybercrimes in India, especially during the Covid-19-led lockdown, there hasn’t been much debate about it. A recent high profile phishing case has turned the tide on the topic. The case of Nidhi Razdan is particularly important. The former ex-executive editor of a broadcast channel announced on Twitter in June 2020 that she was moving on from NDTV after nearly 21 years to join Harvard University as an Associate Professor. She came to realise later that she had been the victim of an elaborate and sophisticated phishing attack. Razdan’s case is a perfect example of a phishing attack carried out by a seasoned cyber-criminal. A phishing attack is a scam, which involves criminals sending messages that masquerade as legitimate institutions, targeting millions of businesses and individuals every day. Phishing attacks can further be classified into different types: Email Phishing, Spear Phishing, Whaling, and Vishing. Razdan, in particular, was an unfortunate victim of ‘spear phishing’, a sophisticated type of phishing attack involving email. In this scenario, the criminal already has secure information about her name, place of employment, job title and specific information about her personal life. The criminal targeted her by creating realistic situations and documents like the appointment letter, terms and conditions among other technicalities on Harvard’s official letterhead which led her to her current predicament. Criticism on her gullibility is unwarranted, as this can happen to anyone. But how can a normal individual identify a phishing attack? We can start with the most basic principle, by visiting the official website to check if the company is hiring and whether or not they are hiring for that particular role. It is advisable to also cross verify once by reaching out to the company through the official email address mentioned on the website. In case, the website isn’t up to date or the required information is missing, one can use tools such as scamadvisor.com or other reliable free tools to check the status of the domain. If the domain is new whereas the company from where the job came through is old, chances of that domain being planted for the purpose of conducting a mass phishing attack is extremely high. To avoid a scenario similar to Razdan’s incident, we should first check if the email has been sent from an official email address. The most common trick criminals use is to ever so slightly manipulate the domain name which the recipients do not notice. Another trick is the of use of free accounts such as Gmail or Yahoo to send emails, which also goes unnoticed. Should there still be any lingering doubt about the authenticity of the email address and domain, its best to use free websites like MX Toolbox to analyse the email. There are also lots of email analyzing tools wherein users can analyze the headers to know from which IP address the email has been sent from. The Google play store has apps such as IP logger which can uncover the original IP address and compare it with the IP address mentioned in email header. Furthermore, it can also identify from which country or city the email originated and through which internet service provider the email is being sent. Using tools such as IP2location.com can help you identify whether the fetched IP Address is a proxy address, which means one should steer clear from email and not respond to it under any circumstances. The first step in avoiding falling into a phishing trap is vigilance. To protect our digital privacy and private data, it’s important that we take some time to cross-check, verify the authenticity of the emails we receive and exert utmost caution in replying to such malicious emails. High profile individuals and businesses who are susceptible to cyber-attacks should not rely only on free solutions but instead adopt more robust cybersecurity solutions, which are usually paid. Uur inherent reluctance to pay for privacy is part of this problem. We must start inculcating a culture where we safeguard private data as a preventive step and not as a cure. This is the only way we can live fearlessly in an age of enhanced digital activity. (The writer is a cybersecurity expert and Digital Forensics Investigator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/cybercriminals-do-not-discriminate-954214.html
22-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Together even in sickness||Sometime back, when I experienced difficulty in swallowing and was coughing now and then,  without adhering to any known beat, our family physician grimly suggested that we take a test for coronavirus, without forgetting to include my wife, even though she was not coughing. Soon an apparition arrived. He looked like a member of the bomb squad, walking gingerly. Having used to flex my arms for the technicians to draw samples from my veins for sugar or lipid test, I did the same, but he zeroed in on my right nostril for a sample. He did the same for my wife, though through her left nostril. With some grimness, my family physician declared after going through the reports that came in a couple of days, that both of us have been declared ‘positive’ for the coronavirus. Unmindful of the ramifications of such a one-word pronouncement, I laughed rather boisterously, my wife maintaining a stoic silence. The good doctor, looking concerned, made arrangements for admission into a speciality hospital for the virus. We travelled in style in an ambulance, sent courtesy of the hospital before long. The siren was switched on by the boisterous driver, whenever a vehicle moving ahead failed to give way. Once inside the precincts, our trolleys were parked in the foyer. Since we were two, a decision was apparently taken by the wise management to allot a double room with twin beds, for me to save cost and for them to have room to spare to accommodate the waiting list. And then the treatment. There were injections after injections. Before long I felt like Bhishma of Mahabharat who was lying on a bed of arrows at Kurushetra. Since my wife was not diabetic and hypertensive, the nurses gave her a cold shoulder and went for me with glee with their syringes. One I didn’t bargain for was administered into my belly. This, I was told, was to keep my blood thin.  The doctors who made the rounds were polite and the sisters Xerox copies of Florence Nightingale, the lady without the lamp. And within ten days we were declared to be free from the clutches of the virus. We were discharged in the night, the chief nurse brought our bill. As I glanced through it, her assistant who was younger and stronger stood behind me. Later on, I found out if the bill did not exceed ten lakhs, only one nurse would be ready to hold the patient who would be bowled over by the amount.  Mine was around seven lakhs. That my wife stoically pointed out that it is worth it to be alive and kicking than cribbing, is another matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/together-even-in-sickness-954212.html
22-02-2021||Second Edit||Perseverance: A landmark mission||Last week’s successful landing of NASA’s Perseverance mission on the surface of Mars is an important landmark in the attempts to reach and explore the red planet. Launched from the Cape Canaveral station on July 30 last year, Perseverance travelled 472 million km to make a spectacular landing on the planet’s Jazero crater, which is a 45-km basin north of its equator. The rover is healthy and functioning well and has started sending photographs of the surface of the planet. This is NASA’s seventh mission to the cold and dry Mars, and the $2.72 billion “robotic geologist’’ made its final descent through “seven minutes of terror” with “its eyes open” to land at a very carefully chosen site. Everything about it has worked well till now.    The main aim of the mission is to find signs of ancient life on the planet. It will stay on Mars for about two years, gather data and samples which will be returned to earth on a future mission. There is a good chance that the Jazero crater has preserved signs of life because it was once home to an ancient lake and river delta that may have collected and buried microbes and preserved them within rocks. It is believed that about 3.5 billion years ago, Mars had conditions that were hospitable to life. Life may even have existed there, and its remnants or at least signs might be found now. If Perseverance proves true the hypotheses based on many scientific observations and speculations arising from imagination, then mankind will have made the greatest discovery in its history. It will change humankind’s notion of itself and will have huge implications for all areas of life and learning. The importance of Perseverance lies in this. There is a plan for a manned mission after a decade.  There is a view that among the celestial bodies in the solar system Mars may be the most suitable for habitation by human beings in scenarios in which a shift from the earth becomes necessary as an option, a refuge or a second home. Some believe that it may one day be possible to live and work on Mars by creating the conditions and requirements of life there with the use of appropriate technology. This is a very long shot, but Perseverance may show in the next two years whether there is any scope for hope on that count. NASA has taken a huge step in the search for that possibility. It is the right direction to take for public-funded national space agencies as private sector space companies such as SpaceX up the ante in space but mostly in search of commercial opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/perseverance-a-landmark-mission-954207.html
22-02-2021||South||DH Toon | 'Metro man' on the right track as Kerala Assembly election nears||Known as 'Metro man' as well as for the efficiency in completing big infrastructure projects, E Sreedharan told PTI that he will contest the Assembly elections if the BJP wants and will also be open to chief ministership if the party asks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-toon-metro-man-on-the-right-track-as-kerala-assembly-election-nears-953890.html
22-02-2021||South||A look at Puducherry Assembly math ahead of floor test||The V Narayanasamy-led Congress government in Puducherry will be put to the test in front of Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to prove its majority in the Assembly today. Putting Congress in a fix, Congress’s K Lakshminarayanan and DMK’s Venkatesan resigned from the party on the eve of the trust vote. The Narayanasamy-led government now has 12 MLAs, including the Speaker, while the Opposition has 14 in the 33-member House. Numbers in Puducherry Assembly The Puducherry Assembly elects 30 members and nominates 3 members. With seven resignations, the effective strength of the House is 26, which includes three nominated members who are in BJP. After the resignations yesterday, the simple majority figure is 14. The Congress has nine MLAs in the Assembly, one of which is Speaker S P Sivakolundhi, who cannot vote unless there is a tie. Two DMK MLAs and one Independent MLA have expressed their support to the party. The Opposition has seven MLAs, and the support of four AIADMK members. The nominated BJP members will also support the Opposition, bringing their tally to 14. These numbers indicate that the Congress government is likely to fall short of the majority it needs, with all ruling MLAs present in the test. Narayanasamy has been battling rebellion from within for the past few months with five legislators from Congress resigning since last month. A Namassivayam, Malladi Krishna Rao, E Theepainathan, A Johnkumar, and K Lakshminarayanan resigned expressing displeasure at Narayanasamy's style of functioning. Floor test: Possible outcomes The V Narayanasamy-led government in the union territory faces a tough challenge to prove its majority in the floor test today. DMK leader K Venkatesan said even if the Speaker votes, there is no chance for the ruling government to get a majority. It is possible that the government may resign on its own, or get a recommendation to do so from the LG’s office or the Centre. But Narayanasamy has refused to resign, saying that he wants to incite the BJP to sack him, so he could gain sympathy in the upcoming elections in the union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-look-at-puducherry-assembly-math-ahead-of-floor-test-953911.html
22-02-2021||South||Tejasvi Surya dubs DMK 'anti-Hindu', says it must be defeated in Tamil Nadu Assembly polls||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) chief and Lok Sabha MP from Karnataka, Tejasvi Surya, lashed out at the DMK, calling it "anti-Hindu". "DMK represents a bad, virulent ideology which is anti-Hindu. Every Tamil is a proud Hindu. This is the sacred land that has the highest number of temples in the country. Every inch of Tamil Nadu is sacred, but DMK is anti-Hindu, so we must defeat it," Surya said at the BJYM state convention on February 21.   The ruling AIADMK-BJP and DMK-Congress alliances have already launched campaigns for the upcoming Assembly polls likely in April-May with their respective leaders holding rallies and tours.  The BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya also said that the BJP respects and promotes all regional languages of India, therefore if Tamil has to survive Hindutva has to win.  “The DMK tries to paint the BJP as anti-Tamil and as a Hindi party. BJP is the only party that respects and promotes all regional languages of India, if Tamil has to survive, Hindutva has to win, if Kanada has to win Hindutva has to win, therefore the BJP represents the spirit of Tamil Nadu and the spirit of Tamil language,” said Surya. The BJP has decided to contest the election with the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in the southern state. Tamil Nadu BJP chief L Murugan has said the seat-sharing arrangements between the two parties will be finalised very soon.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tejasvi-surya-dubs-dmk-anti-hindu-says-it-must-be-defeated-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-953918.html
22-02-2021||South||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy seeks confidence vote; insists he has majority||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Monday sought the confidence vote during the special Assembly session, insisting that he has the majority. The one-day special session of the Puducherry Assembly, which will decide the fate of the Congress government, began on Monday morning. Ahead of the trust vote, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy met Speaker V P Sivakolundhu even as Congress MLAs told him that the party-led government still enjoyed a majority.  Narayanasamy is hoping that the Speaker will not allow three nominated members to vote. If the three nominated MLAs, who are BJP members, are not allowed to vote, the government might survive if all the Congress and DMK MLAs vote. Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan had summoned the Assembly, directing Chief Minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority in a floor test after the Opposition said the government has been reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations of the ruling party MLAs. With two more MLAs, one each from the Congress and the DMK, resigning on Sunday, the strength of the ruling side further slipped to 12, including the Speaker, in the 33-member House that has seven vacancies. The opposition has 14 legislators. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-seeks-confidence-vote-insists-he-has-majority-953927.html
22-02-2021||South||Congress government in Puducherry falls; CM V Narayanasamy resigns||V Narayanasamy resigned as Chief Minister of Puducherry on Monday after he failed to prove his government's majority on the floor of the Assembly.  Speaker of the Puducherry Assembly, V P Sivakolundhu, announced that the motion of confidence moved by Narayanasamy stands defeated after the chief minister and members of the ruling party staged a walkout.  Minutes later, Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted his resignation. In the morning, Narayanasamy moved the motion and made a long speech during which he accused the BJP and N R Congress of toppling his government.  Narayanasamy said the Congress staged a walkout after the Speaker refused to accept their argument that nominated MLAs do not have voting rights. He also said the BJP toppling an elected government is nothing but "political prostitution." The L-G had last week directed Narayanasamy to prove his majority after his government plunged into a minority. The issues for the chief minister compounded on Sunday when two more legislators from Congress and DMK resigned. With this, the strength of the ruling combine came down to 12, including the Speaker. The Opposition claims support of 14 MLAs, including 3 nominated legislators who are BJP members.  It is unclear for now whether the L-G will recommend President's rule or allow N Rangasamy, the Opposition Leader, to form a new government. The development comes just months ahead of the elections as the tenure of the current government is scheduled to end on June 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-government-in-puducherry-falls-cm-v-narayanasamy-resigns-953939.html
22-02-2021||South||Murder of democracy: Narayanasamy says Speaker's ruling 'incorrect'||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Monday and tendered his resignation. His resignation came after his party lost the majority on the floor of the House.  Narayanasamy told reporters that the Speaker's ruling was "incorrect".   He alleged that the BJP government at the Centre, N R Congress and AIADMK have succeeded in dislodging the ruling government by using voting power used by three nominated members. "This is the murder of democracy. The people of Puducherry and this country will teach them a lesson," he said.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/murder-of-democracy-narayanasamy-says-speakers-ruling-incorrect-953943.html
22-02-2021||South||Surge of Covid-19 cases in Kerala; Tamil Nadu steps up vigil at borders||With neighbouring Kerala and four other states in the country witnessing a surge in daily Coronavirus cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday said surveillance in districts bordering Kerala has been intensified and it has been made mandatory for all returnees by flight to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test. The state health department continues to aggressively test for the virus and is involved in tracing the contacts, as it is determined to further bring down the cases, Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said. Expressing concern over non-compliance by people, including those who gather for political rallies, he appealed to the people not to lower the guard as five states in India have recorded an increase in cases. "Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing should strictly be followed. It was noticed during certain political meetings that the cadres did not wear face masks or follow social distancing. Such an offhand attitude could lead to unpleasant consequences," he said and pointed out to an incident in Amaravathy district in Maharashtra where a family has been infected by the virus. Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, apart from Kerala have recorded a surge in daily new cases of Covid-19. The Union Health Ministry had said both Kerala and Maharashtra cumulatively accounted for over 74 per cent of India's total active cases. "Tamil Nadu has a low positivity rate of 0.9 per cent per 100 persons and a majority of those who get admitted early with Coronavirus symptoms are treated and discharged. I appeal to the people not to delay if they have Coronavirus symptoms but undergo test and treatment accordingly." "Late arrival invariably leads to problems," the health secretary told reporters here after inaugurating three RO plants at the Tamil Nadu government multi-super speciality Hospital, here, that has been sponsored by the RCC Platinum Trust. When his attention was drawn to the non-compliance to face masks and social distancing at political rallies, he said rules were the same for all people who gather in public places. "We have instructed health officials to mandate the wearing of face masks and maintain social distancing before granting permission for meetings besides resort to random testing at such meetings," Radhakrishnan said. On the preventive measures, he said apart from surveillance camps, thermal screening will be carried out in the border districts and cluster testing will be done in Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu districts. All the passengers arriving by flight should have RT-PCR negative certificates. "Passengers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa will be subjected to TR-PCR test upon arrival," he said. About 36 direct returnees from the UK and their 26 contacts, who tested positive, were treated and discharged. And 10 among the 11 passengers with new virus strain from the UK too were treated and discharged, he said. Further, the district health officials have been told to be extra cautious owing to the reporting of dengue cases in few southern districts and also many from Tirunelveli district had Mumbai connection, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/surge-of-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-tamil-nadu-steps-up-vigil-at-borders-954047.html
22-02-2021||South||Tension at Kerala-Karnataka border over Covid-19 restrictions||The travel restriction imposed by Karnataka on persons from Kerala in view of a high number of Covid-19 cases in the state has led to tension at Karnataka-Kerala border areas at Thalappaddy on Monday. Congress-led United Democratic Front activists staged a protest by blocking the highway at Thalappady and prevented vehicles from Karnataka from entering Kerala. Long queues of vehicles were witnessed on both sides of the border. While Karnataka authorities blocked vehicles from Kerala, political activists in Kerala blocked vehicles from Karnataka. A section of local people also joined the protest.  Later they dispersed after assurances that restrictions would be given for those proceeding for medical and educational purposes. According to police officials at the border area, the Dakshina Kannada authorities had given relaxation to vehicle movement on Monday. But they said that from Tuesday they would insist on a Covid negative report of the RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours prior to entering Karnataka. Those going for emergency medical needs would be given relaxations by subjecting to antigen tests at the border. In the case of students, the educational institutions should ensure that the students were subjected to Covid tests, said sources. District police chief P B Rajeev told DH that at present vehicle movement was going on smoothly across the border. However, the Karnataka authorities may strictly enforce the restriction from Tuesday.  Meanwhile, local people said that the Covid testing facilities in the Kasargod district were inadequate compared to the heavy flow of people from the district to Dakshina Kannada for daily needs. Even on Monday, long queues were witnessed in front of the testing centres in the district. Kasargod district medical office D. A V Ramdas said that steps were already taken to enhance the testing facility in the district. A maximum of around 600 to 800 tests could be done daily. However, local people said that it would be insufficient to meet the demand. The chances of private laboratories exploiting the situation were very high. During the initial spike of Covid in the Kasargod district also a similar situation prevailed as even patients from Kasargod to hospitals in Mangaluru were also blocked at the border. Even as the Karnataka - Kerala border roads in Wayanad were also being blocked, the situation in Kasargod is grimmer as people of Kasargod heavily depend on Mangaluru for most needs, especially medical purpose and education. Karnataka authorities have stepped up vigil along all border roads. Kerala is having over 58,000 active Covid cases now, which is the highest among the states in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tension-at-kerala-karnataka-border-over-covid-19-restrictions-954072.html
22-02-2021||South||DMK suspends Puducherry functionary who quit as MLA||The DMK on Monday suspended its Puducherry functionary K Venkatesan, who resigned as MLA, for 'violating' party discipline. Venkatesan, who represented Thattanchavadi constituency in the Puduchery Assembly, quit as a legislator on Sunday, blaming lack of funds to meet people's demands in the constituency. DMK general secretary Durai Murugan in a statement said Venkatesan "violated party discipline" and brought "disrepute" to it. "...he is being suspended from all posts including primary membership," he said. The V Narayanasamy-led Congress government, which had the support of the DMK and an independent legislator, fell on Monday following a spate of resignations over a month that reduced it to a minority with just 11 members in the 33-member House where the opposition outnumbered it with 14 MLAs while there were seven vacancies. The chief minister and his cabinet resigned after seeking confidence vote in the House on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-suspends-puducherry-functionary-who-quit-as-mla-954092.html
22-02-2021||South||BJP did not want Narayanasamy-led Cong govt in Puducherry, says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Monday alleged the BJP did not want the Congress government-led by V Narayanasamy in Puducherry to continue when assembly elections were round the corner. He was reacting to the fall of the Congress government in the union territory today after Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote in the Assembly with the coalition ministry reduced to a minority due to a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator recently. Speaking to reporters at Mangaluru, Siddaramaiah alleged that Congress MLAs were bought over and made to resign instead of facing the election. "Now Narayanasamy is the Chief Minister. The aim is to remove him, so that the elections do not take place while he is in power. This is undemocratic way of doing things," Siddaramaiah added. Narayanasamy met Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and submitted the resignation of his four-member cabinet, ahead of the Assembly elections due in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-did-not-want-narayanasamy-led-cong-govt-in-puducherry-says-siddaramaiah-954100.html
22-02-2021||South||Kerala govt decides to cancel controversial MoU with EMCC||The Kerala government on Monday decided to cancel the controversial MoU signed between US-based EMCC International and the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), against which the opposition has raised serious allegations. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan directed the officials concerned to cancel the deal and probe the circumstances under which such an MoU was signed, a source in the government told PTI. The step was taken reportedly to avoid further controversies,with the opposition levelling fresh charges and bringing out what they term as 'evidence' almost every day. KSINC Managing Director N Prasanth and EMCC International India Private Limited president Shiju Varghese recently inked a Rs 2,950 crore pact to build 400 deep sea fishing trawlers and new harbours and for the port development activities. However, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had alleged that this particular MoU was part of a Rs 5,000 crore mammoth project promoting deep sea fishing in the state waters. It was against the proclaimed Fisheries' Policy of the state and would adversely affect the interests of lakhs of fishermen, he alleged. However, Vijayan on Saturday dismissed the opposition charge that the government has entered into an agreement for the deep sea fishing contract with the US-based firm, saying no foreign company would be allowed to engage in deep sea trawling in the state's waters. He also asserted that his government would not deviate from its fisheries policy and would continue to encourage the traditional fishermen to become the "owners of deep sea fishing vessels." Earlier in the day, Chennithala released a copy of the state's letter to the Centre, requesting to verify the credentials of the EMCC. In the purported letter sent in December 2019, state Principal Secretary K R Jyothilalhad specifically mentioned that the company was interested in innovative technology development for the upgradation and promotion of deep sea fishing in the state of Kerala. In the letter, addressed to the Joint Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, he also said that the firm had submitted a concept note to the state government regarding this. Chennithala, at a press meet here, said the government was well aware that the project submitted by the company was for deep sea fishing, which Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma had denied for the last two days. He had also released the photos of the fisheries minister holding discussions with the company officials last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-decides-to-cancel-controversial-mou-with-emcc-954101.html
22-02-2021||South||Sasikala factor: AIADMK asks cadres to take vow in 'Amma's name' to guard party||Wary of the V K Sasikala factor, the AIADMK on Monday asked its cadres to take a pledge, in the name of J Jayalalithaa on the former chief minister's birth anniversary on February 24 by lighting a lamp in their houses, to guard the party. While the "test" of Assembly polls is round the corner in about two months, enemies and betrayers have joined hands to defeat the AIADMK, top party leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami said in a letter to cadres. Vowing to retain power for the second time in a row, they said such 'anti-people' forces must be taught a lesson again by vanquishing them through hardwork, unity and allegiance to the party. Palaniswami, co-coordinator and Chief Minister and Panneerselvam, coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister, however, did not explicitly name anyone. Their call to cadres assumes significance against the background of the recent return of expelled leader V K Sasikala to Tamil Nadu from Karnataka and her nephew Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T T V Dhinakaran's stand to 'retrieve' the AIADMK. Panneerselvam and Palaniswami asserted that the loyalty of AIADMK workers cannot be 'purchased' through any manner be it allurement or by hurling accusations. The cadres' allegiance is only towards late matriarch Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK and people, they added. By lighting a lamp at 6 pm on February 24, they should offer prayers to Jayalalithaa's 'atma' and take a vow in her name to protect people and guard the AIADMK till their last breath, they said. Sasikala is late AIADMK supremo Jayalalithaa's confidante and she returned here recently after serving a four-year prison sentence in Bengaluru following conviction in an assets case. Loyalty is only towards late Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK and the Tamil Nadu people, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam said. 'Amma's soul' would protect the AIADMK and punish through the path of righteousness those trying to work against the party interests they said, which is seen as a reference to Sasikala and Dhinakaran camp. The benign protection to them from Amma's 'atma' is a matter of faith and it gave them the courage to face challenges, they said. A civil suit by Sasikala and Dhinakaran, who were ousted from the party in 2017, is likely to come up in a court here next month challenging decisions of the present leadership of the AIADMK. The AIADMK-led state government recently confiscated properties belonging to Sasikala's relatives in the disproportionate assets case. The main opposition DMK, which is out of power for almost ten years is leaving no stone unturned to win polls likely in April. The AIADMK, which snatched the reins of power in 2011 from archrival DMK, emerged victorious again in 2016 under Jayalalithaa's leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-factor-aiadmk-asks-cadres-to-take-vow-in-ammas-name-to-guard-party-954121.html
22-02-2021||South||Non-bailable warrant issued against Digvijaya Singh in defamation case||A local court on Monday issued a Non-Bailable Warrant (NBW) against senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh for not appearing before it in connection with a defamation case filed against him in 2017. A Special Court for Trial of Cases pending against MPs/MLAs issued the NBW against Digvijaya Singh after he failed to appear before it in connection with a defamation case filed against him by the AIMIM. AIMIM leader S A Hussain Anwar had filed a petition against the Congress leader, alleging that Digvijaya Singh through his statement, had defamed AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, saying the Hyderabad MP's party was contesting elections in other states for the sake of financial benefits. Counsel for the petitioner, Mohammed Asif Amjad said they had sent legal notices to both Digvijaya Singh and the Editor of an Urdu daily, which carried the article, seeking an apology and subsequently moved the court as they failed to respond. During the last date of hearing, the court had directed that Digvijaya Singh and the editor to be present before it on February 22. The editor did so, but Singh failed to appear before the court, he said. Digvijaya Singh's counsel had filed a petition, seeking exemption from appearance on medical grounds, but the court dismissed it and issued the NBW, Asif Amjad said. The court posted the matter to March 8. Singh's counsel said they have already filed a stay extension petition before the High court to quash the proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/non-bailable-warrant-issued-against-digvijaya-singh-in-defamation-case-954125.html
22-02-2021||South||NIA files chargesheet against 2 LeT terrorists for conspiracy to wage war against India||The NIA filed a supplementary chargesheet before a special court here on Monday against two terrorists of Pakistan-based terror group LeT for their alleged involvement in a conspiracy to commit subversive activities and wage a war against India, besides killing key personalities of the Hindu community in the country, an official said. The chargesheet was filed against Dr Sabeel Ahmed of Bengaluru and Asadulla Khan of Hyderabad under sections of the India Penal Code (IPC) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), a spokesperson of the country's premier investigation agency said. The case, initially registered in August 2012 in Bengaluru, pertains to a conspiracy hatched by members of proscribed terror organisations Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI) to commit subversive activities and wage a war against the government of India, the NIA official said. They had procured illegal arms and ammunition for targeted killings of important personalities of the Hindu community in Karnataka's Bengaluru and Hubli, Maharashtra's Nanded and Telangana's Hyderabad to disturb communal harmony and strike terror in the society, the official said. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) re-registered the case in November 2012 and has filed chargesheets against 17 accused. LeT members Ahmed and Khan were involved in a criminal conspiracy, along with other accused, in supporting and furthering the cause of the terror outfit in Saudi Arabia's Dammam and Riyadh, the NIA spokesperson said. They actively participated in meetings, where terrorist activities like targeted killings of important personalities of the Hindu community in Bengaluru, Hubli and Nanded were planned, the official added. The special NIA court in Bengaluru convicted 13 accused in the case in September 2016 and sentenced them to five years of imprisonment for their involvement in offences under the UAPA, IPC, Arms Act and Official Secrets Act. A trial is continuing against three accused who were named in an earlier chargesheet, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation against six absconding accused is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-files-chargesheet-against-2-let-terrorists-for-conspiracy-to-wage-war-against-india-954130.html
22-02-2021||South||Kerala govt scraps deal with US-based firm for deep sea trawler manufacturing||The Kerala government has scrapped a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a US-headquartered firm’s Indian subsidiary for developing deep-sea trawlers in view of the allegation of allowing foreign firms to carry out deep sea fishing. The opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress had raised the issue alleging that the CPM-led Left Front government was trying to help a US firm to venture into deep sea fishing in Kerala, which was against the state’s policy. The fresh allegation that came up while the Assembly polls were approaching was turning out to be politically crucial for the left-front as it could influence fishermen communities across the state, which is considered to be crucial vote banks. The Congress is also trying to cash in on the opportunity with even Congress leader Rahul Gandhi scheduled to have interaction with fishermen in Kollam district on Wednesday. In an alleged bid to wriggle out of the row by making an IAS officer scapegoat, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Fisheries Minister J Mercy Kutty blamed it on the official who inked the MoU and pointed out that the officer earlier served as opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala's private secretary. The controversy is over a memorandum of understanding signed this month between the EMCC International India, a subsidiary of US-based EMCC Global Consortium, and the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), for building 400 trawlers. The MoU for the Rs 2950 crore project was signed by KSINC managing director N Prasanth and EMCC International India president Shiju Varghese. Another MoU was also signed by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) and EMCC for Rs. 5,000 crore investment in research and development in the field of deep sea fishing. KSIDC on February 3 allotted four acres of land for 30 years lease at a mega food processing park in Alappuzha district for a lease amount of Rs. 5.5 crore.   Government sources said that the MoU between EMCC and KSINC for deep-sea trawler manufacturing was only being scrapped as the controversy was over that project only and that even the government secretary concerned was also not aware of the project. Additional Chief Secretary (Home), who is also in charge of inland navigation, was also directed to inquire into the matter and give a report. Prasanth served as private secretary to Home Minister while Chennithala was the home minister in the previous Congress government in Kerala. Hence the left-front leaders were now trying to allege a ploy by the IAS officer and the opposition leader. What caused more embarrassment to the government was the initial reactions of the Chief Minister and ministers denying the allegations. However, the opposition leader stepped up the attack by bringing out documents and even photographs in support of his allegations that the Kerala government's deals with EMCC were with the knowledge of the ministers. It was also alleged that the company representatives called on the Chief Minister also earlier.  EMCC president said that the projects were mooted and MoUs signed after the Kerala government published its fishing policy. Hence what is the reason for scrapping it now, he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-scraps-deal-with-us-based-firm-for-deep-sea-trawler-manufacturing-954139.html
22-02-2021||South||Rs 3,700 crore investment in Telangana's life science sector in last year: Minister KT Rama Rao||The life sciences sector in Telangana has attracted investments to the tune of Rs 3,700 crore in the last one year, with the potential to employ 14,000 people, said IT, industries and investments minister KT Rama Rao on Monday. Rao was speaking at the inaugural event of Bio-Asia 2021, the 18th edition of the annual biotech, pharma and healthcare sector conference, taking place in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While underlining that Covid-19 caused economic devastation, social disruption and over 2.45 million human lives lost globally, Rao said, “On a positive note, our scientists and entrepreneurs gave the life-sciences sector its moment in the spotlight, with accelerated development of vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics.” “I take pride in saying that Hyderabad rose to the occasion and made an impact for the world to witness. Our position as the “Vaccine Capital of the World” was further bolstered,” Rao said. Genome Valley Excellence Award to Bharat BioTech The organising committee of BioAsia has bestowed the Genome Valley Excellence Award 2021 on Bharat BioTech for “its breakthrough, pioneering research, development and commercialisation of vaccines including Covaxin, Rabies vaccine, Japanese Encephalitis vaccine, Polio vaccine and Typhoid Conjugate vaccines, among many others.” Rao handed the award to Bharat Biotech's CMD and JMD Dr Krishna Ella and Dr Suchitra Ella. Rao said that the Telangana government is partnering with Cytiva to set up a Biopharma scale-up facility B-Hub in the Genome Valley, on the Hyderabad outskirts. “Eight out of 10 top selling drugs globally today are bio-pharmaceuticals. B-Hub will help Telangana and India in accelerating the growth of the sector.” Dream and vision of growing the life-sciences industry to over $100 billion looks plausible, the minister said while listing some of the recent investments in Hyderabad like - "Sai Life Sciences, a leading contract research organization, inaugurated its new R&D center at the Genome Valley with an investment of about Rs 400 crore. Aurobindo Pharma is building a world-class vaccine manufacturing facility with a capacity of about 450 million doses. Further, Granules India will invest about Rs 400 crore to set up a facility with capacity to manufacture 10 billion units of finished dosages that will generate employment for about 1,600 persons. And Laurus Labs is investing Rs 300 crore to set up a formulation facility in Genome Valley with a capacity of five billion units." With the theme of ‘Moving The Needle’, the flagship event of the Telangana government, BioAsia, is this year focusing on Covid-19, global health, pharma and MedTech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-3700-crore-investment-in-telanganas-life-science-sector-in-last-year-minister-kt-rama-rao-954143.html
22-02-2021||South||Farm Laws: Rahul Gandhi leads tractor rally in Wayanad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led a tractor rally at Wayanad in Kerala on Monday by driving a tractor to express solidarity with the ongoing stir by farmers. Addressing protesters, Rahul said that even as the whole world was realising the plight of the farmers in India, the BJP government at the Centre was now understanding the plight of the farmers. He said that agriculture was the business of 'Bharat Matha'. It is the biggest business in the country in which millions of people were involved. Hence the people should force the government to revoke the three farm laws that aimed at helping a couple of industrialists to monopolise the agriculture sector. Over a hundred tractors participated in the around five-kilometre rally from Mandad to Muttil near Kalpetta. During his three day trip to Kerala, Rahul Gandhi is inaugurating various schemes in his constituency in Wayanad, interacting with fishermen in Kollam district and also addressing a public meeting marking the culmination of a state-wide march of Kerala Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-leads-tractor-rally-in-wayanad-954162.html
22-02-2021||South||Can deliver Covid-19 vaccine for South African strain in 15 days, says Bharat Biotech CMD||Bharat Biotech's CMD Dr Krishna Ella said that his company is capable of delivering a Covid-19 vaccine product for the South African variation in 15 days if ICMR provides them with the strain. Dr Ella was speaking in a panel discussion - “Immunizing the World”, at Bio-Asia 2021 virtual conference that began on Monday. The annual summit of biotech, pharma and healthcare sector industries is taking place in the wake of the global pandemic and amid growing fears of new variant strains of Covid-19. After the more infectious UK strain, the South African and Brazil mutations have now become a cause for concern. “Mutations are the way viruses survive, and RNA viruses especially are expected to mutate. As a manufacturer, with ICMR’s coordination, we can make a product for the South African strain in about 15 days. I just have to plug it in and the process would be the same. That will be the fastest one can plug in a full vaccine strategy. We are gearing up in that direction,” Ella said while commenting on the biopharma firm's preparedness in dealing with new SARS-CoV-2 mutations. The Hyderabad based biotech firm last year, developed BBV152 or Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology. The indigenously developed inactivated, two-dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine is part of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in the country. Covaxin was given emergency use authorisation by the drug authorities even as it was in Phase-3 trials. Speaking on the same topic of mutant strains, Mahima Datla, MD, Biological E, said, “I think we should not be overly concerned. We are working on the South Africa variant. But the virus is going to attach itself to the human cells. Eventually, we do not know what kinds of mutants will take over. So it is prudent to work on technology.” Ending the session, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organization, stressed the need of “solidarity, global collaboration and unity,” to rightly address the pandemic challenge. “It cannot be country-by-country basis. We need excellent communication which is 100 percent transparent. And having a dialogue is necessary – vaccine hesitancy is because of a lack of dialogue. We are nowhere near a herd immunity, so for the next of 2021, we need to stick to the laid down health precautions”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/can-deliver-covid-19-vaccine-for-south-african-strain-in-15-days-says-bharat-biotech-cmd-954177.html
22-02-2021||South||Kerala job aspirants launch indefinite protest||Job aspirants on stir in Kerala intensified the stir on Monday with three of them going on an indefinite hunger stir in front of government secretariat The agitators, who cleared the recruitment tests of Kerala Public Service Commission to civil police officer and last grade servants posts, decided to intensify the stir as the Kerala government had not given any firm assurance to their demand for extending the term of the rank lists and give postings to at least one-fifth rank holders. Meanwhile, Congress MLAs K Sabarinadhan and Shafi Parambil, who were staging indefinite hunger stir to express solidarity with the stir by job aspirants, were hospitalised on Monday after their health worsened. Three Youth Congress leaders started a hunger strike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-job-aspirants-launch-indefinite-protest-954202.html
22-02-2021||State||Panchamasali convention hijacked by vested interests, allege ministers||Accusing a few leaders of ‘hijacking’ the Panchamasali Lingayat agitation demanding Category 2A reservation, ministers CC Patil and Murugesh Nirani, who belong to the community, urged seer Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami to withdraw his protest. Patil and Nirani criticised BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal and former Congress MLA Vijayananda Kashappanavar for misusing the community to further their political interests. The ministers assured that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa would fulfill the demands of the community in due time. "Yatnal is acting like the 'B' team of Congress. This does not augur well for him," Nirani, the mines & geology minister said, daring Yatnal to resign from BJP and seek re-election. Attacking Yatnal in the singular, Nirani said that it was due to Yediyurappa's blessings that he could become a Union Minister. "You should resign and seek re-election as an independent," he said, retorting to the MLA’s demand seeking the resignation of two ministers from the community if the state failed to fulfill Panchamasali demands. Patil, the small scale industries minister, said that the decision to continue the agitation was unilateral. It was decided to end the campaign after the massive convention, he said, adding that Jaya Mrutyunjaya seer was easily swayed by Kashappanavar. "In the end, the seer went with one or two people," he said, adding that the seer did not consult all leaders from the community before taking the call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasali-convention-hijacked-by-vested-interests-allege-ministers-954010.html
22-02-2021||State||No offline classes at private schools; it's only online this year||Resolving confusion over the reopening of schools following the government’s order, many schools affiliated to CBSE and ICSE boards have decided to continue with only online classes for this academic year and not to open off-line classes.  The management representatives of the private unaided schools said they hardly have a month in the current academic year and inviting students to off-line classes in schools at this hour will not yield any results. The managements said all their students, parents are comfortable with the existing mode of online classes and it is working well for now.  Nooraine Fazal, co-founder and CEO of Inventure Academy, Bengaluru, said, “we have decided not to conduct offline classes up to grade 8 for this current academic year, considering that we have been doing well with the online set-up.” “Exams for grade 8 are fast approaching and there is no point in inviting students to attend off line classes at this stage.”  The principal of yet another school affiliated to CBSE board said, “we had gathered opinion from parents before deciding on the reopening of classes for grade 8. A majority of parents said they were not willing to send their wards to school as Covid-19 cases are rising again in neighbouring states and also in the city. Hence, we decided to stick to online classes up to grade 8 for this academic year.”  Several parents have backed the schools’ decision. “Every day, we get to see and read about rising of cases in neighbouring states and BBMP sending out a message to be cautious. While the situation is so alarming, how can we send kids to schools?” said a parent whose child is studying at a ICSE board school in Whitefield.  Some schools affiliated to CBSE board have already concluded the academic year up to grade 9 and announced calendar of events for the next academic year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-offline-classes-at-private-schools-its-only-online-this-year-954181.html
22-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka shuts borders with Kerala again over Covid-19||With the Karnataka government reinstating stricter control of transit passengers from Kerala in view of increasing Covid-19 positive cases, people here bound to Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada for various purposes including medical needs and studies are in a fix again. Long queues of vehicles could be seen in the border areas since morning as Karnataka authorities sealed many roads including national highways and restricted entry only for those with Covid-19 negative certificates. The Dakshina Kannada authorities sealed all borders from Monday except four to cross over, sources said. According to Karnataka officials at the borders, those who wish to enter have to produce Covid-19 negative certificate through an RT-PCR test taken 72 hours prior to their cross over time. Health and police personnel are on duty at the four borders, viz.Talapady in Mangalore taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify and allow people's entry into Karnataka. The residents in and around Kasaragod, the northernmost district of Kerala, have been thronging Mangaluru in Karnataka for decades for treatment at the speciality hospitals there. While Mangaluru is just about 10 to 50 kms from anywhere from Kasaragod, the nearest available facility is in Kannur, which is as far as 100 km. People in and around Kasaragod had struggled a lot during the initial days of the lockdown when the Karnataka authorities restricted movement of people into their territory. Strict guidelines on producing medical certificates to get an entry for the critically ill-patients had also turned out to be a nightmare for follow-up treatments during those days. There were instances of death of patients as the authorities disallowed their entry even for critical medical care. However, the intervention of the apex court had facilitated permission to critically ill patients to cross over to Mangaluru for treatment. Now, the plight of the poor but critical patients from the district is pathetic as they need to undergo a Rs 1,700 RT-PCR test to enable entry into Mangaluru for follow-up treatment, local people said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-shuts-borders-with-kerala-again-over-covid-19-953973.html
22-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Won't allow Tamil Nadu to take more Cauvery water: CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said on Monday that Karnataka will not allow Tamil Nadu to secure more water from Cauvery than what has already been allocated.  Speaking to reporters on Tamil Nadu’s proposed Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar River Linking Project, Yediyurappa said the government would not allow for more water allocation to Tamil Nadu. “We will not allow it at any cost. There is no point giving statement on it,” he said, assuring that the state’s interests would be protected. On being asked if he would conduct an all-party meeting to discuss the issue, he said he had not thought about it at the moment. The state government fears that Tamil Nadu might claim excess water on Karnataka’s side of the Cauvery basin, once the project is completed.  Pressure mounted Meanwhile, former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy mounted pressure on Yediyurappa to resolve the issue at the earliest. Siddaramaiah asked Yediyurappa to immediately consult the Supreme Court on the issue. Condemning Tamil Nadu’s move, Siddaramaiah tweeted: “Tamil Nadu government is planning to unauthorisedly use 45 tmcft of Cauvery water for river-linking project. I urge the state government to immediately stop this illegal move.” He added that the chief minister should not only question this in the Supreme Court but also urge Tamil Nadu’s chief minister to immediately drop this plan. Kumaraswamy also expressed concern about the issue. “It’s surprising that the state government was not aware of Tamil Nadu’s river-linking projects, which is funded by the Centre,” he said. “The water resources minister (Ramesh Jarkiholi) has stated that he will request the neighbouring state to implement the project while ensuring that Karnataka does not lose out on water. What does this even mean? There is a risk that in times of crisis, Tamil Nadu may claim the excess water as its rightful share,” he added and warned that the Centre would have to face people’s ire if it acted against the state’s interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wont-allow-tamil-nadu-to-take-more-cauvery-water-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-953992.html
22-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: No restrictions on inter-state travel, says Karnataka government||The Karnataka government on Monday clarified that it had not imposed any restrictions on inter-state travel, but has mandated RT-PCR certificates not older than 72 hours for those arriving in the state from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra. Health Minister K Sudhakar, while stating this, also cautioned people against negligence towards observing protocol and of stricter steps if the number of cases increase and said marshals would be deployed to monitor weddings as they were taking place without following any norms or guidelines. "We have not imposed any restrictions on passengers travelling from Kerala, Maharashtra or any other state to Karnataka. Let me clarify this, because other states may have got the wrong opinion. For inter-state travellers there is no restriction," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said that Karnataka has made it mandatory for people arriving in the state to have a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. This measure was taken last week for those arriving by flights, buses, trains, personal transport from neighbouring Maharashtra and Kerala, following the recent spike in Covid cases in those states. To a question on people staging protests at the Kerala borders demanding the withdrawal of "restrictions", Sudhakar said that no restrictions had been imposed, but checking negative test reports could have caused some inconvenience to travellers. "According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner, there is the movement of about 2-3 lakh people between both states every day. If test reports of such a large number of people have to be done, it definitely causes inconvenience, so we may not be able to do it 100 per cent, but we are trying random at least," he said. Sudhakar also said he would speak to the Health Ministers of Kerala and Maharashtra in a couple of days and request them to issue strict circulars to travellers in their states. "Many people travelling from those states don't have information. We have issued a circular in our state. But if circulars are issued in those states also, it will benefit both," the minister said. He noted that events, fairs, marriages and agitations with large crowds were being held despite repeated appeals by the government, all of which were against the guidelines issued by the Covid technical advisory committee. "Civic sense and responsibility are also important. If we don't understand it, in the days to come, if the cases increase, you (people) will be responsible for forcing the government to take strict measures. At a few places in Maharashtra, there is lockdown...you decide if such a situation has to come in Karnataka," he said. The Minister said marshals would be deputed at weddings to ensure that not more than 500 people gather at the events, wear masks and maintain social distancing. Further, if five people in a place test positive, the area would be designated as a containment zone, he said, adding there is already a circular in this regard. Stating that more than 4.24 lakh health department employees and 1.20 lakh front line warriors have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine, Sudhakar said the government was cleaning up registration data by eliminating duplicate entries. "We have a target of 80 per cent and 90 per cent coverage for Health department staff and front line warriors respectively by the end of this month. All officials have been requested to get the dose." "Bengaluru is lagging in vaccination... instructions have been given to all districts to achieve 80 per cent target," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-no-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel-says-karnataka-government-954110.html
22-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Four additional judges of Karnataka HC elevated to permanent status||Four additional judges were elevated as permanent judges of the Karnataka High Court on Monday. In a notification, Law and Justice  Ministry informed that the President-appointed Justices Singapuram Raghavachar Krishna Kumar, Ashok Subhash Chandra Kinagi, Suraj Govindaraj and Sachin Shankar Magadum, as the judges of the Karnataka High Court with effect from the date they assume charge of their respective offices. All four were appointed as additional judges of the HC for a period of two years on September 23, 2019. In a related development, the central government notified the appointment of two advocates Jasmeet Singh and Amit Bansal as judges of the Delhi High Court. The top court Collegium had recommended their names in August last year.   The government has also notified the appointment of four additional judges, Murali Purushothaman, Ziyad Rahman Alevakkatt Abdul Rahiman, Karunakaran Babu and Dr Kauser Edappagath, as additional judges of the Kerala High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-additional-judges-of-karnataka-hc-elevated-to-permanent-status-954157.html
22-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Clusters with 5 or more Covid-19 cases to be containment zones: Sudhakar||The growing number of Covid-19 cases has prompted the government to bring back the idea of containment zones with officials focusing on hostels, institutions and other facilities that can develop into large clusters. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Monday that hostels, boarding facilities or educational institutions where five or more cases of Covid-19 are found, will be declared containment zones. He was speaking to the media after a video conference with various district authorities on the prevention of second Covid wave and the diminishing vaccination coverage. A circular to this effect has already been issued from the Health Department, making negative test reports mandatory for those arriving from Kerala. A similar circular was issued with respect to travellers from Maharashtra. The declaration of an area as a containment zone will be made by local health authorities. Special surveillance measures will be initiated in such areas. No food service, hotels or restaurants can open in containment zones. A circular to this effect was issued recently. Essentials will be arranged for by the local civic authorities, BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad said. In Bengaluru, an apartment in Bellandur was declared a containment zone on Monday after 10 cases were reported. Barricades and posters informing the public of the same could be seen outside the apartment complex. Tight borders Meanwhile, Karnataka sealed all roads to Kerala, including national highways, except four roads connecting Dakshina Kannada with Kerala. Only those with Covid-19 negative certificates not older than 72 hours were allowed starting from Monday. Health and police personnel are on duty at four border areas -- Talapady in Mangaluru taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify and allow people’s entry into Karnataka. The health minister had recently said it was difficult to check every single passenger for a negative Covid certificate in this regard and had sought the help of the revenue and home departments in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/clusters-with-5-or-more-covid-19-cases-to-be-containment-zones-sudhakar-954185.html
22-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Minister Chhagan Bhujbal tests positive for coronavirus||Maharashtra Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. Bhujbal is the seventh minister to be infected by the novel coronavirus this month. In a post on Twitter, Bhujbal said his health is fine. "I have tested positive for Covid-19. All those who came in my contact over the past two-three days should get themselves tested," he tweeted. "My health is fine and there is no reason to worry. All citizens should take proper care in the backdrop of Covid-19. Should wear masks and use sanitisers regularly," the NCP leader added. Earlier this month, Maharashtra ministers Anil Deshmukh, Rajendra Shingne, Jayant Patil, Rajesh Tope, Satej Patil and Bachchu Kadu tested positive for the disease. Last year, over 12 state ministers, including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, contracted the viral infection. Of late, there has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 6,971 new coronavirus cases, raising the state's infection tally to 21,00,884. The state also reported 35 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 51,788, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-chhagan-bhujbal-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-953920.html
22-02-2021||West||5 killed as car collides with bus in Maharashtra||Five occupants of a car were killed when their vehicle collided with a bus in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district in the wee hours of Monday, police said. The accident took place around 2 am at Devgad Fata, when the car heading towards Aurangabad collided head-on with the private bus which was on way to Ahmednagar, an official from Nevasa police station said. The car jumped the road divider and hit the bus coming from the opposite direction, another official from Ahmednagar police control room said. Five car occupants, all residents of the state's Jalna district, died in the accident, the police said. The bodies were sent to Nevasa rural hospital for postmortem. The deceased have been identified as Shantanu Narayan Kakde (35), Kailas Newre (35), Vishnu Chavan (31), Ramesh Dashrath Ghuge (40) and car driver Narayan Warkad (23), the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-killed-as-car-collides-with-bus-in-maharashtra-953942.html
22-02-2021||West||Panaji civic body, 11 municipal council polls on March 20||Elections to 11 municipal councils and the Panaji municipal corporation in Goa will be held on March 20, the State Election Commission said on Monday. All Covid-19 prevention guidelines will have to be followed during the polls, State Election Commissioner C R Garg told reporters here. The elections would be conducted for 11 municipal councils and the Corporation of the City of Panaji between 8 am and 5 pm, he said. Those suffering from Covid-19 infection will be allowed to vote between 4 pm and 5 pm, he said. A similar process was followed during the zilla panchayat elections held recently in the state, he noted. Goa has 13 municipal councils and a municipal corporation. The model code of conduct has come into force from Monday in the areas where the polls will be held, Garg said. He also said that by-elections to the zilla panchayat constituency of Navelim (South Goa), a ward of Sankhalim Municipal Council and 22 wards of different village panchayats would also be held on March 20. Detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be issued, which have to be followed by all stakeholders during the elections, he said. "I appeal to the public to follow all the guidelines so as to avoid any problem as far as Covid-19 is concerned," he said. Garg further said that nominations for the elections would be accepted from February 25 to March 4 and their scrutiny would be conducted on March 6. Votes will be counted on March 22. A total of 3,10,995 people are eligible to vote for the elections and bypolls scheduled on March 20, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/panaji-civic-body-11-municipal-council-polls-on-march-20-953958.html
22-02-2021||West||Varavara Rao granted bail in Koregaon-Bhima case||Nearly two and a half years after he was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case, an eminent poet and writer Pendyala Varavara Rao was granted bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay High Court on Monday. The 82-year-old veteran activist and Left-wing ideologue is currently undergoing medical treatment at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai, where he has been admitted by the Maharashtra government following court orders. Varavara Rao is the first accused in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case to get bail. Rao has been asked by the court to remain in Mumbai and be available for investigation whenever needed. He will also have to submit his passport before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court and submit a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of the same amount. Rao was arrested on August 28, 2018, by the Pune Police. The case has not been taken over by the NIA. A division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice Manish Pitale granted bail to Varavara Rao on an application by his wife P Hemlatha. When the Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh sought a three-week stay on the order, the bench rejected the plea given Varavara Rao’s advanced age and his medical conditions. Rao’s lawyers Anand Grover and Indira Jaisingh argued that his medical conditions could turn critical if he was again sent back to Taloja Central Jail and would be violative of his fundamental right to health. “We feel that with the condition of the under trial, it would be inappropriate to send him back (to jail)... We are of the opinion that this is a genuine and fit case to grant relief or else we will be abdicating our constitutional duties as protector of human rights and right to health covered under right to life of Article 21 of the Constitution," the bench observed while granting bail to the octogenarian activist. “We are obviously very happy... it is an emotional moment," said P Pavana. It may be recalled in July 2020, he had tested positive for Covid-19 and subsequently recovered. He is also facing several old age-related ailments. It may be mentioned that over the last year, Varavara Rao's family members - wife P Hemalatha, and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana - had been issuing statements from Hyderabad, seeking medical attention for him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/varavara-rao-granted-bail-in-koregaon-bhima-case-953962.html
22-02-2021||West||Maharashtra tightens Covid-19 rules, violators to be fined||As people in India’s financial capital showing laxity in wearing face masks during the Covid-19 pandemic, the government's message is clear: wear masks mandatorily as you wear helmets and seatbelts. “If we fall short in wearing masks, the invisible enemy will attack. At times, he will even attack us through our friends and dear ones. Let me request you again. So, wearing masks is mandatory. Both, before and after being vaccinated,” says Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Mumbai Police are cracking down against people who are seen without masks despite a recent spike in Covid-19 cases in some states. Nearly 4,800 marshals have been deployed in Mumbai to check and fine people if they are not wearing masks and an additional 300 marshals are moving in suburban locals. The target is to fine 25,000 people daily for not using masks or wearing them improperly. Wearing masks is compulsory and there is no other option, according to Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and Police Commissioner Parambir Singh. The Mumbai Police has been empowered to take action against unmasked citizens. They can also levy fines on violators.  “Mumbai Police is now authorised to issue challans to offenders not wearing a mask too. Every time we fined you for not wearing a helmet or seatbelt it was always to remind you the value of your life and safety. The same is for masks. Please take care. You matter to us,” Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tightens-covid-19-rules-violators-to-be-fined-953968.html
22-02-2021||West||UP govt presents Rs 5,50,270-cr budget to make state 'Aatmanirbhar'||With a target of making Uttar Pradesh 'Aatmanirbhar', the Yogi Adityanath government on Monday presented a Rs 5,50,270.78 crore budget for the financial year 2021-22 in the state Assembly. With Assembly elections in the state less than a year away, the budget includes new schemes of Rs 27,598.40 crore, with infrastructure development bagging the lion's share. The budget presented by Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, in the presence of the chief minister, is over Rs 37,410 crore more than the previous year's budget size, making it the largest fund allocation in the state. Reading out the budget speech from a laptop, Khanna said the target was to make Uttar Pradesh "Aatmanirbhar" and ensure all-round development of the state. This is the Adityanath government's first paperless budget. The budget for 2021-22, is also the last budget of the present Adityanath government before the next UP Assembly polls. The budget makes a provision of Rs 101 crore for the under-construction airport in Ayodhya which will be named 'Maryada Purushottam Sriram Airport, Ayodhya' after Lord Ram and also earmarks Rs 2,000 crore for increasing the number of airstrips at the Jewar Airport in Noida to six from two. There is a provision of an outlay of Rs 100 crore proposed for "Atma Nirbhar Krishak Samanvit Vikas Yojna" in the budget for doubling farmers' income and Rs 600 crore for Mukhyamantri Krishak Durghatna Kalyan Yojana besides Rs 700 crore for free water facility to farmers and Rs 400 crore for crop loan to farmers at concessional rates. For women welfare, the budget proposes Rs 1,200 crore for implementation of Mukhymatri Kanya Sumangla Yojana and Rs 100 crore for malnutrition of women and children under Mukhymantri Saksham Suraksha yojana. Provisions of Rs 4,094 crore for the nutritional programme and Rs 415 crore for the National nutritional campaign besides Rs 200 crores for Mahila Samarthya Yojna are also there. For youth development, the budget makes a provision for the distribution of tablets to eligible students under the government's ambitious Mukhyamantri Abhyudaya Yojana, for free coaching for competitive exams and for setting up model career centres in 12 other districts. The budget provides Rs 100 crore for providing employment and self-employment to migrant workers under the Mukhyamantri Pravasi Shramik Udyamita Vikas Yojna. In view of the coronavirus pandemic, the budget makes a provision of Rs 50 crore for vaccination scheme towards prevention of Covid-19. Provision of Rs 5,395 crore has been earmarked for Rashtriya Gramin Swasthya mission, Rs 1,300 crores for Ayushman Bharat, besides Rs 1,073 crore for creating a diagnostic infrastructure for primary healthcare facilities. With a view to developing medical infrastructure, Rs 1,950 has been earmarked for the construction of new medical colleges in 13 districts and Rs 960 crores for medical colleges under construction in eight districts. The budget also has a provision for setting up of biosafety level-4 lab under the Institute of Virology and Infectious disease Lucknow. Provision of Rs 15,000 crore has been marked for Jal Jeevan Mission (rural) scheme and with stress on infrastructural development, it proposes Rs 1,107 crore for Purvanchal expressway, Rs 1,492 crore for Bundelkhand expressway and Rs 860 crore for Gorakhpur link expressway and Rs 7,200 crore for land acquisition for Ganga Expressway and Rs 489 crore for construction works. Under the special area programme, the budget provides for Rs 300 crore for special schemes for Purvanchal and Rs 210 crore for Bundelkhand. Addressing media persons after the budget presentation, Chief Minister Adityanath termed his government's budget as welfare and development-oriented in which there is something for all sections of society. The CM said that it is for the first time that a paperless budget has been presented in any state in the country and said from today the state will also go in for e-cabinet. The budget is guided by 'sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas' and would prove to be a milestone in the all-round development of the state and society, he said adding that amidst the coronavirus pandemic this budget will give wings to new hopes and possibilities. This budget gives representation to villages, the poor, farmers, youth and women. It takes the resolve of providing work to every hand, he said, adding that the beginning has been made to ensure ease of living in the state through providing basic facilities of water and power to every household, road to every village and making them digital. Reacting to the budget, Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said now the game of BJP is over in the state. "Khel khatam, paisa hajam" (game over, money usurped)," was his reaction when asked about the budget. "Poor and farmers were expecting big relief but their expectations were not met. Now the government has no time left and people of the state have seen what they did in the past four years," he added.  Rs 5,50,270-cr budget to make state 'Aatmanirbhar'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/up-govt-presents-rs-550270-cr-budget-to-make-state-aatmanirbhar-954038.html
22-02-2021||West||Covid-19 surge: Restrictions in place in Nagpur till March 7||Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut on Monday said strict restrictions have been set in place in Nagpur district in view of a recent surge in Covid-19 cases. Speaking to reporters after chairing a review meeting, the district guardian minister said schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain shut from Tuesday till March 7, while major markets will not open on Saturdays and Sundays during this period. Marriage halls will be non-operational from February 25 to March 7, and social, political, cultural events will also not be permitted, he added. The district administration has been directed to ramp up Covid-19 testing to tackle the surge. As of Sunday, Nagpur had a Covid-19 tally of 1,43,133 and an active caseload of 5,997.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-restrictions-in-place-in-nagpur-till-march-7-954078.html
22-02-2021||West||RS bypolls: BJP wins both seats in Gujarat, 1 of them held by Ahmed Patel||BJP nominees Dineshchandra Anavadiya and Rambhai Mokariya were on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat as the opposition Congress did not field candidates for the two vacant seats, one of which was held by its veteran leader Ahmed Patel. The two seats had fallen vacant following the demise of the sitting MPs belonging to the Congress and the BJP. One of the seats was held by veteran Congressman Ahmed Patel from 1993 till his death on November 25 last year due to complications related to Covid-19. The other seat fell vacant as BJP's Abhay Bharadwaj, a first time MP elected to the RS in 2019, too, died on December 1 due to the coronavirus infection. Returning C B Pandya declared Anavadiya and Mokariya as elected uncontested from the two seats on Monday, which was the last date of withdrawal of forms. Two dummy candidates of the BJP, Rajnikant Patel and Kirit Solanki, withdrew their nominations on Saturday. With the bypoll to the two seats scheduled to be held separately, the Congress, with 65 MLAs in the 182-member Assembly, decided not to field any candidate due to negligible chances of winning against the BJP which has 111 legislators. Anavadiya, a long-time BJP leader from Banaskantha, had also served as director of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation between 2014-17, while Mokariya, owner of a courier firm, has been with the party for almost 40 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-bypolls-bjp-wins-both-seats-in-gujarat-1-of-them-held-by-ahmed-patel-954112.html
22-02-2021||West||Avoid another lockdown, says Health Minister as more Maharashtra cities come under restrictions||As more and more Maharashtra cities and towns came under restrictions, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Monday came out with an appeal to the citizens to avoid another lockdown. On Sunday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had issued an ultimatum of eight to 10 days for people to mend ways and adopt the new normal else face lockdown. “Our state is known for its understanding, sensitive and cooperative people. We have seen how people have cooperated with patience during the lockdown. Another lockdown will be unaffordable. Avoiding a lockdown is now in your hands. Therefore, it is my appeal to strictly follow masking, sanitisation and safe physical distancing to avoid lockdown," said the state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope on Monday. The plea of the government over the weekend seems to have fallen on deaf ears as crowding in public places was reported in Mumbai and the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Meanwhile, close on the heels in Vidarbha towns of Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal and urban centres of Pune and Nashik, the government announced restrictions in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Satara town, which include the closure of schools between 1 to 2 weeks and restrictions of movement during the night. State’s food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal tested positive. Meanwhile, the state government is in deliberations over the X and XII board examinations and the consensus is to conduct it offline from April 23 to May 20. Following the appeal by Thackeray, the political rallies, large social gatherings and religious congregations are being postponed or cancelled. However, marriage events are attracting huge crowds where people are not wearing masks. The district administration and municipal corporations have formed special squads and fining people. Former BJP MP Dhananjay Mahadik's son's wedding in Pune saw a huge crowd and attendance by leaders including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis among others. Pune city has a cap of 200 guests at weddings, however, a large crowd was seen on Sunday night at this wedding. In Mumbai, several bars and restaurants were raided for flouting protocols and SOPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/avoid-another-lockdown-says-health-minister-as-more-maharashtra-cities-come-under-restrictions-954136.html
