23-02-2021||First Edit||Covid-19 vaccination drive must be speeded up||The government’s claim that India is the second-fastest country to achieve 10 million Covid-19 vaccinations needs to be seen in perspective. While the number is big, it is only about 0.7% of the 1.3 billion population. Seen in this light, it becomes worrying that the immunisation drive is moving at a slow pace. After medical professionals, it is now the turn of frontline workers to get the first dose of vaccination, but only about 50% of the target has been met due to vaccine hesitancy among the priority section. The situation is no better in Karnataka, with Bengaluru faring even poorly. Due to the poor response, many states find no need to requisition additional stocks of vaccines for now as those allotted in the first round itself are yet to be utilised. Among the reasons for vaccine hesitancy is the apprehension over potential long-term side effects of the vaccines. Vaccine development usually takes several years, but the Covid-19 vaccines were developed in less than a year and were approved for emergency use even before all trials and data had been fully evaluated. The government has been at pains to assure people that both the vaccines currently available in the country are safe and efficacious, but this has not cut much ice. Rumours such as that South Africa had decided to send back one million doses of vaccines procured from India, since denied by South Africa, have only complicated matters. With Covid-19 cases falling drastically, except in Kerala and Maharashtra, the general feeling is that the worst is over and there is no need to get vaccinated. Oddly, one more reason for the hesitancy is the rumour that those injected have to abstain from alcohol for at least three months. With such poor response from the medical fraternity itself, it now remains to be seen how the general public will receive the vaccines. Nonetheless, there are many, especially among vulnerable groups like senior citizens, who are keen to take the jab. The government should make vaccines available to them immediately. Besides, with the low demand, the existing stocks are staring at an expiry date in May. Industry captains, including Azim Premji, have suggested involving the private sector to achieve a coverage of 500 million people within 60 days. This may be too ambitious but with the involvement of the private sector, the vaccination drive can certainly be speeded up. Of course, this must be done with abundant precaution. For one, the government must cap the price of vaccination, to about Rs 400 as Premji suggested, to ensure that private hospitals do not indulge in profiteering. The government will also have to ensure that vaccines are not diverted for profits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/covid-19-vaccination-drive-must-be-speeded-up-954585.html
23-02-2021||In Perspective||Bridging India-US trade with security||India’s ambitious aim to derive $1 trillion worth of economic value from its digital economy by 2025 has been stifled by barriers to digital trade. Such barriers lead to difficulties in reaching a trade agreement between the US and India. Differences on how the internet should operate places the two countries at odds. The US seeks to preserve an open and global internet while India has made steady efforts to shift towards a more fragmented internet regime. This fundamental difference has derailed free trade negotiations between the two in the past as digital trade encompasses a substantial part of such negotiations. Any hopes of establishing a trade agreement would require both countries to look beyond economic arguments and bridge the gap with a common security goal. The US believes in an inclusive internet, with free flow of data between countries. But other major powers such as China and Russia envision a fragmented internet. India has joined the ranks of countries that each have a variant of internet protection including ‘data localisation’. Data localisation requires that any data collected on citizens of a certain country should remain in that country unless approval is granted for its removal to another country. The European Centre for International Political Economy ranks India third, after Russia and China, in having the most restrictive digital policies. Although India’s internet restrictions are nowhere close to China’s ‘Great Firewall’, it is still perceived by the US as opposing the conventions of a free-flowing and liberal internet. While China and Russia seek to isolate and monitor the internet for political power, India’s vision is focused on economic gains. New Delhi launched Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) policy in mid-2020 to build digital infrastructure across a wide range of sectors, including healthcare and information technology (IT). Analysts Arvind Subramanian, the former economic adviser to the government, and Shoumitro Chatterjee succinctly framed the policy as “abandoning two core principles of the post-1991 consensus: export-orientation on the macro-economic side, and slow but steady liberalisation on the trade side.” The policy has alarmed the US that India will adopt anti-trade or protectionist policies. India has hitherto opposed foreign e-commerce behemoths such as Amazon and Walmart from establishing a significant foothold in the country by tightening business and data restrictions. Fear of foreign competition has also affected trade agreements such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). India had to withdraw from the agreement due to overwhelming domestic pressure. Losing favour with farmers’ unions and local enterprises was untenable for a government keen on maintaining its political capital. Furthermore, India exited because it was unsuccessful in lobbying to add a provision on data localisation within the e-commerce section of the agreement. India emphasises that its “data should be used for the country’s development and Indian citizens and companies should get the economic benefits from the monetisation of such data.” However, opponents to the proposition argued that the provision would hinder the functioning of regional e-commerce and provide opportunities for governments to mishandle data. Moreover, India adopted a slew of policies including the draft Personal Data Protection Bill, perceived as protectionist by potential trade partners. Given the focus of Atmanirbhar Bharat, it is unlikely that India and the US will arrive at a mutually beneficial trade agreement soon. The Biden administration’s priorities most likely will be to undo some of the domestic policies the previous government undertook. Kinks in trade negotiations affect expectations that trade between India and the US should grow in parallel to their strategic relationship. Nevertheless, there is potential to resolve them if both countries realise the importance of security. Placating significant domestic players in India or in the US would be difficult when it involves a significant voting bank or a lobby group. But no agreement would be a tough sell if the value derived from it would be greater security. Currently, security for economic wealth might not sound as an optimal option when the focus is on recovering from a pandemic. But national security threats do not merely dissipate, especially when it concerns a larger and formidable neighbour — China. Trade negotiations can pick up if India engages with more defence opportunities with the US, commensurate to its status as a ‘Major Defence Partner’. If national security threats can be used as de facto reasons to tear apart economic trade agreements, then it should also be true for the inverse — trade can be established to safeguard national security. An option either country can consider. India has started to re-examine export-oriented policies and adopt more inward-looking economic policies, which may be a natural response to a pandemic that has slowed the global economy’s growth. Barriers to digital trade is but one gordian knot that needs untangling for trade negotiations to proceed. Working out the kinks in trade negotiations should not be the only approach. Opportunities for closer defence ties should be taken up to engage closely on trade as well. (The writer is a researcher at a private security consultancy in Singapore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bridging-india-us-trade-with-security-954587.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||6 dead after gelatin sticks meant for quarrying explode in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur||Six people were killed when the gelatin sticks they were trying to dispose of exploded accidentally at a stone quarry site in a village in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur early on Tuesday, police said. The incident comes close on the heels of a similar blast at a quarry site in Yediyurappa's hometown of Shivamogga on January 22, which left six dead. Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar, who represents the Chikkaballapur constituency visited the spot and said the bodies of the victims were badly mutilated and scattered all over the place. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences to the families of the victims of the blast.  "Pained by the loss of lives due to a mishap at Chikkballapur in Karnataka. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover quickly." Expressing shock over the incident, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said he has ordered a thorough investigation into the case and directed the officials to take stringent action against the guilty. "A high-level investigation into the incident is underway and stringent action will be taken against the guilty," he added. According to police, the incident took place at Hirenagavalli near Peresandra. Quarrying was stopped by the police on February 7 following complaints from the locals against rampant use of gelatin sticks. Yet, it continued clandestinely following which another raid was carried out a few days ago and the contractor was warned not to use gelatin anymore. The men working there went to dispose of the explosives in the wee hours of Tuesday when it went off accidentally. The driver of the vehicle who escaped with severe injuries in the legs and hand told police that the victims took him along carrying a bag with them. "They were holding a bag and asked me to drive the vehicle to the forest. I remained seated in the vehicle but the door was open. They went to a secluded place and suddenly the blast occurred," said the driver. Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani said in a series of tweets that the government has been taking stringent measures against illegal mining activities, transportation and storage of explosives used for mining. ಚಿಕ್ಕಬಳ್ಳಾಪುರ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ ಗುಡಿಬಂಡೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ ಹಿರೆನಾಗವಳ್ಳಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ಸಂಭವಿಸಿದ ಸ್ಫೋಟಕ್ಕೆ 5 ಜನರು ಸಾವನ್ನಪ್ಪಿರುವ ಸುದ್ದಿ ಕೇಳಿ ನನ್ನ ಮನಸ್ಸಿಗೆ ತೀವ್ರ ಆಘಾತವಾಯಿತು.ಅವರ ಆತ್ಮಕ್ಕೆ ಚಿರಶಾಂತಿ‌ಸಿಗಲಿ.ಹಾಗೂ ಸಂತ್ರಸ್ತರ ಕುಟುಂಬಗಳಿಗೆ ನನ್ನ ಸಂತಾಪಗಳು. "It's rather very unfortunate that the blast occurred in Chikkaballapur before the wounds of the Shivamogga blast have healed," Nirani said. The government will leave no stone unturned in ensuring the safety of people in the mining areas, he said adding a thorough probe will be conducted to ascertain the cause of the explosion and the culprits responsible for this will be punished. Nirani further said the government will provide all necessary assistance to the kin of the deceased and injured persons. Praying for the speedy recovery of the injured, he said the senior officials were already on the spot and assessing the situation. Meanwhile, the Congress came down heavily on the state government, alleging the BJP leaders were behind the illegalities just as they were involved in Shivamogga. "Instead of waking up from slumber after the Shivamogga blast and putting an end to illegal quarrying and use of explosives, the government stood in support of such activities leading to another explosion caused by gelatin. Just as Shivamogga, here too the BJP people are involved. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar is directly responsible for this incident," the party tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/6-dead-after-gelatin-sticks-meant-for-quarrying-explode-in-karnatakas-chikkaballapur-954290.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five non-vaccinated children in Karnataka succumb to Japanese Encephalitis in two years||Though Japanese Encephalitis (JE) is a vaccine-preventable disease, two non-vaccinated children succumbed to it last year and three non-vaccinated children succumbed to it in 2019, because currently, the JE vaccine is being only given in 10 endemic districts of Karnataka. These children did not belong to these ten districts. JE vaccine is given to children at nine months and 16 months of age. Vaccines can be given to children on a large scale only on the Government of India's approval. Though Karnataka got approval for giving the vaccine in ten additional districts apart from the existing ten, the rollout did not happen because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The result is the death of three children in 2019 and two in 2020 to JE. Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES) on the other hand does not have a vaccine. Karnataka saw 342 AES cases and four deaths in 2020, along with 19 Japanese Encephalitis (JE) cases. In 2019, the state saw 388 AES cases and 33 JE cases. Currently, the vaccines are being given in Kolar, Chikkabalapur, Mandya, Davanagere, Raichur, Dharwad, Ballari, Koppal, Vijayapura, and Chitradurga. The additional districts proposed for JE immunisation are Tumakuru, Yadgir, Bagalkot, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagar, and Koppal. An official of the state's National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), said, "Two JE deaths in 2020 happened in Yadgir and Udupi. Both these districts are not part of the universal immunisation programme for the JE vaccine. Once a suspected or a JE case is found, we take up all preventive and vector control measures." "Children below 15 are surveyed for fever in that locality and the community around is educated that a case has been reported. In JE, even one case is considered an outbreak. We cannot start vaccinating children in a district even if deaths are reported there without GoI's approval. We had proposed Tumkur and Yadgir districts to be added to JE vaccination last year itself and we got the approval also but because of Covid-19 pandemic, it did not get implemented in 2020," the official said. An immunisation official said they had not received any official communication from GoI regarding vaccine rollout in additional districts. Golden period 72 hours Dr V Ravi, retired Senior Professor of Neurovirology, said, "India started vaccinating children against JE, a brain infection, in 2006. After vaccination started, cases started coming down. The main symptoms of encephalitis are fever, altered sensorium, and/or seizures. In the case of JE, children have to be brought to a hospital within 72 hours, which is the golden period so that they can be saved."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-non-vaccinated-children-in-karnataka-succumb-to-japanese-encephalitis-in-two-years-954374.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chikkaballapur quarry blast occurred during rush to hide explosives fearing raid||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) According to a police communiqué accessed by DH, the owner of the quarry was tipped-off about the raid, after which he asked his employees to hide the explosives.  The explosion occurred when the workers were unloading gelatin sticks and detonators, killing six people, including one Nepali citizen, on the spot.  The deceased are identified as Gangadhar Babu, Abhilash Nayak, Muralikrishna, Mahesh Singh Bora (Nepali citizen), manager of the quarry Umakanth and quarry supervisor Ramu.    Mohammed Riyaz Ansari, the driver of the Tata Ace vehicle, which was used to transport explosives, suffered grievous injuries and was rushed to the hospital.  The quarry site, where the explosion occurred at around midnight, was witness to gruesome scenes. Body parts of the victims were strewn across the site, with authorities finding it difficult to identify the mutilated bodies. The explosion was so intense that body parts were found at a distance of 20 metres from the quarry.  Documents show that the quarry site was sealed by the authorities on February 7 after registering a suo moto complaint against quarry owners. While registering the case on alleged illegal detonation at the site, 14 gelatin tubes and 17 electric detonators were seized.  On February 22, the quarry was raided again and a compressor tractor used for drilling holes at the quarry was seized.  Since no explosives were seized, the quarry owners were let off with a warning, sources told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-occurred-during-rush-to-hide-explosives-fearing-raid-954386.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP leaders behind mining activities in state: Ex-minister Kimmnane||KPCC Spokesperson Kimmane Ratnakar said that he has information that contractors of stone quarries and those who are operating stone mining activities in the state are BJP leaders. The thorough probe would reveal everything. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he said the government must order for CBI probe into blast incidents in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur. He alleged that BJP wants to keep the caste system alive. So, BJP leaders of various communities are staging agitations for reservation benefits. The on-going agitations by various communities for reservation benefits are creating walls within the Hindu religion. Many BJP leaders including K S Eshwarappa and MLA Basana Gouda Patil Yatnal are staging agitation in the name of their castes for reservation benefits. If people of dominant communities demand reservation benefits, what about people of small castes and their plight? , he questioned. He said that BJP leaders have failed to understand the ideals of Gandhi, Ambedkar, Lohia and Nehru. The term secularism has no place in RSS. The prices of essential commodities are going high every day and poor and middle-class people are literally struggling to lead their lives. But BJP leaders are busy chanting Lord Rama and organising agitation for reservation benefits. He said that many BJP leaders including Yatnal have openly stated that they don't need the votes of Muslims. He wondered what could be the reaction if Muslim community leaders say that they don't need the votes of Hindus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-leaders-behind-mining-activities-in-state-ex-minister-kimmnane-954459.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Khadi products worth Rs 280 cr unsold last year: Swamy||Karnataka State Khadi & Village Industries Board (KSKVIB) Chief Executive Officer Jayavibhava Swamy said that the State’s Finance Department has approved to release Rs 51.49 crore of the total Rs 105 crore pending Market Development Assistance (MDA) and incentives to the khadi workers and units. Addressing the media persons in Hubballi on Tuesday, he said, "the State government has approved to clear the 2014-19 incentives dues to the khadi workers in one shot. The remaining pending amount will be released within six months." He further added, "Due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the Board witnessed a huge downfall in the sales of the Khadi and other products. The board manufactures more than 200 varieties of products, and since the lockdown, we were unable to sell products worth more than Rs 280 crore. There are more than 207 registered Khadi manufacturing units in Karnataka, which have employed more than 10,000 people. And a majority of them suffered during the lockdown period". “To ensure that old stocks are cleared at the earliest, the Board has decided to hold 15 exhibitions-cum-sales across Karnataka. And the first such exhibition will be held in Bengaluru in the last week of March for 30-days. However, this will depend upon the Covid-19 protocols that government can impose on the eve of the increasing number of cases,” he said and added that the Board is also contemplating roping in e-commerce giants and platforms to increase the sales of Khadi products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/khadi-products-worth-rs-280-cr-unsold-last-year-swamy-954535.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||UoM syndicate meeting extends autonomy to nine colleges||The University of Mysore has decided to continue autonomy status of nine colleges for one more year. Speaking to reporters, after the meeting of the Syndicate, at Dr B R Ambedkar Postgraduate Centre here, on Tuesday, Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, "The review committee has visited all nine autonomous colleges, under the UoM, and has submitted a report. It is decided to extend autonomy status of the colleges for one more year." The colleges are Government Arts, Commerce and Postgraduate College and Government Science College in Hassan, Government Women's College and Government College in Mandya, JSS Arts, Science and Commerce College on BN Road and JSS Women's College in Saraswathipuram, St Philomena's College in Bannimantap, Mahajana First Grade College and Maharani Women's Science College in Mysuru. The Syndicate has also decided to submit a proposal to the government, seeking recruitment of 30 permanent lecturers for Chamarajanagar Postgraduate Centre, the VC said. "There is a need for at least 30 permanent lecturers. The government has not initiated recruitment for any post due to Covid reasons. I have already spoken to the Higher Education minister. I had urged him to consider this as a special request for the border and backward district," he said. Registrar R Shivappa, Registrar (Evaluation) Jnana Prakash and syndicate members were present. It may be mentioned that the UoM syndicate meeting was held for the second time in Chamarajanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uom-syndicate-meeting-extends-autonomy-to-nine-colleges-954578.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Kabini to be developed on the lines of Brindavan Gardens'||Cooperation and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Tuesday said that Kabini dam in H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district, would be developed on the lines of the Brindavan Gardens in Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, Srirangapatna taluk, at a cost of Rs 48 crore.  Speaking after inaugurating an arch, near Kanchamalli on Mysuru-HD Kote border, he said that though people know about H D Kote taluk, they are not aware about the significance of tourism spots in the taluk. The arch will draw attention towards it, he said. Besides, the Kabini dam would be developed into a popular tourist spot, on the lines of Brindavan Gardens, KRS, at a cost of Rs 48 crore. It will be announced in the budget, he said. The minister also assured to take up various development works in the taluk. The government has given approval for the construction of a bridge and upgradation of roads. This would help in the overall development of the district. I am committed for the development of tourism sector in Mysuru district, Somashekar said. MLA Anil Chikkamadu and officials were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kabini-to-be-developed-on-the-lines-of-brindavan-gardens-954579.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC: Mayor, deputy mayor election today||With 22 corporators in the 65-member Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), the BJP emerged as the single largest party for the first time in the 2018 election. However, the party, which is exploring a renewed alliance with the JD(S), is hoping to have its first Mayor in the election scheduled for 12 noon on Wednesday. The election to the Mayor’s post, reserved for General category (woman) and deputy mayor, open for General category, has put all three major parties on tenterhooks. The JD(S), with a strength of 18 is the most sought after party. Both the BJP and the Congress are trying to win the support of the JD(S). B V Manjunath, BJP corporator, said that in the earlier council, 2013-18, the JD(S)-BJP coalition, with a strength of 22-13, was a success. “Then, the JD(S) got the mayor’s post during all five terms and deputy mayor’s post once. The BJP got the deputy mayor’s post for four terms. In the new council, elected in 2018, the Congress-JD(S) coalition was formed in line with the similar coalition to form the state government. Thus, so far, both the Congress and the JD(S) had the mayor and deputy mayor’s term, once each,” he said. This term of the MCC is a role-reversal, with the BJP winning in 22 wards, closely followed by the Congress-19 and JD(S)-18. There are also five Independents and one BSP corporator. The others who have a vote, to elect the mayor and deputy mayor, are: MP Pratap Simha of BJP, MLAs S A Ramadass and L Nagendra of BJP, Tanveer Sait of Congress and G T Devegowda of JD(S) and MLCs of JD(S) Sandesh Nagaraj, K T Srikantegowda and Marithibbegowda. The total votes are thus 73, taking the magic number to 37. If there is no cross voting, the JD(S)-BJP coalition can get 22 plus 25, respectively. However, there are rumours that six minority community corporators of JD(S) would not vote in favour of the coalition. While, MLA Sa Ra Mahesh is the face of JD(S) in Mysuru city, his friction with G T Devegowda was expected to cast a shadow on the coalition. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had distanced himself from the election. KPCC president D K Shivakumar tried his hand for a brief time. The lone Congress MLA of the city Tanveer Sait tried his best to strike a deal with Sa Ra Mahesh. Grapevine has it that Devegowda is in close contact with Siddaramaiah. Thus, behind the scenes negotiations were resorted. According to BJP sources, senior corporator Sunanda Palanethra may be the mayor candidate, while either S B M Manju or Prema Shankaregowda may be deputy mayor candidate. Meanwhile, corporator Samiullah had questioned the continued reservation for women, before the High Court. It has to be noted that it was SC woman in 2018, general woman in 2019 and Backward Community Woman in 2020. Now, it is again general woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-mayor-deputy-mayor-election-today-954580.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Officials hint at second wave, screening at checkposts ramped up||A slight negligence by the public, in following precautionary measures, may prove fatal, warn medical experts and authorities, as the number of Covid-19 positive cases have started rising slowly again in the region. If people are not cautious, the second wave is imminent, they warn. Movement of people has returned to normalcy in Mysuru and the residents seem to have shed fear for the virus. Covid norms like wearing mask and social distancing is neglected. There is a gradual increase in the number of positive cases in Mysuru district. While the number of positive cases was 10 on February 15, it increased from 20 to 29 in the last three days. On February 22, the number of active cases in Mysuru was 159, Hassan-61, Mandya-26 and Chamarajanagar-7. The total number of deaths so far is 1,029, 466, 152 and 112 respectively. The Union Health Ministry has said that five states, namely, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have seen a spike in the number of daily new cases of Covid-19. As a number of students from Kerala have tested positive, with the neighbouring state witnessing a spike in Covid positive cases, the health authorities have swung into action. Screening at checkposts have been strengthened. The Health personnel, with the help of Revenue and Police department, are subjecting passengers to thermal screening. If any variation is found, they are shifted to the nearby healthcare centre for Covid test. With the state government making RT-PCR test report mandatory for those entering Karnataka from Kerala, there was confusion at Bavali, HD Kote taluk. The officials refused to allow people without Covid negative report. As vehicles started lining up on the highway, they were thermally screened and two-day relaxation was given to trucks and goods vehicle drivers to get the reports. Three medical teams are deputed at the checkpost. Meanwhile, Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, during a meeting with top officials of the Police department, said that all vehicles entering the state from Kerala should be checked, as there are signs of a second wave of Covid spread. District Health Officer Dr Amarnath said, “All precautions are taken at checkposts and the team is gearing up to tackle any second wave in the district.” With the new strain of Covid infection spreading at an alarming level in Maharashtra, there are possibilities of the migrants returning to their native places. It may be recalled that thousands returned to Mandya and other districts in the region, once Maharashtra went into lockdown last year. Mandya Superintendent of Police K Parashuram said that the people are allowed into the state after checking them for Covid negative report at checkposts. Only those who had undergone tests within 72 hours are allowed to enter the state. However, there are no checkposts at the district borders. The department is working in tandem with the Health and Revenue department officials and all passengers from Kerala and other states are subject to thermal screening, he said. Chamarajanagar district administration, which shares border with Kerala is on high alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-officials-hint-at-second-wave-screening-at-checkposts-ramped-up-954581.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||DH-PV free workshop for aspirants of competitive exams||Navodaya Foundation, Mysuru, in association with Deccan Herald and Prajavani, will conduct a one-day free workshop for aspirants of UPSC, KPSC and other competitive examinations, at Hasanamba Kalabhavan in Hassan on March 5. Deputy Commissioner R Girish will inaugurate the workshop, while Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda and Chikkamagalur Assistant Commissioner H L Nagaraj will be the chief guests. UPSC master trainers Sandeep Mahajan and S R Ravi, columnist Mohammed Rafiq Pasha, and personality development coach Parashivamurthy will be the resource persons for the workshop. Students pursuing degree classes in Hassan, Chikkamagalur and Kodagu districts can participate in the workshop. Registration for the workshop will be from 8.30 am to 9.30 am, on March 5. The participants should follow Covid guidelines. It is mandatory to wear masks and maintain social distance. Entry is limited to 500 participants, on first-cum-first-serve basis. Contact: Mallesh on 96069 31809 or S R Ravi on 96860 72224.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dh-pv-free-workshop-for-aspirants-of-competitive-exams-954582.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||‘What can I do?’: BS Yediyurappa loses cool over Chikkaballapur blast||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday lost his cool when reporters questioned the government on the Chikkaballapur gelatin blast.  “What can you or I do? What would you have done in my place? Did we ask them to do whatever they were doing in the wee hours?,” Yediyurappa asked reporters questions on why the government was not alert in the wake of a similar explosion at a quarry in Shivamogga last month.  “This is the second such incident and these are illegal activities. We’re discussing what we need to do,” Yediyurappa said.  Congress has accused the involvement of BJP leaders in illegal mining and quarrying across the state. “Allegations aren’t important. We need to be compassionate towards those who’ve lost their lives and make sure such incidents don’t happen again. Whoever is involved will face action,” he said.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has blamed the state government for being lax over the issue. When asked about this, Yediyurappa said: “Siddaramaiah exists to make allegations. There's no need to take it seriously. We will take strict action against whoever is behind the incident. Let the Opposition also give suggestions. We will consider them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-can-i-do-bs-yediyurappa-loses-cool-over-chikkaballapur-blast-954407.html
23-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basanagouda Yatnal claims he wasn't summoned by BJP top brass in Delhi||BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Tuesday said he was in Delhi for some work related to a school run by his nonprofit, rejecting speculation that he had been summoned by the party’s top brass. “On Sunday night, I came to Delhi in connection with some emergency work for the CBSE affiliation of the Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Shishu Niketana school run by Shri Siddeshwar Samsthe,” Yatnal said in a Facebook post. He heads Samsthe, a 122-year-old nonprofit. “Neither have I been summoned by the party high command nor have I been given an appointment for any questioning. I have not sought a meeting with any leader,” he said. The social media post came following speculation that the BJP top brass had summoned Yatnal, who was slapped with a show-cause notice for his repeated censure of the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government. “Both father and son have planted such stories in the media to create panic among the people of the state, legislators and party workers,” Yatnal said. The ‘father and son’ is a reference to Yediyurappa and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra, against whom Yatnal has launched a tirade. Hailing Vajpayee as his teacher, Yatnal said his fight was against ‘dynasty politics’ and ‘corruption’ as envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “My fight isn’t against any individual and certainly not against the party,” he said. The former union minister also vowed to respond to ministers C C Patil and Murugesh Nirani, who attacked him over the ongoing stir for reservation for Panchamasalis. “My fight for social justice in the Hindu society will not stop,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basanagouda-yatnal-claims-he-wasnt-summoned-by-bjp-top-brass-in-delhi-954531.html
23-02-2021||Main Article||Farmers vs Farm Laws: MSP already a legal right||The ongoing farmers’ protests have been around a demand for enacting a stringent special law mandating Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for every crop in addition to the repeal of the three controversial farm laws passed by Parliament last year. The farmers have alleged that these farm laws would sound the death knell for small and marginal farmers. The issue that arises now is whether, if the government maintains the status quo, the farmers would be protected under the ambit of existing Indian laws against the abuse and unfair practices of corporates. We argue that even if no law mandating MSP is enacted, the courts would not be deprived of the power to protect farmers against any unfair trade practices by corporates and the Constitution indeed obliges them to do so. A legal right under Indian Contract Act The drafters of the Indian Contract Act had presciently anticipated that there might be numerous situations in which the big corporates would have disproportionate bargaining power and would endeavour to obtain unfair bargains from the weaker sections of the public. Thus, the Indian Contract Act, 1872, by virtue of Section 19A gives an option to the weaker party in the contract to set aside the contract at his will if his consent was induced by ‘undue influence’ at the time of making that contract. A consent is considered to be induced by ‘undue influence’ if one of the parties to the contract is “in a position to dominate the will of the other and uses that position to obtain an unfair advantage over other”. The Supreme Court of India has held that disparity in the economic strength of the contracting parties results in unequal bargaining power and thus leads to the abuse of the weaker party by the stronger party. In Delhi Transport Corporation vs DTC Mazdoor Congress, the SC observed that the disparity in the economic strength of the contracting parties results in unequal bargaining power and thus leads to the abuse of weaker party by the stronger party. Sometimes, the weaker party is in a position in which it could obtain the means of livelihood only upon the terms imposed by the stronger party. It’s obvious that the position of corporates, many headed by billionaires, and the position of farmers, facing distress and a suicide crisis, cannot be compared. The corporates are per se the stronger parties and the farmers are per se the weaker parties. Thus, this clause perfectly applies to situations where a stronger party buys a crop from a weaker party at a price below the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Selling his crop below the MSP per se shows that the farmer had no alternative available at the time of making the contract. Thus, the consent of the farmer would be considered as consent induced under ‘undue influence’. The farmer would be then given the option to rescind the contract and simultaneously take compensation for the losses incurred due to that contract. However, here, the MSP would not be a price fixed by the government on that particular crop. Rather, it would be a rate independently determined by the court above which the farmer would have reaped a profit.   Is it only a matter of public policy? The question now arises is whether it’s a matter of public policy and thus, a matter not to be decided by the courts. Public policy is not a policy of any particular government. If the conduct is against the public conscience, public good and public interest, then such conduct must be regulated by the courts. The Supreme Court has expressly held that “in any case which is not covered by authority, courts should be guided by the Preamble to the Constitution and the principles underlying the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles.” Thus, the courts as parens patriae cannot leave this as a matter to be decided only by government even if there is no specific law on MSP. The courts are duty-bound to decide upon the transactions between corporates and farmers that are against public policy. A constitutional right under Article 21    It has been held several times that the ‘right to life’ guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution includes the ‘right to livelihood’. The right to life takes within itself the bare necessities of life such as clothing, shelter, adequate nutrition, etc. It needs no proof that it has become extremely difficult for farmers to earn their livelihood. Thus, forcing the farmer to sell below MSP leads to denial of their ‘right to livelihood’ guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Further, Article 23 of the Constitution protects citizens against exploitation by both State and private citizens. The Supreme Court has held that ‘force’ means “not only the physical or legal force but also force arising from the compulsion of economic circumstances which leaves no choice of alternatives to a person in want and compels him to provide labour or service even though the remuneration received for it is less than the minimum wage”. Further, Article 38 and Article 39(c), collectively known as principles of social security and social justice, direct the State to minimise social, economic and justice inequalities amongst its citizens. Article 43 of the Constitution directs the State to secure a “living wage” to the farmers. These provisions, when read collectively, compel the courts to protect the right of the farmers to sell at a favourable price. Obligation upon courts to intervene If the constitutional courts intervene to issue guidelines to protect the weaker section of society in the matter of farmers and corporates, it won’t be the first time that it does so. The Supreme Court has held in the case of Vishaka vs State of Rajasthan that when the conduct of one section of society results in the violation of the fundamental rights of another section of society and there is a legislative vacuum against that conduct, then “an effective redressal requires that some guidelines should be laid down for the protection of these rights to fill the legislative vacuum.” If any guidelines are issued by the constitutional courts in the matter of the farmers’ demand for MSP, they would act as the binding law on future transactions between corporates and farmers. Thus, the absence of a law mandating MSP does not mean that corporates would be able to take advantage of distressed farmers. The courts are not deprived of the powers granted to them under the Indian Contract Act, 1872, and the Constitution, and they are in fact duty-bound to protect the farmers’ right to sell their crops at favourable prices.   (Mohit Rana is an advocate in the Delhi High Court; Ravi Singh Chhikara is a law student at Delhi University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farmers-vs-farm-laws-msp-already-a-legal-right-954586.html
23-02-2021||Mysuru||Kabini to be developed on lines of Brindavan Gardens: Minister||Cooperation and District incharge Minister S T Somashekar, on Tuesday, said Kabini dam would be developed on the lines of the Brindavan Gardens in Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk, at a cost of Rs 48 crore and it would be announced in the budget. Speaking after inaugurating an arch, near Kanchamalli, on the Mysuru-H D Kote border, he said, though people know about H D Kote taluk, they are not aware of the significance of tourism spots in the taluk. The arch will draw attention towards it, he said. Various development works would be taken up in the taluk. The government has given approval for the construction of a bridge and development of roads.  This would help in the overall development of the district. I am committed for the development of  tourism sector, the Minister said. MLA Anil Chikkamadu and officials were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/kabini-to-be-developed-on-lines-of-brindavan-gardens-minister-954362.html
23-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Congress government crumbles in Puducherry||Congress's V Narayanasamy resigned as Chief Minister of Puducherry on Monday after he failed to prove his government's majority on the floor of the Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-congress-government-crumbles-in-puducherry-954275.html
23-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again: Check fuel rates here||Fuel prices continued to soar to new highs as the rates of petrol and diesel were hiked yet again on Tuesday.  In Delhi, the petrol price was hiked by 25 paise and diesel by 35 paise. In the national capital, petrol now costs Rs 90.83 per litre, while diesel stands at Rs 81.32 per litre.  Petrol and diesel prices were increased by 37 paise and 38 paise, respectively, in Mumbai. After today's spike, petrol now costs Rs 97.34 per litre, while diesel costs Rs 88.44 per litre in the financial capital.  In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 93.98 per litre, while diesel stands at Rs 86.21 per litre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-check-fuel-rates-here-954277.html
23-02-2021||National||Endangered Asiatic lion prides conquer disease to roam free in Gujarat||Three years after a deadly virus struck India's endangered Asiatic lions in their last remaining natural habitat, conservationists are hunting for new homes to help booming prides roam free. The majestic big cats, slightly smaller than their African cousins and with a fold of skin along their bellies, were once found widely across southwest Asia. Hunting and human encroachment saw the population plunge to just 20 by 1913, and the lions are now found only in a wildlife sanctuary in India's western Gujarat state. Following years of concerted government efforts, the lion population in Gir National Park has swelled to nearly 700, according to an official census last year. But just three years ago, the conservation success looked to be in danger when several lions started to die in one part of the 1,400 square kilometre (545 square mile) forest. The canine distemper virus -- a highly infectious disease -- was detected among dozens of the royal beasts, killing at least 11 of them. "We picked all the lions from the area and isolated them," Dushyant Vasavada, the park's chief conservator of forests, told AFP. Authorities imported special vaccines from overseas and each animal was given three doses each, followed by a booster shot. Cattle and dogs living near the park were also inoculated as suspected carriers of the virus. "We vaccinated the lions in captivity and successfully controlled the disease and no new outbreak has been observed," Vasavada said, adding that park rangers were still closely monitoring their health. Lions are a source of pride for India, particularly in Gujarat's Saurashtra region, where man and beast coexist. A cattle-rearing tribe lives among the animals in the sanctuary, and it is not uncommon to see a pride of lions crossing a highway in the region as motorists wait and watch. The king of the jungle is also a major tourist attraction, along with leopards, panthers and other big cats found in the sanctuary. Around 550,000 people visit the park each year, riding in open-top jeeps as they try to spot the predators prowling among pale yellow deciduous trees. "It is a very thrilling experience to see the lions from close in the wild," said forest guide Dinesh Sadiya. But the 2018 virus outbreak was a reminder that the steady growth in the animal's population cannot be taken for granted. The lions have low genetic diversity due to their small population size, making them more vulnerable to epidemics. A 1993 outbreak of canine distemper virus in Tanzania's Serengeti National Park killed a third of its 3,000 lions. Wildlife biologist Ravi Chellam said that outbreak underscored the need to move a few prides to other sites nearby. "Translocation is a risk mitigation strategy akin to us getting health or life insurance," he told AFP. "If something happens to the population in Gir, there is always going to be an additional free-ranging population of wild lions available." Chellam said the sanctuary was also now too small for its steadily growing lion population. "There are far more lions than what Gir can hold... these animals are not static, they are constantly moving outside and interacting with domestic animals and people," he added. Efforts to move some lions to other states have been mired in legal wrangles with the state government, which wants to keep the animals in Gujarat. Authorities have instead proposed finding new homes for some lions in other parts of the state. In the meantime, rangers keep a close watch on the wandering lions -- which sometimes stray into villages and kill livestock -- with the help of dozens of imported radio collars. "If a lion has not moved for 48 hours we can alert our staff," said Mohan Ram, the park's deputy conservator of forests. The tracking collars are fitted around a lion's neck, helping rangers monitor their health and movements, reduce road and rail accidents, and lessen human-wildlife conflict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/endangered-asiatic-lion-prides-conquer-disease-to-roam-free-in-gujarat-954284.html
23-02-2021||National||Republic Day violence: Farmer leaders from Jammu taken into custody by Delhi Police||A prominent farmer leader and a youth, hailing from Jammu and Kashmir have been accused of being "active participants and key conspirators" in the violence at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26, have been arrested. Jammu and Kashmir United Kisan Front Chairman Mohinder Singh (45) and Mandeep Singh (23) were apprehended by Delhi Police's Crime Branch from Jammu on Monday and were brought to the national capital. The accused persons are "active participants and key conspirators in the riot case of Red Fort", police claimed in a statement on Tuesday. Mohinder Singh's family, however, claimed that he was innocent and demanded his immediate release. “He (Mohinder Singh) informed me that he was called by the Senior Superintendent of Police (Jammu) and was visiting Gandhi Nagar Police Station before his mobile got switched off. Upon enquiring, I came to know that he was arrested by police and shifted to Delhi,” the former leader's wife was quoted by PTI as saying. She claimed that her husband was at the Delhi border and not Red Fort when the violence broke out. “He went alone to see the SSP because he was not afraid as he had done nothing wrong,” she said. Separately, a Delhi court sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with the Red Fort violence case. Sidhu, who was arrested on February 9, was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Samarjeet Kaur on the expiry of his police custody in the case. Police had alleged that he was one of the main instigators of the violent violence at the Red Fort. Last week, a 30-year-old Maninder Singh, who was seen allegedly swinging swords to "motivate and energise" protesters at Red Fort during the violence on Republic Day following farmers' tractor rally was arrested. Jaspreet Singh, who was one of the associates of Maninder Singh, was also arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-farmer-leaders-from-jammu-taken-into-custody-by-delhi-police-954297.html
23-02-2021||National||US says it looks forward to 'overarching' MoU to enhance health cooperation with India||The US has said it is looking forward to an "overarching" memorandum of understanding to enhance health partnership with India and asserted that the cooperation between the two countries on Covid-19 builds on decades of successful collaboration in health and biomedical research. The US on Monday crossed the grim milestone of 500,000 Covid-19 deaths. With 28,184,218 coronavirus cases and 500,172 deaths due to the disease so far, as recorded by Johns Hopkins University, America is the worst-affected nation. "We look forward to an overarching MoU to enhance health cooperation between our two countries (US and India). We are working together on developing diagnostics, therapeutics, vaccines to combat the disease (Covid-19) and to recognise the importance of manufacturing critical drugs during this time and making them accessible globally," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference on Monday. The total number of coronavirus cases in India stands at 1,10,05,850 — the second in the world after the US. The death toll is 1,56,385 — fourth globally. “When it comes to the broad issue of coordination between the United States and India on Covid-19, I would say that cooperation between our two countries builds on decades of successful partnership in health and biomedical research,” Price said. He said India's pharmaceutical sector is strong and well-established and has long played a central role in manufacturing life saving vaccines for global use. "We are pleased that the US pharmaceutical industry has been coordinating with Indian companies since the beginning of this pandemic,” Price said, responding to a question on India donating and supplying domestically manufactured Covid-19 vaccines to several countries across the globe. Known as the 'pharmacy of the world', India produces 60 per cent of vaccines globally. India has sent consignments of domestically manufactured coronavirus vaccines to several countries, including Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Seychelles, Myanmar, Mauritius, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, South Africa, Brazil and Morocco. From the initial days of the Covid outbreak, Indian and US scientists and institutions have been actively engaged in exchange of information, supply of medicines and medical supplies. Indian vaccine companies are collaborating with US based agencies to develop and produce a vaccine against Covid-19 on a rapid platform. Six such vaccines are currently under development, in addition to several research initiatives aimed at developing therapeutics and diagnostics to combat the pandemic. The vaccines under India-US Joint collaborations are Bharat Biotech and Precision Virologics (based in St Louis, Missouri); Bharat Biotech and Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia; Serum Institute of India and Codagenix; Serum Institute and Novavax; Bharat Biotech and University of Wisconsin-Madison and Flugen; and Pune-based Gennova and HDT Biotech Corporation, Seattle. The US is partnering with India to strengthen the global response to Covid-19 — ranging from addressing infectious disease outbreaks, strengthening health systems to securing global supply chains, Price said. India and the US recently welcomed an initiative to collaborate on infectious disease, including Covid-19 and other emerging threats, through the International Centre of Excellence and Research, he said. In a recent op-ed in Newsweek magazine, India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, wrote that in recent years, India has emerged as the "pharmacy of the world", with great capabilities in bulk production of generic drugs and vaccines, in addition to its experience immunising a large population. India recently stepped up to provide vaccines to neighbouring countries and other partners, including in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia, he said. The US has resources and scientific capabilities that make it a natural, complementary partner in supporting a number of other countries seeking to fight the pandemic, Sandhu wrote. “Furthermore, from the provision of active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic medicines that have lowered drug prices and created jobs and investments, India has demonstrated its reliability as a supply chain partner, especially as de-risking from single country supplies has become a priority,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-says-it-looks-forward-to-overarching-mou-to-enhance-health-cooperation-with-india-954298.html
23-02-2021||National||Two Indians plead guilty in multi-million dollars robocall scam targeting Americans||Two Indian nationals have pleaded guilty to conspiracy and identity theft in connection with an overseas multi-million dollar robocall scam that defrauded thousands in the US, mostly elderly, the Department of Justice has said. Pradipsinh Parmar, 41, and Sumer Patel, 37, face a maximum sentence of 20 years each in prison for the conspiracy count. Parmar faces an additional mandatory minimum sentence of two years on the aggravated identity theft count, the justice department said in a press statement on Monday. Shehzadkhan Pathan, 39, leader of the conspiracy, operated a call centre in Gujarat's Ahmedabad from which automated robocalls were made to victims in the US. Pathan pleaded guilty in the case on January 15. After establishing contact with victims through these automated calls, Pathan and other “closers” at his call centre would coerce, cajole, and trick victims to send bulk cash through physical shipments and electronic money transfers. According to court documents, Parmar collected money on behalf of the robocall conspiracy that victims had sent either by a parcel delivery carrier or through a wire service. Upon receiving the victims’ money, Parmar deposited these funds into bank accounts as directed by Pathan. Pathan and his conspirators used a variety of schemes to convince victims to send money, including impersonating law enforcement officials from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and representatives of other government agencies, such as the Social Security Administration, to threaten victims with severe legal and financial consequences. Conspirators also convinced victims to send money via wire transfer as initial installments for falsely promised loans. A significant number of victims who were tricked or coerced into sending bulk cash were elderly, the statement said. Patel, on the other hand, retrieved over 250 individual wire transfers from 230 individual victims from October 2018 to March 2019 on behalf of Pathan, according to court documents. These wires totalled $219,520.98. Patel deposited the funds as instructed by Pathan. While living in Virginia Chesterfield County, Patel also received eight packages of cash sent by victims. Four of the eight packages are known to have contained a total of $56,200 in cash, it said. Parmar crisscrossed the US to collect nearly $6 million "that was stolen from more than 4,000 victims" in the international robocall scam, said Raj Parekh, Acting US Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. As part of his guilty plea, Parmar admitted that over a two-year period from March 2017 to April 2019, he travelled to 30 states and collected at least 4,358 wire transfers sent by victims, with losses totalling at least $4,312,585. Additionally, Parmar received and attempted to receive at least 91 packages of bulk cash sent by victims from several states, totalling at least $1,593,591. Parmar also received at least 549 counterfeit identification documents sent to him by Pathan for his use in retrieving these packages and wires sent by victims, federal prosecutors alleged. Parmar and Patel are scheduled to be sentenced on June 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-indians-plead-guilty-in-multi-million-dollars-robocall-scam-targeting-americans-954305.html
23-02-2021||National||India reports 10,584 new Covid-19 cases, 78 deaths||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases surged to 1,10,16,434 with 10,584 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have crossed 1.07 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,463 with 78 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,12,665 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.24 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active coronavirus infections in the country have reduced to 1,47,306 which comprises 1.34 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,22,30,431 samples have been tested up to February 22 with 6,78,685 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 18 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 15 from Punjab. A total of 1,56,463 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,806 from Maharashtra followed by 12,466 from Tamil Nadu, 12,299 from Karnataka, 10,901 from Delhi, 10,251 from West Bengal, 8,716 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,167 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-10584-new-covid-19-cases-78-deaths-954306.html
23-02-2021||National||Bharat Biotech may release Covaxin efficacy data in two weeks||Covid-19 vaccine maker Bharat Biotech will be releasing the first set of efficacy data for its vaccine from the ongoing phase-3 trials in two weeks, the company's CMD Krishna Ella said. Ella also said that Bharat Biotech can modify Covaxin to work on the South African variant of the virus within 15 days of getting it from the ICMR. “We are not going to change our manufacturing process. Everything is exactly the same... Just switch in the strain," she said. India's drugs regulator on January 3 granted emergency use approval to Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and to indigenously-developed Covaxin even though enough data on the latter's efficacy and safety were not available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-may-release-covaxin-efficacy-data-in-two-weeks-954312.html
23-02-2021||National||Government working on four fronts simultaneously to keep India healthy: PM Narendra Modi||The prestige of India's health sector and trust in it has increased manifold across the globe after it successfully overcame the trial by fire during the COVID-19 pandemic last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday and asserted that the time has come to take accessibility and affordability in healthcare to the next level. Addressing a webinar on effective implementation of the Union Budget's provisions in the health sector, he said the budget allocated to health this year is unprecedented and shows the government's commitment to providing better healthcare. Modi said his government is taking a holistic approach to healthcare and is not just focused on treatment but also wellness. To keep India healthy, the government is working on four fronts simultaneously -- prevention of illness and promotion of wellness, providing cheap and effective treatment to the poorest of the poor, increasing quality and quantity of health infrastructure and healthcare professionals, and working on mission mode to overcome obstacles, Modi said. The prime minister said it is time to take accessibility and affordability in healthcare to the next level for which the use of modern technology is being increased, he said. "Last year was in a way like 'agnipareeksha' (trial by fire) for the country and particularly for the health sector. I am happy that the country's health sector was successful in this 'agnipareeksha'. We managed to save so many lives," he said while crediting the achievement to combined efforts of the government and private sector. The prime minister recalled how, within a few months, the country could set up a network of 2,500 labs and how it could reach a milestone of 21 crore tests from a mere dozen tests. Modi said the pandemic has taught a lesson which is not just to fight the virus but prepare the country for any such future situation. "From medical equipment to medicines, from ventilators to vaccines, from scientific research to surveillance infrastructure, from doctors to epidemiologists, we have to pay attention to all so that the country is better prepared for any health disaster in future," he said. This is the inspiration behind the PM Aatmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Scheme under which it has been decided that a modern ecosystem would be developed from research to testing and treatment in the country itself, he said. The prime minister said as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, local bodies will get more than Rs 70,000 crore keeping health services in mind.  "The government's emphasis is not only on investment in health care but also to expand the access to health care in far-flung areas of the country," he said. During the pandemic, the strength shown by India's health sector, the power and experience it displayed has been closely noted by the world, Modi said. In the whole world, the prestige of India's healthcare and the trust in it is at a new level, he asserted. Modi said the demand for Indian doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, medicines and vaccines will increase across the world, and the country should be prepared for it. He said a new trust has been established for Indian medicines and vaccines in the Covid period. Modi said the world's attention would definitely shift towards India's medical education system and there would be a huge influx of foreign students to study medicine in India. "We have to work faster after the great feat we achieved in manufacturing ventilators and equipment during the pandemic as there is an increased international demand for these," he said. He asked the participants if India can dream of providing medical equipment to the world in a cost-effective manner. As opposed to the previous governments, the prime minister said the current government treats health issues in a holistic manner rather than in a fragmented manner.  Therefore, the focus is on wellness and not just treatment, he said. Protocols adopted in preventing coronavirus can also be adopted for preventing tuberculosis as the disease spreads through droplets of infected people, he said, highlighting that the country has set a target of eradicating TB by 2025. Wearing masks and early diagnosis and treatment are also important in the prevention of TB, he noted. Lauding the efforts of the AYUSH sector, he said AYUSH's infrastructure has also been of great help regarding increasing immunity and scientific research.  He said the world is experiencing the impact of traditional medicines in improving health along with the vaccine in controlling Covid-19.  Modi said though India has become the pharmacy of the world it is still dependent on imports for raw material. He said such dependence does not augur well for the country's industry and is a huge obstacle in providing affordable healthcare. He also talked about how brain fever used to claim the lives of thousands of children in Uttar Pradesh's Purvanchal area every year. "It has been discussed in Parliament and in fact once while discussing the issue the current UP Chief Minister (Yogi Adityanath) cried over the situation. But since he has become CM, he carried out the focussed activity and we are getting encouraging results as we stressed on stopping the spread of brain fever and increased facilities for treatment," he said. The government has proposed a budget outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore for health and wellbeing in 2021-2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-working-on-four-fronts-simultaneously-to-keep-india-healthy-pm-narendra-modi-954337.html
23-02-2021||National||Lok Sabha member Delkar's body handed over to his family||His viscera has been preserved for histopathological examination to ascertain the exact cause of the death, the official said. The body of Delkar (58), Independent MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his hotel room in the Marine Drive area of south Mumbai on Monday, a police official said. A suicide note in Gujarati was also found at the spot, he said. After getting information about the incident, senior police officials and a forensic team had reached the spot. The postmortem was conducted at the government-run J J Hospital here following which the body was handed over to his family members, who had come from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, another official said. An assistant commissioner of police from the Colaba division here is conducting an inquiry into the case. Delkar was a seven-term Lok Sabha member from the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In May 2019, he was elected to the 17th Lok Sabha, his seventh term in the House. He was also a member of the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and a member of the Consultative Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs of the Lower House. Delkar is survived by wife, a son and a daughter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-member-delkars-body-handed-over-to-his-family-954339.html
23-02-2021||National||Motera Nights: India venture into unknown, England seek answers for 'pink ball turner'||A virgin Motera strip has become the big talking point as India captain Virat Kohli prepares the right pink ball questionnaire to trouble a spoilt-for-choice England in the day-night third Test starting on Wednesday. Ahmedabad as a cricketing venue has been witness to a lot of cricketing feats in Indian cricket — from Sunil Gavaskar's famous late cut to complete 10,000 runs in Tests to Kapil Dev's best bowling figures of 9 for 83 and also him eclipsing Richard Hadlee's then world record of highest wickets. On Wednesday, Ishant Sharma joining Kapil as the second Indian pacer to play 100 Tests would add to the momentous occasion and Kohli scoring a hundred is just what the 55,000 odd spectators, who would be allowed in, might crave for. The refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium looks colossal under lights but the first Test match in many years would mean that even the home team wouldn't expect a lot of advantage. It would prefer a square turner to go 2-1 up in a high-stakes game but whether it actually gets one remains to be seen. As senior opener Rohit Sharma was clear in team's choice of surface — a turner that helps Ravichandran Ashwin and Axar Patel just like Joe Root would have opted for a green top at the Headingley or the Old Trafford. There are a few more questions that would demand answers. How would the twilight period be for the batsmen as James Anderson feels that the ball swings more in that phase? Will the extra lacquer on the 'SG Test Pink' make it difficult for the Ashwin-Axar combo which wreaked havoc on the Chepauk snake pit? And with a 2:30 pm start, how much will the dew have a bearing during the final session? The ball would be difficult to grip at that point for slow bowlers and the pitch, despite grass being shaved off, might ease out with ball skidding off the surface. When there are so many unknown variables that warrant factoring, any captain would like to assess conditions as senior speedster Ishant said on Monday. "...this Test pink ball Test match test we are playing in new ground, so for even for us there are a few things we don't know how we will have to tackle (and) all these things," Ishant said on the eve of his 100th Test match. His opposite number James Anderson however has no doubts whatsoever that by the time clock ticks 2:30 pm on Wednesday, the track will bear a bald look, similar to Chepauk. Umesh Yadav passing the fitness Test was good news for the Indian camp as Kuldeep Yadav is likely to be dropped from the playing XI. Umesh, along with Ishant and the now injured Mohammed Shami, had polished off Bangladesh twice inside six sessions in the inaugural Pink Test match in Kolkata. But this England team, with Joe Root, Ben Stokes, Jonny Bairstow, will pose a far greater challenge. Hardik Pandya has been kept with the Test team with an eye on his bowling workload but it's not known whether the team thinks that he is Test match ready. Pandya taking the load of a maximum 15 overs per innings on a turner could provide more balance to the playing XI and his big-hitting can tilt any game in India's favour. For England, with Moeen Ali back home as part of workload management, Dom Bess is expected to be back alongside Jack Leach in the spin department. However, whether Anderson and Jofra Archer will have Stuart Broad or Mark Wood for company is still not clear. Also, talented batsman Zak Crawley could be back in the playing XI in place of Rory Burns while Jonny Bairstow can replace Dan Lawrence at number three. The Squads: India: Virat Kohli (Captain), Rohit Sharma, Mayank Agarwal, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane (vice-captain), KL Rahul, Hardik Pandya, Rishabh Pant (wicket-keeper), Wriddhiman Saha (wicket-keeper), R Ashwin, Kuldeep Yadav, Axar Patel, Washington Sundar, Ishant Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Md. Siraj, Umesh Yadav. England: Joe Root (c), James Anderson, Jofra Archer, Jonny Bairstow, Dominic Bess, Stuart Broad, Rory Burns, Zak Crawley, Ben Foakes, Dan Lawrence, Jack Leach, Ollie Pope, Dom Sibley, Ben Stokes, Olly Stone, Chris Woakes, Mark Wood. Match starts 2.30pm (IST).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/motera-nights-india-venture-into-unknown-england-seek-answers-for-pink-ball-turner-954343.html
23-02-2021||National||SC takes strong view of bail to accused in Karnataka paper leak case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday took a strong view of the Karnataka High Court's order granting bail to an accused allegedly involved in the paper leak of 2016 PUC and 2019 police constable recruitment examinations, saying those ruining the education system should sternly be dealt with. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "We want to send a message. These people are ruining the education system." "We know what happened in Madhya Pradesh in the Vyapam case, in Bihar also. We are coming across cases where the education system is being distorted and perverted," the bench added.The court issued notice to accused Shivakumariah alias Guruji and sought his response on a petition filed by advocate V N Raghupathy on behalf of the Karnataka government against the High Court's order of February 28, 2020. The High Court had rejected a plea by the state government for the cancellation of Shivakumariah, though he was a repeat offender and violated the bail conditions by indulging in similar activities, the state government contended. In a connected matter, the court stayed the High Court's order of September 13, 2019, setting aside trial court's order framing criminal conspiracy charges against co-accused Obalaraju in the in 2016 Pre University Board Examination paper leak case. Obalaraju was working as an assistant director in Small Savings and Pension Department, whose son had appeared in II year PUC examinations. The accused were represented by senior advocates Ranjit Kumar and S Guru Krishnakumar and advocate Nishanth Patil. A case was registered with Malleshwaram Police Station in Bengaluru on March 22, 2016, for cheating, theft and other offences under the Indian Penal Code and violation of the Karnataka Education Act, 1986 on pilferage of question paper of Chemistry. The examination was rescheduled. However, once again, the Chemistry question paper was leaked. The investigation was then handed over to the CID which filed a charge sheet against 18 people and invoked stringent KCOCA charges in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-takes-strong-view-of-bail-to-accused-in-karnataka-paper-leak-case-954353.html
23-02-2021||National||NGT directs NTPC to pay Rs 58 lakh for damaging environment in Uttarakhand||The National Green Tribunal has dismissed the plea by NTPC seeking a review of the Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board (PCB) order imposing a penalty of Rs 57.96 lakh on the power company for damaging the environment. The NGT Principal bench headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that the slope of the muck dumped at its Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower project in Chamoli was hazardously double the standards with potential for erosion. There were deficiencies found in maintaining muck dumping sites. NTPC is operating the Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower project and has set up 5 muck disposal dumping sites out of which three were completed 3-5 years ago while two are still active and operational. However, state PCB found deficiencies in these sites and imposed Rs 57,96,000 fine on NTPC under the polluter pays principle for the restoration of the environment. While asking state PCB to utilise the fine amount for the restoration of the environment, the Bench observed that "Erosion was already seen in terms of gully formation in down streams of the muck dumps. Thus, it is clear that the operative muck disposal sites were not being maintained as per the Ministry of Environment and Forests laid down norm." "In view of the above, there is no merit in the appeal as 'Polluter Pays' principle has been rightly invoked for damage to the environment. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed. The amount of compensation which may be recovered by the state pollution control board may be utilised for restoration of the environment," the tribunal said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-ntpc-to-pay-rs-58-lakh-for-damaging-environment-in-uttarakhand-954358.html
23-02-2021||National||Bombay HC upholds bail to alleged ISIS member Areeb Majeed||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday upheld a special court order granting bail to 27-year-old Areeb Majeed, accused of having ISIS links. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale disposed of an appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), challenging a special court order granting bail to alleged ISIS member Majeed. The bench said it was upholding the lower court order granting bail to Majeed on the ground of pendency of trial and not on merits of the case. The high court directed Majeed to furnish Rs 1 lakh as surety and also directed him not to leave Kalyan in neighbouring Thane district, where he resides. The NIA's case was that Majeed had travelled to Syria to allegedly join the terrorist group ISIS and returned to India to carry out terror activities. Majeedwas arrested in November 2014 under provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code for waging war against the nation and other charges. He was granted bail in March last year by a special NIA court. The NIA subsequently approached the HC, challenging the lower court order. The high court had then granted an interim stay on operation of the bail granted, pending hearing of the NIA's appeal. Hence, Majeed continued to remain in jail. While opposing the NIA's appeal, Majeed argued that he had gone to Syria only to help people and denied all charges levelled against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-upholds-bail-to-alleged-isis-member-areeb-majeed-954361.html
23-02-2021||National||CSMIA facilitates distribution of 43 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines since Jan||The city's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has facilitated the distribution of around 43 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines including to overseas destinations since January. Mumbai Airport had started airlifting the vaccines since January 13. CSMIA has facilitated the distribution of approximately 43 million Covid-19 vaccines, weighing around 113 tonnes, to over 57 destinations, including 29 international ones, the private airport operator said in a release. Of the total doses, 34.5 million were airlifted to various countries and the rest 8.5 million to the cities across India, it said. The highest export of the vaccine was made to Dhaka in Bangladesh with nine million doses, followed by Morocco with six million doses and Brazil with four million doses, CSMIA said. The airport operator said it supported over 18 airlines in the distribution across the globe with national carrier Air India and Emirates and Royal Air Morocco transporting the maximum number of doses of the total 34.5 million vaccines to international cities, it said adding that while Air India carried 15 million doses, Emirates and Royal Air Morocco airlifted 6.1 million and 6 million doses, respectively. Budget carriers SpiceJet, IndiGo and Go Air were the three Indian carriers, airlifting the highest number of doses across domestic cities, it added. As a pharma hub, CSMIA has a rich experience in transporting vaccines across the world and has placed a well-defined process for the faster turnaround of the vaccine and transshipment movements. The standard operating procedure (SOPs) implemented by the airport in anticipation of the vaccine distribution saw the terminal register an average cargo processing time of just 10 minutes for domestic delivery and 25 minutes for international, right from goods acceptance to dispatch at the ramp, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csmia-facilitates-distribution-of-43-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-since-jan-954367.html
23-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk moves Delhi court for bail||Shantanu Muluk has moved a bail plea in a Delhi court in the toolkit case, according to ANI. The court is going to hear the plea tomorrow.  Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk has moved a bail plea in a Delhi court, plea to be heard tomorrow More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-shantanu-muluk-moves-delhi-court-for-bail-954372.html
23-02-2021||National||G7 'firmly condemn' Myanmar military attacks on protesters||G7 countries said on Tuesday they "firmly condemn" violence committed by Myanmar's security forces against protesters and urged them to "exercise utmost restraint and respect human rights and international law". The bloc of wealthy nations -- comprising Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Britain and the United States as well as the European Union's High Representative -- reiterated their opposition to the February 1 coup and the increasingly heavy-handed response to demonstrations against it. "Use of live ammunition against unarmed people is unacceptable. Anyone responding to peaceful protests with violence must be held to account," G7 foreign ministers said in a statement. "We condemn the intimidation and oppression of those opposing the coup. We raise our concern at the crackdown on freedom of expression, including through the internet blackout and draconian changes to the law that repress free speech." The G7 called for an end to the "systematic targeting" of protesters, doctors, civil society and journalists and for the military junta to revoke its declared state of emergency. It also urged Myanmar's military to allow full humanitarian access to support the most vulnerable. "We remain united in condemning the coup in Myanmar. We call again for the immediate and unconditional release of those detained arbitrarily, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint and continue to stand with the people of Myanmar in their quest for democracy and freedom," the statement said. Myanmar's military leaders are facing renewed pressure at home and abroad after gradually ratcheting up their use of force against a massive and largely peaceful civil disobedience campaign against their coup. As the US, EU and UK tighten sanctions, demonstrations against the junta's rule have continued to grow -- alongside a violent response in return. Three anti-coup protesters have been killed in the demonstrations so far, while a man patrolling his Yangon neighbourhood against night arrests was also shot dead at the weekend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/g7-firmly-condemn-myanmar-military-attacks-on-protesters-954375.html
23-02-2021||National||SC adjourns hearing on CBI plea against discharge of Kerala CM, others in graft case||The Supreme Court Tuesday adjourned the hearing on CBI's plea against the discharge of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in a graft case related to awarding of a contract to Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin when he was the power minister. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit deferred the matter to April 6 after Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the CBI, sought adjournment in the matter. "I am engaged in a part heard matter in another court. Please have it next week," the ASG said. The bench then posted the hearing to April 6. The case pertains to allegations of corruption and causing a loss of Rs 374.50 crore to the state Exchequer in awarding of a contract to SNC-Lavalin when Vijayan was the power minister in 1996. The top court had earlier asked the CBI to come up with very strong grounds against the discharge of Vijayan and two others in the SNC Lavalin graft case. The high court and the lower court have held that they should not be tried in the matter. The CBI said this was a cross-appeals matter filed in 2017 and it will file a comprehensive note giving the factual aspect of the matter. On August 23, 2017, the Kerala High Court had upheld the discharge of Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin graft case, saying the CBI had "wrongly picked" him as prima facie there was no case against him.   The high court had also upheld the discharge of two others in the case while rejecting the CBI's plea that their full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy. The high court's verdict had come in a revision petition filed by the CBI in 2014 challenging the discharge of Vijayan and five others in the case by a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI special court, Thiruvananthapuram, had in November 2013 discharged Vijayan and others. The probe agency had filed the charge sheet in the case arguing that there was sufficient evidence to prove the charges against the accused. The discharge by the special court was 'illegal', CBI had stated in its revision petition. The special judge had ruled that the CBI had failed to prove the charges of conspiracy and corruption levelled against Vijayan and other accused. The CBI had argued before the high court that a trial was must to prove the conspiracy in giving the contract to revamp the power projects to the Canadian firm when Vijayan was power minister in 1996. Claiming that the conspiracy was hatched at different stages in awarding the contract, the CBI had assailed the lower court order discharging Vijayan and six others and said a full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-adjourns-hearing-on-cbi-plea-against-discharge-of-kerala-cm-others-in-graft-case-954381.html
23-02-2021||National||'Toolkit' case: Disha Ravi reaches Delhi Police Cyber Cell office||Climate activist Disha Ravi reached the office of the Delhi Police Cyber Cell on Tuesday in connection with the probe into the "toolkit Google doc" backing the ongoing farmers' agitation, officials said. A Delhi court on Monday sent Ravi to one-day police custody as it said she has to be confronted with other accused in the case -- Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. Jacob and Muluk joined the probe on Monday. They were questioned at the Delhi Police Cyber Cell office in Dwarka. The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi, while Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by court. Police had alleged that the "toolkit" was part of a global conspiracy to create unrest and trigger violence in India in the garb of the farmers' protest against the agri laws. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi demanding repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-disha-ravi-reaches-delhi-police-cyber-cell-office-954382.html
23-02-2021||National||All you need to know about the President’s Rule||The V Narayanasamy-led Congress government in Puducherry fell after failing to prove its majority in the House, months before the union territory goes to polls. Parties are unwilling to form a government so close to the elections, and it is likely that President’s Rule may be announced in Puducherry. Here’s all you need to know about the President's Rule: What is President's Rule? President’s Rule is imposed when the state or union territory’s government is suspended and the Centre takes direct control of the region. In President’s Rule, the Governor becomes the constitutional head of the state. The Vidhan Sabha is either dissolved or prorogued. The Election Commission is obligated to conduct re-election within six months of this imposition. When can President’ Rule be imposed on a state? The President of India gets the power to suspend a state government under Article 365 of the Constitution. This is done under the following conditions:  - The state legislature is not able to elect a leader as the Chief Minister for a time prescribed by the state’s Governor.- If a coalition government in the state breaks down, and the CM ends up having a minority.- A no-confidence vote is passed in the Legislative Assembly.- Elections of the state are postponed due to unavoidable reasons like natural disasters. Incidents when President’s Rule has been imposed: 2019 Maharashtra, November 12-November 23:  The state went under President’s Rule when the elections led to fractured results, with no clear majority. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari became incharge of the state when all the four major parties in the state, which were the BJP, Congress, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party, did not stake claim to form a government. 2018 Jammu and Kashmir, June 19-October 30: PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti resigned as the CM after the BJP withdrew its support from the coalition, sending the state under the President’s Rule from June 19 to October 30. On October 31, the state was split into two separate union territories, giving the Centre power in the state through Lieutenant Governor. 2016 Uttarakhand, March 27-April 21, April 22-May 11: Chief Minister Harish Rawat’s government collapsed after a split in the Congress party. The President's Rule was imposed in the state twice within a span of three months. Arunachal Pradesh, January 25-February 19: After some Congress MLAs defected to the BJP, destabilising the government in the state, the President’s Rule was imposed. The Congress government was later reinstated by the Supreme Court, calling the imposition as ultra vires. Jammu and Kashmir, January 9-March 1, 2015: The state went under the President’s Rule due to a hung verdict in the 2015 elections. 2014 Maharashtra, September 28: The then Congress government was dismissed after allies withdrew support and went under the President's Rule for 33 days. Delhi, February 14: The national capital was without a chief minister for a year after Arvind Kejriwal resigned following the failure to table the Jan Lokpal Bill in the Assembly. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana: For a span of 100 days, the newly bifurcated states were put under the Rule. 2009 Jharkhand, January 19-December 29: As the elected government lost its majority in the House, the Rule was imposed. Jharkhand was under the President’s Rule in 2010 and 2013 due to the same reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-president-s-rule-954383.html
23-02-2021||National||Petrol nears Rs 91/litre mark in Delhi; above Rs 97 in Mumbai||Petrol price on Tuesday neared the Rs 91 per litre mark in the national capital and diesel crossed Rs 81 a litre, as fuel prices were hiked again after a two-day pause. Petrol and diesel prices were raised by 35 paise per litre each, sending retail rates to an all-time high, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase pushed petrol price to Rs 90.93 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97.34 in Mumbai. Diesel - the most consumed fuel in the country - now comes for Rs 81.32 a litre in the national capital and for Rs 88.44 in Mumbai. Fuel prices had risen for 12 straight days before hitting a two-day pause button on February 21 and 22. The increase follows a spurt in oil prices in the international market, on which India is dependent to meet its 85 per cent of crude oil needs. Brent oil crossed USD 66 a barrel on Tuesday as US output was slow to return after a deep freeze in Texas shut production last week. Petrol prices have been raised by Rs 4.63 per litre in February and by Rs 7.22 in 2021. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 4.84 a litre in February and by Rs 7.45 in 2021. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest value-added tax (VAT) on the fuel. Retail pump prices differ from state to state depending on the local taxes (VAT) and freight. The increase in fuel prices has been criticised by the opposition parties such as the Congress that said that the Narendra Modi government should have cut excise duty to ease consumer pain. The Modi government had raised taxes to scoop out the benefit that arose from international oil rates plunging to a two-decade low in April/May last year. While global rates have rebounded with pick-up in demand, the government has not restored the taxes, which are at a record high. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-nears-rs-91/litre-mark-in-delhi-above-rs-97-in-mumbai-954394.html
23-02-2021||National||Delhi court grants bail to Disha Ravi over 'scanty, sketchy' evidence||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested from Bengaluru on February 13, in Google toolkit document case, in view of "scanty and sketchy evidence" against "a 22-year-old young lady with absolutely blemish-free criminal antecedents and firm roots in the society". Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who reserved the order on Saturday said, "the perusal of the said 'toolkit' reveals that any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent." In a strong rebuke to Delhi police, which claimed Disha through the toolkit tried to create disaffection among citizens, the judge, in 18-page order, said, "In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies." Citing 'Rig Veda', the court said "This 5,000 years old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters. Holding that difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies". The judge further pointed out that freedom of speech and expression included the right to seek a global audience.   The court noted the police, led by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, fairly conceded that there is no direct evidence establishing the link between Disha and the violence that took place on Republic Day in Delhi. The court ordered Disha to furnish a personal bond of Rs one lakh and two sureties of equal amount and cooperate with the police in the probe. With regard to allegations that the toolkit contained links to several websites intended to malign the country, the court said even if imputations were found to be objectionable, the said material was hardly seditious. "The imputations may be false, exaggerated or even with a mischievous intent but the same cannot be stigmatised being seditious unless they have tendency to foment violence," the court said. The court also found nothing on record to suggest that Disha subscribed to any secessionist idea, contrary to claims by police "larger conspiracy" to perpetrate violence by forces inimical to the country. "In the absence of any evidence, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence, simply because she shared a platform with people, who have gathered to oppose the legislation." The court also noted the police admitted no criminal action was pending against 'Poetic Justice Foundation' and its founders Mo Dhaliwal and Ankita Lal, who were allegedly behind the creation of toolkit.   "There is nothing on record to establish any direct link between Disha and Dhaliwal and Lal. Still further, there is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of Disha and the organisations and its associates to foment violence on January 26," the court said.    It also said creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous 'toolkit' is not an offence. Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat "to destroy the evidence" also becomes meaningless. The court said mere engagement with persons of dubious credentials is not indictable, rather it is the purpose of engagement which is relevant for deciding culpablity. "Any person with dubious credentials may interact with a number of persons. As long as such engagement or interaction remains within the four corners of law, people interacting with such persons, ignorantly, innocently or for that matter even fully conscious of their dubious credentials, cannot be painted with the same hue," the court added.  The judge also pointed out there is not even an iota of evidence, connecting the perpetrators of the violence on January 26 with the said PJF or Disha. The court found no link of Disha with a banned terrorist organisation 'Sikhs for Justice', which on January 11, declared a reward of $250,000 for anyone who will hoist the flag of Khalistan at India Gate on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-disha-ravi-over-scanty-sketchy-evidence-954414.html
23-02-2021||National||Delhi court frames terror charges against Kashmiri separatist Aasiya Andrabi||A Delhi court has framed terrorism, sedition and other charges against Kashmiri separatist Aasiya Andrabi and her two associates for allegedly waging war against the government of India and conspiring to commit terror acts in the country. The case relates to waging war against the country with support from Pakistan including terror entities. Special Judge Parveen Singh had put Andrabi and her associates - Sofi Fehmeeda and Nahida Nasreen - on trial for various offences punishable under IPC and the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) on February 20. The court passed the order after the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. The court framed charges under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 121 (waging war against the government of India), 121-A (conspiracy to wage war against government of India), 124-A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the IPC. It further framed sections 18 (conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites terror act), 20 (being member of terrorist gang or organisation), 38 (offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation) and 39 (offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Andrabi, who was chief of the banned outfit Dukhtaran-e-Millat (daughters of nation), was accused by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of being involved in conspiracy and acts to "severely destabilise the sovereignty and integrity of India", along with her two other associates. By their activities on cyber space, they were running a concerted campaign to solicit support of Pakistani establishment which inter-alia included arranging support from terrorist entities from Pakistan, it said. The NIA, on directions of the Union home ministry, registered a case against them and the organisation. According to the FIR, Andrabi, Fehmeeda and Nasreen were actively running Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DEM), a terrorist organisation proscribed under the first schedule of the UAPA.   They were using various media platforms to spread insurrectionary imputations and hateful speeches that endanger the integrity, security and sovereignty of India, the NIA said. DEM through Andrabi openly advocated secession of Jammu and Kashmir from the Union of India and had also called for Jihad and use of violence against India, it said. The three accused were arrested in April 2018 and are currently in custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-frames-terror-charges-against-kashmiri-separatist-aasiya-andrabi-954417.html
23-02-2021||National||PM Modi warns against dangers of climate change, says disaster resilient infrastructure need of hour||Expressing concern over the effects of climate change Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged the students of IIT Kharagpur in West Bengal to develop infrastructure that can withstand natural disasters. He referred to the recent calamity in Uttarakhand in his virtual addressees at the 66th convocation of IIT Kharagpur. The Prime Minister emphasized on the need to explore environment-friendly sources of energy through initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance. “You know what recently happened in Uttarakhand. During major natural disasters apart from life infrastructure gets the most affected. The world looks up to India when it comes to disaster management… We need to focus on developing infrastructure that can withstand natural disasters,” said Modi. The Prime Minister also said that India took the initiative in setting up the Coalition for Disaster Management Infrastructure at the United Nations. He said that India needed technology that was in one environment and user-friendly. Referring to the fact that it was India that came up with the idea of the International Solar Alliance (ISA), the Prime Minister said even though the cost of per unit of solar power was very low in the country but there were several challenges in delivering solar power door to door. “Can you (students) do something to ensure that solar cookers reach every household where earthen woven are still being used,” said Modi. He urged the students to adopt the mantra of “ Self 3 which is Self-awareness, Self-confidence and Selflessness” to recognize their potential and move ahead with confidence and selflessness. “In the 21st century the IITs need to be taken to the next level from the Indian Institutes of Technology to Institutes of Indigenous Technologies to fulfill the aspirations of New India,” said Modi. The prime minister referred to the global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which he announced at the UN Climate Action Summit in 2019. The CDRI envisages partnership of national governments, UN agencies and programmes, multilateral development banks, financing mechanisms, private sector, and knowledge institutions to promote the resilience of new and existing infrastructure systems to climate and disaster risks to ensure sustainable development. He hailed the role played by the IITs in developing technology to battle Covid-19, and said the hallowed institutes should now work fast on finding futuristic solutions to other health care problems. Lauding the IITs for developing technologies to battle against the Covid-19 pandemic the Prime Minister said that during the pandemic people keep devices at home that measures blood pressure and oxygen level in blood resulting into the emergence of a huge market of personal healthcare equipment. “Now things have changed. Earlier people only kept medicines at home but now they also keep machines to measure blood pressure and oxygen level in blood. This has caused the emergence of a huge market of personal healthcare equipment,” said Modi. "You have to become startups to bring about a change in the lives of people. You have to work on Self 3-- self-awareness, self-confidence and selflessness. You should recognise your potential and move forward, move ahead with full confidence, move ahead with selflessness," he told the students. The prime minister spoke about the government liberalising regulations on geospatial data to allow private companies to conduct survey and mapping without prior government approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce. He said the decision will provide a huge impetus to Digital India and was a step forward in the direction of realising the vision 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.    (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-warns-against-dangers-of-climate-change-says-disaster-resilient-infrastructure-need-of-hour-954420.html
23-02-2021||National||Republic Day violence accused Lakha Sidhana attends public meeting in Bathinda||Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted in connection with the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, on Tuesday attended a public meeting in Punjab's Bathinda in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's agri laws. A video clip showed him seated on the dais. The gangster-turned-activist had given a call for the public meeting in Bathinda's Mehraj village last week. There was speculation whether Sidhana would take part in the public meeting as he is wanted by the Delhi Police for his alleged role in the violence that broke out during a tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 demanding the repeal of the agri laws. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during the violence. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, and some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts. In a video that appeared on social media on Saturday, Sidhana had appealed to people to take part in the programme in large numbers. The former gangster had several cases registered against him in Punjab and was jailed many times. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2012 state assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-accused-lakha-sidhana-attends-public-meeting-in-bathinda-954422.html
23-02-2021||National||Varavara Rao gets bail in Surjagarh iron ore mine arson case||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted interim bail on medical grounds to ailing poet-activist Varavara Rao in connection with a 2016 Surjagarh iron ore mine arson case. Rao, 82, and advocate Surendra Gadling were arrested by the Gadchiroli police in Maharashtra in February 2019 in connection with the case. Justice Swapna Joshi of the HC's Nagpur bench granted bail to Rao on similar grounds on which the principal bench of the high court on Monday granted bail to him in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Rao suffers from a host of ailments, including symptoms of dementia, as per his lawyers. His advocates Firdos Mirza and Nihalsingh Rathod said the activist had sought bail on health and medical grounds and not on merits of the case pertaining to arson at the iron ore mine at Surjagarh in Gadchiroli. "We pointed out to the court here (Nagpur) the order passed by the division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale on Monday, granting Rao interim bail for six months after considering his health condition," Mirza told PTI. Justice Joshi, after perusing the order of the division bench, granted interim bail to Rao for the same period in the arson case too, he said. On December 25, 2016, Naxals allegedly set ablaze least 80 vehicles engaged in transporting iron ore from Surjagarh mines in Etapalli tehsil of Gadchiroli. Rao, who is currently admitted in the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai, had sought bail on medical grounds in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, which is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. Rao is accused of serious offences under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in the case. The Bombay High Court on Monday while granting interim bail to Rao for six months imposed several conditions on him, including restricting him from leaving Mumbai and prohibiting him from establishing any contact with co-accused in the case. The high court said after the end of the six-month period, Rao shall either surrender before the special NIA court in Mumbai or file an application before HC seeking extension of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/varavara-rao-gets-bail-in-surjagarh-iron-ore-mine-arson-case-954434.html
23-02-2021||National||India, Mauritius ink free trade pact||India and Mauritius have signed a free trade agreement, under which over 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in the African nation, an official statement said on Tuesday. According to a commerce ministry statement, Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan and Ambassador Haymandoyal Dillum, Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade, Government of Mauritius, signed the India-Mauritius Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) in Port Louis on Monday. It was signed in the presence of Prime Minister of Mauritius Pravind Jugnauth, and India's External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, it added. CECPA is the first trade agreement signed by India with a country in Africa, the ministry said. "The agreement will come into force at an early date," it added. The Union Cabinet on February 17 had approved the signing of this pact. Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. In a free trade agreement, two trading partners cut or eliminate customs duties on a host of products besides liberalising norms to promote services trade. The bilateral trade between the countries dipped to $ 690 million in 2019-20 from $ 1.2 billion in 2018-19. While India's exports in 2019-20 aggregated to $ 662 million, the imports stood at $ 27.89 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mauritius-ink-free-trade-pact-954449.html
23-02-2021||National||Terrorism remains among gravest threats to mankind, Jaishankar says in UN||Describing terrorism as one of the gravest threats to humankind, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday that the bodies dealing with human rights should realise that terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims. Speaking at the high-level segment of 46th session of Human Rights Council, Jaishankar said terrorism is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right namely the right to life. "Terrorism continues to be one of the gravest threats to humankind,” he said in a virtual address. "As a long-standing victim, India has been at forefront of global action against terrorism. It's possible only when there's a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims," he said. He said India presented last month at the UN an eight-point action plan to deal with the scourge of terrorism. "We will continue to work together with members of the UNSC and other states to ensure implementation of our action plan,” he added. He said that the human rights agenda continues to face severe challenges, most of all from terrorism. The perennial concerns remain equally strong, be it global inequities or armed conflicts, he said. "The ongoing pandemic has complicated the situation in many geographies. There is a need for us to come together to overcome these challenges. At the same time, multilateral institutions and mechanisms need to be reformed to deal with these challenges effectively,” he added. He said that the violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty. Jaishankar said India's approach to the UNHRC is guided by spirit of engagement, dialogue and consultation. "Equal emphasis should be placed on promotion and protection of human rights. They're best pursued via dialogue, consultation and cooperation amongst states and technical assistance and capacity building," the minister said. "Our Constitution has enshrined basic human rights as fundamental rights, guaranteeing civil and political rights, stipulating provisions for progressive realisation of economic, social and cultural rights,” he added. He said India ensured that basic needs were very effectively addressed even during the Covid-19 lockdown. "As we address the health front at home, we responded to the world in equal measure. We provided essential medicines and equipment to more than 150 countries to assist them in this fight,” he said. "In the same spirit, India has pledged to use its vaccine manufacturing capacity to make vaccines accessible and affordable to all. From Bangladesh to Brazil, and from Morocco to Fiji, the pharmacy of the world is today supplying millions of vaccine doses to more than 70 countries," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorism-remains-among-gravest-threats-to-mankind-jaishankar-says-at-unhrc-954453.html
23-02-2021||National||SII sends first batch for global Covid-19 vaccine procurement||Serum Institute, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, despatched on Tuesday its first batch of vaccine shots for the Covax global inoculation programme. The global vaccine procurement and equitable distribution effort aim to secure vaccines for at least the most vulnerable 20 per cent in every country. Covax, led by the World Health Organization and the GAVI alliance, has struck agreements with manufacturers for two billion doses in 2021 and has the option for another billion. This includes 1.1 billion doses from the Serum Institute, which is producing the AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. WHO Southeast Asia tweeted photos of the first shipments being loaded onto a truck at Serum's manufacturing facility in Pune in western India. Serum has already supplied Centre with millions of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine as well as other poorer nations. The company's head Adar Poonawalla on Sunday urged other countries to be "patient", saying it had been instructed to prioritise its home market over exports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sii-sends-first-batch-for-global-covid-19-vaccine-procurement-954455.html
23-02-2021||National||Loan sharks target India's sex workers hit by Covid-19 pandemic||When Indian sex worker Baji fell behind on her repayments to a loan shark during lockdown, her house was ransacked and her only belongings of any value - the kitchen utensils - were stolen. It was another low point in a terrible year. As Covid-19 hit their incomes, hundreds of cash-strapped sex workers in southern Andhra Pradesh state turned to unofficial moneylenders to get through the pandemic - most of them lacking the papers needed to get formal bank credit, campaigners said. "I had nothing left in my kitchen the day the lender approached me with a loan offer. He had a polite and assuring manner and said there was no urgency to repay the money," Baji, 26, who goes by one name, said by phone from Krishna district. "But he returned week after week. I repaid 1,200 rupees (about $16.50) from the loan itself, but when I stopped they ransacked my home and took all my utensils," the mother-of-two told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "It was traumatic." Before the coronavirus swept into India, Baji earned up to 1,000 rupees a day, enough to feed her children and keep a roof over their heads, but last year's lockdown pushed her and other sex workers in India and beyond to the brink. There are about 800,000 sex workers across India according to government data but campaigners estimate their numbers to be much higher. More than 100,000 are registered in Andhra Pradesh alone, data with campaigners show. Reflecting concern about the plight of India's informal workers, the nation's human rights panel asked state governments in October to formally recognise sex workers, a step that would have granted them benefits from a $23 billion state aid fund. But the order was reversed after activists said such a move would be illegal and risked legitimising sex trafficking. While sex workers did receive some food aid, their lack of earnings made many vulnerable to abuse by loan sharks, especially in Andhra Pradesh where authorities have been trying to rein in widespread informal moneylenders for years. 'Call money' A collective representing 6,000 sex workers in the state said more than three-quarters of its members were in debt. Many live in fear and face daily threats and abuse from the loan sharks. "The lenders stand on the streets and yell at them, body shame them. They have started fleeing their homes," said Potluri Devi, who heads the Andhra Pradesh chapter of the National Network of Sex Workers. "They're drawn to these lenders as they aren't required to give any collateral or identity proofs. They start with small amounts that the women are able to repay. The women feel confident (and) borrow more," Devi said. "That's how they get trapped." Authorities in Andhra Pradesh, once known as the centre of India's microfinance sector, have sought to regulate private money lending - widely known as the 'call money' racket due to the ease with which money can be borrowed over the phone. About a decade ago, the state government curbed microfinance activities after a spate of suicides by borrowers, and in 2015 it banned moneylenders from operating without a licence after arresting about 200 people due to harassment complaints. But industry analysts said unscrupulous financiers - who charge high interest rates and resort to heavy-handed means to collect debts - are partly the result of inadequate legitimate credit sources in the state. "These are unsecured loans. There is nobody else to borrow money from," said Harsh Shrivastava, former head of Microfinance Institutions Network, a self-regulatory organisation for the microfinance sector. Shrivastava said the situation was particularly acute in Andhra Pradesh because unregistered lenders had proliferated due to the vacuum left when microfinance firms offering small loans to low-income borrowers were restricted. Officials at the state's crime investigation department (CID) said complaints against moneylenders were common, though no specific complaints from sex workers had been received. "Institutional lending is difficult to approach and this is informal money lending and very flexible, despite outrageous interest rates," said P.V. Sunil Kumar, additional director-general at the CID. Lenders routinely deduct 10% to 20% from the loan principal even before handing over the money, sex workers and police officials said. But because they give loans without requiring collateral or documentation, they are like "god", said Ram Mohan, co-founder of anti-trafficking charity HELP. "Women borrow from one to pay another. They are trapped in this debt cycle," Ram Mohan said. Many of those who fall behind on their debts are too scared to go to the police if the moneylenders become abusive or violent, campaigners said. Baji took up sex work at the age of 17 when she was a single parent, recently deserted by her abusive husband, but she had some optimism about the future until her debts spiralled at the height of the lockdown. After the burglary, she was forced to take up work at a brick kiln, earning 400 rupees for a 12-hour day. That too was halved after a mound of bricks fell on her leg, requiring surgery costing 20,000 rupees. Her employer lent her the money but deducts repayments from her wages. "We had problems in sex work, but I was earning and was able to survive and there was hope. I have nothing to look forward to now," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loan-sharks-target-indias-sex-workers-hit-by-covid-19-pandemic-954465.html
23-02-2021||National||Agitating farmer unions object to Delhi Police posters at Tikri protest site||Agitating farmer union on Tuesday objected to Delhi Police putting posters that allegedly warned off protesters at the Tikri border site, even as the force claimed these were not new and only informed the protesters that they would not be allowed to enter the national capital. In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions that is spearheading the ongoing agitation against the three agri laws, said that it is opposed to the police's move as the protesters were exercising their constitutional right and appealed to the farmers to continue their sit-in peacefully. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for nearly 90 days, demanding a complete repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price for crops. "The Delhi Police has placed some posters at the Tikri border protest site where farmers have been warned that they will have to vacate the area. Such posters are irrelevant as farmers have been staging a peaceful protest by exercising their constitutional rights.... "We will oppose the conspiracy to end the protest with these kinds of threats and warnings," the SKM said in the statement. In the posters, the police have not given any deadline to the protesting farmers to vacate the area. On its part, the Delhi Police said it is a "routine" process. "The posters were pasted at the border area after the protest started. It is a routine exercise. Police have conveyed to them through posters that they are sitting in the jurisdiction of Haryana and they are not allowed to enter the national capital unlawfully," a senior police officer said. Thousands of protesters had clashed with the police during a tractor parade called by the agitating farmer unions on January 26. After police permitted the rally, many protesters deviated from the agreed route and reached the Red Fort on tractors. They entered the monument and some of them even hoisted religious flags at the ramparts. The government has projected the three farm laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehensions that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and scrap the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained that the MSP and mandi systems will continue and will also be strengthened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitating-farmer-unions-object-to-delhi-police-posters-at-tikri-protest-site-954467.html
23-02-2021||National||New coronavirus variants not reason for rise in cases in Maharashtra, Kerala||Health officials on Tuesday denied any link between the current Covid-19 upsurge in Maharashtra and a few other states with new variants of the virus found in India, even as the Prime Minister's Office reviewed the intervention strategies in the wake of the sudden rise being seen for the last six days. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said Indian scientists recorded the presence of mutations – tiny changes in the virus genetic makeup – like N440K and E484K in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana. Also, three other mutated strains -- one each from the UK, South Africa and Brazil are already present in the country. The E484K strain was earlier detected in four sequences in Maharashtra as early as March and July 2020. The N440K mutation has been reported on 13 different occasions between May and September 2020 in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Assam. “But there is no reason for us to believe, on the basis of scientific information, that they are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala,” said Paul, a former professor at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. The clarification comes days after a Maharashtra government official blamed the emergence of new variants behind the sudden rise in the number of new infections in the western state that was the epicentre of the Covid-19 pandemic for months. Balram Bhargava, Director-General of Indian Council of Medical Research also corroborated with Paul. “The current upsurge in Maharashtra cannot be attributed to the currently discussed point mutations. However, the situation is being constantly monitored. As further scientific evidence emerges, it shall be duly shared,” he said. The Union Health Ministry has dispatched teams to six states – Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh - and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir to find out the reasons behind the sudden increase of Covid-19 cases, which was on a downhill all over the country barring Kerala since mid-September. "There is an incremental decline in Kerala but since a large number of cases are still being reported, it is a matter of concern,” said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The Malabar state accounts for nearly 38% of active Covid-19 cases in India. Nearly 75% of active cases come from Maharashtra and Kerala. One of the tasks cut out for the central team is to find out whether such an increase in the number of cases was due to Covid-19 inappropriate behaviour or any super-spreader event. The central team would also brief the state officials on their findings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-coronavirus-variants-not-reason-for-rise-in-cases-in-maharashtra-kerala-954475.html
23-02-2021||National||India looks to become 'Aatmanirbhar' in silk sector in next two years: Smriti Irani||The government is looking to ensure that India become self-reliant in the silk sector in the next two years, Union Minister Smriti Irani said on Tuesday.  The Minister of Textiles and Women & Child Development said that the recent Budget has brought cheer to the textile industry with the announcement of seven mega textile parks. Addressing the inaugural session of the Karnataka Vastra Tek - Apparel & Textile Conclave organised by the Department of Handloom and Textiles, Government of Karnataka in association with FICCI Karnataka State Council, Irani elaborated on the growth of the silk sector in the state. She also said that Karnataka reigns in the realm of silk.  "Under the Silk Samagra Program, the Government of India dedicated specifically over Rs 2,000 crore for the development of silk. I am hopeful that the industry gives the state of Karnataka ideas, proposals or initiatives that can make our country Aatmanirbhar in silk. We in the Ministry of Textiles are looking at the next two years to ensure that India is self-reliant in the space of silk," she said. On the future of textiles in the state of Karnataka, the minister said that the Minimum Support Price operations for cotton procurement by the Cotton Corporation of India has touched over Rs 359 crore in the state.  "From 2014-15 to this year, the Ministry of Textiles has extended support of over Ra 1,622 crore only for cotton procurement and MSP operations benefiting over 1.67 lakh farmers," she said.  Highlighting the importance of the handicraft sector, the minister said that 'Pehchaan Cards' or identity cards were distributed to over 26,000 artisans.  The latest handloom census has brought to light that there are over 50,000 weavers in Karnataka who are looking at new opportunities digitally to expand their markets.  She further suggested that on lines of the GeM portal that has brought on board over 1,50,000 weavers from across the country, a similar digital opportunity is given to the marketing of artisans and weavers of Karnataka. The textiles and the apparel sectors were tested as an industry during the COVID times and "we rose to that challenge nationally and internationally by becoming the second largest manufacturers of PPE suits," Irani said.  "The fact that we could turn around our manufacturing processes in less than 60 days to meet the immediate need of our country speaks volume and is a testimony to the talent of the textile industry," she added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-looks-to-become-aatmanirbhar-in-silk-sector-in-next-two-years-smriti-irani-954507.html
23-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Disha Ravi granted bail; Maharashtra govt hinders Coronil sale||In your evening news brief, Delhi court grants bail to climate activist Disha Ravi; Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court gives interim bail on medical grounds to poet-activist Varavara Rao and Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh says sale of Coronil tablets of Patanjali will not be allowed in Maharashtra without proper certification. Here is the top news of February 23, 2021:   A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested from Bengaluru on February 13, in a Google toolkit document case, saying there was not enough material to keep the 22-year-old in custody. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who reserved the order on Saturday, set Disha free on bail on the condition of her furnishing two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. The court also ordered her to cooperate with the investigation into the FIR and not to leave the country.  The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted interim bail on medical grounds to ailing poet-activist Varavara Rao in connection with a 2016 Surjagarh iron ore mine arson case. Rao, 82, and advocate Surendra Gadling were arrested by the Gadchiroli police in Maharashtra in February 2019 in connection with the case.  The sale of Coronil tablets of Patanjali will not be allowed in Maharashtra without "proper certification", state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday. The statement came a day after the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock over the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Coronil tablets which Patanjali claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight Covid-19. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-disha-ravi-granted-bail-maharashtra-govt-hinders-coronil-sale-954511.html
23-02-2021||National||Super 30 founder Anand Kumar's 'inspiring work' lauded in Canadian Parliament||A Canadian MP has praised Super 30 founder and educator Anand Kumar's "inspiring work" with underprivileged children as a successful model for education. Giving an account of education projects being taken up in his federal district in the Canadian Parliament on Monday, MP of Maple Ridge and Pitt Meadows in British Columbia, Marc Dalton, said, "The inspiring work of Super 30 in helping the students from the underprivileged sections of society to overcome all obstacles to reach premier institutions of India." Dalton said Biju Mathew, a resident of Maple Ridge, had written a book on Kumar, the Bihar-born mathematician which is a greatly inspiring read for educationalists. Super 30, a highly acclaimed educational programme founded by Kumar, trains 30 underprivileged students every year for Indian Institutes of Technology entrance examination, without charging any fee. Kumar has earlier been felicitated in Canada in 2012 at a state-level function. The then Minister of Advanced Education, government of British Columbia, Naomi Yamamoto, had termed Kumar a ‘gifted’ teacher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/super-30-founder-anand-kumars-inspiring-work-lauded-in-canadian-parliament-954522.html
23-02-2021||National||Anjali Bhardwaj among 12 winners of US International Anti-Corruption Champions Award||Anjali Bhardwaj was among 12 people chosen on Wednesday for the International Anti-Corruption Champions Award constituted by the United States Department of State with the transparency activist saying the recognition comes at a time those "showing truth to the power" are facing attacks. Bhardwaj is among 12 people who were chosen for the award, launched by Secretary of State Antony J Blinken to "recognise individuals who have demonstrated leadership, courage, and impact in preventing, exposing, and combating corruption". The award "advances" US' support of anti-corruption leaders and innovators. A relentless activist who has raised questions about the Narendra Modi Modi government's several programmes like PM-CARES, electoral bonds and amendments to the Right to Information (RTI) Act among other things, the Joe Biden administration's choice assumes significance. In his telephonic interactions with the Prime Minister, Biden had stressed the need for upholding democratic norms around the world. Bhardwaj said that it is "really a recognition of the work of a very large collective in India" and it comes at a time when the country is facing "serious challenges" in terms of the RTI law being amended and the attacks faced by those who "show the truth to the power". "This is a long struggle. This recognition is something that supports this struggle. When we have electoral bonds that are legitimising large amounts of anonymous funding (of parties), when laws that are actually empowering people are weakened, it is great to support," she told DH. Those chosen for the award include Albanian Judge and Member of the Justice Appointments Council Ardian Dvorani, Director General for Electronic Payments at the Central Bank of Iraq Dhuha A Mohammed,  investigative journalist and editor-in-chief of Factcheck.kg from Kyrgyz Republic Bolot Temirov and Libya’s National Oil Corporation Chairman Mustafa Abdullah Sanalla among others. Founder of Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS), she helped the organisation create legislative report cards that tracked the performance of representatives across a series of categories, defining roles and responsibilities in their capacity as public servants. The SNS is a citizens’ group with a mandate to promote transparency and accountability in government and encourage active participation of citizens, it said. "Additionally, Bhardwaj is a convener of the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information, which successfully advocated for the creation of an anti-corruption ombudsman and the Whistle Blowers’ Protection Act, offering protection to those who expose corruption and abuse of power," the statement said. Other winners also included Investigative Advisor for the Compliance Investigation Division of the Pohnpei State Auditor of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) Sophia Pretrick, Chief of the Special Prosecutors Office Against Corruption and Impunity in Guatemala Juan Francisco Sandoval Alfaro and Chair and co-founder of the Organization for Positive Change Ibrahima Kalil Gueye. Victor Sotto, 30-year-old Mayor of Pasig in the Philippines, Francis Ben Kaifala, Commissioner of Sierra Leone’s Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), and Ruslan Ryaboshapka, who pioneered the restructuring of the prosecutorial service in Ukraine’s prosecutor general’s office were the other winners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anjali-bhardwaj-among-12-winners-of-us-international-anti-corruption-champions-award-954537.html
23-02-2021||National||Don't call us 'Your Honour', it's not US Supreme Court, SC tells law student||The Supreme Court Tuesday cautioned a law student not to address the judges as “Your honour” as it was not the “US Supreme Court”. “When you call us ‘Your Honour’ it appears that you have the US Supreme Court in mind,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told the law student. He immediately apologised to the bench and said that he would address the court as “Your Lordship”. To this, CJI Bobde said: “Whatever, but don't use inappropriate terms”. The bench told him that in the US Supreme Court and in magisterial court here, the court can be addressed as “Your honour” but not in Indian Supreme Court. The bench then asked him what his case was, to which the student, who appeared in-person, said that his plea seeks that infrastructure of the judiciary on the criminal jurisdiction side be strengthened. The bench told him that does he know that there is already a matter pending in the Supreme Court in which directions have been passed to strengthen the infrastructure of judiciary right up to subordinate judiciary level in a phased wise manner. The law student feigned ignorance after which the bench said that it appears that he has not done his homework before approaching the court. It told the petitioner that there is a pending case titled as Malik Mazhar Sultan versus UPSC in which directions have been issued to the Centre, different state governments and High Courts for strengthening of infrastructure right up to subordinate judiciary level. The bench adjourned the matter for four weeks and asked the student to come prepared on the next date of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-call-us-your-honour-its-not-us-supreme-court-sc-tells-law-student-954539.html
23-02-2021||National||India allows Pakistan PM Imran Khan to use its airspace enroute Sri Lanka||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Tuesday flew over Indian airspace enroute Colombo for his maiden visit to Sri Lanka. India had granted permission to Pakistan to use its airspace for Khan’s aircraft for his visit to Sri Lanka. A Pakistan Air Force aircraft, with Khan on board, flew over the Arabian Sea skirting India’s air defence identification zone. The Gulfstream aircraft was in Indian airspace as it flew over the Lakshadweep Islands. In 2019, Pakistan has denied permission to India to use its airspace for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the US and Saudi Arabia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-allows-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-to-use-its-airspace-enroute-sri-lanka-954542.html
23-02-2021||National||India adds 3.2 GW solar capacity in 2020; lowest in 5 years: Report||India added 3,239 megawatt (MW) solar capacity in 2020, down 56 per cent from the previous year, according to a report. The adding of 3,239 MW of solar capacity was the lowest addition in five-years-time, Mercom India Research said in its report on Tuesday.           "India added 3.2 GW or 3,239 MW of solar capacity in 2020, a 56 per cent decline year-over-year (YoY) compared to 7,346 MW installed in 2019," it said adding the country's total solar installed capacity was at 39 GW gigawatt (GW) as of December 2020.       The large-scale solar projects accounted for 78 per cent of installations with 2,520 MW, registering a 60 per cent year-on-year (y-o-y)  decline. The addition of the remaining 719 MW rooftop installations was also down 22 per cent compared to the installation in 2019.           Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Gujarat were the top three states for large-scale solar capacity additions, representing around 51 per cent of 2020 installations. "India's solar installations in 2020 were the lowest in five years. While other top solar markets in the world have experienced positive growth, India, which had one of the most stringent lockdowns in response to the pandemic, took a while to get back up and running. However, we expect the industry to experience significant positive growth in 2021," said Raj Prabhu, Chief Executive Officer of Mercom Capital Group.   According to the report, besides Covid-19, another significant bottleneck in the market has been the difficulty facing government agencies to get distribution companies (DISCOMs) to sign power sale agreements (PSA). This has left about 17-18 GW of projects without a PSA.     Other short-term challenges included the rise in module prices, increased shipping and freight charges in the range of 500 per cent-800 per cent, and a surge in raw material costs.       "As a result, the average large-scale solar project costs increased slightly by 2 per cent quarter-over-quarter (q-o-q) in Q4 (October-November) 2020. However, project costs were 2.5 per cent lower compared to the same quarter in 2019," according to the report.     On its outlook for 2021, the report said it expects the industry to experience positive growth in 2021. Mercom India Research is forecasting over 10 GW of solar installations in 2021.   The rooftop solar market is experiencing a turnaround, with installations improving significantly over the second half of the year. Fourth-quarter was the strongest for rooftop installations, and the report predicts momentum to continue into Q1 (January-March) 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-32-gw-solar-capacity-in-2020-lowest-in-5-years-report-954563.html
23-02-2021||National||Avoid interference while addressing human rights violations: S Jaishankar at UNHRC||The violation of human rights anywhere in the world should be addressed duly respecting the national sovereignty of the concerned country and without interfering in its internal affairs, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. He also called for an assessment of the achievements and failures of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). “We believe that violation of and gaps in the implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty,” Jaishankar said, addressing the UNHRC, which commenced its 46th session on Monday. The statement by the External Affairs Minister was significant as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government over the past couple of years not only drew flak from the international human rights organisations but also repeatedly came under the UNHRC’s spotlight on several issues.  New Delhi, however, has been steadfastly countering the UNHRC’s critical statements – be it on the shutdowns and restrictions imposed in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) after the Modi Government’s August 5, 2019 move to strip the state of its special status and reorganise it into two Union Territories, or the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), or the February 2020 riots in Delhi, or the process of updating the National Register of Citizens in Assam or, more recently, police actions on farmers protesting against the new farm laws. The Modi Government resisted what it perceived as UNHRC’s bid to interfere in the internal affairs of India, repeatedly arguing that enacting laws was its “sovereign prerogative” and violation of laws could not be condoned under the pretext of human rights. “Our approach, Madam President, is based on our own experience as an inclusive and pluralistic society and a vibrant democracy,” Jaishankar said as he virtually addressed the UNHRC, which last month elected Nazhat Shameem Khan, Permanent Representative of Fiji to the United Nations Office at Geneva, to serve as its President for 2021. “Our Constitution has enshrined basic human rights as Fundamental rights, guaranteeing civil and political rights, stipulating provisions for the progressive realisation of economic, social and cultural rights,” the External Affairs Minister said, adding: “These continue to evolve through legislation by Parliament, progressive interpretation of laws by the judiciary and active participation of civil society and citizens.” With the UNHRC completing 15 years since its establishment, Jaishankar stressed on an assessment of “its achievements, reflect on its failures and deliberate on the ways to strengthen and reform it so as to enable it to achieve the objectives for which it has been set up”. “India, as always, is ready to contribute in this endeavour”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-interference-while-addressing-human-rights-violations-s-jaishankar-at-unhrc-954565.html
23-02-2021||National||Idea of climate action should not be to move climate ambition goal post to 2050: India at UNSC||India on Tuesday said that the idea of a climate action should not be to move the goal post to 2050 and countries must fulfil their pre-2020 commitments, calling on the global community to view climate change as a “wakeup call” to strengthen multilateralism and seek equitable solutions for a sustainable world. Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar, addressing the UN Security Council’s open debate on ‘Maintenance of international peace and security: Addressing climate-related risks to international peace and security’ said the delivery on the commitment by developed countries to jointly mobilise USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in support of climate action in developing countries has been elusive. “The idea of climate action should not be to move the climate ambition goal post to 2050. It is important for countries to fulfil their pre-2020 commitments. Climate Action needs to go hand-in-hand with the framework for financial, technical and capacity building support to countries that need it,” he said. The year 2050 is when nations have been called on to achieve net zero CO2 emissions. Emissions must fall by half by 2030 and reach net-zero emissions no later than 2050 to reach the 1.5 Celsius goal of the Paris agreement. He said as nations prepare to meet for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow in November, there is a “significant opportunity" for countries to integrate low-carbon development in their Covid-19 rescue and recovery measures and long-term mitigation strategies that are scheduled to be announced at the summit, which will bring parties together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. “Let us then make the transition to a more climate-friendly lifestyle by adapting to a low carbon-development pathway based on our needs and not on our greed. Let us view climate change as a wakeup call and an opportunity to strengthen multilateralism and seek equitable and inclusive solutions to leave a greener, cleaner and a sustainable world for our future generations,” he said. In his speech, Javadekar emphasised that the global community has addressed the issue of climate change through the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, which together represent a “delicately balanced” global democratic effort to take climate action in a nationally determined manner based on the ‘Common but Differentiated Responsibility and Respective Capabilities’. “Therefore, before we start discussing the issue of securitisation of climate, we need to ensure that we are not building a parallel climate track where these mechanisms and principles are brushed aside or not duly considered,” he said. Noting that even the best science available claims that climate change only exacerbates conflict and is not a reason for conflict and does not threaten peace and security, he said that in a number of fragile contexts, where governments are struggling to provide basic services due to capacity and legitimacy issues, instances of chronic emergency conditions and famine risks are largely driven by continued political violence disrupting harvests and aid supplies rather than by climate factors alone. Javadekar also pointed out that countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) are largely about mitigation commitments and adaptation requirements that, collectively, determine whether countries will achieve the Paris goal of limiting the global average temperate increase to well below 2°C. While climate change does not directly or inherently cause violent conflict, its interaction with other social, political and economic factors can, nonetheless, exacerbate drivers of conflict and fragility and have negative impacts on peace, stability and security, he said. India suggested that in order to better integrate climate change adaptation and peacebuilding, there is a need to build robust governance structures at the local, national and regional levels to address climate and fragility-related risks. Javadekar also underscored that impacts of climate change and its associated security risks have important gender dimensions, and women and girls experience the interplay between climate change and peace and security in direct and profound ways. Highlighting the significant steps taken by India to fight climate change and deliver on its commitments, Javadekar said New Delhi’s mitigation strategies have emphasised on clean and efficient energy systems; safe, smart and sustainable green mass urban transportation network; planned afforestation; and integrating green thinking across all production and consumption sectors. He said India is the only country on track among the G20 nations to meet its climate change mitigation commitments and the country is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets but will also exceed them. India, which currently has the fastest-growing solar energy programme in the world, has expanded access to clean cooking fuel to over 80 million households. India’s commitment of installing 450 gigawatt of renewable energy, elimination of single use plastic, 100 per cent railway electrification, and creation of an additional carbon sink by restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land among other measures have only added to its climate ambitions, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/idea-of-climate-action-should-not-be-to-move-climate-ambition-goal-post-to-2050-india-at-unsc-954607.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||Force 'king of looters' out of Delhi: Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the protest against the Centre's agri-marketing laws could go on for a long time and urged farmers to force "the king of looters" out of Delhi. He also accused "the king" of putting a value on bread. "He is the last king of looters (luteron ka badshah). He has to be forced out of Delhi," Tikait said without naming anyone at a "kisan mahapanchayat" in Nohar of Hanumangarh. "He does not have any affection towards the flag and the country. He is a businessman," Tikait added. The farmer leader also said a beggar and a businessman do not have affection for the country and the fields as they go wherever they get the right money. "A businessman and beggar do not have affection for the country and fields. A beggar will move wherever he gets right money and a trader will do the work where he gets profit," Tikait said, adding that the fight against the laws could go on for long and till a legislation guaranteeing the minimum support price is enacted, people should remain prepared to march to Delhi. Earlier in the day, Tikait at a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at Haryana's Sonipat had said when people gather governments get changed. Tikait said this a day after Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar said in Gwalior that the Centre is ready to talk to the farmers protesting against the new laws and that mere gathering of crowd does not lead to revocation of legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/force-king-of-looters-out-of-delhi-rakesh-tikait-954270.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||Mayawati attacks govt over rising fuel, LPG prices||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Tuesday attacked the BJP government over the rise in petrol, diesel and LPG prices, and termed the rationale of raising funds through this for public welfare "totally unfair". "It is totally wrong and unfair to trouble people, who are already facing problems because of the Covid-19 pandemic, unemployment and inflation, by continuously and unnecessarily increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The rationale of the government to raise funds for public welfare through this tax increase is not fair," she said in a tweet in Hindi. In another tweet, the BSP chief said, "It is essential to immediately stop this burden on the public pocket by constantly and arbitrarily increasing the tax on petrol, diesel etc. In fact, that will be a huge welfare and favour by the government to the crores of poor, hardworking people and the middle classes of the country." Mayawati's remarks came in the wake of the price of petrol touching an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday, as the diesel rate crossed the Rs 88-mark. It was the 12th straight day of price hikes and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-attacks-govt-over-rising-fuel-lpg-prices-954334.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||DMK boycotts Budget presentation in TN Assembly, stages walkout||The main opposition DMK on Tuesday boycotted the presentation of interim budget for 2021-22 in the Tamil Nadu assembly and walked out of the House. As soon as the House convened for the budget and for tabling the demands for advance grants, Speaker P Dhanapal called Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam to present the interim financial statement. However, DMK Deputy leader Duraimurugan was on his feet and sought the Chair's permission to express the party's 'view'. The Speaker replied that the budget has to be tabled and whatever the DMK leader spoke would not go on record. Following this, all the DMK members stood up and sought the Speaker's permission to allow Duraimurugan to convey the party's opinion. As Panneerselvam began reading the budget, DMK members walked out after raising slogans for a while against the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dmk-boycotts-budget-presentation-in-tn-assembly-stages-walkout-954336.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||Congress has lost six governments to BJP since PM Narendra Modi assumed power in 2014||Puducherry is the sixth state or union territory that the Congress lost despite being in power or was in a position to form a government after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, thanks to BJP's political manoeuvring. Congress lost Arunachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka to the BJP while in power as the saffron party managed to wean away a section of its MLAs and form governments. The party lost the Puducherry government just two months before the elections as five of its MLAs and one of ally DMK's resigned, amid Congress allegation that it was engineered by the BJP. In Manipur and Goa, Congress emerged as the single largest party but BJP managed to form governments after breaking the Congress legislature party. Sikkim would be another case of interest and intrigue as the BJP, which did not win a single seat and even lost deposits in the 2019 Assembly polls, now has 12 MLAs in the Assembly by weaning away all MLAs of Sikkim Democratic Front except former Chief Minister Pawan Chamling. In Rajasthan, the BJP attempted to wean away Sachin Pilot to break the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government like it did in Madhya Pradesh where it managed to rope in Jyotiraditya Scindia to unseat Kamal Nath-led government. Gehlot managed to thwart the BJP designs. The BJP's first taste of success in overthrowing a Congress government was in 2016 in Arunachal Pradesh. Congress had won 42 out of 60 seats and 11 for BJP in Arunachal in 2014 Assembly polls. Nabam Tuki first became the Chief Minister and later Pema Khandu assumed power. Khandu along with 40 other Congress MLAs came out of the party in July 2016 and joined the People's Party of Arunachal, only to merge with BJP later in the year, and remained as Chief Minister till the term ended in 2019. He returned to power again. Arunachal also witnessed a short spell of President's Rule when Tuki was the chief minister but the Supreme Court found it faulty, leaving the Centre with egg on its face. In 2019, Karnataka saw the mantle of power swing away from the coalition JD(S)-Congress government. Initially, the BJP, which was the single largest party, was invited to form the government and BS Yediyurappa took the oath of office but resigned before a trust vote. The Congress with 80 MLAs and JD(S) with 37 had joined hands but the BJP managed to wean away 16 lawmakers, leading to the fall of the HD Kumarasamy government and Yediyurappa assuming power once again. Madhya Pradesh was the third state where Congress was ousted from power after forming the government. Congress had formed the government in 2018 with the support of 121 MLAs. However, BJP managed to swing Scindia and 26 MLAs supporting him to its side. In the bypolls, it managed to win 19 of the 26 seats and cementing its majority. Manipur and Goa were a different story as Congress could not even form the government. In Manipur, Congress had emerged as the single largest party in the 2017 Assembly elections with 27 seats in an Assembly of 60 but the Governor invited BJP with 21 seats to form the government. The BJP then managed to wean away nine Congress MLAs while Congress had to be content with the Opposition slot. Congress was expecting to return to power in Goa in 2017 and emerged as the single largest party with 17 seats in a House of 40. However, BJP with 13 seats first ensured that a Congress MLA switched sides and then got the support of 10 other MLAs to form the party. In Maharashtra, however, the BJP plans did not go well despite BJP emerging as the single-largest party and Shiv Sena walking out of the alliance over the debacle regarding the rotation of chief minister's post. BJP had won 105 seats and Sena 56, which was enough to form the government. Sena then joined hands with Congress and NCP and were in the process of forming a government but BJP attempted to spook them by holding an early morning swearing-in of Devendra Fadnavis, after bringing NCP chief Sharad Pawar's nephew and strongman Ajit Pawar to their side and making him the deputy chief minister. However, smart political play by the senior Pawar and others prevented any flow of MLAs from NCP. The Fadnavis government resigned soon after the Supreme Court ordered a floor test after finding out that they could not muster the numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-has-lost-six-governments-to-bjp-since-pm-narendra-modi-assumed-power-in-2014-954411.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi invokes Lord Krishna to attack PM Narendra Modi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday invoked Lord Krishna in 'Brajbhoomi' (the land of Krishna) to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi and called him 'anti-farmer. Calling the PM ''arrogant', Priyanka said that the sacred land of Krishna had broken the ego of many people and that it would do the same thing to Modi also. ''Just as Lord Krishna had deflated the ego of Indra (the god of rain), the prime minister's ego will also be broken by him (Krishna),'' Priyanka said while addressing a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Mathura, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the Hindu mythology, Lord Krishna lifted Govardhan Hill, situated in Mathura district, to save the residents from the fury of Indra who became angry with them and caused heavy rains.  She said that the people there celebrate Annakoot (a Hindu festival during which the devotees worship the Govardhan Hill and prepare a large variety of vegetarian food and offer it to Lord Krishna as a mark of gratitude) but the PM has been humiliating the 'annadatas' (farmers). The Congress leader went on to add that this government is bent upon selling everything the country has. ''Save the Govardhan Hill, otherwise, the government will sell it also,'' she said in a sarcastic vein. She also said that PM Modi has failed to fulfil the promises he made to the people during the elections. Priyanka recited a couplet from a poem written by famous Hindu poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar to say that the arrogance would ruin the BJP. ''Jab naash manushya par chata hai, pahle vivek mar jata hai'' (Reason dies first when someone heads for destruction), she said. Interestingly Priyanka began her speech with chants of 'Radhe-Radhe' (the consort of Lord Krishna) and also made the crowd chant 'Banke Bihari ki Jai' (Krishna). In the 'Brajbhumi', the Hindus greet each other by saying 'Radhe-Radhe'. The Congress leader has been going from one temple to another in the past few days while addressing the meetings of farmers. She had also taken a dip at the holy 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) on the occasion of 'Mauni Amavasya' (a scared day on which millions take a dip in holy rivers across India) at Prayagraj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-invokes-lord-krishna-to-attack-pm-narendra-modi-954447.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers will gherao Parliament if farm laws are not repealed, Rakesh Tikait says||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said on Tuesday that if the Centre does not repeal the three new agriculture laws, the protesting farmers will gherao Parliament.  He appealed to farmers to be ready as the call for 'Delhi march' can be given at any time.  Tikait was addressing the Kisan Mahapanchayat of United Kisan Morcha in Sikar, Rajasthan Tuesday.  "This time the call will be for Parliament gherao. We will announce it and then march towards Delhi. This time 40 lakh tractors will be there instead of four lakh tractors," he said. Tikait said the protesting farmers would plough the parks near India Gate and grow crops there. Leaders of the United Front will decide the date to gherao the Parliament, he added.  He also said there was a conspiracy to malign the country's farmers on January 26, when violence had broken out in the national capital during their tractor parade. "The farmers of the country love the tricolour, but not the leaders of this country," he said. Tikait said farmers are openly challenging the government that if it does not repeal all three contentious agricultural laws and does not implement the MSP, then the farmers of the country will also demolish the godowns of big companies. The United Front will also give a date for this soon, he said.  The mahapanchayat was also addressed by Swaraj movement leader Yogendra Yadav, National Vice President of All India Kisan Sabha Amra Ram, National General Secretary of Kisan Union, Chaudhary Yudhvir Singh and others.  Earlier on Tuesday, Tikait also addressed a farmers' gathering at Sardarshahar in Churu district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-will-gherao-parliament-if-farm-laws-are-not-repealed-rakesh-tikait-says-954567.html
23-02-2021||National Politics||BJP's 'ungrateful' jibe at Rahul Gandhi||BJP on Tuesday hurled the “ungrateful” jibe at Rahul Gandhi after he appeared to suggest that people of north India had a superficial interest in issues. “Divide and rule politics won’t work Rahul Gandhiji. People have rejected these politics. See what happened in Gujarat,” said Nadda. Speaking at a rally in Kerala, Rahul said that his election to the Lok Sabha from the state had been a refreshing experience. “For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north. I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues,” the former Congress President said in Thiruvananthapuram. “Ungrateful! The world says about such people – ‘one who is not knowledgeable blabbers more,” Textiles Minister Smriti Irani, who defeated Rahul in the Lok Sabha elections in Amethi said. Rahul had won the Lok Sabha poll from Wayanad in Kerala, the second seat he had contested, apprehending defeat in the family pocket borough of Amethi. Nadda accused Rahul of “spewing venom against the western part of India” while speaking at a rally in the Northeast. In Guwahati, Rahul had accused the BJP of dividing the people of Assam so that businessmen from Gujarat get the wealth from the state, including from tea gardens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-ungrateful-jibe-at-rahul-gandhi-954573.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||16,856 children adopted within India since 2015-16; girls account for 75% of adoptions||Over 16,800 children, including 9,895 girls, were adopted within the country in the past six years with those less than two years accounting for almost 75 per cent of the adoptions, according to Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD) data. The data collated by the Ministry also showed that 725 children below the age of three months were adopted between April 1, 2016, and February 3, 2021. According to the data and placed in Parliament during the first leg of the Budget Session, a total of 16,856 children up to the age of 18 years were adopted between 2015-16 and 2020-21 up to February 3. Of this, 6,961 were boys. The fiscal 2018-19 recorded the highest number of adoptions in the past six years at 3,219, followed by 3,214 in 2017-18 and 3,210 in 2016-17. In 2015-16, in-country adoptions were only 1,881 while in 2020-21, it was 2,160 as on February 3. All these years, girls were the most sought after for adoption in comparison with boys. The number of boys who were adopted ranged between 732 and 1,354 in a year while that of girls was between 1,149 and 1,890 during this period. An analysis of the age group of children being adopted showed that those below two years were the most favourite -- 12,550 such children were adopted in the past six years, accounting for 74.45 per cent of the total. Of the 12,550, girl children accounted for 8,099 while 4,451 were boys. The least number of adoptions was in the age group of 14-18 years where only 59 -- 26 boys and 33 girls -- were adopted. Only in the age group of 6-8 years, the number of adopted boys (203) was higher than that of girls (198) during the six-year period. In the age group of 2-4 years, there were 1,370 adoptions, including 760 girls while in 4-6 years. It was 419 boys to 470 girls and 169 boys and 181 girls in 8-10 years. In 10-12, it was 80 boys and 102 girls and in the 12-14 age group, it was 59 boys and 66 girls.  As per Section 38 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said, orphaned and abandoned children are required to be declared legally free for adoption within two months in case of a child up to the age of two years and within four months in case of a child above the age of two years. Surrendered children are required to be declared legally free for adoption after two months (reconsideration period) from the date of surrender of the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16856-children-adopted-within-india-since-2015-16-girls-account-for-75-of-adoptions-954273.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||West Bengal questions before Supreme Court revival of contempt plea against IPS officer Rajeev Kumar||The West Bengal government on Tuesday questioned the "revival" of contempt plea against IPS officer Rajeev Kumar by the CBI in the Saradha chit fund scam case just before Assembly elections in the state. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the state government, contended before a bench presided over by Justice S A Nazeer that the CBI was reviving something which was age-old and that too before the elections. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, said the contempt always remained alive.  The court, however, adjourned the matter for two weeks.  West Bengal is scheduled to go into Assembly polls within months. The CBI, in an application, sought cancellation of bail given to former Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar in order to subject him to custodial interrogation on the ground that he remained evasive during questioning. Kumar, a close confidant of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was alleged to have tampered evidence by providing incomplete call detail records and other materials in the Saradha chit fund scam probe. He had then headed an SIT to investigate the scam. On February 3, 2019, when the CBI sleuths went to the residence of Kumar, then Kolkata police commissioner, to question him, the state police laid siege on the central investigating agency's personnel. The chief minister also rushed to his residence and subsequently sat on a 'dharna'. Earlier, he was granted protection from arrest by the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-bengal-questions-before-supreme-court-revival-of-contempt-plea-against-ips-officer-rajeev-kumar-954322.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh attack govt over fuel price hike||The Opposition Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday attacked the BJP government over the rise in fuel prices, saying it was unfair to trouble people reeling from the impact of Covid-19. The parties demanded that the government immediately stop burdening the public with the increase in fuel prices. "It is totally wrong and unfair to trouble people who are already facing problems because of the Covid-19 pandemic, unemployment and inflation, by continuously and unnecessarily increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The rationale of the government to raise funds for public welfare through this tax increase is not fair," the BSP supremo said in a tweet in Hindi. "It is essential to immediately stop this burden on the public pocket by constantly and arbitrarily increasing the tax on petrol, diesel etc," she said, adding the government will do a huge favour on hardworking people and the middle class by checking the prices. Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav also took to Twitter to criticise the BJP government over the rise in fuel price. "Income is decreasing, there is cut in salaries, What will one eat and save?" Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. He also tagged a cartoon which showed a scooter with "vikas" written on it and a petrol nozzle with a man's face showing his difficulty in coping with the price rise. Price of petrol touched an all-time high of Rs 97 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday, while diesel rate crossed the Rs 88-mark. This was the 12th straight day of the price hike and the largest daily increase since oil companies started to revise rates on a daily basis in 2017. The increase pushed the petrol price to Rs 90.58 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 97 in Mumbai. Petrol price has already surged past the Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, which levy the highest VAT on the fuel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-in-uttar-pradesh-attack-govt-over-fuel-price-hike-954409.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Driver burnt alive as truck catches fire after collision||A truck driver was burnt alive after his vehicle collided with another truck and caught fire, police said on Tuesday. The accident occurred near Jagraon, about 40 km from Ludhiana, on Monday night, they said. The victim is yet to be identified, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-driver-burnt-alive-as-truck-catches-fire-after-collision-954412.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur claims she was beaten up by police in bail plea||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur in her bail plea before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has claimed that she was severely beaten up at a police station after her arrest by the Sonipat police last month. The 23-year-old activist, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, has also claimed that her medical examination was not conducted in violation of section 54 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Kaur is currently lodged in Karnal jail in Haryana. The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had adjourned the hearing on her bail plea and posted the matter for February 24. In the bail plea filed through her counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Harinder Deep Singh Bains, Kaur stated that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. In her petition, the labour rights activist claimed that she was "targeted and falsely implicated" in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmer movement against the Centre's three new farm laws. Kaur, who is a member of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan, said they mobilized people for a protest at Kundli in Sonipat district against Centre's new farm laws. The plea alleged that the mobilisation of local labourers in support of farmers annoyed the administration and a plan was devised to stifle the protest. The bail plea stated that on January 12, the petitioner and MAS members marched towards a factory for demanding payment of pending wages of some workers. The high court was informed that they were manhandled by a group formed by the Kundli Industrial Area, an association of industrial owners. In the meantime, a team from Kundli police station led by the station house officer reached there and immediately on their arrival, they grabbed the petitioner by her hair and dragged to the side, according to the plea. This angered the protesters and the situation became worse when the police resorted to lathi charge on peaceful protesters. A scuffle ensued and the petitioner tried to pacify the situation but to no avail, it said. The petitioner alone was caught and arrested by police officials. She was beaten, tortured and suffered multiple injuries, it claimed. The petitioner was taken to the police station in the absence of any woman police official and was beaten up by police officials, the plea alleged. Kaur was arrested in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12, the Haryana police had earlier said. Sonepat police officials had also said that a police team was attacked with sticks when they reached the site and some policemen sustained injuries in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-claims-she-was-beaten-up-by-police-in-bail-plea-954448.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Republic Day Violence: Delhi court sends Deep Sidhu to 14-day judicial custody||A Delhi court Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to judicial custody for 14 days in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day during farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Samarjeet Kaur on the expiry of his 7-day police custody in the case. The court had earlier sent Sidhu to police custody after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/republic-day-violence-delhi-court-sends-deep-sidhu-to-14-day-judicial-custody-954468.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||'Whose regime can be termed Junge Raj?', asks Tejashwi as he slams Nitish over rising crime rate in Bihar||Leader of Opposition in the Bihar assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday criticised the state government over rise in crime, saying it has doubled in the state under NDA rule than what was during the 15-year regime of the RJD under Lalu Prasad-Rabri Devi. Participating in a debate during motion of thanks on Governor's address to a joint sitting of the state legislature, the RJD leader said that the number of cognisable offence cases was 97,850 when Lalu Prasad left office but the number rose to 1,96,911 cases in 2018 during NDA regime, registering a 101.2 per cent of growth. Countering the allegations of 'Jungle Raj' (era of misrule) under his father Lalu Prasad's regime, Yadav said, records suggest otherwise. "Whose regime can be termed as 'Jungle Raj'?" he asked. To buttress his point, he cited the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of Lalu Prasad's rule between 1990 and 2005 and compared it with the figures of the next 13 years relating to NDA regime. Noting that Bihar ranked 23rd in the country vis-a-vis crime in 2000, the RJD leader said, the number of cases had declined to 97,850 in 2005 when Lalu Prasad exited. But the number of cases rose to 1,27,453 in 2010, 1,76,000 in 2015 and 1,96,911 in 2018, he said. Crime cases were less in undivided Bihar which had 54 districts, in comparison to Nitish Kumar's dispensation across 38 districts, after the creation of Jharkhand, he added. Reminding Nitish Kumar of his branding the BJP in 2015 as "Badka Jhootha Party" (party of big liars), Tejahshwi said, Nitish Kumar is "stepney-stooge" of the saffron party and has become chief minister at the BJP's mercy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/whose-regime-can-be-termed-junge-raj-asks-tejashwi-as-he-slams-nitish-over-rising-crime-rate-in-bihar-954474.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||College girl found lying with severe burns along national highway in UP||A girl was found lying severely burnt along a national highway in Shahjahanpur district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Tuesday. It was not immediately known how the girl -- a BA second-year student of a college run by a trust of former union minister Swami Chinmayanand -- suffered burns and with no clothes on the body ended up on the roadside, the police said, adding that she was not in a state to record her statement. According to Superintendent of Police S Anand, the student suffered 60 per cent burns and has been referred to a hospital in Lucknow for better treatment. The girl had come to attend her classes accompanied by her father on Monday. As she did not come out after the classes, her father started looking for her. He was later informed that she has been found lying along the Lucknow-Bareilly National Highway naked and with severe burns and that she was being taken to a hospital by the police. The girl from a village in the Jalalabad police station area is a student of Swami Shukdevanand Postgraduate College, run by Mumukshu Ashram of Chinmayanand. The girl's father said that he used to bring his daughter to the college once a week or fortnight and used to wait outside till classes ended. In a separate incident in the district, the body of a five-year-old girl was recovered while her seven-year-old cousin sister was found injured in the Kanth police station area here. They had been missing since Monday evening after they had gone to a tubewell outside the village for taking bath, Anand said. As their family members and other villagers searched for them, the body of one of them was found in an agricultural field outside the village, while the other was found lying injured in neighbouring Fazilpur village, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/college-girl-found-lying-with-severe-burns-along-national-highway-in-up-954481.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||UP govt has freed 67,000 acres of land from land mafia: Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh revenue department has so far freed 67,000 acres of land from the land mafia during the tenure of the current government and priority has been given to make sports grounds on it, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath told the Legislative Council on Tuesday. Replying to a question raised by MLC Suresh Kumar Tripathi, Adityanath said, "After this government was formed in 2017, an anti-land mafia task force was constituted to free public and private land grabbed under the patronage of those who were in power and using other tricks. The task force has so far freed 67,000 acres of land of the revenue department." "Priority has been given to sports grounds, whether under the sports department, the youth welfare department or under the MGNREGA. Our effort is that sports grounds should be made at the panchayat level. If the land is found near primary or upper primary schools, then children will get space for themselves and villagers will also get space for holding public programmes," he said. The chief minister said that the intention of his government is that the sports grounds should be located near the primary and upper primary schools. "The district magistrates have been instructed to exchange land if needed. So far, sports grounds have been made in thousands of village panchayats," he said. Adityanath also said that sports kits have been provided to the "yuvak mangal dal" and "mahila mangal dal".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-has-freed-67000-acres-of-land-from-land-mafia-adityanath-954483.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab orders fresh curbs on indoor, outdoor gatherings as Covid-19 cases rise||The Punjab government on Tuesday ordered curbs on both indoor and outdoor gatherings from March 1 and authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to impose night-curfew in Covid-19 hotspots in their districts if needed. Chairing a virtual review meeting of the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh issued orders to limit indoor gatherings to 100 people and outdoor events to 200 attendees from March 1, an official statement said. He also directed that face masks and social distancing norms be strictly enforced, it said. The move comes amid growing concerns over an upswing in the number of coronavirus cases in the state. Singh authorised DCs to adopt micro-containment strategies and impose night-curfews in Covid-19 hotspots if needed and directed the police to ensure that people wear masks. The chief minister said a decision on reducing occupancy in cinema halls will be taken after March 1. Private offices and restaurants will be encouraged to display last Covid-19 tests done for all employees, he added. Punjab is among five states that have been asked by the Centre to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing to check the growing number of cases. The other four states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-orders-fresh-curbs-on-indoor-outdoor-gatherings-as-covid-19-cases-rise-954485.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Without knowing A, B, C of Bihar we reduced you to 40 seats: Tejashwi responds to Nitish Kumar’s taunts||Former Deputy Chief Minister and senior RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Tuesday tore Nitish Kumar to shreds. Participating in a discussion during the Budget session of the State Assembly, Tejashwi said, “Without knowing the A, B, C of Bihar, we reduced you to 40 seats. Had we attained knowledge of X, Y, Z, you would not have been able to open your account in the Assembly.” Tejashwi was responding to Nitish’s recent jibe on Lalu Prasad’s son that “those who do not have knowledge of A, B, C of Bihar, keep raking up unnecessary issues.” Notably, Nitish's party could win merely 43 seats (out of 243 constituencies) in the November 2020 Assembly elections, while the RJD became the largest party, although it narrowly missed forming the Government.  “It is unfortunate that you became a puppet in the hands of the BJP, whom you used to call ‘Badka Jhoota Party’ (The biggest party of liars). And now you are sitting on the lap of the same BJP. You should answer people why the farmers of Bihar have the lowest income in the country. You should tell the people why crime is at its peak ever since you have returned to power. And, above all, you should tell the nation how prohibition is a big failure in Bihar,” said Tejashwi, while participating in the House discussion. “You spoke ill about me and my family throughout the Assembly election, and, at times, used foul language too. But I took your ‘taunts’ as a blessing. Now, look how you have been rendered a helpless and inefficient Chief Minister where the government has gone for a toss. You are concerned about just one thing: Your ‘kursi’ (CM’s chair),” Tejashwi continued firing on all cylinders. Replying to Tejashwi’s comments, Nitish said, “Let the Opposition say what it wants. But the fact is I have put Bihar on the fast track of development. And statistics speak volumes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/without-knowing-a-b-c-of-bihar-we-reduced-you-to-40-seats-tejashwi-responds-to-nitish-kumar-s-taunts-954492.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Stay away from delimitation exercise in J&K: All Parties Sikh Coordination Committee to Sikhs||All Parties Sikh Coordination Committee (APSCC) chairman Jagmohan Singh Raina on Tuesday asked the Sikhs to remain away from the delimitation exercise as there was no reservation for the community in Jammu and Kashmir. Raina said there was no point in meeting the members of the Delimitation Commission given the fact that the people at the helm are indifferent towards the issues of minorities in the union territory. He said the commission would lose its credibility if the minorities are not taken on board. “I appeal to the community members to remain aloof from any process of delimitation of constituencies. They should take part in the process only when some seats are reserved for minorities in the Jammu and Kashmir legislative assembly,” Raina said. The Sikh leader said many constituencies in both Kashmir and Jammu divisions have a huge number of Sikh voters and they hold the key to the fate of politicians who fight elections from such constituencies. “In the past, we have been demanding reservation in assembly segments, but the demand was never considered by political parties and the Delimitation Commission. The present Delimitation Commission initiated by the Ministry of Home Affairs has been tasked to set up a new state of Jammu & Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 by Parliament,” Raina said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stay-away-from-delimitation-exercise-in-jk-all-parties-sikh-coordination-committee-to-sikhs-954497.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Congress to bring no-confidence motion against Haryana government, ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda says||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the Congress will bring a no-confidence motion against the state government in Budget session of the assembly next month. He said the party will also seek amendment to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act to add a provision ensuring the minimum support price (MSP) for crops. “We will bring a no-confidence motion after the Governor's Address in the assembly. The Congress will also bring a private member bill to demand amendment to the APMC Act by adding guarantee of the MSP for farmers' benefit,” Hooda said after the meeting at his residence here. The Budget session of the state assembly is starting on March 5. Hooda claimed the “voices of dissent” are being heard among the MLAs supporting the government. "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers," he said. Hooda told reporters that the issues to be raised during the Budget session were discussed at the Congress Legislature Party meeting and said problems of farmers and unemployment will be highlighted in the Vidhan Sabha. “Every section of the society is under distress and is facing problems that need immediate attention as the government has failed on all fronts. No work is being done in the state and scams are the only thing that is happening in the state,” he said. The Congress leader said Calling Attention Motions will be brought by his party to discuss liquor and other alleged scams. “The Congress will also seek answers from the government on the issue of rising unemployment and frequent leak of papers in recruitment exams,” he said. On the ongoing farmers' agitation against Centre's new farm laws, Hooda said the government should find a solution soon. He said the government should not delay accepting the demands of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-to-bring-no-confidence-motion-against-haryana-government-ex-cm-bhupinder-hooda-says-954505.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Six of family killed in Bihar road accident; PM Modi, CM express grief||Six members of a family were killed when their car rammed into a truck on a highway in Bihar's Katihar district on Tuesday, police said. The mishap took place on NH-31 in the Kursela Police Station area when the deceased were returning to their home in Samastipur from Purnea where they had gone to finalise a marriage, SHO Aman Raj said. The driver lost control of the vehicle while trying to overtake the truck, he said. Three occupants of the truck were also injured in the accident which disrupted traffic movement on the highway until the damaged vehicles were removed, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi came out with a tweet, saying "heard the sad news about the loss of lives in a road mishap at Katihar in Bihar. I express deep condolences for the bereaved family members and pray for the early recovery of those who have been injured." Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar issued a statement, expressing grief over the tragedy and said instructions have been given to the officials concerned for expeditious payment of ex-gratia to the next of kin of each deceased and proper medical aid to those who have sustained injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-of-family-killed-in-bihar-road-accident-pm-modi-cm-express-grief-954521.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab, Rajasthan on alert as Covid-19 cases soar||Punjab and Rajasthan governments were on alert on Tuesday as Covid-19 cases increased in parts of the country, urging citizens to follow social distancing and wear face masks in public places. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh imposed fresh curbs on both indoor and outdoor gatherings and directed district officials to impose night curfew if required and adopt micro-containment strategies in case of new outbreaks of the disease. At a review meeting, Singh also issued orders to post Covid-19 monitors at marriage halls and restaurants, and nodal teachers in schools to ensure adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Singh also ordered restrictions on indoor gatherings to 100 and outdoor to 200 persons from March 1 and ramped up testing to 30,000 samples per day. In Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot urged citizens to follow Covid-19 protocol and get tested on displaying symptoms of infection. “Covid pandemic is under control in Rajasthan because of your cooperation, but there is still need to exercise utmost caution… A little carelessness can be a reason for trouble,” Gehlot said. In Punjab, the Chief Minister said a decision on reducing occupancy in cinema halls will be taken after March 1. Private offices and restaurants will be encouraged to display the last Covid-19 tests done for all employees, he added. Punjab is among five states that have been asked by the Centre to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing to check the growing number of cases. The other four states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Punjab Chief Secretary Vinni Mahajan ruled out the re-closure of government schools and said the department was taking all steps to ensure the safety of students. Teachers have been designated the role of nodal officers in schools to instruct students on the proper use of masks and ensure adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. “These steps have come as a significant number of cases have been reported from the recently reopened schools, especially in Ludhiana, with a positivity rate of 3.1% and Bathinda (2.9%),” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-rajasthan-on-alert-as-covid-19-cases-soar-954560.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers at Delhi's borders observe ‘Pagdi Sambhal Divas’||Donning traditional turbans and singing songs of the peasant movement, farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three agricultural laws on Tuesday marked the “Pagdi Sambhal Divas”. Called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the day-long event was inspired by the “Pagdi Sambhal Lehar” of 1906. “At that time also, the government had passed three anti-farmer laws against which the peasant movement started and it was successful. The unity of the farmers proves that this movement will also be successful,” an SKM statement said. Once turban used to be pride of the farmer, but the government has forced farmers to use turban for hanging, farmer leaders said, adding that the day was observed to “express their self-respect”. At the Singhu border, cultural programmes were held, which were attended by the family members of the revolutionary Bhagat Singh, including his nephew Abhay Sandhu. While addressing the farmers, Sandhu said he would observe a fast unto death if the government did not accept the demands of the farmers by March 23 (Bhagat Singh’s death anniversary). Farmers also celebrated the birth anniversary of nationalist and peasant leader Swami Sahajanand Saraswati, by recalling his role in nation-building and mass movements. At Tikri border, several farmers, largely from Karnataka and Telangana, arrived to join the movement. “The government repeatedly rejects this movement by calling it a movement of a particular area, rather this movement belongs to the farmers across the country,” the SKM statement said. "Pagdi Sambhal Divas” was also observed in Nandurbar in Maharashtra, and Bhiwani in Haryana. Thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, including Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at multiple Delhi borders against the three farm laws, which they are afraid, will do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of the big private corporations. While the government has been projecting the laws as agricultural reforms, farmers have been demanding the repeal of the three legislations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-at-delhis-borders-observe-pagdi-sambhal-divas-954564.html
23-02-2021||North and Central||Haryana farmers destroy crop in protest against farm laws||Some farmers in Haryana destroyed their wheat crop in protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws, prompting political and farmer leaders to appeal to them not to resort to such drastic measures. Some farmers in the state’s Karnal, Jind and Ambala districts had destroyed wheat crops over two to four acres of their land. In Karnal's Mundigarhi village, a farmer destroyed his wheat crop on four acres on Tuesday. The farmer told reporters that he did it in protest against the new farm laws. Another farmer at Manakpur village, around 3 km from Ambala City, flattened his wheat crop over one acre. Gurpreet Singh, who wanted to destroy the crop over five acres, was prevented from doing so by local BKU leader Gulab Singh. Gurpreet told reporters that he was annoyed over the attitude of the Union government as it was not repealing the farm laws. In the past a couple of days, some farmers destroyed their crop on few patches of land using their tractors, prompting Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni to appeal to them not to take such a step. Chaduni appealed to them not to take such a step, saying the Centre will not be moved by such measures. “Since the past a couple of days, we have been receiving reports that farmers are destroying crops. It pains to see this as farmers raise their crops like their children,” Chaduni said. “Those farmer brothers who are doing this, I want to tell them that the government is not going to accept their demands by such measures. Ten to 15 farmers have already committed suicide, when this did not move the government, will they agree to the demands if crops are destroyed,” Chaduni said in a video message. Talking to reporters in Bhiwani, Agriculture Minister J P Dalal said, "I don't think it is appropriate. There can be other ways of protest." Speaking to reporters after the Congress Legislature Party meeting, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda also appealed to farmers not to harm their crops. Farmers in a couple of districts started to destroy their wheat crop close on the heels of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait making an appeal to them at a "kisan mahapanchayat" held in Hisar district where he asked them to be ready to sacrifice their standing crop if their demands are not met by the Centre. Asserting that they won't return home till the farm laws are repealed, Tikait had last week said farmers should be ready to sacrifice their standing crop for it. Presuming that some farmers might have misinterpreted Tikait's appeal, Chaduni sought to clarify what he had said. "What Tikait had said that if need arises farmers should be ready to sacrifice one crop. Where did he say that they should destroy their crop. With folded hands, I appeal that no farmer should destroy crop or commit suicide. We are fighting, we are not leaving the agitation. We will continue this agitation till the time the government does not accept our demands," said Chaduni.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-farmers-destroy-crop-in-protest-against-farm-laws-954589.html
23-02-2021||Oasis||Outgrowing ostentation||In an old family photograph, my maternal grandparents are seated in the centre. Beside and behind them are their daughters and sons, along with spouses and children. I am in the front row, wearing splendid clothes and a sullen expression. Shortly before leaving for the studio, my cousin and I got into an argument about who was better attired. I haughtily told her that my frock was edged with diamonds. They were actually bits of glittering glass but, at the age of seven, I believed they were priceless gems. Not to be outdone, my cousin (three years younger to me) declared that the colourful dolls adorning her white-collar were prettier than my sparkling stones. Recently, both of us laughingly discussed our heated debate. We ruefully admitted that on the day the picture was taken, nearly six decades ago, neither dolls nor diamonds enhanced our appearance. ‘Smile,’ said the cameraman coaxingly. We sulked, and our frowning faces were preserved for posterity.  I cringe when I recall my behaviour. Still, I am sure that there are others like me, who once boasted about their belongings. I basked in admiration as I rode around on my blue bicycle. I valued my board-games largely because they were the envy of my playmates. I was smugly aware that my miniature, rose-patterned tea-set was a fine piece of craftsmanship. My friends were no less pretentious. When they obtained toys and books that would interest me, they were quick to flaunt their fortune.  Showing off (the term we used at school) by kids is perhaps pardonable. It should not, however, continue into adulthood. St Paul wrote to the early church in Corinth, Greece, saying that when he was a child, he spoke, thought and understood as a child but later ‘put away childish things. Immoderate and immodest talk of one’s acquisitions and achievements is immature, so let us desist from displaying pride in our possessions. I have long since outgrown my ‘diamond’ dress, but have I outgrown ostentation?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/outgrowing-ostentation-954592.html
23-02-2021||Panorama||Industrial Code 2020: Parliament should fill the gaps, else courts will have to||The Industrial Relations Code 2020 is being promoted by the government as a bill that will energise India’s industry and revitalise its economic growth while at the same time freeing employees from the chains of the three earlier labour laws, namely the Trade Unions Act, 1926; The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, and The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. However, the bill has substantive issues in it, from violation of the principle of separation of powers to making it difficult for employees to strike, and even certain undefined terms. These are the some of the issues that the government needs to consider before going ahead with it. At the outset, a new industrial law is long due. The 6th Economic Census (2013-14) reported that 59 million establishments employ 131 million people in India. Of these, 28% hired only one worker. Thus, the challenge for government was to regulate a diverse set of workers while keeping in mind their rights. It envisages to do so through this code. This code provides for registration of trade unions if they have 10% of the workers or 100 workers with them, whichever is less. The code also provides for a negotiating union to negotiate with the administration of the factory. The negotiating union can be the sole union or, where there are multiple unions, then a union with 51% workers on muster roll. The code also provides for other modifications, such as on lay-off and retrenchment. Some of these reforms need to be looked at in the light of the separation of powers conundrum that this code creates.   The basic flaw in the code is that it fails to define certain essential terms. The code defines a ‘worker’ as any person who works for hire or reward. It excludes persons employed in a managerial or administrative capacity or in a supervisory capacity with wages exceeding Rs 18,000 per month. However, it does not define the terms ‘manager’ or ‘supervisor’ in this context. These terms are used in the remaining two labour codes tabled parallel to this code, i.e., Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Code and the Wages and Social Security Code. The Standing Committee, which examined the OSH Code, recommended that the terms ‘supervisor’ and ‘manager’ be clearly defined in the code as it determines the categories of persons who would be excluded from the definition of ‘workers’.   Further, the code uses the term ‘contractor’ while defining certain terms. For example, ‘employer’ is defined to include a ‘contractor’. However, the code does not define ‘contractor’. Hence, it defines an unknown term with another unknown term. Not defining an important term such as ‘contractor’ will emanate further legislation on it in the future. Hence, it would be best to define these terms in the definition clause of the code.   The code requires all persons to give a prior notice of 14 days before a strike or lockout. This has to be shared with the conciliation officer within five days, after which conciliation proceedings will start immediately. Strikes and lockouts are prohibited during these conciliation proceedings and even seven days after conciliation proceedings end. Further, if this conciliation is not successful and as a result an application by either of the parties is filed before the tribunal, then there is a prohibition on strikes and lockouts during the proceedings and even 60 days after them. Now, given the slow speed of conciliation and proceedings in India, it is fairly evident, the code will effectively bar protests and lockouts, albeit indirectly. The code also provides for the constitution of Industrial Tribunals and a National Industrial Tribunal to decide disputes. It states that the awards passed by a tribunal will be enforceable on the expiry of 30 days. Under the code, the government can defer the enforcement of the award in certain circumstances, namely public policy affecting national economy or social justice. These circumstances are when: (i) the central or state government is a party to the dispute in appeal, or (ii) the award has been given by a National Tribunal. The appropriate government can also make an order rejecting or modifying the award under the above provided conditions. The notification and the order will be tabled in the legislature. However, this will not be of much effect when the legislature is controlled by only one political party.   The question is whether such a provision would violate the principle of separation of powers between the executive and the judiciary, since it empowers the government to change the decision of the tribunal through executive action. Further, it raises the question of whether there is a conflict of interest, as the government may modify an award made by the tribunal in a dispute in which it is a party. The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 had similar provisions. In 2011, the Madras High Court (affirming a 1997 Andhra Pradesh High Court judgement) struck down these provisions on constitutional grounds and held that the power of the executive to decline enforcing an award or to modify it allows the executive to sit in judgement over the decision of the tribunal, and therefore violates the separation of powers between the executive and the judiciary, which forms a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. Yet, this provision has been replicated in the code. The Standing Committee on Labour Law, while examining an identical provision in the 2019 bill, had recommended removing this provision in view of these judgements. Evidently, however, it has still made its way into this code. It can thus be seen that certain basic terms need to be defined in the code, provisions that indirectly disallow protest as well as those that conflict with the separation of powers need to be amended. It is best that these changes are made by the legislature, rather than allowing a pile up of cases in court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/industrial-code-2020-parliament-should-fill-the-gaps-else-courts-will-have-to-954590.html
23-02-2021||Panorama||Arbitration as an alternative||Today, NPAs are a menace in every bank and the delay in their recoveries is a matter of concern to the bankers and the regulators. Time and again, the fear of depositors losing money because of the stress on the bank’s financials keeps popping up forcing authorities to make statements to allay those fears. The success of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) in helping banks recover dues from large corporates cannot be denied. As per the Economic Survey 2020, the IBC has improved resolution processes in India compared to the earlier measures. The proceedings resulted in the recovery of 42.5% of the amount involved compared to 14.5% under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest (SARFAESI) Act. In terms of duration, the survey stated that the IBC proceedings take 340 days on an average as compared to the duration of 4.3 years in the SARFAESI case. While this reinforces the efficacy of the IBC as an effective tool for bad loan resolution, the banking industry needs a similar resolution mechanism for smaller borrowers like partnerships and individuals. The NPAs are high in this segment too and are expected to balloon due to covid stress. With more than a third of the customers skipping payment in the past few weeks, financial stress among middle and low-income retail borrowers is beginning to worry all. Is it then time for banks to look at the Alternative Redressal options, particularly arbitration, for a solution? Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), encompassing Arbitration, Negotiation and Mediation, is a procedure for settling disputes without litigation. Right from ancient times, disputes have been referred to Arbitrators and Mediators for resolution, the Panchayat being one such forum. The ‘Panches’ were elected according to their wealth, social standing and influence in the community. Fear of ex-communication bound citizens to the authority of the Panches. One of the primary reasons for litigants preferring this option was that the process was unlike adversarial litigation, more collaborative and less time-consuming.  Arbitration is a voluntary process driven by an agreement. It is a procedure in which a dispute is submitted, by agreement of the parties, to one or more arbitrators, who make a binding decision on the dispute. In choosing arbitration, the parties opt for a private dispute resolution procedure instead of going to court. In India, Arbitration is governed by ‘The Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996’ (As amended in 2015, 2019 & 2020).   Globally arbitration involving financial institutions is gaining grounds. In 2019, 32% of all arbitrations at the London Court of International Arbitration and 58% of the arbitrations at the American Arbitration Association involved financial institutions. Despite the codified process, so far, banks in India have had limited or no success as far as arbitration is concerned.  Why do banks hesitate to take this route? Even though the grounds for challenge are limited, Awards by the arbitrators do get challenged in court, leading to delay and losses for banks. The legal challenges are usually on the procedure of arbitration. The bone of contention is the appointment of a sole arbitrator nominated by the Bank, which makes the borrower cry foul and raise the issue of bias of the arbitrator. These accusations lead to legal challenges for banks. This is a genuine concern.  A person who has an interest in the outcome or decision of the disputes must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator. But given the benefits of quick and effective recovery, the parties must work around this issue and find a plausible solution. One way could be the appointment of an ‘Arbitration Tribunal’  with three members. While the Bank and customer would appoint their respective  Arbitrators,  these two Arbitrators would then appoint a ‘Presiding Arbitrator’. Banks may be sceptical about the cost, but it is money well spent, considering that the money recovered is available for further lending.  Arbitration can be an effective tool for recovery of dues in the smaller segments, but only if both parties have faith in the system.  Considering that the government has been making strides towards establishing India as an arbitration-friendly jurisdiction, a little push will help create this trust. It can be a  win-win situation for both the bank and the borrower – the banker can recover his money, and the borrower can return to his business quicker.  (The writer is a Professor and  Chairperson, Banking and Financial Services, T A Pai Management Institute, Manipal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/arbitration-as-an-alternative-954591.html
23-02-2021||Right in the Middle||As one lamp lights another||“As one lamp lights another, nor grows less, so nobleness enkindleth nobleness”. This ever-luminous quotation of the famed American poet James Russel Lowell never fails to glow in my mind – more so whenever I come across noble acts. One such unforgettable person was our flute master, who was running his classes in a rented room. Despite being an excellent flautist in Carnatic classical style equaling in calibre to any of the contemporary august performers, he was not fortunate enough to make a big name. Among the five of us who were his pupils in the early 1950s, there was a polio-stricken young man from a modest background who had to be carried by an escort to the class. This pupil was the most devoted among us since, he was determined to acquire enough proficiency to join a professional orchestra. Notwithstanding his own acute financial problems, our master took only one rupee from him as a token monthly fee! Despite his remarkable progress in learning the nuances of playing the flute in the course of about three years, this mate of ours was extremely conscious of his physical disability, which manifested itself into stage fright. Our master, however, had already worked out a remedy.  During one Ramanavami celebrations, our master managed to get a good slot for this pupil. That memorable evening the kind guru accompanied him to the stage and after seating him before the mike, himself sat in the side wing poised with his own flute. As the curtain parted, the fingers of the pupil began playing nervously, producing a rather shaky off-tune note of the popular raag ‘Hamsananda’. But lo! Before it could be perceived by the vast audience, the correcting note rang out instantly with a resonating melody from the master’s flute, which seemed to have a magic effect of dissipating the diffidence that had engulfed the nervous artist! From there onwards it was a flawless and soulful rendition of three popular keerthanas, laced with subtle touches that could only be produced by a naturally gifted player. Profuse tears of joy and gratitude flowed from the eyes of the excited youngster as he ended his maiden performance with a flourish.  As if the blessings of his benevolent guru (none other than Sreenivas Rao, elder brother of the legendary ‘Human computer’ Shakuntala Devi) had taken effect from that very moment, this newly born professional player was soon absorbed as a regular flautist in a well-known orchestra group of the city, which later facilitated his joining a famous film production unit in Madras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/as-one-lamp-lights-another-954588.html
23-02-2021||Second Edit||Mauritius FTA boost for ties||India-Mauritius relations have received a boost with the two governments signing a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) during the recent visit of Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar to Port Louis. Under the CECPA, which is India’s first free-trade agreement with an African country, 310 Indian items and 615 Mauritian items will gain preferential access to each other’s markets. India received Rs 56,000 crore foreign direct investment in 2018-19 from Mauritius, the second-largest source of its foreign flows. Bilateral trade was worth $1.2 billion that year. Both FDI and trade will be boosted by CECPA. However, CECPA’s value to India is not limited to the bilateral boost. Since Mauritius has signed pacts with several African countries, it would act as a gateway to further India’s trade and investment with the rest of Africa. India has also agreed to provide Mauritius with a $100 million Line of Credit, which will ease Mauritius’ purchase of Indian defence equipment, a Dornier aircraft, and an advanced light helicopter on lease. Economic and defence bonds are poised to grow. Mauritius is strategically located in the middle of the Indian Ocean and lies just 2,000 km off the coast of Africa. A strong economic partnership could enable India to reap strategic dividend, too. Yet, India should also be clear-eyed about its expectations of the CECPA and other agreements with Mauritius. This is because it will have to compete with China’s already robust presence in the country. Only a few weeks ago, China signed an FTA with the Mauritian government. This will boost its already substantial economic presence and influence over Mauritius. The question is whether India will be able to fight off Chinese competition here. India is at an advantage on several scores; Mauritians are predominantly of Indian origin and there are strong historical and cultural bonds between the two countries. But does India have the political will and the stamina to establish itself as Port Louis’ primary partner? India sees Mauritius as lying at the heart of its Indian Ocean policy and has been courting it assiduously. Indeed, it was on Mauritian soil that Prime Minister Narendra Modi first laid out India’s vision for an Indian Ocean community through the SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) initiative.  But laying out a vision must be followed up with action and India has repeatedly failed there. India took years to negotiate the FTA with Mauritius. India must be more agile and nimble if it is to realise its grand ambitions in the Indian Ocean Region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/mauritius-fta-boost-for-ties-954584.html
23-02-2021||South||Congress demands judicial probe into Kerala fishing deal||Opposition Congress on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe into alleged deep sea fishing contract between the Kerala government and a US firm, a day after authorities decided to cancel a controversial MoU signed between the company and a state-owned corporation. The party rejected as 'inadequate' the government's reported directive for an internal probe under the aegis of additional secretary T K Jose into the pact between EMCC International and Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Alleging a conspiracy involving Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his two cabinet colleagues over the project, Leader of the Opposition in the assembly Ramesh Chennithala claimed the probe would not be adequate to bring out the truth. "The bureaucratic inquiry that has just been announced is not at all adequate. A judicial probe should be carried out to bring out the truth completely," he told a press meet here. Not just the MoU between EMCC and the KSINC, but the Rs 5000 crore worth main project agreement with the company should also be cancelled at the earliest and the four acre land allotted to them at Pallippuarm should take back, he said. The senior Congress leader said there were indications that the EMCC was not the only company behind the deal. "But, some major monopolies are also there behind the screen. It is doubtful whether some online food distribution companies are also involved in it," Chennithala said. He also said the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) would extend support to the 'coastal hartal', announced by various unions and outfits on February 27 as a mark of protest against the alleged deep sea fishing contract. The front would also take out a march through the coastal areas explaining the fishermen community about the issue, he added. Vijayan on Monday directed the officials concerned to cancel the EMCC-KSINC deal and probe the circumstances under which such an MoU was signed. The step was taken reportedly to avoid further controversies, with the opposition levelling fresh charges and bringing out what they term as 'evidence' almost every day. EMCC International India Private Limited president Shiju Varghese came out against the cancellation of the agreement, asking on what basis it was done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-demands-judicial-probe-into-kerala-fishing-deal-954429.html
23-02-2021||South||AIADMK govt presents interim budget ahead of Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, projects 2.02% growth in current fiscal||Ahead of the assembly elections likely in April, the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday presented an interim budget for 2021-22 with the Covid-19 pandemic contributing to a higher fiscal deficit of over Rs 84,000 crore. The budget, presented amid a boycott by DMK and its allies, projected a positive growth rate of 2.02 per cent in 2020-21 as it expressed hopes of the economy rebounding due to various sustainable policy decisions of the government. While the main opposition DMK and its allies, including the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League, boycotted the budget presentation by staging a walkout, leader of the opposition M K Stalin, in a statement, condemned the government for Rs '5.70' lakh crore debt. As Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio, started his budget speech, DMK deputy leader Duraimurugan urged Speaker P Dhanapal to allow him to express a 'view,' which was disallowed. While there was a din for a while, the opposition members eventually staged a walkout, boycotting the presentation of the interim budget, the last by the present AIADMK government before the polls. Stalin, who did not participate in the House proceedings, assured 'growth' for the state after assuming power by winning the coming polls. With the pandemic casting a shadow, the budget estimated the revenue deficit to be Rs 41,417.30 crore and fiscal deficit at Rs 84,202.39 crore, 3.94 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The revenue expenditure has been projected at an aggregate level of Rs 2,60,409.26 crore. Noting that the budget carried the 'imprint' of the unprecedented challenges posed by the pandemic, the Deputy CM said Tamil Nadu was being hailed as a model state in tackling Covid-19. On the whole, the government incurred an expenditure of Rs 13,352.85 crore on the pandemic response, he said. In sync with the recommendation of a high-level panel, additional sanctions were granted -towards more capital expenditure including irrigation, housing and highways- to the tune of Rs 20,013 crore. In view of such measures, the state is expected to register a positive growth rate of 2.02 per cent against an all-India negative growth rate of 7.7 per cent in 2020-21, he said. As against Rs 37,734.42 crore in the revised estimates for 2020-21 towards capital expenditure, Rs 43,170.61 crore has been provided in the budget estimates for 2021-22 for furthering economic development, Panneerselvam said. Due to the pandemic, the State's Own Tax Revenue (STOR) collapsed in the first four months of the current financial year and the collection of state GST and Value Added Tax started to pick up from August last year. The collection of stamp duty and registration fee has also revived but motor vehicle tax collection is yet to fully recover. Due to the pandemic, there was a sharp drop in revenue, "but the expenditure levels had to be enhanced to protect people's welfare," he said. Hence, "it is completely unavoidable that the government had to resort to borrowings resulting in a higher fiscal deficit," he noted. In his two-and-a-half hour plus address, he said the government intended borrowing Rs 84,686.75 crore and the outstanding debt as a percentage of GSDP is expected to be 27.44 per cent in 2022-23 and 27.50 per cent in 2023-24 well within the norms outlined by the 15th Finance Commission. The overall debt outstanding as on March 31, 2021 is estimated to be Rs 4,85,502.54 crore and as on March 31, 2022, Rs 5,70,189.29 crore. The budget, the last in the AIADMK's 2016-21 term pegged State GST revenue to be Rs 45,395.50 crore, receipts from excise duty at Rs 9,613.91 crore and VAT at Rs 56,413.19 crore and overall commercial taxes over Rs 1.02 lakh crore. A provision of Rs 11,982.71 crore has been made for agriculture and in the revised estimates (2020-21) the provision for food subsidy has been stepped up from Rs 6,500 crore to Rs 9,604.27 crore. Rs 5,000 crore was allocated towards the Rs 12,110.74 crore crop loan waiver scheme announced recently by Chief Minister K Palaniswami. The government made allocations to other departments, including a hefty subsidy of Rs 8,834.68 crore, for the state-run electricity generation and distribution entity, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation. In aggregate, the SOTR is expected to be Rs 1.09,968.97 crore in the revised estimates (2020-21) which represents a drop of 17.64 per cent against Rs 1,33,530.30 crore anticipated as revenue in the budget estimates for 2020-21. Panneerselvam urged the Centre not to utilise the 15th Finance Commission recommended grants to substitute their share of funding for central sector and centrally sponsored schemes. "I reiterate my call to the Government of India to merge cesses and surcharges with the basic rate of tax so that the states receive their legitimate share of the revenue." Also, the share of central taxes for the state indicated in the union budget at Rs 32,849.34 crore (2020-21) has been cut to Rs.23,039.46 crore in the revised estimates, the Deputy CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-govt-presents-interim-budget-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-projects-202-growth-in-current-fiscal-954460.html
23-02-2021||South||Congress, DMK leaders to discuss seat-sharing for Tamil Nadu Assembly polls on Thursday||Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the leader of the Opposition-led alliance in Tamil Nadu, will formally kick-off negotiations on seat-sharing for the ensuing assembly polls on February 25. Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, and AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao will hold talks with a DMK team led by its General Secretary Durai Murugan. Though informal talks between Congress leaders close to Rahul Gandhi and the DMK leadership have been on for the past few weeks, this is the first time that leaders from both parties will sit across the table and engage in discussions on the number of seats that the national party would contest in the April-May assembly elections. “We are going to meet the DMK leaders on Thursday in Chennai. We will sit and discuss the modalities for seat sharing. We will convey what is on our mind. And they will say what is their plan. This is the first round, and we may have to meet a couple of time to arrive at a decision,” Rao told Deccan Herald. Though DMK President M K Stalin is unlikely to be present at the meeting, the Congress delegation will make a “courtesy call” on him, sources said. Congress contested 41 assembly seats as part of the DMK alliance in the 2016 Assembly elections, and sources in both parties confide in private that there is no chance of the national party getting the same number this election. Of the 41 seats the party contested in 2016, Congress won just 8. “It is not because we do not want to give Congress more seats, but we are under pressure from our cadre to contest maximum number seats this election. Also, the number of alliance partners this election are more than 2016,” a DMK leader said. Apart from the Congress, the DMK alliance consists of Left parties, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and a few other parties. A Congress leader told DH on the condition of anonymity that the party might not accept anything less than 30 seats. “We understand the DMK's compulsion and position. But the DMK should also realise that this is an alliance that has been strong for several years. There should be some give and take. If we take less than 30 seats, it would be seen as a loss of face for us,” he said. Congress and DMK have been in an alliance since 2004 except from 2013 to 2016 when the two parties parted away and contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls separately. Both Congress and DMK drew blank in the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-dmk-leaders-to-discuss-seat-sharing-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-on-thursday-954482.html
23-02-2021||South||Telangana: Classes to begin for 6th to 8th standard students from February 24||The Telangana government on Tuesday decided to start classes for sixth to eighth standard students from Wednesday. As per the directives of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with all district Collectors, District Education Officers (DEOs) and other officials. The Chief Secretary (CS) directed that classes should start from Wednesday as far as possible and not later than March 1, an official release said. About 17.24 lakh students, in addition to the students (of ninth and 10th standard) who are already attending, would be attending school. The CS instructed that the District-Level Education Monitoring Committee (DLEMC) should meet, with district Collectors in chair, and take up the opening of classes for 6th to 8th standard students, it said. The Chief Secretary also directed that all precautions should be taken for the safety of students and teachers. Special measures should be put in place for schools resuming for the first time (after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown), the release said. Classes for 9th to 12 standard students have already resumed from February 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-classes-to-begin-for-6th-to-8th-standard-students-from-february-24-954484.html
23-02-2021||South||Senior CPI(M) leader and former MLA B Ragavan no more||Senior CPI(M) leader and former MLA, B Raghavan, who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19, died early morning on Tuesday, party sources said. He was 69. A member of the CPI(M) state committee, Ragavan and his family members were admitted to the Parippally Medical College in Kollam district some days ago. He was later shifted to the government medical college hospital here after his health condition got worsened due to pneumonia and breathed his last by 4.45 am, they said. One of the most prominent Left leaders from southern Kollam district, Raghavan was first elected to the state Assembly in the year 1987 from Neduvathoor constituency. After elected again in 1991, he had suffered a defeat in the 1996 polls but succeeded to make an entry into the Assembly again in the year 2006. He also served as the state treasurer of the Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union (KSKTU) during his decades-long political life. Raghavan was survived by wife Renuka and two children. Condoling his death, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said "Raghavan was a fighter who worked tirelessly for the upiftment of the downtrodden".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-cpim-leader-and-former-mla-b-ragavan-no-more-954520.html
23-02-2021||South||President Kovind accepts resignations of Puducherry CM, council of ministers||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday accepted the resignation of Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy and his council of ministers, a day after the Congress government lost its majority. "The President has been pleased to accept resignation of V. Narayanasamy Chief Minister of Puducherry along with his council of Ministers with effect from February 22,” a notification from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs said. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said the notification has been republished in the Gazette of Puducherry government. However, it is not clear as yet whether the L-G will invite the opposition to form a government or impose President's rule. Narayanasamy resigned as Chief Minister on Monday after he was unable to prove his majority on the floor of the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/president-kovind-accepts-resignations-of-puducherry-cm-council-of-ministers-954523.html
23-02-2021||South||Kerala woman to face legal action for fake rape allegation||A woman in Kerala is set to face legal action after a rape allegation she raised against a health department official was found to be fake. The 44-year old woman hailing from Kallara in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram alleged in September last year that a junior health inspector sexually abused her after threatening action for false charges of Covid-19 quarantine violation. She also alleged that she was held hostage in his house for a whole day. The police registered a case and the health official was arrested. However, the woman later provided an affidavit that she raised the complaint owing to pressure from family and the accused subsequently got bail. A detailed probe subsequently initiated by the police as per the directive of the Kerala High Court found that the woman and the health official had a consensual relationship. Hence legal action was being initiated against the woman for raising the fake complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-to-face-legal-action-for-fake-rape-allegation-954527.html
23-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's debt to cross Rs 5 lakh crore in 2022: Budget||Tamil Nadu's overall outstanding debt is expected to be at Rs 5.70 lakh crore by March 2022 even as the state is expected to register a “positive growth” rate of 2.02 per cent. However, the fiscal deficit in the Revised Estimates for 2020-21 is expected to widen to Rs 96,889.97 crore which is 4.99 per cent of the GSDP and the government attributed it to various reasons, including increased spending due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Presenting the interim budget of the AIADMK government as the state heads to polls in April-May, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio, made several announcements like including computer science subjects from Class 6 to Class 10, while making a strong pitch to the Centre to merge all cesses and surcharges with the basic rate of taxes. The budget speech was boycotted by Opposition parties – DMK, Congress, and IUML. Panneerselvam said the state's tax revenue is expected to be around Rs 1.09 lakh crore, registering a drop of 17.64 per cent in FY21. On the overall debt of the state, he said the borrowings is estimated to be Rs 4,85,502.54 crore and it is likely to go up to Rs 5,70,189.29 crore by March 2022. “The 15th Finance Commission has reset the Debt-GSDP norms recognising that increased borrowings will be required in 2020-21 and 2021-22 to sustain the levels of expenditure,” he said in his speech. The Opposition parties latched on to the overall debt of the state government, accusing it of “spending recklessly.” Leader of Opposition and DMK President M K Stalin said the state government's debt increased in the past ten years due to “rampant corruption.” Panneerselvam also said Tamil Nadu is expected to register a positive growth rate of 2.02 per cent at 2011-12 constant prices in 2020-21. “This is against an All India negative growth rate of 7.7 per cent in 2020-21. The strongest performance is of the primary sector at 5.23 per cent, with the livestock and fisheries sectors registering even stronger growth. The growth in the Secondary sector is 1.25 per cent and in the Services sector is 1.64 per cent,” he added. Although revenue to the Centre on account of various levies on petrol and diesel saw a growth of 48 per cent in the period from April-November, 2020 over the same period in 2019, Tamil Nadu has received 39.40 per cent less in the corresponding period as a share of Union Excise Duties on petrol and diesel, Panneerselvam complained. He also said several measures by the Centre has shrunk the divisible pool of taxes. Noting that the share of Central taxes for Tamil Nadu which had been indicated in the Union Budget at Rs 32,849.34 crore in their Budget Estimates 2020-21, has been reduced to Rs 23,039.46 crore in the Revised Estimates 2020-21, he asked the government to merges and surcharges “with the basic rate of tax so that the States receive their legitimate share of the revenue.” In his speech, the Deputy CM said the government has decided to launch a Comprehensive Accident cum Life Insurance Scheme with full funding under which families will be eligible for insurance coverage of Rs.2 lakh in case of natural death of the breadwinner, and Rs.4 lakh in case of accidental death and up to Rs 2 lakh in case of permanent incapacitation of the breadwinner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-debt-to-cross-rs-5-lakh-crore-in-2022-budget-954534.html
23-02-2021||South||Sasikala's mysterious silence after return from Bengaluru||It has been a fortnight since V K Sasikala arrived in Chennai to a rousing reception by her supporters, but the silence she has been maintaining since is conspicuous. There was much expectation that Sasikala will make an attempt to claim the legacy of her long-time friend and late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa on her 73rd birth anniversary on Wednesday. However, it is likely to be a tame affair with Sasikala playing floral tributes to Jayalalithaa's portrait at her T Nagar residence here on Wednesday morning. Leaders of the AMMK run by Sasikala's nephew said she would have visited the Jayalalithaa Memorial if it was open. “Since it is closed, she is unlikely to visit the memorial,” a senior leader told DH. While Sasikala will pay respects to Jayalalithaa at her residence, Dhinakaran will do the honours at the AMMK headquarters, the leader added. The newly-inaugurated memorial for Jayalalithaa is out of bounds for the public due to “ongoing construction work”, and this has made the birth anniversary of the late leader a low-key affair in an election year. AIADMK leaders – Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam – would lead their party cadres in visiting the memorial but the event is missing from their itinerary on Wednesday. Instead, they have asked their cadre to light diyas and take a vow to protect the AIADMK. The memorial was closed apparently to ensure that Sasikala does not land up at Jayalalithaa's resting place after her return from a Bengaluru jail. Sasikala, who arrived in Chennai on February 9 after a nearly 24-hour long journey from Bengaluru, has confined herself to her home for the last 14 days. Only Dhinakaran visited her a couple of times, sources said. AMMK leaders said they are not able to understand her “silence.” They said the party expected at least a few senior leaders of the AIADMK to meet Sasikala or at least give a statement supporting her. “Both sides are silent,” another leader said. The silence can also be due to the back-channels talks between BJP and AMMK for the latter to join the AIADMK alliance for the Assembly elections. DH had in January reported that the BJP was keen on AMMK joining the alliance to prevent a split of AIADMK votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-mysterious-silence-after-return-from-bengaluru-954538.html
23-02-2021||South||Aim of BJP govt is to destroy farmers' market, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre over the three contentious farm laws and said the aim of the BJP government is to destroy farmers' market and not getting them the right price for their produce. While the first two laws destroy the country's agriculture sector, the third one denies justice to the farmers, he said that after inaugurating a mass rally here, marking the culmination of the 22-day-long Aishwarya Yatra, led by the leader of opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala. "The first one destroys the farmers market. The second one is to allow the richest to procure as much as grain and unlimited hoarding. These two laws allow them to control the price of grains and vegetables," he alleged. "They (government) have only one aim: the farmer does not get the right price for their produce. That everybody, the middle class, farmers labourers have to pay more," he said. "And that's why lakhs of farmers are protesting. What did the PM say? That they are terrorists," Gandhi alleged. The Congress leader also attacked the central and state governments over the rising fuel prices despite a low oil price in the international market and claimed both the governments are giving the money to the richest in the country. "The price of oil in the international market is down. But in India, the price of petrol and diesel is going up. Thousands of crores of rupees are being taken from your pocket every day. Where is this money going? To whom is this money being given." "This is being given to the richest people in this country," Gandhi said. "Every day, when you travel in your vehicle, remember this, both the centre and the state are taking money from your pocket to the richest of this country. This is the politics we are trying to change. We want to work for the poor. Not for our organisation or the richest. That's the difference between us and others," the Congress MP from Wayanad told the gathering. He said the yatra was an opportunity to listen to what farmers, students, fishermen, elders and women of the state say. The state-wide yatra, led by Chennithala, began on January 31 from Manjeswaram in the northernmost Kasaragod district and ended at Parassala near here on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aim-of-bjp-govt-is-to-destroy-farmers-market-says-rahul-gandhi-954540.html
23-02-2021||South||PM Modi to launch several projects in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry on February 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Thursday to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development initiatives, including key power projects in Tamil Nadu. While at around 11:30 AM on Thursday, the prime minister will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development initiatives in Puducherry, at around 4 PM, he will dedicate to the nation and lay the foundation stone of multiple infrastructure projects worth over Rs 12,400 crore in Coimbatore, a Prime Minister's Office statement said. In Tamil Nadu, the prime minister will dedicate to the nation the Neyveli New Thermal Power Project -- a lignite based power plant designed for power generation capacity of 1000 MW with two units of 500 MW capacity each. Built at a cost of about Rs 8,000 crore, the pit head power plant will utilise lignite as fuel from the existing mines of Neyveli, which have sufficient lignite reserves for meeting the lifetime requirement of the project, the statement said. The plant has been designed for 100 per cent ash utilisation and the power generated would benefit Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Puducherry, with Tamil Nadu having the major share of about 65 per cent, it said. The prime minister will also dedicate to the nation the 709 MW solar power project of NLCIL, established over an area of about 2,670 acres of land across the districts of Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar. The project has been set up at a cost of over Rs 3,000 crore. Modi will also lay the foundation stone of the extension, renovation and modernisation of Lower Bhavani Project System. The Bhavanisagar dam and the canal systems were completed in 1955. The Lower Bhavani System irrigates over 2 lakh acres of land in Erode, Tiruppur and Karur districts. The extension, renovation and modernisation of Lower Bhavani System has been taken up at a cost of Rs 934 crore under NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance, the PMO said. The prime minister will also inaugurate the eight-laning of Korampallam Bridge and Rail Over Bridge (ROB) at V.O.Chidambaranar Port -- one of the major ports in India. At present, 76 per cent of the cargo is transported through road from or to the Port using the existing Korampallam bridge, which was constructed in early 1964 with a 14-m wide carriageway. In order to provide seamless evacuation of cargo and to avoid traffic congestion in the port area, the project of eight-laning of the existing Korampallam bridge and Rail Over Bridge has been implemented, the PMO said. During his Tamil Nadu leg of the visit, the PM will lay the foundation stone for design, supply, installation and commissioning of a 5MW grid connected ground-based solar power plant at V.O.Chidambaranar Port. The project, to be set up at an estimated cost of about Rs 20 crore, will generate over 80 lakh units (KWH) per annum, meeting 56 per cent of the total energy consumption of the Port, thereby helping reduce carbon footprint of port operations. With an aim to boost ease of living, the prime minister will inaugurate the tenements constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) scheme. These tenements have been constructed at a cost of over Rs 330 crore. Each of these tenements, to be allotted to urban poor or slum dwellers, has a plinth area of 400 square feet and has been provided with a multipurpose hall, bedroom, kitchen, bathroom and toilet. The prime minister will also lay the foundation stone for development of Integrated Command and Control Centers (ICCC) in nine smart cities --Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Thanjavur, Vellore, Tiruchirappalli, Tiruppur, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi. These ICCCs would be developed at a cost of about Rs 107 crore, and would act as a 24x7 support system, providing real time smart solutions for quicker services, with the aim of integrating essential government services and enabling data-based decision-making, the statement said. In Puducherry, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone for 4-laning of NH 45-A – 56 km Sattanathapuram-Nagapattinam package of Villupuram to Nagapattinam project covering Karaikal district. The capital cost to be incurred in this project is about Rs 2,426 crore. He will also lay the foundation stone of the Medical College Building at Karaikal New Campus -- Phase I, Karaikal District (JIPMER). The estimated cost of the project is Rs. 491 crore. The prime minister will lay the foundation stone for development of Minor Port at Puducherry under Sagarmala scheme. Estimated to be built at Rs 44 crore, it will provide connectivity to Chennai and facilitate cargo movement for industries in Puducherry. He will also lay the foundation stone of Synthetic Athletic Track, Indira Gandhi Sports Complex in Puducherry. Modi will also inaugurate the Blood Centre at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER), Puducherry, which will function as a research laboratory and a training centre for short-term and continuous blood bank personnel training in all aspects of transfusion. It has been set up at a cost of Rs 28 crore. The prime minister will also inaugurate a 100-bed girls' hostel at Lawspet, Puducherry. It has been constructed for female athletes at a cost of about Rs 12 crore, under the aegis of Sports Authority of India. He will also inaugurate the reconstructed Heritage Marie Building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-launch-several-projects-in-tamil-nadu-puducherry-on-february-25-954548.html
23-02-2021||South||Bodhan passport racket: Cyberabad police arrest eight including four Bangladeshis, two Telangana cops||The Cyberabad police arrested eight persons, including four Bangladeshis, in the Bodhan case where 72 Indian passports were obtained fraudulently from seven addresses - 37 of them issued from one house alone. 15 of these 72 passports issued were linked to one phone number. 19 persons have already made their way abroad to eight countries using these passports. 10 of them went to UAE. Bodhan is a town in the Nizamabad district of north Telangana. The arrested also include two Telangana policemen whose improper clearance has allowed the passport issuance. The fraud was discovered on January 24 when three Bangladesh nationals - Nitai Das alias Sanjib Dutta, Mohammed Hasibur Rehman, Ramu Das and Mohammed Rana Mia, Sandip Mondal attempted to depart for Dubai from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, with the fraudulently obtained Indian passports. The three are prime accused in the case. Based on the duty immigration officials' complaint, the Cyberabad police registered a case under 420, 468, 471 IPC, and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946. On Tuesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar revealed the details of the crime. “All three Bangladesh nationals revealed that they stayed at Bodhan and with the help of one agent Shahnaj Pail @ Sabuj from West Bengal obtained fake Aadhaar cards, used to get the Indian passports fraudulently,” Sajjanar told reporters. Parimal Bain Shivam, a Bangladeshi residing in Bodhan and operating as a passport agent is the fifth accused. Sameer (A-4) was a mediator helping foreigners enter illegally into India. Shahnaj Pail Sabuj (A-6) arranged flight tickets through his friend Saddam Hussain (A-9), a Mumbai resident. Mateen Ahmed Mirza (A-7) of Bodhan fabricated Aadhar cards. Manoj (A-8), residing in Iraq, and native of West Bengal arranged visas. Sub Inspector Peruka Mallesh Rao (A-10) and Assistant Sub Inspector Anil Kumar (A-11) are the police officers who conducted the verification inquiry. Sajjanar said that the policemen allegedly took money for issuing the NOC for passport issuance. While Sameer (A-4), Manoj (A-8) and Saddam Hussain (A-9) are absconding, eight other arrested persons were sent to judicial custody. “12 of these passports were issued based on the Aadhaar cards obtained in Bodhan, while the rest 60 were made in West Bengal with change of addresses effected here,” DCP, Shamshabad, Prakash Reddy told DH. The Regional Passport Officer, Hyderabad was asked to cancel these 72 passports. “We have also requested for Look Out Circulars (LOC) against them. Also, we are coordinating with UIDAI regarding cancellation of these 72 Aadhaar cards. We are appraising the district collectors and SPs of various West Bengal districts regarding these 72 persons. Special teams are formed to trace the remaining passport holders and the absconders,” CP Sajjanar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bodhan-passport-racket-cyberabad-police-arrest-eight-including-four-bangladeshis-two-telangana-cops-954550.html
23-02-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi visits protesting job aspirants in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday visited protesting job aspirants in front of the Kerala Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram and alleged that the left-front government in Kerala was giving jobs only to party workers and supporters. Hundreds of candidates who cleared recruitment tests of Kerala Public Services Commission are on an indefinite protest demanding postings. Rahul called on the agitators and assured that the Congress-led UDF would do whatever possible to help them. He also slammed the Pinarayi Vijayan government for not holding talks with the job aspirants. Earlier addressing a public meeting marking the culmination of a statewide march of Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, he alleged that even smuggling activities were being done from the Chief Minister's office, while talented youths were agitating on the streets for jobs. He also said that the LDF government was trying to hit the livelihood of the fishermen by initiating a deal for deep-sea trawler manufacturing. Rahul Gandhi also alleged CPI(M) and BJP of forming a nexus. He asked why various investigations by central agencies against those associated with the left-front government in Kerala were slow paced. He also attacked the Centre over fuel price hike and farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-visits-protesting-job-aspirants-in-kerala-954555.html
23-02-2021||South||Pralhad Joshi slams Rahul Gandhi, says he is trying to become an 'actor on tractor'||A day after Rahul Gandhi took out a tractor rally in Wayanad in solidarity with protesting farmers, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday lashed out at the Congress leader, saying he was trying to become an "actor on tractor". He also hit out at the poll-bound state's two rival fronts, ruling CPI(M)-led LDF and opposition Congress-led UDF, saying they were "fighting 'Kushti" in Kerala but have 'Dosti' in Delhi" and described it as "hypocricy". "Rahul Gandhi is trying to become an actor on tractor," Joshi, the BJP's Kerala Assembly election incharge, told a press conference here. After taking out a tractor rally in his constituency on Monday in solidarity with the agitating farmers, Gandhi had said agriculture is the only business that belongs to "Bharat Mata" and called upon the people to "force" the government to take back the three farm laws. He alleged that the laws were designed to destroy the agriculture system in India and give the entire business to two to three friends of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hitting out at the anti-BJP alliances at the centre and various states including poll-bound Kerala and West Bengal, Joshi said Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee, who is supporting the Congress in Delhi, was not ready to accommodate that party in her state as it was becoming a "liability" for her. "LDF and UDF are fighting 'Kushti' in Kerala but have 'Dosti' in Delhi." "Mamata Banerjee is supporting Congress party in Delhi and she is not ready to accommodate that party (in West Bengal) because Congress party is becoming a liability in the whole country for various regional parties," he said. "Do you believe in democracy or do you believe in hypocrisy.You are trying to mislead the people," Joshi said. Later, addressing a party meeting here, he alleged that both the LDF and the UDF have ruined Kerala with corruption, nepotism, scam and favouritism. "LDF is lying Democratic Front.UDF is Ulta-pulta Democratic Front", he said, taking a jibe at both the alliances in the state. Joshi also interacted with leaders of NDA in the state and discussed the BJP-led front's strategy in the upcoming elections. In a tweet, he said Kerala and its people should benefit from the "double engine government" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pralhad-joshi-slams-rahul-gandhi-says-he-is-trying-to-become-an-actor-on-tractor-954571.html
23-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh Cabinet clears welfare scheme for EBC women||The Andhra Pradesh State Cabinet has decided to implement a welfare scheme to assist Economically Backward Caste (EBC) women from the next financial year. Under the new scheme named EBC Nestam, the government will provide financial assistance of Rs 45,000 to each woman beneficiary aged between 45 and 60 years, handing Rs 15,000 per annum for three years. Briefing the media after the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday, information minister Perni Venkatramaiah said that the government would allot Rs 670 crore per annum for the scheme, totalling to over Rs 2,000 crore. The YSRCP ministers also discussed the issue of privatisation of the Visakhapatnam steel plant and decided that the government should move a resolution in the Assembly opposing the move, “to put more pressure on the Union government.” The Cabinet gave the nod for the Kadapa Steel Plant works at a cost of Rs 10,082 crore and Rs 6,000 crore under phase 1 and 2, with a capacity building of three million tonne in each phase, through a joint venture. The Cabinet has also decided to amend the laws to ensure that the inquiry in corruption cases where government officials caught red-handed by the ACB sleuths is completed within 100 days, from the existing two-year duration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cabinet-clears-welfare-scheme-for-ebc-women-954577.html
23-02-2021||South||AI express plane accident: Pilot error caused mishap||A team of officials from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation visited the Vijayawada Airport at Gannavaram on Tuesday and conducted a preliminary investigation into the freak accident involving an Air India Express Boeing aircraft here on February 20. Official sources said pilot error caused the mishap in which the Boeing aircraft suffered minor damage on its right-wing after it hit an electric pole while taxiing on the runway. According to sources, a Canadian woman pilot commanded the flight when the mishap occurred. The aircraft landed here from Doha, en route Tiruchirappalli, but all 64 passengers aboard were safe. "The DGCA team launched a preliminary investigation into the accident and is probing various aspects.It has also inspected the damaged aircraft and spoke at length with the Canadian pilot," the sources said but refused to divulge more details as "these things are confidential". The DGCA team is expected to continue its task on Wednesday as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ai-express-plane-accident-pilot-error-caused-mishap-954606.html
23-02-2021||State||Private school fee cut: Thousands including teachers, non-teaching staff gather to protest in Bengaluru||Thousands of people including teachers, non-teaching staff of private schools and representatives of the management hit the roads today in Bengaluru to take part in the massive protest rally called by the teaching and non-teaching staff coordination committee of the Karnataka Private Unaided School Managements. The protest rally was called urging the state government to consider some of their pending demands, especially the revisiting of the recent government order 30% cut in the school fee and the long-pending compensation for teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic.  The rally started from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station around 10 am and reached Freedom Park with more than 30,000 people taking part in it. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar visited the spot and promised to convene another round of meeting with parents and school managements to resolve the issue.  "We had given time for school managements and parents to come to a conclusion over the fee row, but when they failed to find a solution we, the government intervened and taken a decision after discussing with all stakeholders," said Suresh Kumar.  "The school managements are saying the fee cut has become 50% to 60% in reality. If that is the case, we are open for discussion and let the private school managements submit their suggestions," said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/private-school-fee-cut-thousands-including-teachers-non-teaching-staff-gather-to-protest-in-bengaluru-954419.html
23-02-2021||State||Oppn alleges BJP govt patronage to illegal quarrying in Karnataka||The opposition parties on Tuesday held the BJP government in Karnataka responsible for the blast at a quarry site in Chikkaballapur district, which left six dead, saying it did not pay attention to safety aspects even after a similar recent incident. Congress state unit chief D K Shivakumar said, "The blast in Chikkaballapur which killed six people occurred due to the irresponsible government." Pointing out that the Chikkaballapur blast was the second such incident in the last one month, he sought to know how many innocent lives would the government sacrifice. "At the time of the explosion in Shivamogga, I had stressed on a safe system for handling and transporting these explosives and strict adherence to the rules and regulations but this government, which is caught with its own internal problems could not pay attention." He also termed the statement on action against the guilty as 'ridiculous.' Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah too came down heavily on the government, saying "the Chikkaballapur explosion within a month of the Shivamogga gelatin explosion is a testament to the state government's inaction, irresponsibility and collusion in this illegality and corruption." "Dear Chief Minister, whom are you protecting? masses or the corrupt people?" the Congress stalwart asked and alleged that those who were killed in the blast did not die of explosives but maladministration of the CM. JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy charged the government with encouraging illegal quarrying in the state, which led to this incident. Kumaraswamy alleged that many ministers and MLAs were involved in the illegal quarrying in the state. He demanded stringent action to curb illegal quarrying. At least six people were killed and a few others were wounded in a remote village in Chikkaballapur while trying to dispose of explosives, which went off accidentally this morning. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has ordered a thorough investigation into the matter. The incident comes close on the heels of a similar explosion in the Chief Minister's hometown Shivamogga on January 22, killing six people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/oppn-alleges-bjp-govt-patronage-to-illegal-quarrying-in-karnataka-954445.html
23-02-2021||State||DH Picture Puzzle - Terms & Conditions||Here are the terms and conditions governing Deccan Herald / Prajavani – Picture Puzzle, which is organized and managed by The Printers (Mysore) Private Limited (hereinafter referred to as TPML). Entry to the Contest: Participants read Deccan Herald/Prajavani daily newspaper and solve the picture puzzle published in the newspapers. Participants submit the answers via SMS to Deccan Herald and Prajavani. Duration of the Contest: The duration of the contest is from March 9th to April 1st 2021. Three winners will be announced through a text message or email sent to the winners at the end of the contest. Eligibility: The Competition is open to all readers of Deccan Herald and Prajavani residing in Karnataka aged 18 or over on the Competition start date. Eligibility requirements include a valid residential address, contact number and e-mail id. Participation in this contest is purely voluntary. Purchase of the Deccan Herald and Prajavani newspaper is necessary for participating in the Competition as there will be check done during distribution of the prize in terms of photo or monthly subscription bills. TPML shall not charge any amount for participation in the contest and the sole criteria for participation shall be solving the picture puzzle in the manner stipulated below. Employees of TPML, their relatives & organizations related to the contest and their families are excluded from entering the Competition. General Terms and Conditions: This contest will be governed by these standard terms and conditions. Each participant agrees that he/she has read and understood these terms and by their participation in the contest, each participant agrees to be bound by these terms. Mere participation should not be perceived as any commitment on the part of TPML to select a participant as the winner. Nothing herein amounts to a commitment by TPML to conduct further, similar, or other contests in future. Incomplete information provided or failure to provide true and accurate information as stated in these terms and conditions, failure to submit proof of identification and/or original confirmation number upon collection of the Prize will automatically disqualify the participant. TPML shall have the absolute and sole discretion to determine whether any participant should be disqualified by reason of failure to abide by these terms and conditions, bad faith, fraud, or any other legitimate reason Multiple sequence on the same puzzle per person during the Contest Period shall not be entertained. TPML reserves the right to change the terms and conditions of this contest, including extending, withdrawing, or discontinuing the same without notice, without assigning any reason, at its sole discretion without any liability. There is no cash alternative to the stated prizes, and the prizes are non-transferable and non-refundable. TPML reserves the right to substitute either any part of Prize or whole Prize for similar prize of equal or greater value. TPML shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever for any claims, losses, damage, costs or expenses in connection with or arising from this Competition, the redemption of or use of the Prizes. To the extent only permitted by applicable law, TPML reserves the right to use the winner’s image, photograph, name and likeness in post-promotion publicity material and in advertising, marketing or promotional material in any media by any means for any purpose connected with the products/services of TPML without additional compensation or prior notice to the winner and all participants consent to the same. In the event of any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and any advertising, promotional, publicity and other materials relating to or in connection with this promotion, these terms and conditions shall prevail. TPML reserves the right to request proof of a participant's eligibility in the event there is a doubt over his/her eligibility for the promotion. Subject to applicable laws, TPML shall not be liable for any losses, taxes, liabilities, or inconvenience suffered by any participant as a result of these terms and conditions, entering this Competition or accepting any part of the Prize. TPML accepts no responsibility for difficulties experienced in submitting an entry to this Contest. TPML does not accept responsibility for (1) lost, late or undelivered entries or (2) any technical or access issue, failure, malfunction or difficulty that might hinder the ability of a participant to enter the Competition or (3) any event which may cause the Competition to be disrupted or corrupted. In addition to these terms & conditions, other specific terms may be imposed by TPML from time to time to deal with any unforeseen situation. TPML also reserves the absolute right to change the terms and conditions contained herein and, or, any other rules and regulations in respect of the Competition at any time without any notice, without assigning any reason and without any liability whatsoever. Participants are requested to refer to such other terms and conditions, if any, which may be intimated separately as TPML considers fit.  However, no obligation is cast on TPML to separately intimate each individual participant regarding such additional terms and conditions. TPML may (i) extend (ii) terminate or suspend (iii) reduce the term of the Competition at any time due to circumstances beyond its control (iv) substitute a prize (or any part of a Prize). Each participant understands that each of the officials of TPML engaged in the organization and management of this Competition including its directors, officers, partners, employees, consultants, and agents are under no obligation to render any advice or service to any participant in respect of this Competition The participant undertakes to indemnify and keep TPML harmless and indemnified against any loss, damage, claims, costs, and expenses which may be incurred or suffered by TPML due to breach of any of the terms and conditions herein contained. Any disputes, differences, and/or any other matters in relation to and arising out of this Promotion and / or pertaining to these terms and conditions shall be referred to arbitration under the Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue of arbitration shall be Bengaluru City. The Promotion shall be governed by and construed in accordance with applicable laws in India and will be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Bengaluru City alone. The Rules of Indian Council of Arbitration(“Rules”) shall apply to the arbitration proceedings and the arbitration shall be conducted by a sole arbitrator to be appointed as per the Rules. Each participant must ensure that his or her participation in the promotion is lawful in accordance with the laws of India. Neither TPML nor its representatives or agents shall be taken to make any representations, express or implied, as to the lawfulness of any participant's participation in the Competition Entrants are deemed to accept these terms and conditions by entering the Contest.  Winner of the bumper prize will be selected basis the maximum number of correct entries during the contest and through a lucky draw from amongst the participants of the quiz. Gratifications for the quiz: XS.No Type of Prize Details for Deccan Herald Details for Prajavani 1 Bumper Prize 1 One Plus 7 Pro Phone 1 One Plus 7 Pro Phone 2 Daily Prize 7 Daily winners win Rs 500 worth Amazon Voucher 14 Daily winners win Rs 500 worth Amazon Voucher   Each participant consents to the use of information supplied by the participant in any media for future promotional, marketing and publicity purposes without any further reference or payment or other compensation to the participant, by TPML. The decision of TPML will be final and binding. To claim the prize: The winner needs to submit newspaper cuttings, bills, or upload selfie with the newspaper and other details as per the requirements of TPML and within the stipulated timeframes to claim the prize. The winner will be notified by text message and email.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-picture-puzzle-terms-conditions-954466.html
23-02-2021||State||No restriction on interstate movement clarifies Karnataka Health Minister in response to Kerala CM||In response to a letter written by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to Prime Minister that Karnataka has 'imposed new restrictions on the entry of people coming from Kerala', Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar clarified here on Tuesday that there was no restriction on interstate movement.Vijayan in his letter to the PM wrote, "I invite your kind attention to the new restrictions imposed by the Government of Karnataka on the entry of people coming from Kerala. Many persons, mainly students, trucks carrying essential commodities and patients going for medical treatment are put to undue hardship at the State borders due to this. Kind note may be taken of the fact that imposing restrictions of interstate movement of people by States is contrary to the instructions of Government of India, which are at present holding the field." "I request your urgent intervention in this matter so that the hardship of people from Kerala travelling to the neighbouring State of Karnataka can be avoided," Vijayan added in his letter.Sudhakar, in response, tweeted, "Karnataka has not prohibited interstate travel between Karnataka and Kerala. However, as a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must mandatorily possess a negative RT-CR test report not older than 72 hours."  The minister also tweeted a copy of the circular issued by the State health secretary on February 16 which said 'all those arriving from Kerala and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, homestays, dormitories, etc shall compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Owners of tea above mentioned places should ensure that the occupants produce negative RT-PCR certificate."Karnataka has also issued a similar circular for travellers from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-restriction-on-interstate-movement-clarifies-karnataka-health-minister-in-response-to-kerala-cm-954491.html
23-02-2021||State||Strict measures to allow only license holders to use explosives for quarrying: Karnataka Minister||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani on Tuesday said strict measures will be put in place, so that only license holder will be allowed to use explosives for quarrying or mining, here on. His statement comes in the backdrop of a quarry blast at Chikkaballapur district this morning, in which six people died. He stressed on the importance of training skilled workers and creation of a mining school to avoid such tragedies. "To see to that such incidents don't not happen, mining should happen in a scientific way... aimed at providing training to license holders in mining and use of explosives for mining, measures are being taken by the government to start a school of mining," Nirani said. Speaking to reporters in Delhi, he said in the coming days those involved in mining will be trained, and strict measures will taken to ensure that only license holders are allowed to use explosives. "Measures are being taken to maintain strict vigil at check posts regarding transportation of large quantities of explosives from other places and whether they are with license. Also the quantity of explosives that can be transported for mining is being fixed," he said, adding in this case as per preliminary information the explosives were already brought in. Six people were killed when the gelatin sticks they were trying to dispose of exploded accidentally at a stone quarry site at a village in Chikkaballapura district early on Tuesday. The incident comes close on the heels of a similar blast at a quarry site in Shivamogga on January 22, which left six dead. Expressing condolences to the families of victims, Nirani assured all assistance to the kin of the deceased and the injured. Assuring action against the culprits, he said the government will conduct a thorough probe and take action against those responsible for the blast. Further stating that this incident has happened despite government taking strict measures after the Shivamogga incident, the Minister said, "we had increased vigil at the check post after what happened there (in Shivamogga), it looks like explosives were brought before that incident."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/strict-measures-to-allow-only-license-holders-to-use-explosives-for-quarrying-karnataka-minister-954499.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa orders probe into Chikkaballapur quarry blast||At least six people died following a huge gelatin explosion in the Hirenagavalli village of Chikkaballapur, about 80 km from Bengaluru, on Monday night. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has ordered a probe into the incident. "Directions have been issued to conduct a thorough inquiry and act against those involved," he said. Meanwhile, an investigation is underway into a similar blast that took place in the Hunasodu village in Shivamogga killing six people last month. According to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who rushed to Hirenagavalli, said the blast occurred on Monday night. "The blast was caused in the air, not on the ground. Based on preliminary information, it happened at the time of handling the explosives," he said. The quarry in this case belongs to Sri Shirdi Sai Company run by three people - two from Andhra Pradesh and one local resident. "They have three acres of quarry and another three acres for a crusher," Bommai said. Apparently, this quarry was raided earlier this month and the police had seized a vehicle. "It looks like they were trying to transport (explosives) so that it can be stored somewhere else," Bommai said. Describing the scene at the blast site, Bommai seemed at a loss for words. "This is a huge blast. It's very painful to see this. The bodies are dismembered. I asked myself, what if this happened to my family..." he said, promising action against those responsible for this incident. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah blamed the Yediyurappa administration for the deaths of six people. "It's not gelatin that killed them. It's the bad administration of the CM who is moving to legalise illegal quarries," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-orders-probe-into-chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-954316.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Encroachments on Mangaluru land meant for ICGA to be cleared in a week, says Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V||The establishments that have come up on the land earmarked for the Indian Coast Guard Academy (ICGA) at Kenjar in Mangaluru will be cleared within a week, said Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. The land, which was acquired by Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board, has been sold to someone else by the concerned, said the DC during District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (Disha) meeting, chaired by MP Nalin Kumar Kateel. “The land earmarked for the Coast Guard should be utilised for the purpose. Disciplinary action will be initiated against officials who had registered the land after completing the process of conversion,” warned Rajendra. To which, MLA Umanath Kotian said that the locals were up against encroachment of the said land and were preparing to hold a protest rally. On a gaushala functioning in the said land, the DC said that for the needs of the cattle, the district administration was ready to identify gomala land. Earlier, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the Kapila Gaushala authorities had even approached Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and Maneka Gandhi. The encroachment of government land should not be tolerated, he added. It may be recalled that initially, the Academy was proposed to come up in Kerala's Kannur district for which the then Defence Minister A K Antony had laid the foundation stone in 2011. However, the project did not get clearance from Union Environment Ministry and was shifted to Mangaluru. Delay in Amrut scheme The MP took the officials from the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC) to task for delay in completing the works initiated under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The officials said that contractor M/s Simplex Infrastrcture Pvt Ltd had failed to accelerate the work. The firm is facing acute financial crunch. The works at 12 locations are pending in Mangaluru. Enraged over it, the MP directed the officials to ask MD of the firm to attend a meeting on February 24, wherein a FIR will also be filed against the firm for causing public nuisance and for failing to complete the work. The MP even warned of initiating action against engineers if the MD of the contractor firm failed to attend the meeting. In the meantime, the DC directed officials to seek legal advice and work on tripartite agreement to complete the already initiated work. Smart City works MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the stay on the works initiated under Smart City projects were likely to be vacated shortly as High Court has sought a report from National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to examine all projects are taken up in compliance with Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The DC directed MSCL officials to prepare a work plan to start the work immediately after the stay is vacated. “If no progress is shown within six months, then I will recommend transfer of officials from the MSCL,” he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/encroachments-on-mangaluru-land-meant-for-icga-to-be-cleared-in-a-week-says-dakshina-kannada-deputy-commissioner-dr-rajendra-k-v-954319.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai orders CID probe into Chikkaballapur quarry blast||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced a CID probe into the Chikkaballapur quarry blast, where six people were killed on Tuesday. He said that action will be taken within 24 hours of the submission of an inquiry report. Earlier, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa ordered a probe into the incident. "Directions have been issued to conduct a thorough inquiry and act against those involved," he said. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-orders-cid-probe-into-chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-954340.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to train mining workers in handling explosives safely: Nirani||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Tuesday said the state government will train mining workers in handling explosives and adopting safety measures in mining operations. "These tragic incidents remind us the importance of training skilled workers and establishment of mining school. The people involved in the mining activities should be given training on careful handling of gelatin sticks, detonators and other explosive items at mining sites," he told reporters. He said only licensed quarry owners will be allowed to handle explosives. The government will soon issue guidelines on procurement and usage of explosives for mining operations, he said. Promising to take stern action against the perpetrators of the Chikkaballapur incident, he said the explosives in the Chikkaballapur incident were stored before the Shivamogga blast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-train-mining-workers-in-handling-explosives-safely-nirani-954536.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fix MSP for millet: Agriculture panel tells Karnataka govt||In order to encourage millet farmers, the Karnataka Agriculture Price Commission (KAPC) has urged the state government to come up with a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and strengthen its commercialisation. In a report submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday, the KAPC has recommended that the government fix an MSP of anywhere between Rs 4,500 and Rs 5,000 per quintal, since the Centre has not declared such an MSP for millet. Karnataka is growing millet in an area of 61,000 hectares and produces 42,000 tonnes of various millets, the Commission said. That apart, it suggested that the government encourage millet growers by directly buying produce from them and including millets in mid-day meals. It can also be distributed in the kits give under government schemes for pregnant women, to enhance their nutrition, it added. The report made recommendations to strengthen the production and commercialisation of millet, apart from utilising the Public Distribution System (PDS) to increase farmers' income. The Centre spends about Rs 12,000 crore for PDS. If it procures what is required for PDS at MSP from the state's farmers, it will not only ensure income for farmers but also boost the state's economy, it said. The state produces 55 lakh tonne of paddy, 13 lakh tonne ragi, 10 lakh tonne of jowar, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fix-msp-for-millet-agriculture-panel-tells-karnataka-govt-954552.html
23-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ban on use of mobile phones, electronic gadgets in Karnataka Legislative Council under consideration: Horatti||Banning use of mobile phones and electronic gadgets in the Karnataka Legislative Council is under consideration, its Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said on Tuesday, ahead of the budget session of the state legislature starting next week. Also, there will be no restriction on private television channels from recording and telecasting proceedings of the Council, but a certain set of new rules will be put in place, Horatti was quoted as saying by the state Information department in a release. The ban on phones is already in place in the legislative Assembly, where private television channels cameras are also not allowed. The budget session of the state legislature will begin from March 4 and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who holds the Finance portfolio will be presenting the budget on March 8. The move to ban mobile phones and electronic gadgets from the Council is also said to be considered after a MLC was caught allegedly watching pornographic content during proceedings, during the previous session last month, sources said. Meanwhile, Horatti, a JD(S) MLC, who was elected as the Chairman of the Council on February 9, has resigned from the primary membership of the party. Several Chairmans of the council also Speakers of the assembly in the past have resigned from their party membership on their election to the posts to signify that they are objective in their functioning and were unbiased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ban-on-use-of-mobile-phones-electronic-gadgets-in-karnataka-legislative-council-under-consideration-horatti-954559.html
23-02-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Women rescued in Belagavi reunited with family from Ghaziabad||A woman who had been rescued by APMC Police from a rented house at Sadashiv Nagar in Belagavi was reunited with her family on Tuesday, four years after she was kidnapped from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. APMC Police Inspector Javed Mushapuri and team had conducted a raid on a house at Sadashiv Nagar on February 7, last and had rescued two women who had allegedly been forced into prostitution. Both the women had been kept at the Women Welfare Society's Ujwala Women Protection and Rehabilitation Centre. Project Officer Surekha Patil counselled the rescued women and with the help of police succeeded in getting the address of one of them and intimated the concerned police station. A woman whose identity was confirmed had been kidnapped from Ghaziabad in the year 2017 and a case had been filed with Ghaziabad police. Ghaziabad police along with the father of the rescued woman arrived at APMC Police Station on Tuesday. APMC Police and Ujwala Women Protection and Rehabilitation Centre Project Officer Surekha Patil handed over the rescued woman to her father and Ghaziabad police and they proceeded towards their home state. Police Commissioner Dr K Thiyagarajan and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Vikram Amathe complimented APMC Police and Ujwala Women Protection and Rehabilitation Centre for their exemplary work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/women-rescued-in-belagavi-reunited-with-family-from-ghaziabad-954593.html
23-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: Over 40,000 applications for 75 onion storage facilities||The agriculture department in Aurangabad district has received over 40,000 applications for 75 onion storage facilities to be allotted by the Maharashtra government here this year, an official said. The storage structures are provided to farmers under the Maha Falotpadan Vikas Abhiyan, the official from the agriculture department told PTI on Monday. Some cultivators are now demanding that the facilities be provided to all applicants. Last year, nearly 13,000 applications were received and about 1,000 onion storage structures were alloted to farmers, the official said. Onion has been cultivated on about 20,000 hectare land in the district during the current season, he informed. This year, Aurangabad has been allotted 75 onion storage structures, each costing Rs 87,500, he said. "We have received 40,623 applications online this year for these structures," the official said. He said farmers apply for a number of government schemes with the hope of getting the benefit of some or the other welfare initiative, and this is one of the reasons for the increase in the number of applications. The allotment of the storage facilities is done through an online lottery system and shortlisted farmers are then asked to submit their documents which are verified physically, the official said. Since 2015, more than 4,500 onion storage facilities have been alloted in the district, he added. Former sarpanch of Aurangabad's Palkhed village, Nandkishor Jadhav, has demanded a change in the process of allotment of these storage facilities. "The number of farmers taking up cultivation of onion is growing. The storage facilities should be given to everyone who demands it. The Palkhed gram panchayat had earlier submitted a memorandum regarding this to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray," Jadhav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-over-40000-applications-for-75-onion-storage-facilities-954299.html
23-02-2021||West||2 killed, 26 hurt in fire at chemical unit in Gujarat's Bharuch||Agrochemical maker UPL Ltd said on Tuesday a fire that broke out at a plant in the western state of Gujarat had killed two and injured 26. Five workers were still missing. The fire may have been caused due to an electric short circuit, UPL said after market hours. The fire happened at approximately 0135 local time on Tuesday, followed by an explosion at the plant which had been shut since February 5 for a planned annual boiler inspection. "Since the plant was shut, there was no chemical reaction in progress at this plant. There were no chemical or gas leaks because of the fire/explosion either during or after this incident," UPL said, adding it did not rule out possible foul play. UPL said it has appointed an internal team to investigate the cause of the fire. Shares of NSE Nifty 50-listed UPL, which had dropped 4.8 per cent in early trade on Tuesday following an initial update on the fire from the company, closed nearly 5% higher.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-killed-26-hurt-in-fire-at-chemical-unit-in-gujarats-bharuch-954311.html
23-02-2021||West||BJP sweeps civic elections in six Gujarat cities; Congress faces humiliating defeat||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-sweeps-civic-elections-in-six-gujarat-cities-congress-faces-humiliating-defeat-954325.html
23-02-2021||West||Opposition should talk carefully about Covid-19 crisis: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the recent surge in coronavirus cases is a matter of concern and the Opposition in Maharashtra should talk carefully about the Covid-19 crisis. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday asked people to follow "Covid-appropriate" behaviour and safety norms, and said he would observe the situation for a week to 15 days and then decide whether to impose another lockdown. An editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Tuesday said after Thackeray's comments, BJP leader Pravin Darekar remarked that the government should not create an atmosphere of terror and not act like a tyrant regime. The Sena hit out at the opposition while citing Delhi-based AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria's comment that herd immunity is very difficult to achieve and one should not think of it in practical terms in India, especially in times of variant strains of Covid-19 and waning immunity. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has talked about the Covid-19 threat, the Marathi daily said, adding the opposition in Maharashtra should now understand that the apex institute is not part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state. "The recent surge in Covid-19 cases is a matter of concern," it said. People should behave responsibly if re-imposition of lockdown is to be avoided and the opposition parties should also keep in mind their responsibility, it said. "Opponents, talk carefully at least about the Covid-19 crisis. We have the rest of life left to play politics, but only if the coronavirus gives that opportunity! Hence, take care!!" the Shiv Sena said. Taking a dig at Darekar, the editorial said BJP leaders from Maharashtra should protest outside the AIIMS in Delhi if they thin its director is "misleading" the country. It said criticising the chief minister when he is making people aware of the threat is akin to "committing treason with the state's public". "The chief minister has taken strict measures. Why should the opposition not welcome those? The public belongs to the opposition as much to the ruling parties," it said. The Sena also said lockdown can lead to a collapse of the economy and hence, the Centre should help in such a case. "A state like Maharashtra should get a special economic package in such a case. We won't object if the opposition in Maharashtra insists on the financial package to (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi," it said. The opposition in the state is "not of Pakistani or Afghan lineage". It is also from this soil (of Maharashtra), the Shiv Sena said. Without naming anyone, it said "some people with wisdom" held a grand wedding ceremony recently and discipline was allegedly not followed there. Key people from all parties were among those who allegedly did not follow discipline, it said without specifying any detail of the function or its venue. "What orders can be given to the people then? The novel coronavirus does not spare anyone," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-should-talk-carefully-about-covid-19-crisis-shiv-sena-954346.html
23-02-2021||West||Ex-village sarpanch held for raping 8-year-old girl in Maharashtra||Police have arrested a 62-year- old former village sarpanch for allegedly raping a minor girl in Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday when the eight- year-old victim went to the accused's house in Manor village to pluck fruits from his garden. The accused lured the girl on the pretext of giving her sweets and allegedly raped her, the official from Manor police station said. The victim raised an alarm following which some people residing nearby rushed to the spot and caught hold of the accused, he said. They handed over the accused to the police and the girl was later sent for a medical examination, he said. A case has been registered against the accused under Indian Penal Code Section 376 (rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said. The accused is the former sarpanch (head) of Manor gram panchayat, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-village-sarpanch-held-for-raping-8-year-old-girl-in-maharashtra-954349.html
23-02-2021||West||Sanjay Rathod stages show of strength as Covid SOPs go for a toss||A fortnight after social media star Pooja Chavan was found dead, Maharashtra’s forest minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod staged a mammoth show of strength making a public appearance for the first time denying all charges against him. However, Covid-19 protocols and SOPs – as suggested by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray – went for a toss and police in Yavatmal and Washim districts had a tough time in controlling the mob. A Banjara leader of the Banjara community from the Vidarbha region, Rathod’s name cropped up linking him to the death of Pooja Chavan, a social media star from Beed, who was found dead in Pune. Thackeray had ordered a probe amid demands by the BJP forsaking him from the ministry and that an offense of abetment of suicide and culpable homicide be lodged against him.Rathod (49) is also the guardian minister of the Yavatmal district in the Vidarbha region, where the Covid-19 cases are rapidly growing. On Tuesday, Rathod, accompanied by his wife, Shital Rathod, and a huge gathering of supporters, drove from Yavatmal to Wahim and took blessings at Pohradevi Temple and performed rituals.  He also visited other shrines. As his cavalcade moved from different villages, a huge crowd welcomed him. In some places, police had to use force to disperse the crowd. There was no physical distancing concept and several people were without masks or have not worn it properly. “A probe is underway and everything would be clear after that,” he said, however, refusing to get into the details. “I have been working for the last 30 years for the Banjara, VJNT and OBC communities also....there is a move to scuttle my political career by making allegations,” he said. He said that the Banjara community is with the family of Pooja Chavan. “Her death is unfortunate,” he said, adding that people should not defame him linking to her death.Meanwhile, state BJP women’s wing vice president and activist Chitra Wagh said that her party would continue to raise the issue of death of the girl. “Hats off to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government...how the entire ministry has come together to save their minister,” she said. Senior BJP leader Kiriti Somaiya said: “There is no justice for Pooja Chavan. But see the welcome, the crowd at the time of Covid-19.” The girl, who was known for her videos on social media platforms such as TikTok and Instagram, was found dead on 7 February. Audio clips of her purported conservation with two persons went viral.It may be recalled, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had written to director general of police Hemant Nagrale, submitted 12 audio clips and sought a detailed probe.On the other hand, her father Lahu Chavan had claimed that Pooja was in debt heavily and that family does not blame anyone for her death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-rathod-stages-show-of-strength-as-covid-sops-go-for-a-toss-954377.html
23-02-2021||West||Maharashtra minister denies link to woman's death, visits temple||Maharashtra Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod, who was not seen in public after his name was linked to the death of a woman in Pune, visited a temple in Washim district on Tuesday and later dismissed the allegations against him. Talking to reporters after visiting the Pohradevi Temple in Washim, Rathod claimed, "dirty politics" was being played following the woman's "unfortunate" death. The Shiv Sena leader also expressed confidence that truth will come out following a probe into the matter. The opposition BJP in the state, however, demanded the removal of Rathod as a minister and a comprehensive probe into the woman's death. The 23-year-old woman died after falling from a building in the Hadapsar area of Pune on February 8. Some social media posts and the BJP earlier alleged that Rathod was connected to the death of the woman. On Tuesday, the minister travelled by road from his residence in Yavatmal to the Pohradevi Temple in neighbouring Washim, where he sought blessings and took part in rituals. A large number of Rathod's supporters thronged the venue, in apparent violation of the social distancing norms. Later, in a brief interaction with media, Rathod said he and the Banjara community, to which belong, are pained by the woman's death and share her family's grief. The minister said his family and the community should not be defamed by latching on to the incident. "The death of Puja Chavan, who belonged to our community, in Pune was unfortunate. The entire community is pained by death. I and our entire community is part of the Chavan family's grief," Rathod said. But, the kind of politics that is being played following the incident is wrong and baseless, he said. "I can tell you that there is no substance in what is being said in the media and on social media," said Rathod, who is also the guardian minister of Yavatmal. He said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the matter and the police are doing their job. "...I request you not to defame me, my family and my community. Let's wait for the probe found," he said. When a journalist asked about him allegedly disappearing for two weeks, Rathod said he was not in the public eye for 10 days, but continued to work. "I was seeing the love of you (media) all on TV. I have old parents, my wife who has blood pressure issues and children. Over the past 10 days, I took care of them when this love came my way. My government work was on, I did not stop doing that," he said. On the images of him and the woman doing rounds on social media, Rathod said his community loves him and several people get themselves photographed with him. "I have been working in the social sector for 30 years. Don't put me in the wrong box just because of one incident," he added. The minister said following his visit to the temple, he will resume work as earlier. Meanwhile, Maharashtra BJP vice president Chitra Wagh alleged that Rathod was responsible for the woman's death. "The chief minister should immediately remove Rathod from his post and order a thorough probe into the case. It was disgusting to see Sanjay Rathod trying to hide behind his community," she told reporters in Mumbai. Wagh alleged that Rathod and his supporters violated Covid-19 prevention norms at the temple. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should take action against him, she said. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council Praveen Darekar said, "The way Rathod organised a huge gathering at the temple in Washim is condemnable. We will raise the issue in the Assembly as well."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-denies-link-to-womans-death-visits-temple-954410.html
23-02-2021||West||Sale of Coronil will not be allowed in Maharashtra without certification: Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government has decided not to allow Coronil, which has been manufactured by the Baba Ramdev-founded Patanjali Ayurveda. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government pointed out that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has questioned the trials while the World Health Organisation (WHO) refuted the claims. “The IMA has questioned the said 'clinical trials' of Coronil and WHO refuted the false claims made by Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for Covid-19 treatment,” state home minister Anil Deshmukh said. “Launching such a drug hurriedly and being endorsed by two senior Central Union Ministers is highly deplorable. Selling of Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like WHO, IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra,” he added. "The #IMA has questioned the said `clinical trials' of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment," Deshmukh said.   "...selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra," the minister said. However, Patanjali's managing director Acharya Balkrishna later said "We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India" and "WHO do not approve or disapprove any drugs".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sale-of-coronil-will-not-be-allowed-in-maharashtra-without-certification-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-954440.html
23-02-2021||West||Ravi Pujari remanded to police custody||Notorious underworld gangster Ravi Pujari – who is wanted in nearly 49 cases in Mumbai – was on Tuesday remanded to police custody till 9 March. The Mumbai police on Monday took custody of Pujari from Bengalaru jail. “He is wanted in 49-odd cases. Mumbai had listed 10 cases in the Senegal court, on the basis of which he had been extradited. We will be investigating him in the 10 cases,” Mumbai Police’s joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharmabe said. The cases include murders, attempted murders and extradition. “We have got the custody in the first case,” he said. As far as the remaining cases are concerned, the Mumbai police is in touch with the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of External Affairs to secure his extradition in the rest of the cases. The cases include murders, attempted murders and extradition. “We have got the custody in the first case,” he said. In Mumbai, he faces charges under Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ravi-pujari-remanded-to-police-custody-954446.html
23-02-2021||West||External Affairs' ministers of six countries to address Asia Economic Dialogue 2021||The Foreign Affairs' ministers of six countries including India, Japan, Australia, Maldives, Mauritius and Japan will address the Asia Economic Dialogue 2021 to be held between 26-28 February. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will address the inaugural session on ‘Resilient Global Growth in a Post-Pandemic World’ which would also be addressed by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Jointly convened by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Pune International Centre (PIC), a number of prominent dignitaries, policymakers, high-level bureaucrats and leading experts from across the world are participating in this virtual conference. Dr. Naushad, Forbes co-chairman, Forbes & Marshall will chair the session while eminent scientist and PIC president Dr R.A Mashelkar will make the opening remarks at the AED. This will be followed by a session on ‘Global Finance in a Post Covid-19 World’ chaired by Dr. K.V. Kamath, former president of New Development Bank (BRICS). A ‘fireside chat’ with  Kumar Mangalam Birla, Chairman, Aditya Birla Group; a panel discussion chaired Kamath on the state of global finance in the post-Covid-19 world, and perspectives from industry leaders from Vietnam, South Korea, Japan and India on building global supply chains are among the highlights of the conference. ‘Post Covid-19 Global Trade and Finance Dynamics’ is the theme of this conference with a total of eight sessions, including a Fireside Chat between Birla and diplomat Gautam Bambawale, Convener of AED 2021. Bambawale, trustee, PIC, is the former Indian Ambassador to China, Pakistan and Bhutan. Dr. Vijay Kelkar, vice president, PIC and chairman of the 13th Finance Commission of India, said: “AED 2021 is a unique, high level international conference to understand better the profound challenges that Covid-19 is posing to the growth and stability of the global economy. AED 2021 will also debate and discuss innovative policy measures that the major economies, including those from Asia will need to take for achieving sustainable growth in the coming decade.” Former RBI Governor Dr Urjit Patel will be chairing the session on ‘Asia’s Role in Global Currency Realignment and Financial which will be attended by Dr. Mahmoud Mohieldin, Executive Director, International Monetary Fund, Lord Meghnad Desai, Professor Emeritus, London School of Economics and Dr. Eswar Prasad, Tolani Senior Professor of Trade Policy, Cornell University. Ambassadors and Permanent Representatives to the WTO (World Trade Organisation) from Australia, South Africa, Jamaica and India, along with Dr. Abhijit Das, Head and Professor, Centre for WTO Studies, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), New Delhi, will be among the participants in Session IV on ‘Whither WTO Post Covid-19 Pandemic?’. The session chaired by J.S. Deepak, former Ambassador and Permanent Representative of India to the WTO.A session on ‘Perspectives on India’s International Development Cooperation’ has been scheduled featuring a panel discussion with foreign ministers from Bhutan (Dr. Tandi Dorji); Maldives  (Abdulla Sahid); Mauritius (Mr. Nandcoomar Bodha) and Commerce Secretary (Economic Relations), Rahul Chhabra. This session will be chaired by the former Foreign Secretary, Mr Vijay Gokhale. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Commerce Secretary Dr. Anup Wadhawan will speak at the session on ‘India as a Global Partner’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/external-affairs-ministers-of-six-countries-to-address-asia-economic-dialogue-2021-954504.html
23-02-2021||West||It is victory of politics of development and good governance: Modi on Gujarat win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday described BJP’s victory in the Gujarat civic polls as a vote for politics of development and good governance, BJP registered big victories in elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat pushing Congress to a distant second. BJP won 409 of the 474 seats for which results were declared, while Congress managed to win 33 seats. AAP edged out Congress as the main opposition in Surat, winning 27 of the 120 seats, while BJP won 93. “Thank you Gujarat! Results of municipal elections across the state clearly show the unwavering faith people have towards politics of development and good governance,” the Prime Minister said. “Grateful to the people of the state for trusting BJP yet again. Always an honour to serve Gujarat,” he said. Modi lauded the efforts of Gujarat BJP workers who reached out to people and elaborated on the party's vision for the state. “Today's win across Gujarat is very special. For a party that is serving in a state for over two decades to record such a phenomenal win is noteworthy. It is heartening to see widespread support from all sections of society, particularly the youth of Gujarat towards BJP,” he said. BJP President J P Nadda said Congress lost badly in all the six corporations and failed to open its account in Surat municipal corporation. “It is a clear indication that the people have rejected the negative and divisive politics pursued by the Congress and other opposition parties,” Nadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/it-is-victory-of-politics-of-development-and-good-governance-modi-on-gujarat-win-954526.html
23-02-2021||West||Mystery over Mohan Delkar’s death deepens||A day after Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar died by suicide in a hotel, the mystery over his death seems to be deepening as the Mumbai Police deciphered and analysed the lengthy note that he left behind. The post-mortem was conducted at the Sir JJ Hospital in Mumbai and after the completion of necessary formalities, the body was handed over to relatives on Tuesday. The last rites would be held in Silvassa. The Mumbai Police, however, refused to comment on the investigation. “We cannot say anything at this stage. The investigation is in progress,” Mumbai Police spokesperson, Deputy Commissioner of Police (operations) S Chaitanya said when contacted by DH. On Monday afternoon, his body was found in a room at the Sea Green Hotel at Marine Drive in Mumbai. The MP and his driver checked into the hotel on Sunday. After his death, several old speeches of Delkar have surfaced on social media platforms. Taking strong note of the incident, the Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday said that it wants a probe into BJP's role concerning the ‘suicide’. State Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said: “I will soon call on home minister Anil Deshmukh with a demand to investigate the role of BJP in the death of MP Mohanbai Delkar.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mystery-over-mohan-delkar-s-death-deepens-954528.html
23-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Secretariat Mantralaya to work in two shifts||In a development that would trigger a culture of operating offices in shifts and stagger work timings, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday initiated a plan to run Mantralaya, the state secretariat in two shifts. Concerned by the rise in Covid-19 cases, Thackeray reviewed the emerging situation in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), where one of the biggest challenges is crowding in local trains and public places and lack of takers for the new normal. On Tuesday, MMR recorded 1,250 cases and 11 deaths pushing the progressive total to 7,16,299 and 19,768, respectively.   Thackeray chaired two back-to-back meetings – to review the situation in Mumbai and MMR. He also held a separate meeting with top bureaucrats including Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar and Maharashtra Gazetted Officers Association’s chief advisor G D Kulthe. “Let's work on a plan to run Mantralaya in two shifts and also promote work-from-home culture in the wake of the Covid-19 situation...we need to change the 10 am to 5 pm office mindset,” Thackeray said. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic a year ago in India, the chief minister has been promoting work-from-home and stepping out of homes only when necessary. However, in the wake of rising cases, he has now directed to start two-shifts in Mantralaya. In fact, the government is concerned about the crowd in the suburban trains in Mumbai-MMR, which is suspected to be one of the reasons for the increase in cases. “We have to look at concepts at procedures so that work efficiency is maintained and the threat of spread of Covid-19 reduces,” he said. He also said that the Mantralaya staff should be treated as frontline workers and should get priority in the vaccination programme.  “The crowd coming to the secretariat also needs to be reduced,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-secretariat-mantralaya-to-work-in-two-shifts-954557.html
