24-02-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Electronic interlocking on platform 1 commissioned at Hubballi Railway station||South Western Railway has commissioned electronic interlocking at the Hubballi’s Shree Siddharoodha Swamiji Railway Station platform 1, which is slated to become the longest platform in the world. In a statement, South Western Railway (SWR) said the Platform 1 at Hubballi, which was just 681 metres, has now been developed up to 1,505 metres, and can accommodate two trains at a time. Another platform has been extended by 1,123 metres. The remodelling of the yard with electronic interlocking has helped the station increase its number of platforms from the current five to eight. This will enhance the station to handle the increasing train traffic at Hubballi, which is the headquarters of the SWR. The electronic interlocking at yard remodelling has now ensured reception and despatch of trains towards three sides -- - Bengaluru/Davangere, Gadag and Londa/Goa/Maharashtra --- at a time. Yard remodelling work, started in 2019, is being completed at an estimated cost of Rs 90 crore, which includes signalling, electrical and third entry. SWR general manager Ajay Kumar Singh, who commissioned the electronic interlocking system, congratulated railway officials for completing the ‘mammoth task’ 14 hours before the scheduled time. “The Hubballi station is now a step closer from entering into Guinness Book of World Records,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/electronic-interlocking-on-platform-1-commissioned-at-hubballi-railway-station-954899.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Security tightened in Mysuru ahead for Mayor election||With elections for Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts, the Police have intensified security at Mysuru City Corporation. The election process will commence at 12 noon. Regional Commissioner will conduct the election to elect Mayor and Deputy Mayor. As no political party has an absolute majority, it is inevitable for the parties to go for an alliance. Thus, BJP and Congress leaders are making all efforts to get the support of JD(s) corporators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/security-tightened-in-mysuru-ahead-for-mayor-election-954806.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Major setback for BJP in mayoral polls||The results of mayoral elections have come as a major setback for the BJP with the party leaders failing to elect their candidate. The BJP leaders, including District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, MLA L Nagendra and MP Pratap Simha, were confident of forming the council with the support of the JD(S). The party leaders had made all possible efforts to elect BJP corporator as Mayor. But, the saffron party missed the opportunity as the JD(S) and the Congress decided to continue their pact. Even though BJP, with 22 corporators in the 65-member Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), is the single largest party in the MCC, it was in the Opposition of the council since 2018, as the JD(S) and the Congress formed a coalition. JD(S) candidate Rukmini Madegowda was elected as Mayor and Congress candidate Anwar Baig elected as deputy mayor. The efforts of District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, BJP MLAs and MP to convince JD(S) failed. The minister said that both, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy had claimed that they will not support each other, but, at the last moment they decided to join hands. “However, I will give all support for the development works,” the minister said. Even Kumaraswamy denied alliance with the Congress claiming that Siddaramaiah had questioned about the existence of the JD(S). “We will show our strength to Siddaramaiah. We don’t support both the parties. Our vision is on 2023 election,” Kumaraswamy said. As Congress corporators were directed to vote for JD(S) candidate Rukmini Madegowda at the last moment, Congress candidate Shantakumari secured no votes. It has to be noted that JD(S) had earlier decided not to support either BJP or Congress, but, it decided to align with Congress at the last moment.  According to sources, though Kumaraswamy, District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar urged JD(S) corporators to extend support to BJP, the corporators were reluctant to support the BJP and decided to contest independently. However, Congress MLA Tanveer Sait managed to convince JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy promising Mayor post to JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/major-setback-for-bjp-in-mayoral-polls-954959.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Thousands of devotees throng Malekal Tirupati for car festival||Thousands of devotees thronged Malekal Tirupati Lakshmi Venkataramanaswamy Maha Rathotsava on the outskirts of Arsikere, Hassan district, on Wednesday afternoon. The car festival that is usually held in the month of Ashada was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The temple management, which felt that if the festival is cancelled for a year, it could not be conducted for the next three years, decided to celebrate it on February 24, in a grand manner. MLA K M Shivalingegowda participated in the car festival and offered prayers to the deity. He assured to develop it into a tourist spot to attract a large number of devotees to the temple, popularly called as ‘Chikka Tirupati’. KSRTC plied additional buses from various parts of the district to Anekal Tirupati temple. The police had beefed up security measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/thousands-of-devotees-throng-malekal-tirupati-for-car-festival-954961.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) is new Mayor, Anwar Baig deputy||JD(S) corporator Rukmini Madegowda was elected as Mayor of Mysuru while Anwar Baig of Congress as Deputy Mayor, on Wednesday. The election for Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts was held at Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) here. The term of the previous Mayor Tasneem of JD(S) ended on January 19. The JD(S) and Congress alliance continued in the Mayoral poll, with slight changes. As per the agreement in 2018, the Mayor’s post was supposed to be for the Congress. While Rukmini managed to secure 43 votes, BJP candidate Sunanda Palanetra obtained 26 votes. Similarly, Congress corporator Anwar Baig was elected as Deputy Mayor, by defeating BJP’s S Satvik. The mayor’s post was reserved for General Category (woman) and deputy mayor was for general category. Regional Commissioner G C Prakash conducted the elections and announced the results. MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag was present. It has to be noted that, as per the agreement between the Congress and the JD(S) in 2018, the mayor’s post was supposed to be for the Congress, in the first and third term of the existing council. But, now the JD(S) retained the Mayor’s post, due to certain issues. The JD(S) was not ready to continue the alliance with the Congress, due to a rift between Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and JD(S) leaders. However, JD(S) corporators decided to extend support to the Congress, on a demand for the Mayor’s post. MLA Tanveer Sait said, “We agreed to give the mayor’s post to the JD(S) this time. The mayor’s post will be reserved for the Congress for the next two terms.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rukmini-madegowda-of-jds-is-new-mayor-anwar-baig-deputy-954962.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Stop benefits to tribals converted to Christianity’||MP Pratap Simha said that the benefits meant for adivasis should not be distributed among tribals who have converted to Christianity. The MP directed the officials at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA), meeting held at Zilla Panchayat here, on Wednesday. The MP asked the officials to identify the people roaming with Christian cross on their neck. “The government benefits must be stopped immediately for them. They should not be given any reservation,” the MP said. The MP took the officials to task, claiming that the authorities have failed to provide benefits to real beneficiaries. “No tribal would have converted to Christianity, if the officials concerned distributed the benefits to the people,” he said. The MP asked the officials to develop the streets where Savarnas (upper caste people) are living. SC/ST colonies are developed under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, but, the areas of Savarnas are not developed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stop-benefits-to-tribals-converted-to-christianity-954964.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Transport, storage of gelatin sticks banned||After the Shivamogga gelatin blast incident, early this month, the officials of the Mines and Geology department have been inspecting stone quarries in Chamarajanagar district to ensure that all safety measures are being followed. According to the department, the officials are closely monitoring all white stone quarries in the district, after the blast that claimed several lives in Shivamogga. Now, with another blast killing six people in Chikkaballapur, the officials are visiting all quarries and are ensuring that all guidelines are followed while quarrying.  There are 38 white stone quarries in the district. During an inspection, the officials found a crusher and tar mixing unit functioning without licenses in Hanur taluk. Both the units have been sealed. The authorities have prohibited transportation and storage of gelatin sticks in the district. A meeting of the quarry owners was convened and directed to follow the safety measures strictly, said the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transport-storage-of-gelatin-sticks-banned-954965.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Illegal mining: Company slapped fine of Rs 21 crore||The Mines and Geology department has recently imposed a fine of Rs 21 crore on Dileep Buildcon Limited (DBL) Company, on charges of illegal stone mining. The company has taken up 10-lane work on Bengaluru-Mysuru national highway. The stones required for the project has been mined near Kalenahalli in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. The department has alleged that they had not taken necessary approval from the authorities before quarrying. The company had sought permission from the Mines and Geology department, before commencing the work and was sanctioned seven acres of land near Kalenahalli. Though the Revenue and Forest departments had given approval, it failed to get permission from the Union government for mining near the highway, it is said. It is proved that the company had involved in illegal mining before getting Environment approval and has extracted 1.35 lakh metric tonnes of stones. Hence, the district administration and the department has imposed a fine of Rs 21 crore to the DBL Company, said senior scientist T V Pushpa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-mining-company-slapped-fine-of-rs-21-crore-954966.html
24-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Opposition flays govt inaction against illegal quarries||Following a second explosion in a stone quarry in the state in less than a month, Opposition parties lashed out at the B S Yediyurappa administration, questioning the lack of action against illegal quarries.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah demanded that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa immediately release a list of all the illegal quarries in the state.  “It is believed that Karnataka has more than 2,000 unauthorised crushers and quarries. The CM should immediately release a list of such quarries. He has to ensure that all these quarries are shut. There is a direct link between illegal quarrying in the state and that in Andhra Pradesh. Right from Vidhana Soudha to district-level officials, everyone is involved,” Siddaramaiah, who took stock of the situation at the blast site at Hirenagaveli in Chikkaballapur district, charged. He questioned Chikkaballapur district in-charge minister K Sudhakar as to how he was unaware of what was transpiring in his region. He further demanded for an inquiry by a High Court judge, besides suspension of all the district officials involved in this. Alleging government apathy, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) D K Shivakumar charged that the government remained lax in spite of last month’s Shivamogga blast. “The government has to act against those involved in illegal quarrying. How many more lives does this government want before it acts?” Meanwhile, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy lashed out at the state government and said Tuesday’s incident only showed government’s negligence. “If the government had any commitment, it would have sorted this out. Instead of giving statements to the media, the government should ensure action against the guilty. Elected representatives are also involved in illegal quarrying. In many instances, officials buckled under political pressure to give licenses,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/opposition-flays-govt-inaction-against-illegal-quarries-954617.html
24-02-2021||Mysuru||Rukmini Madegowda elected as Mayor of Mysuru||Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) has been elected as the Mayor of Mysuru and Anwar Baig of Congress has elected as deputy mayor. The election for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor post was held at Mysuru City Corporation here, on Wednesday. With this, Congress and JD(S) continued their alliance for the third term. Rukmini Madegowda obtained 43 votes. All three parties had filed candidates but finally JD(S) and Congress decided to continue the pact to keep BJP away from power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rukmini-madegowda-elected-as-mayor-of-mysuru-954782.html
24-02-2021||National||Foreign tourist tap a trickle but sector hopeful||India's tourism took a devastating hit during the Covid-19 pandemic, with tourist inflows dwindling to record lows last year. But amid the bad news, tourist operators are keenly tracking the current situation and would be hoping to see the trickle of tourists turn into a steady flow, even as they remain on tenterhooks over the new virus variants. Just over two lakh international visitors visited India during the pandemic between April and December last year as against over 77 lakhs during the same period in 2019. According to data compiled by the tourism ministry, arrival of foreigners was the lowest in April last year at 470, when the country was under lockdown to fight the pandemic that wreaked havoc across the world. In April 2019, India had reported arrival of 7.74 lakh foreigners. India had suspended international flights from March 22 as first cases of Covid-19 reported in the country were traced to arrivals of visitors from abroad, particularly from China and Europe. Between April and December 2019, India had recorded 77,50,563 arrivals of foreigners, while during the pandemic the numbers dwindled to 2,13,853 for the period under review. Tourism and hospitality sector was the worst affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown had a cascading effect on livelihood of people dependent on tourism. “Since the situation is still evolving, the final impact can only be ascertained in due course,” Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel told Parliament recently. According to the tourism ministry data, arrival of foreigners in May last year was 1,329 as against 6,15,136 in May 2019, 4,480 in June last year (7,26,446 in 2019), 6,503 in July last year (8,18,125), 11,619 in August last year (8,00,837), 18,469 in September last year (7,51,513), 30,917 in October last year (9,45,017), 60,156 in November last year (10,92,440) and 79,910 in December last year (12,26,398). Though tour operators were reluctant to speak on the resumption of international tourism, they are keenly watching the evolving situation, particularly in the wake of new strains of the coronavirus in Britain, South Africa and Brazil. Earlier, a task force from the hospitality industry had urged the government to resume issuing tourist visas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-tourist-tap-a-trickle-but-sector-hopeful-954646.html
24-02-2021||National||Compliance on wearing masks, physical distancing declining: Survey||Indians appear to be lacking in adhering to Covid-19 protocols with a new survey claiming that the compliance on wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance are falling. The survey by LocalCircles claimed that only 30% of the respondents felt that there was effective compliance on wearing masks as against 67% in September last year. Only 12% now believe that physical distancing is being implemented effectively. The survey in September last year did not cover this aspect. On masks, the survey claimed 30% said that there was good compliance while another 51% said that there was "limited" compliance and 18% claimed there was no compliance at all. Based on locations, the survey claimed, 35% in Tier-I locations found compliance When the data was analysed based on locations, citizens who said that compliance was effective in Tier-I locations was 35% while those who rated it as effective in Tier-II locations was 29% and in Tier-III and IV and rural locations at 19%. This indicated that compliance with wearing masks was decreasing in semi-urban and rural India compared to metros, the survey said. The decline in compliance comes even as in many countries around the world, citizens are upgrading masks and moving to KN-95 or N-95 masks, and some are even wearing double basic masks for protection, it said. "Various reasons cited by citizens for not wearing masks included discomfort, no or poor enforcement by most local authorities, and the declining caseloads in their area," it said. "There is also a sense of weariness of pandemic setting off for most citizens as the Government relaxed all lockdown restrictions," it added. When it comes to physical distancing compliance, the survey claimed that 56% feel there is practically no physical distancing followed while 12% said there is good compliance and 31% felt there is limited compliance. In Tier-I locations, compliance was 15%, while those who rated it as effective in Tier-II locations was 10%, and those who rated it as effective in Tier-III and IV and rural locations was 7.5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/compliance-on-wearing-masks-physical-distancing-declining-survey-954428.html
24-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Sympathy votes only hope for Congress?||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre over the three contentious farm laws and said the aim of the BJP government is to destroy farmers' market and not getting them the right price for their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sympathy-votes-only-hope-for-congress-954672.html
24-02-2021||National||The Lead: What is sedition law?||Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio. In today's episode, we are joined by Advocate Vinay Sreenivasa to talk about the laws concerning sedition and jurisdiction. Hi sir and welcome to DH Radio. Vinay Sreenivasa: Hello. Ahmed: It's nice to have you on our show. Sir, getting straight to the questions. In legal terms, what constitutes sedition and how has the Indian system defined it and what are the loopholes in this definition? Vinay: Sedition is an outdated law, which is there from British times. In fact, you must remember that Gandhiji was also arrested for Sedition... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-what-is-sedition-law-954675.html
24-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 24||Petrol and diesel prices continued to soar to new highs as fuel rates were hiked again on Wednesday Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 24:   Rs 87.63/L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-24-954677.html
24-02-2021||National||India sees 13,742 new Covid-19 cases, 104 deaths||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,10,30,176 with 13,742  new infections, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,26,702, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,56,567 with 104 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,26,702 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.25 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. There are 1,46,907 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.33 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the ICMR,  21,30,36,275 samples have been tested up to February 23 with 8,05,844 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-13742-new-covid-19-cases-104-deaths-954707.html
24-02-2021||National||SEC to take up Sputnik V emergency approval application today||The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) is scheduled to meet on Wednesday to discuss Dr Reddy’s application seeking emergency use approval for the Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine.  Meeting of Subject Expert Committee (SEC) scheduled to be held today to discuss Dr Reddy’s application seeking emergency use approval for SputnikV vaccine: Officials Dr Reddy's has been working with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to hold small clinical trials of Sputnik V in India.  The vaccine has proved 91.6% effective against Covid-19, based on late-stage trials in Russia, results published in the Lancet medical journal showed .  More than a million people in Russia have received Sputnik V, which is marketed abroad by the RDIF and has been approved for emergency use in Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico and Serbia. RDIF expects India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, to produce about 300 million doses of Sputnik V this year. Hetero Biopharma is making more than 100 million doses. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sec-to-take-up-sputnik-v-emergency-approval-application-today-954711.html
24-02-2021||National||Amma wanted AIADMK to be there for 100 years: Sasikala hints at return to politics to fulfil Jayalalithaa's wish||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala on Wednesday paid tribute to former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa on her birth anniversary. After paying tribute, Sasikala said that Jayalalithaa wanted the AIADMK government to be in power even after 100 years. She wished that the AIADMK and AMMK should contest the elections together.  "As our Amma (J Jayalalithaa) wished, our government (AIADMK) should be there even after 100 years. For that to happen, we should contest elections together (AIADMK and AMMK). I wish for the same. I will meet the cadres and people soon," Sasikala said.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amma-wanted-aiadmk-to-be-there-for-100-years-sasikala-hints-at-return-to-politics-to-fulfil-jayalalithaas-wish-954727.html
24-02-2021||National||Happy birthday Steve Jobs: When he visited India out of spiritual quest||Many of you are familiar with the long queues outside the Apple stores during the launch of a new iPhone. But how much do you know the man who was one of the brains behind its birth? Steve Jobs, a name no matter pronounced in whichever part of the world, evokes a sense of respect and awe. The company he co-founded with Steve Wozniak, Apple, has become a household name in today's age. The craze for Apple products has touched India as well, notwithstanding the prices. But apart from the commercial aspect, did Steve Jobs the man had any connection with India? In the pages of history, when modernisation was yet to bless the human race, India was known as the land of philosophy, enlightenment, riches and mysteries. India has always attracted the inhabitants of the western world, who have viewed it as a land of sadhus. Steve Jobs too nurtured these thoughts, and so in the middle of 1974, he visited India along with Dan Kottke, who would later become the first employee of Apple. Kottke states in iCon, "He was determined to go to India. He felt some unresolved pain over being adopted. That was the same period that he hired a private investigator to try and track down his mother. He was obsessed with it for a while." But Jobs' search for peace in India did not go as he expected. The jeans and T-shirts made way for lungi, a traditional desi garment, and Jobs set out to embrace Indian culture. When the lungi-clad Jobs set foot on the streets, he received a shock. The land he visualised in his imagination disappeared like fog on a bright winter morning.   He found India to be in a deplorable condition. Michael Moritz quotes Jobs in the latter's biography 'The Little Kingdom — The Private Story of Apple Computer', "The hot, uncomfortable summer made Jobs question many illusions he had nursed about India. He found India far poorer than he had imagined and was struck by the incongruity between the country's condition and its airs of holiness." Later, during Jobs' search for one Neem Karoli Baba, he came across a man near Nainital, who shaved his head and promised to lead him to the Baba. But the Baba died long before Jobs reached his ashram. The trip became all the more difficult when Jobs and Kottke were struck with diarrhoea as the Indian summer continued to take a toll on the health. As Kottke describes the situation, "Out there in the dry creek bed, in the middle of India, completely disoriented, all our rhythms and beliefs shattered, where we were sure a flash flood would come through any moment, the two of us praying to any god that could here us; Dear God, if I ever get through this, ill be a good person, I promise." They planned to go to Manali and Tibet later, but Kottke's traveller cheque got stolen, bringing down the curtains on a tiring journey. After seven months in India, Jobs returned to the US. He had changed his appearance; his head was shaved, and he wore traditional Indian clothing. The trip made him a hardened man, someone with clarity and determination. He met Wozniak in 1975, and the rest, as they say, is history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-birthday-steve-jobs-when-he-visited-india-out-of-spiritual-quest-954730.html
24-02-2021||National||Western Railway faces Rs 5,000 crore loss due to Covid-19||The Western Railway is facing an annual revenue loss of about Rs 5,000 crore due to the Covid-19 crisis which affected services and led to a drop in the number of train travellers, a senior official has said. Many people are still reluctant to travel by train due to fear of the coronavirus, Western Railway's General Manager Alok Kansal told reporters here on Tuesday. "We are incurring an annual revenue loss of Rs 5,000 crore in coaching trains (passenger trains) segment due to the Covid-19 crisis," he said. Among the trains being currently operated by the WR, some are running with only 10 per cent occupancy, he said. Kansal said before the outbreak of Covid-19, the Western Railway used to run about 300 passenger trains. But, the government stopped passenger trains across the country in March last year to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He said the operation of passenger trains is now coming back on track and this is expected to improve the Western Railway's revenue. "During the last 11 months, the Western Railway has gradually restarted 145 out of its 300 passenger trains... about 50 per cent of our passenger trains have been resumed," he said. In the next seven days, the WR is going to restart six more passenger trains in Madhya Pradesh, he said. Kansal clarified that the Western Railway is currently running its passenger trains as special trains in view of the Covid-19 guidelines, and only passengers having reserved tickets are allowed to travel. During the Covid-19 lockdown last year, the WR ran 1,234 Shramik Special trains from May 1 to 31 to ferry about 19 lakh people to their destinations in different states, he added. Kansal was in MP for an inspection of the Indore- Dewas-Ujjain-Ratlam section of the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/western-railway-faces-rs-5000-crore-loss-due-to-covid-19-954744.html
24-02-2021||National||Punjab 'shamelessly' protecting gangster Mukhtar Ansari: UP govt tells SC||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the Punjab government is "shamelessly" protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in connection with an alleged extortion case, by not sending him to UP to face trial in several cases. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy took note of the submission of senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the Punjab government, seeking adjournment in the matter on personal grounds. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, said he has no objection to Dave's plea for adjournment. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Ansari, said that he (Mukhtar) is "small fry" being cornered by the "might of the state". To this, Mehta said, "You are such a small fry that a state (Punjab) is shamelessly protecting you." The top court has posted the matter for hearing on March 2. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by Uttar Pradesh seeking a direction to the Punjab government and Rupnagar jail authority to immediately hand over the custody of Ansari to district jail Banda. It has also sought a direction to transfer the criminal proceedings and trial in the extortion case in Punjab to the special court in Allahabad. Ansari is lodged in district jail Rupnagar in Punjab since January 2019. In its affidavit filed in the apex court, Punjab had referred to the medical condition of Ansari and said that he had been undergoing treatment at jail hospital as well as other hospitals from time to time since January 2019. While referring to the medical condition and advice of doctors, it has said that custody of Ansari “could not be handed over to the state of Uttar Pradesh due to the specific advice of the medical officers/medical board/specialists” from time to time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-shamelessly-protecting-gangster-mukhtar-ansari-up-govt-tells-sc-954749.html
24-02-2021||National||With over 5,000 active cases, Amravati emerges as Covid-19 hotspot in Maharashtra||With 5,000-plus active cases, Amravati in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra has now turned into a Covid-19 hotspot. Only the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune and Nagpur have more active cases than Amravati. Amravati, which is also the headquarters of the Amravati division, is Vidarbha's second important city after Nagpur, the winter capital of the state. Till Wednesday morning, Amravati had 5,595 active cases as against Pune and Nagpur, which had 9,399 and 6,382 cases, respectively. As regards Mumbai, it has 6,199 active cases while the MMR, which comprises the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai suburban and large parts of neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, has over 13,000 active cases. Spread over 12,235 sq km, the Amravati district has a population of nearly 28 lakh. Over the last two weeks, the Amravati district is adding 600 to 800 cases on an average daily – rattling the government and health administration. The progressive total cases in Amravati are 32,045 and deaths 443. As of now, Amravati is under a one-week lockdown, which would end on Monday. The four main reasons are – lowering of guard by people as the overall situation in India improved, spurt in political functions and mid-January gram panchayat elections, marriages with no respect for protocols and SOPs and the administration that has been on toes for a year also got exhausted. State’s Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is the Guardian Minister of Amravati district, admits that people have been careless. “As compared to Mumbai, the population of Amravati is less but the active cases are nearly the same...there has been some carelessness on the part of people as well,” she said, adding that facemasks are compulsory and there cannot be doubts over it. “People have to wear masks and this lockdown is necessary as there are no other options,” the senior Congress leader said. Former minister and BJP leader Dr Sunil Deshmukh said that it is the sum total of different reasons that have resulted in the situation. “There have been several marriage events which attracted large gatherings. You definitely cannot blame the administration, they have been on their toes for a year,” he said, adding that "people need to understand that we are facing a pandemic". Amravati-based journalist and writer Avinash Dudhe said that if one takes the Amravati district as a whole, the majority of cases are from Amravati and Achalpur towns. “The surge is mainly from two places...in Amravati, there have been several marriage events in February, while Achalpur is densely populated. In Achalpur, there have been cases where four to five members of a family had been found positive,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-over-5000-active-cases-amravati-emerges-as-covid-19-hotspot-in-maharashtra-954752.html
24-02-2021||National||Bomb attack on West Bengal minister: CID detains Bangladeshi national||The CID in West Bengal had detained a Bangladeshi national in relation to the case of an alleged bomb attack on state minister Jakir Hossain. Sources in the CID said that the person was being interrogated and refused to divulge any further details as the investigation was still going on. The minister, a prominent leader of the TMC in Murshidabad district was critically injured, when he was entering the Nimtita Railway station to board a train, due to a sudden bomb blast on February 17. He sustained grievous injuries to his hands and legs including a shattered ankle and thumb. More than 20 other people were also injured in the incident. Hossain is currently undergoing treatment at a Government-run hospital in Kolkata and is not out of danger yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bomb-attack-on-west-bengal-minister-cid-detains-bangladeshi-national-954776.html
24-02-2021||National||Indian golfers Jeev, Lahiri pray for Woods' recovery||India's top golfers Jeev Milkha Singh and Anirban Lahiri on Wednesday joined a stunning world in praying for the legendary Tiger Woods after his car met with an accident that landed him in the hospital with multiple injuries requiring major surgery. Woods was in the driver's seat of a mangled SUV after it crashed on a steep roadway in the Los Angeles suburbs, with his legs seriously injured. From former US presidents Donald Trump, Barrack Obama to famous boxer Mike Tyson, well-known personalities from all walks of life reacted with shock after the accident. "Our thoughts and prayers are with @TigerWoods. We have seen you do impossible things in impossible situations in the past. Make this a routine recovery," Jeev Milkha wrote on his Twitter handle. One of the country's best golfers in recent years, Lahiri hoped Woods would overcome this hurdle like he has done a few times in the past. "Hard to imagine the challenges you have endured and overcome time and again. Wishing you a speedy recovery. Thoughts and prayers with the family. Golf is praying Folded hands for you," Lahiri tweeted. Woods, 45, was hospitalised after being extracted by firefighters and paramedics using the 'jaws of life' tool on the accident site. The car has suffered major damages. Woods, 45, completed surgery Tuesday night. Woods, widely regarded as one of the greatest golfers of all time and one of the most famous athletes, has won an unprecedented 15 Majors, three behind Jack Nicklaus' 18. According to reports quoting a press release from his team, Woods underwent "a long surgical procedure on his lower right leg and ankle" at the Harbor-UCLA Medical Center and is "awake, responsive and recovering in his hospital room."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-golfers-jeev-lahiri-pray-for-woods-recovery-954780.html
24-02-2021||National||Republic Day violence: 19 people arrested, 25 FIRs lodged, Centre tells Delhi HC||As many as 19 people have been arrested and 25 FIRs lodged in connection with the Republic Day violence in the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally in protest against the three new agri laws, the Centre informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma and central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul further told the high court that as many as 50 people have been detained and investigation was going on into the incident. They also submitted that adequate security personnel have been deployed at the Red Fort for its safety and security. Taking note of the government submissions, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh sought to know whether any similar matter has been already filed in or was pending before or disposed of by the Supreme Court. It asked the central government to give it details of any similar matter in the apex court and listed the petition by a Delhi resident, Dhananjai Jain. The petition has sought removal of people squatting under the garb of farmers agitation and clear all the roads and public places. It has also sought direction to remove the Delhi Police Commissioner from his position with immediate effect and punish all the police officers who allegedly failed in discharging their duties relating to the Red Fort incident on the Republic Day. The tractor rally on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The petition has also sought direction to the Centre to put adequate paramilitary forces to protect important monuments and to ensure safety of life and property of citizens of Delhi and restore feeling of confidence and security amongst them. On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-19-people-arrested-25-firs-lodged-centre-tells-delhi-hc-954793.html
24-02-2021||National||No 'mixopathy', Ayurvedic doctors well-trained: AYUSH minister||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik on Wednesday said there is no concept of "mixopathy", as claimed by a section of allopathic doctors, and asserted that ayurvedic practitioners are also trained to perform surgeries. The idea behind allowing ayurvedic practitioners to perform medical surgeries and other functions is aimed at supporting the allopathic practice, Naik told PTI shortly before his discharge from the Goa Medical College and Hospital, where he was undergoing treatment after an accident. To a question on the Indian Medical Association (IMA) opposing the Centre's decision to allow ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries, Naik said there is no term like "mixopathy". "We are introducing an Indian system of medicine to support the practice of allopathy," he said, adding that it is not a competition as both the medical practices would compliment each other. Naik further said that ayurvedic doctors are educated at par with allopathic practitioners and they are even trained to perform surgeries. "After completing their studies, the ayurvedic doctors undergo internship for one year. They are trained surgeons, he said. Naik said the Indian system of medicine has been forwarded to people of the country since centuries and its formula has not changed since then. Allopathic doctors in some parts of the country recently protested against the Centre's decision to allow ayurvedic physicians to perform certain types of surgeries. The IMA has been opposing the Central Council of Indian Medicine's decision to allow ayurvedic doctors to conduct certain surgical procedures after completion of their three-year post-graduate course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-mixopathy-ayurvedic-doctors-well-trained-ayush-minister-954796.html
24-02-2021||National||Union minister Shripad Naik discharged from Goa hospital||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik was on Wednesday discharged from Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), after undergoing treatment for over a month for injuries he sustained in a fatal accident. Naik was admitted to the GMCH on January 12 after he met with an accident, in which his wife and an aide were killed. The minister is fit for discharge and can continue taking treatment from home, GMCH dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar. Speaking to PTI, Naik said he plans to attend the upcoming session of the Parliament if doctors advise it. "I will attend the session of the Parliament depending on doctors' advice," he said, adding that he had watched the last session on television from his hospital bed. Despite being hospitalised, the minister said he has been working and has signed papers, which will be tabled on the floor of the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-shripad-naik-discharged-from-goa-hospital-954797.html
24-02-2021||National||Centre rushes high level teams to states witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases||With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday dispatched central teams to ten states including Karnataka to review intervention strategies and find out the reasons behind the rise. In the last one week, 12 states have reported more than 100 average daily new cases triggering a sense of alarm as the caseload was dwindling continuously since mid-September all over the country barring Kerala. Other states on the radar are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana, Delhi and Haryana. The three-member multidisciplinary teams visiting these states are headed by Joint Secretary level officers from the health ministry. The teams will work closely with the state officials to identify the reasons for the recent surge and the requisite measures needed to break the chain of transmission.  The ministry asked the states to accelerate the vaccination drive and intensify testing with the increased RT-PCR diagnostics. “The need to accelerate the vaccination of vulnerable persons acquires urgency due to the rise in cases we are now witnessing. It must be ensured that the public health-based priority lists prepared by the government must be adhered to while increasing the number of vaccination centres,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH.  In a letter to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan asked them to focus on aggressive measures, to ensure that RT-PCR testing is amplified. These states and UTs have been told to increase testing in the affected districts and to test all symptomatic who tested negative in antigen tests using RT-PCR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-rushes-high-level-teams-to-states-witnessing-surge-in-covid-19-cases-954801.html
24-02-2021||National||Centre confirms new strains as Covid-19 situation worsens, vaccinations to expand to those above 60||India announced an expansion of its vaccination programme on Wednesday but warned that breaches of coronavirus protocols could worsen an infection surge in many states. Nearly a month after the health minister declared that Covid-19 had been contained, states such as Maharashtra in the west and Kerala in the south have reported a surge in cases, as reluctance grows over mask-wearing and social distancing. India's infections are the second highest in the world at 11.03 million, swelled in the past 24 hours by 13,742, health ministry data shows. Deaths rose by a two-week high of 104 to 156,567. "Any laxity in implementing stringent measures to curb the spread, especially in view of new strains of virus ... could compound the situation," the ministry said in a statement singling out nine states and a federal territory. India has confirmed the long-time presence of two mutant variants - N440K and E484Q - in addition to those first detected in Brazil, Britain and South Africa. Tests falling The ministry said that while cases in the states of Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab, as well as the federal territory of Jammu and Kashmir, were rising, the proportion of high-accuracy RT-PCR tests in those places was falling. Cases have also risen in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. In the past week, a third of India's 36 states and union territories have reported an average of more than 100 new cases each day, with Kerala and Maharashtra both reporting more than 4,000, in a trend experts link to the reopening of schools and suburban train services. The government has also asked states to speed vaccinations for healthcare and frontline workers. Just about 11 million people have received one or two doses in a campaign that began on Jan. 16, versus a target of 300 million by August. From March 1, India will start vaccinating people above 60 and those older than 45 with health conditions free of charge in about 10,000 government hospitals and for a fee in more than 20,000 private facilities, the government said. Earlier on Wednesday, a regulatory panel sought more data from drugmaker Dr Reddy's Laboratories for emergency authorisation of Russia's Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine, a senior official with direct knowledge of the discussions said. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation did not immediately reply to a Reuters request for confirmation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-confirms-new-strains-as-covid-19-situation-worsens-vaccinations-to-expand-to-those-above-60-954805.html
24-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccinations for those above 60 years, 45-plus with comorbidities from March 1||India is set to launch the world’s most ambitious vaccination programme from March 1 with the Union Cabinet approving the two-dose Covid-19 vaccination plan for 27 crore individuals catering to senior citizens and those over 45 years having serious comorbidities. “The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and 45 years plus with co-morbidities will be given vaccines in 10,000 government medical facilities and also over 20,000 private hospitals,” Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday after the Cabinet meeting. Those who would receive the vaccine at government hospitals would get it for free while those taking the shots at private set up will have to pay. The vaccine price and the comorbidity conditions to become eligible would be announced by the Union Health Ministry in the next two to three days. Currently two vaccines - Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Pune, and the indigenously-made Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, - are being used. A third vaccine, Russia's Sputnik V, may also be available if the Drugs Controller General of India approves its emergency use application. “Proactively providing the citizens with the right and authentic information will be the key to the success of this mammoth vaccination drive. Taking lessons from the pulse polio programme and measles-rubella campaigns, there needs to be extensive ground-level preparations,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health, Delhi. “Vaccines don't get delivered in a vacuum, health delivery systems need to be geared up to provide seamless coordinated outcomes. The key challenges would be the mechanisms for safety monitoring after immunisation. The AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) surveillance systems need to be sensitive and responsive.” Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who also briefed the media on other Cabinet decisions, said that most of the ministers were considering paying for the jab. Asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other ministers like the Health Minister Harsh Vardhan falling into the age bracket, would take the vaccine, Javadekar said those who wanted to take the vaccination would get it at the place of their choosing from March 1. India began the Covid-19 vaccination on January 16 starting with health care workers and went on to include frontline staff from February 2. So far 1.23 crore individuals received at least one shot of one of the two vaccines. More than 65 lakh healthcare workers received the first dose while close to 15 lakh got both shots. Among the frontline staff, nearly 44 lakh received the first dose. Asked if people will have a choice on the vaccine - Covishield or Covaxin - Javadekar said both vaccines were effective with proven efficacy. “The vaccination in India has been successful and faultless with hardly any complaints,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccinations-for-those-above-60-years-45-plus-with-comorbidities-from-march-1-954807.html
24-02-2021||National||Union Cabinet approves President's Rule in Puducherry||Puducherry is all set for President's Rule with the Union Cabinet on Wednesday clearing a proposal to invoke Article 356 of the Constitution after no party staked claim for forming a government there. The decision came at a meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi following a recommendation by the Puducherry Lieutenant General, who said that no party came forward to stake claim after Congress Chief Minister V Narayanasamy resigned before a vote of confidence vote. The file will now go to President Ram Nath Kovind, who is likely to give his assent for imposing President's Rule in Puducherry later Wednesday. After President gives his assent, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the assembly will be dissolved. This will be the 131st time that President's Rule is imposed in the country since independence. The last time Article 356 was invoked was in October 2019 in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-cabinet-approves-presidents-rule-in-puducherry-954810.html
24-02-2021||National||Human lives lost due to wildlife-human conflict need to be better compensated, say scientists||The lives of people lost due to wildlife-human conflicts are not adequately compensated in India, according to a new study which says changing the approach to this estimate can improve conservation efforts, and help understand which species to prioritise at conflict-prone zones. The research, published in the journal PNAS, surveyed 5,196 households living near 11 wildlife reserves in India, and self-reported annual costs including crop and livestock losses, injuries, and human deaths. "Human casualties contribute overwhelmingly to overall damages from wildlife interactions. This is despite the use of a relatively low valuation of human life from the literature," study lead author, Sumeet Gulati from the Centre for Wildlife Studies in Bengaluru, told PTI. The researchers said compensation for human death ranges from Rs 76,400 in Haryana, to Rs 8,73,995 in Maharashtra. They said the average compensation paid for human death in the country is Rs 1,91,437, and the average compensation paid for injury is Rs 6,185. According to Gulati, these compensation values, known as value of a statistical life (VSL) are typically calculated from labour market comparisons. "Controlling for how productive workers are across different industries, economists estimate how much of the compensation paid can be attributed to the risk of injury or death across occupations," he explained. According to the researchers, better compensation for human fatalities can likely reduce animosity towards the species conservationists intend to preserve. "More importantly, if governments invested in measures to reduce conflict based on an accurate understanding of the real value of the loss of human life, conflict would be reduced, and animosity would fall, making both those living near the forest and those who care about the beings in the forest better off," Gulati explained. According to the wildlife conservationist, the dominance of the costs of human casualties rationalises the innate fear and respect towards large species like elephants displayed by those living with wildlife in India. Based on the findings, the scientists said focusing on the cost of human casualties while estimating losses from wildlife conflict is necessary. "Our research is one of the largest scientific assessments of human-wildlife conflict globally," said study co-author Krithi Karanth from CWS. "We find that farmers experiencing a negative interaction with an elephant over the last year incur damages on average that are 600 and 900 times those incurred by farmers with negative interactions with the next most costly herbivore -- the pig and the nilgai," Karanth said. Similarly, she said farmers experiencing a negative interaction with a tiger over the last year incur damage that is on average three times that inflicted by a leopard, and a 100 times from a wolf. Although a species is associated with a rare occurrence of human fatalities, the scientists said the expected cost of death from a negative interaction could be much higher than the expected cost of frequently occurring crop or livestock damage. "Conservation managers have to prioritise human casualties and improve assistance provided to people," Karanth added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/human-lives-lost-due-to-wildlife-human-conflict-need-to-be-better-compensated-say-scientists-954820.html
24-02-2021||National||Disha Ravi toolkit case: Separatist flags were not raised at Red Fort, ASG’s claim false||On February 22, a Delhi Sessions Court granted bail to 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi subject to two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. She had been in judicial custody since February 14 for ‘editing’ a toolkit supporting farmers’ protest. Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg was among those who had shared the toolkit and ASG SV Raju, appearing for the Delhi police, argued that the toolkit suggests a ‘foreign conspiracy’ against India and is linked to the violence that took place in Delhi on Republic Day. A separatist flag was put on Red Fort. 100s of policemen were injured : Raju On January 26, some groups among protestors who gathered for the farmers’ tractor rally veered off the course and were met with police lathi-charge and tear gas. Several demonstrators entered the Red Fort and hoisted flags on the iconic monument. Soon after, another video of two flags raised below the Indian national flag was shared to further the same claim. The video showed a few protesters on top of the fort hoisting yellow and saffron-coloured flags below the tricolour. Quote-tweeting the video posted by Twitter handle @rosy_K01, actress Kangana Ranaut had said, “Chatukaar media who is reporting Khalistan flag wasn’t hoisted is lying. Beware of them”. At the time of writing this article, her tweet garnered close to 5,000 retweets. The original tweet has been marked as manipulated media by Twitter.  YELLOW FLAG  The complete verse says, “Raj karega khalsa aki rahe nu koi; khwar hoi sub milenge, bache saran jo hoi.” (The Khalsa shall rule, no enemy shall exist, frustrated ones will submit and those seeking shelter shall be protected.)  Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa had shared his views on the verse three years ago – “#RajKaregaKhalsa I will say this thousand times, million times, neither the Supreme Court has banned it nor will it ever be banned.” OpIndia’s article claimed, “As can be seen, there is no consistency in the Khalistan flag, but the Nishan Sahib has always been saffron triangular flag. Whether the yellow rectangle flag without the words “Khalistan” falls under Khalistan flag or the Nishan Sahib, is anybody’s guess.”  “Flags are one of the chief icons of any organised set of human beings – teams, unions, or states. Normally, flags are decided by the people who belong to these organisations or their elected or nominated members. Sometimes, they are accepted through conventions such as for a community, and even nations such as Austria, Latvia, Denmark, others,” he explained. OpIndia’s claim that Nishan Sahibs are always triangular and saffron doesn’t hold water.  To further ascertain if the flag can be linked with Khalistan, Alt News contacted independent journalist Sandeep Singh. He shared a video from the farmers’ protest where a man holding a yellow coloured flag inscribed with the slogan ‘Raj Karega Khalsa’. Hoshiarpur-resident Sukhwinder Singh refuted the claim that the flag represents the Khalistan flag. “We link this with the Nishan Sahib. If others want to link it with Khalistan they may. We don’t care but this is the symbol of our Khalsa,” he said.  HISTORICAL CONTEXT  RECTANGLE NISHAN SAHIB POPULAR OUTSIDE INDIA  SAFFRON FLAG   Furthermore, ‘Panth ki jeet’ literally means the victory of the community or the sect. The complete verse reads, “Jahaa Jahaa Khaalsaa Ji Saahib, Tahaa Tahaa Ruchhiya Riyaait, Deg Teg Fateh, Bira Ki Paij, Panth Ki Jeet, Sree Saahib Ji Sahaai Khaalse Ji Ko Bol Baaley, Bolo Ji Waheguru.” A video of Sikh religious flags hoisted at the Red Fort was widely shared on social media to falsely claim that Khalistan flags were raised by protestors of farm bills. Over the past month, Alt News has investigated multiple claims of Khalistani flags being hoisted on the Red Fort. However, none of these claims are true and therefore, there is no basis for ASG SV Raju to suggest the same in a court of law. All claims of Khalistani flags being raised at the Red Fort are false.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disha-ravi-toolkit-case-separatist-flags-were-not-raised-at-red-fort-asg-s-claim-false-954827.html
24-02-2021||National||Dams, hydroelectric projects don't harm environment; calls for study to find that: R K Singh||Power Minister R K Singh on Wednesday brushed aside apprehensions that water storage or dam projects, which also generate hydro electricity, harm environment, and urged experts to commission an authoritative and scientific study to find out the truth. Speaking at a symposium on sustainable development of dams and river basins, Singh said, "I have not seen science of environment being harmed. I see science of progress in this (water storage). Punjab and Haryana developed and they are where they are today because of Bhakra Nangal dam." He further said, "If you ask any person in Bihar, then his dearest wish is to construct large dams on the river Kosi in Nepal. Wherever we constructed large dams, we have improved the lives of people...generations. This is the message we need to convey." He brought attention toward pushback to water storage or dam projects in the country by NGOs (non-government organisations) or civil societies which claim that these would harm environment. The minister said, "In our country, there is a decade or two of push back (to water storage projects) by NGOs without any authoritative study that says that dams are harmful to environment." Currently, India is developing around 14,000 megawatts of hydropower generation capacity. He said, "In water resources, in the past decade also, we have faced headwinds in harnessing our water resources. There was concerted movement against harnessing the water, dams, against any project which sought to harness our water resources." He said the movement still persists. "That push back against dams still persists. That is something which we have to address." The minister urged all to first accept that humans have been harnessing water right from the time our civilisation began. "The earliest dam started on the Nile (in Egypt)...harnessing water was there before Christ (BC). It is not that it is happening now," he said. The minister stated that the proposition is that if some how you stop the natural flow of water, then it harms the environment. He added that the water storage projects do not stop the natural flow of the water and just the excess flow of water is harnessed through storage so that it can be used as and when needed. "Does that harm the environment? Is there any study? I think you need to commission a study and examine whether it actually harms the environment... I think we need to come out with an authoritative study on this," the minister said. The minister also said that in some areas, it is essential to set up water storage projects like Brahmaputra river. If India does not do it, its rival China would do it, he added. He said, "They (China) are planning construction of large dams. So, we have to start construction of large dams. If they construct large dams before us then they can squeeze our (water) supplies in Assam and North East." He also said every developed country has exploited 80-90 per cent of their hydro power generation potential. India needs balancing power for renewable energy, and the balancing power has to come from pumped hydro storage projects, he added. Currently, thermal power provides base load or balancing power because renewable energy like solar and wind energy does not generate power round the clock. Thus, there is a need for constant supply of power to the grid. The minister also said, "I believe that harnessing water resources and harnessing water resources are central to our lives and livelihoods.....since inception of civilisations." He said life flourishes beside the rivers valleys, as it was evident from any old civilisation like Indus Valley, and life started on earth because of water. The essential requirements for life are water and energy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dams-hydroelectric-projects-dont-harm-environment-calls-for-study-to-find-that-r-k-singh-954845.html
24-02-2021||National||Former IFS officer dies by suicide||A former Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer allegedly shot himself dead at his residence in south Delhi's posh Defence Colony on Wednesday morning, police said. The deceased has been identified as Ranjeet Sethi (81), who left a suicide note claiming that he did not want to live any longer. The incident came to light at 7.25 am when the police received a call from Sethi's domestic help informing them about the incident. The domestic help told police that Sethi was alive and needed an ambulance. Police found Sethi lying in his room with bullet wounds and rushed him to Moolchand Hospital for treatment where he succumbed later, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Sethi allegedly took his own life, a day after he was discharged from BL Kapoor Hospital. He is survived by his wife and two children. Police are investigating whether the pistol used by him was a licensed weapon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-ifs-officer-dies-by-suicide-954850.html
24-02-2021||National||Two unidentified militants killed in J&K’s Anantnag||Two unidentified militants were killed in Srigufwara area of Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Wednesday. The encounter erupted after a joint team of Army's 3-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Shalgul forest in Srigufwara on Wednesday morning, police said. As the joint search team approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering off a gunfight. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar said two unidentified militants have been killed in the gunfight so far. “It is a deep forest, however, forces managed to take over the militants,” he said. Sources said two more militants are believed to be trapped in the area. “There is a likelihood of the gun battle stretching to next day as the area is a deep forest,” they added. As a ‘precautionary’ measure, internet services were snapped in the whole Anantnag district. On February 19, three militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in Badigam village of south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Earlier on January 29, in the first encounter of 2021, three militants were killed in the volatile Tral area of Pulwama district. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir, while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-jk-s-anantnag-954864.html
24-02-2021||National||Important positions occupied by officers having no commitment to law: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has rapped the Chairman of pollution control board of Daman and Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli for not complying its order on utilisation of fly ash saying “officers were acting at whims in utter defiance of law.” The green panel said that the conduct of Chairman, Daman Diu & Dadra Nagar Haveli PCC and its Member Secretary can hardly be held to be above board.  The NGT said that their actions prima facie amounts to offence under section 26 of the NGT Act and also misconduct calling for disciplinary action for major penalty.  However, for these actions, authority concerned is the Court, as per section 30 of the NGT Act, and the concerned disciplinary authority i.e. the Central Government as concerned conduct Rules, it said. “It is a matter of regret that important positions are occupied by officers having no commitment to law, who are acting at whims in utter defiance of law and binding orders of adjudicating authorities,” a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said. Delegation of powers to state pollution control boards implies that CPCB must retain control over the delegate, in an appropriate manner, the tribunal said. “ Accordingly, it is necessary that CPCB conducts periodical review of functioning of all the pollution control committees in union territories, who are acting as delegate of CPCB,” it said. The respondents are held liable to pay cost of Rs one lakh each to be deposited with the CPCB within one months which may be used for improvement of environment.  If cost is not paid, CPCB will at liberty to take coercive measures for enforcement. The NGT had earlier issued notice to the officials to show cause why coercive measures including stopping of their salary and their imprisonment be not adopted against them for not complying direction relating to fly ashes. The tribunal was hearing a plea by  Platinum AAC Blocks Pvt. Ltd. seeking execution of NGT orders directing the Daman Pollution Control Committee (PCC) to treat fly ash utilisation activity of the applicant as permissible in view of the report of the joint committee comprising Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Daman PCC. According to the applicant, in spite of the said categorical orders, the Chairman and Member Secretary of the PCC did not to give effect to the orders of NGT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-positions-occupied-by-officers-having-no-commitment-to-law-ngt-954866.html
24-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: People over 60 years of age to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1||In your evening news brief, those above 60 years of age and those over 45 years and having other illnesses will be able to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1; Five people held in connection with the blast at a quarry in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur district, and Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad renamed Narendra Modi Stadium.  Here is the top news of February 24, 2021:   Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years and having other illnesses will be able to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals, the government said on Wednesday. Announcing the next phase of India's vaccination drive, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said a proposal to this effect was approved at a meeting of the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.   Five persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the blast at a quarry in Hirenagaveli near Gudibande in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur district. The horrific blast that occurred during a bid to hide explosives from the authorities claimed six lives on Monday night. Six people, including a citizen of Nepal, lost their lives while attempting to cart away explosives hidden around the crusher, hours after a raid by authorities at the facility on February 22.   The refurbished Sardar Patel stadium in Ahmedabad has been renamed Narendra Modi Stadium on Wednesday. President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the world's largest cricket stadium at Motera in Ahmedabad. The stadium had undergone extensive renovation which started when current BCCI secretary Jay Shah was in charge of the state cricket unit.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-people-over-60-years-of-age-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-from-march-1-954873.html
24-02-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee writes to PM, requests him to help Bengal get Covid vaccines for people before polls||Ahead of the Assembly elections, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to help the state government to procure an adequate number of Covid-19 vaccines for the general public. The chief minister stated that since West Bengal was a poll-bound state it would be a matter of concern if a large number of people went to the polling booth without any vaccination coverage. “In fact, West Bengal being an election-going state, are required to reach out practically to every government and para-statal employee on an urgent basis to make the elections safe,” stated Mamata. “Under the circumstances, Government of West Bengal has decided to procure adequate number of vaccines for the members of the public at large. We would request you to kindly take up the matter with appropriate authority so that the state government is able to purchase the vaccines from designated point(s) on top priority basis, because the West Bengal Government wants to provide vaccination free of cost to all the people,” wrote Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-requests-him-to-help-bengal-get-covid-vaccines-for-people-before-polls-954878.html
24-02-2021||National||Govt has no business to be in business: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the government has no business to be in business and his administration is committed to privatising all PSUs barring the bare minimum in four strategic sectors. "It is government's duty to support enterprises and businesses. But it is not essential that it should own and run enterprises," he said. Modi also said the Centre's policy is to either monetise or modernise public sector enterprises, with the intent that the government has "no business to be in business". Speaking at a webinar on privatisation by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), Modi said the Budget has given a clear roadmap to take India to a high growth trajectory. Fiscal support to sick PSUs puts burden on the economy and public sector units should not be run just because of legacy, the Prime Minister said, adding many PSUs are loss-making and supported by taxpayers' money. The government has many underutilised and untilised assets and 100 assets would be monetised to garner Rs 2.5 lakh crore, Modi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-has-no-business-to-be-in-business-pm-narendra-modi-954887.html
24-02-2021||National||PNB scam: UK judge to rule on Nirav Modi extradition case on February 25||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who remains behind bars in a London prison as he contests his extradition to India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, will find out the UK court's ruling in the nearly two-year-long legal battle on Thursday. The 49-year-old is expected to appear via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London at Westminster Magistrates’ Court, where District Judge Samuel Goozee is set to hand down his judgment on whether the jeweller has a case to answer before the Indian courts. The magistrates’ court ruling will then be sent back to UK Home Secretary Priti Patel for a sign off, with the possibility of appeals in the High Court on either side depending on the outcome. Modi was arrested on an extradition warrant on March 19, 2019, and has appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison for a series of court hearings in the extradition case. His multiple attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down, both at the Magistrates’ and High Court level, as he was deemed a flight risk. He is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or "criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian government, has sought to establish a prima facie case against him and also to establish that there are no human rights issues blocking his extradition to India. CPS barrister Helen Malcolm has argued that the jeweller presided over a "ponzi-like scheme where new LoUs were used to repay old ones". A ponzi scheme typically refers to an investment scam which generates funds for earlier investors with money taken from later investors and the CPS has claimed that Modi used his firms – Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds – to make fraudulent use of PNB’s LoUs in a conspiracy with banking officials. They have also played videos in court as proof of Modi's involvement in intimidating dummy officers of his companies to remain out of the reach of Indian investigating authorities. Modi's defence team, led by barrister Clare Montgomery, has claimed that the entire issue is a commercial dispute involving "authorised though ill-advised lending" that took place in "broad daylight". It is also claimed that none of his actions meet the legal threshold of perverting the course of justice or amounted to fraud. Besides, the defence has also relied on arguments around Modi’s precarious mental health condition, as someone who has a family history of depression and suicide. During a series of hearings in the course of the extradition case last year and early this year, Westminster Magistrates Court has also heard detailed arguments from both sides about why Modi's "deteriorating" mental health condition does or does not meet the Section 91 threshold of the Extradition Act 2003 – which was most recently been used in the UK to block the extradition of Wikileaks Founder Julian Assange on the grounds of it being "unjust and oppressive" as he is a high suicide risk. The CPS has challenged the defence stance and had called for an independent evaluation of medical records by a consultant psychiatrist for appropriate assurances to be acquired by the authorities in terms of his care in India. Prison conditions at Barrack 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Modi is to be held, have also been in focus as the Indian government submitted an updated video recording of the cell to highlight that it meets all human rights requirements of natural light and ventilation. Modi’s legal battle marks one of a number of high-profile extradition cases involving accused Indian economic offenders in the UK. While former Kingfisher Airlines boss Vijay Mallya remains on bail as a "confidential" matter related to his extradition to India is resolved, accused arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari’s extradition case is scheduled for its next hearing in April. In February 2020, wanted cricket bookie Sanjeev Chawla was extradited to face charges in India and became the first extradition of its kind under the India-UK Extradition Treaty, signed in 1992. A previous extradition of Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel, wanted in connection with the Godhra riots in Gujarat, from the UK to India in October 2016 had been uncontested and therefore did not have to go through various levels of appeals in the UK courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-uk-judge-to-rule-on-nirav-modi-extradition-case-on-february-25-954888.html
24-02-2021||National||Most Union ministers want to pay to get vaccinated against Covid-19, says Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Most of the Union ministers would want to pay to get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Wednesday. His comments came after the government announced that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Asked whether ministers and the prime minister, who would be in the category of those who can take the vaccination, will get inoculated, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, at a post-Cabinet media briefing, said those who want to take the vaccination will take it at the place of their choosing from March 1. Prasad, who also briefed the media on the Cabinet decisions, said most of the ministers would want to pay to get vaccinated. On another question about leaders in other countries taking the vaccination shots first, Prasad said it is about the point of view. "In many places, prime ministers and ministers are getting it done, here we thought that first, we will get our health sector fighters vaccinated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/most-union-ministers-want-to-pay-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-says-union-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-954895.html
24-02-2021||National||Strict adherence to standards must for medical colleges: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stressed at strict adherence of time schedule and standards for establishment of new medical college or to increase intake of students, saying poor assessment was plaguing medical education system in the country. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar rejected a plea for admission for academic year of 2020-21 by a Kerala's trust which failed to remove deficiencies despite getting a certificate to establish a medical college in 2004. The trust claimed to have set up a 300-bed hospital in Walayar, Palakkad district in 2006 with 76 doctors, 380 nurses and other staff. Holding that issuance and re-issuances of an essentiality certificate is not in any way a ministerial job, the court said, while dealing with a case of maintaining standards in a professional college, strict approach must be adopted as these colleges are responsible for ensuring that medical graduate has the required skill set to work as a doctor in the country.  "Poor assessment system; exploding number of medical colleges; shortage of patients and clinical materials; devaluation of merit in admission, particularly in private institutions; increasing capitation fees; a debilitated assessment and accreditation system, are problems plaguing our Medical Education system," the court said. "Allowing such deficient colleges to continue to function jeopardises the future of the student community and leading to incompetent doctors to graduate from such colleges and ultimately pose a bigger risk to the society at large defeating the very purpose of the Essentiality Certificate issued by the State," the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, added. The court said an essentiality certificate by the state government legitimised a medical college declaring it fit to impart education so it cannot be termed as ministerial job. It pointed out though initially a conditional certificate was granted in 2004 and since then 17 years elapsed, the trust has been unsuccessful in removing the deficiencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strict-adherence-to-standards-must-for-medical-colleges-supreme-court-954898.html
24-02-2021||National||India, France, Australia discuss ways to enhance Indo-Pacific cooperation||India, France and Australia on Wednesday deliberated on ways to enhance trilateral cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. An India-France-Australia Trilateral Senior Officials' Meeting was held with the three sides taking stock of the progress made on the outcomes of the foreign secretary-level Trilateral Dialogue held in September last year, including on maritime security, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR), blue economy, protection of marine global commons, combatting illegal, unregulated and unreported (IUU) fishing and cooperation in multilateral fora. The Indian side was led by Sandeep Chakravorty, Joint Secretary (Europe West), Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), while the French side was led by Bertrand Lortholary, Director (Asia and Oceania). The Australian side was led by Gary Cowan, First Assistant Secretary (North and South Asia Division), and John Geering, First Assistant Secretary (Europe and Latin America Division). At the meeting, they discussed the next steps to be taken for furthering trilateral cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region, the MEA said in a statement. The meeting comes amid China's growing military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region, which has become a major talking point among leading global powers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-australia-discuss-ways-to-enhance-indo-pacific-cooperation-954902.html
24-02-2021||National||India's foodgrain output to rise 2% in 2020-21 to record 303.34 million tonnes: Govt||India's foodgrain production is estimated to rise 2 per cent in 2020-21 crop year to an all-time high of 303.34 million tonnes on better output of rice, wheat, pulses and coarse cereals amid good monsoon rains last year, the agriculture ministry said. Crop year runs from July-June. In the 2019-20 crop year, the country's foograin output (comprising wheat, rice, pulses and coarse cereals) stood at a record 297.5 million tonnes (MT). Releasing the second advance estimates for 2020-21 crop year, the agriculture ministry said foodgrain production is projected at a record 303.34 MT. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar attributed the rise in production to efforts of the farmers and scientists as well initiatives of the central government. As per the data, rice production is pegged at record 120.32 MT as against 118.87 MT in the previous year. Wheat production is estimated to rise to a record 109.24 MT in 2020-21 from 107.86 MT in the previous year, while output of coarse cereals is likely to increase to 49.36 MT from 47.75 MT. Pulses output is seen at 24.42 MT, up from 23.03 MT in 2019-20 crop year. In the non-foodgrain category, the production of oilseeds is estimated at 37.31 MT in 2020-21 as against 33.22 MT in the previous year. Sugarcane production is pegged at 397.66 MT from 370.50 MT in the previous year, while cotton output is expected to be higher at 36.54 million bales (170 kg each) from 36.07 million bales in the previous year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-foodgrain-output-to-rise-2-in-2020-21-to-record-30334-million-tonnes-govt-954909.html
24-02-2021||National||Reliance, Adani pavilions in Narendra Modi stadium spark row||Renaming of the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad to Narendra Modi Stadium and naming two pavilion ends after corporate giants -- Reliance and Adani -- has drawn flak from opposition leaders and others on social media.  The stadium is hosting India and England, currently playing the third Test, which began on Wednesday after President Kovind inaugurated the refurbished ground.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday again invoked his 'Hum do humare do' jibe, claiming that truth was is with the stadium having the Prime Minister's name, the two ends being named after corporate houses and Amit Shah's son being involved in cricket administration. "Beautiful how the truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium -- Adani end -- Reliance end. With Jay Shah presiding," Gandhi tweeted, with the hashtag 'HumDoHumareDo'. Lawyer and Activist Prashant Bhushan took to Twitter and said:  "Wonder whether Modiji prefers to bat from the Ambani end or the Adani end?"  Amid the controversy over the cricket stadium in Gujarat being renamed after Prime Minister Modi, the government said the name change involves only the Motera stadium and the entire sports complex continues to be named after Sardar Patel. Congress and opposition parties alleged that the renaming exercise amounted to an "insult" to Sardar Patel. Party's spokesperson Pawan Khera also tweeted with Gandhi's 'Hum do humare do' jibe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reliance-adani-pavilions-in-narendra-modi-stadium-spark-row-954915.html
24-02-2021||National||Cabinet approves PLI scheme for pharmaceuticals||Aimed at benefiting domestic manufacturers and create employment, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for pharmaceuticals. The total quantum of incentives (inclusive of administrative expenditure) under the scheme is about Rs 15,000 crore over a period of fiscal 2020-21 to 2028-29. "The scheme will benefit domestic manufacturers, help in creating employment and is expected to contribute to the availability of wider range of affordable medicines for consumers," said a statement. The scheme is expected to promote the production of high-value products in the country and increase value addition in exports. Total incremental sales of Rs 2,94,000 crore and total incremental exports of Rs 1,96,000 crore are estimated during six years from 2022-23 to 2027-28, the statement said. The scheme is expected to generate employment for both skilled and unskilled personnel, estimated at 20,000 direct and 80,000 indirect jobs as a result of growth in the sector. The programme is expected to promote innovation for the development of complex and high-tech products including products of emerging therapies and in-vitro Diagnostic Devices.  It is also expected to improve the accessibility and affordability of medical products including orphan drugs to the Indian population. The scheme is also expected to bring in investment of Rs 15,000 crore in the pharmaceutical sector, said the release. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-pli-scheme-for-pharmaceuticals-954918.html
24-02-2021||National||India resiliently fought back Covid-19 pandemic; economy, life on path to normalcy: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Wednesday said India resiliently fought back the unprecedented situation created by the Covid-19 pandemic and the economy as also life of the common man is on the path towards normalcy in a shorter period of time than expected. Citing disaster management laws, the apex court noted that the country already had in place legal and administrative instruments to empower the State to contain and manage the several crisis that would arise from the pandemic. It said the pandemic has left its footprints for all to learn from the unprecedented situation which everyone has come across. It suddenly changed the lifestyle of every individual in the society, the way of working, and from social security to human rights, from macro economy to household income, the court said. The pandemic has made everyone stronger to face, "if any difficult situation arises in future and this is what by experience we learn", it said. These observations were made by a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi while dismissing a plea seeking an extra attempt in UPSC civil services to those candidates who have exhausted their last chance in 2020 preliminary examination or have got age barred from appearing in future tests amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “There is an old saying 'there is good in every evil'. Still life has to move on in all situations, and this is what this country has faced, but resiliently fought back this unprecedented situation and the economy and life of the common man is on the path towards normalcy in a short period of time than expected,” the bench said. "Different countries introduced various policies in meeting out the widespread socioeconomic implications but the Covid-19 pandemic has left its footprints for us to learn from the unprecedented situation, which everyone has come across and suddenly changed the lifestyle of every individual in the society, his way of working, from social security to individual human rights, from macro economy to household income and has made us more stronger to face, if any difficult situation arises in future and this is what by experience we learn," it said.  The top court observed that there is no doubt that for India or for the rest of the world, Covid-19 has been a disaster of unprecedented proportions and the crisis of pandemic has provided the sternest test for disaster management response. “Due to unprecedented spread of the virus, the world had gone into a virtual lockdown as several countries initiated strict screening of potential cases introduced in their territory. Disasters are testing times for the institutions and individuals, processes and procedures, and policies and their implementation mechanisms,” it said. The bench said, “We can take judicial notice that when Covid-19 struck India, the country already had in place legal and administrative instruments to empower and enable the State to contain and manage the several crisis that would arise from the pandemic. Two of the most legal instruments are the Distaster Management Act, 2005 and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 amended in the year 2020”. It said that after the World Health Organization (WHO) declared Covid-19 as a global pandemic, countries were forced to stop international travelling as well as locked up themselves because of the rampant spread of virus. “Also, the lockdown has been recognised at the given point of time as the only method to control the spread of the pandemic and almost every country has adopted this method,” it said. It noted that on March 25, 2020, the Disaster Management Act 2005 (DM Act) was invoked in India for the first time since it was passed almost a month and a half ago, to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic that was then in its initial stages of spreading. It said that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) which was created by the Ministry of Home Affairs in pursuance of the Disaster Management Act 2005 had issued a notification dated March 24, 2020 under the provision of the DM Act. “The order directed the ministries and departments of Government of India and State Governments along with State Disaster Management Authorities to take measures for ensuring social distancing so as to prevent the spread of Covid19 in the country”, it said, adding that the several measures attempted to control the ingress of the virus in India. It noted that countrywide lockdown measures were adopted March 25- April 15, 2020 (Lockdown-1), April 16, 2020 to May 3, 2020 (Lockdown-2) and Lockdown-3 and 4 (May 4, 2020 to May 17, 2020 and then through May 31st), which varied in scope and nature, depending on the situation on the ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-resiliently-fought-back-covid-19-pandemic-economy-life-on-path-to-normalcy-supreme-court-954923.html
24-02-2021||National||Right to silence is a virtue in present noisy times, Facebook VP Ajit Mohan tells SC||“Right to silence” is a virtue in present “noisy times”, Facebook India Vice President and MD Ajit Mohan Wednesday told the Supreme Court while contending that the Delhi assembly has no legislative power to set up a panel to examine the issue of peace and harmony. A bench of justices S K Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy reserved its verdict after lawyers representing Facebook official, Delhi assembly and the Centre wrapped up submissions on the plea of Mohan challenging summons issued by the Peace and Harmony committee for failing to appear before it as witness in connection with the north-east Delhi riots matter. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Facebook official, said setting up of the peace panel was not the core function of the Delhi assembly as the law and order issue fell under the domain of the Centre in the national capital. “There are two broad silos, one is existence of powers in compulsion of appearance and second is competence. I will submit that they (Delhi assembly) are wrong on both,” the senior lawyer said. During the proceedings held through video-conferencing, Salve said these kind of “expansion of power through backdoor” should not be allowed and “in the noisy times of the present, right to silence is a virtue. And leave it to me to decide, whether or not I want to go ..”. Earlier, senior advocate A M Singhvi, representing the panel of the assembly, had said that the assembly has the power to summon. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had opposed the submission of the panel of the assembly saying that the law and order squarely fell under the domain of Delhi police which is accountable to the Central government. Earlier in December, the Peace and Harmony committee had moved the top court seeking to intervene in the plea filed by the Facebook Vice President and MD. On October 15, last year, the Centre had told the bench that proceedings of the Peace and Harmony committee is “without jurisdiction” as the issue pertained to law and order. It had said that 'public order and police are not within the domain of the Delhi Legislative Assembly and therefore this proceeding is without jurisdiction.” The apex court had said that its September 23 order asking the assembly's panel not to take any coercive action against Mohan, would continue till further orders. The plea filed by Mohan, Facebook India Online Services Pvt Ltd and Facebook Inc has contended that the committee lacks power to summon or hold petitioners in breach of its privileges for failing to appear and it was exceeding its constitutional limits. They have challenged the September 10 and 18 notices issued by the committee that sought Mohan's presence before the panel which is probing the Delhi riots in February and FB's role in spread of alleged hate speeches. The Delhi Assembly had said that no coercive action has been taken against Mohan and he was only summoned by its Peace and Harmony Committee to appear as witness in connection with north-east Delhi riots. Earlier, senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi Legislative Assembly, had said that Mohan has been called as a witness only. In an affidavit filed in the top court, the Delhi Assembly had said that Mohan has not been issued any summons for breach of privilege.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-silence-is-a-virtue-in-present-noisy-times-facebook-vp-ajit-mohan-tells-sc-954928.html
24-02-2021||National||Ukraine in talks with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin supply||A Ukrainian delegation led by the country’s Health Minister Dr Maksym Stepanov held discussions with Bharat Biotech's management on Wednesday, on securing the supplies of Covaxin for the Eastern European nation. The three-member, high-power delegation visited the Bio-Safety Level 3 manufacturing facility in Hyderabad's Genome Valley. “We have discussed potential timelines for the supply of Covaxin to Ukraine on a priority and the prospects of a partnership for our BBV 154 intranasal vaccine. There is a lot of interest in Covaxin worldwide. We stand fully committed to meeting the vaccine requirements of various countries promptly and efficiently," said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. “We look forward to benefiting from India’s vast capability in the manufacture of vaccines to effectively combat the Covid-19 pandemic at home. We had a very good interaction and we will soon firm up the Covaxin delivery plan for the mass vaccination of our people, and further strengthen our partnership on intranasal vaccine supplies after initial results from its Phase 1 trials," said Dr Stepanov. The Hyderabad-based biotech firm last year developed BBV152 or Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology. The indigenously developed inactivated, two-dose SARS-CoV2 vaccine is part of the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme in the country. Covaxin was given emergency use authorisation by the central drug authorities even as it was in Phase-3 trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ukraine-in-talks-with-bharat-biotech-for-covaxin-supply-954929.html
24-02-2021||National||Disengagement win-win situation for India, China: Army chief||The disengagement of armies of India and China from north and south banks of Pangong Tso is a "very good end result" and a win-win situation for both the sides, Army chief Gen M M Naravane said on Wednesday but stressed that there is a long way to go and the next steps towards it are de-escalation and de-induction of troops.   He also said there were no signs of an "overt collusion" between China and Pakistan during the Ladakh standoff but India caters to a long term strategy for not a two, but a two-and-half front war. With the half front, he was referring to the internal security. Gen Naravane said there are strategies in place to address other pending issues in eastern Ladakh. Though the disengagement process has commenced, there is a trust deficit, he noted. The disengagement process began on February 10. "We still have a long way to go. We have to move on to the stage of de-escalation. And of course, after that moving back of the troops, the de-induction of the troops which went to the higher reaches," he said at a webinar organised by Vivekanada International Foundation. While doing so, India will be very cautious as trust deficit remains, he said.   "In doing whatever we are doing, we are keeping in mind that we have to be wary. We will be very cautious. There is trust deficit. Unless that trust deficit is removed, we will, of course, continue to be very wary and watching every movement that happens on either side of the LAC," he said. Naravane exuded confidence that with continued engagement with Pakistan, there could be some sort of an understanding because "unsettled borders and violence on the borders help no one". He said China has been in the "habit of creeping forward", making very small incremental changes wherein each change was not big or worthy of a very strong reaction. "Because of these small incremental moves, which were never contested, he (China) has been able to achieve the aim without firing any shot or loss of life. He also cited the example of the South China Sea where China militarised some of the islands. Naravane said this strategy will not work with India. "I think more than anything else, what we have achieved is that this strategy will not work with us and every move will be met resolutely," he said. He said right from the beginning of the standoff, all sides on the government worked together. Be it at the political level, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to their Chinese counterparts, he said. "We were all in it together. We had our plan chalked out which we had discussed on what should be the way forward. Whatever has panned out, has happened as a result of that. What we have achieved so far is very good," Naravane said. The advice which was given by National Security Adviser also came in extremely handy and his insight into strategic level affairs definitely helped us chalking out the response, the Army chief said. "As a result of this whole approach, this disengagement has taken place. I think it is a very good end result. It is a win-win situation. For any agreement to last, both sides should feel that they have achieved something. I think a good outcome that has resulted out of the 10 rounds of talks which have taken place so far," he said. Last week, armies of the two countries concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. However, issues still remain. In the talks held on Saturday which continued till the wee hours of Sunday, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region. Naravane said there are some issues which remain in the area of Depsang, in the area of eastern Ladakh and in other areas along northern border. "...But we have our strategies in place for that. Do we have anything to negotiate in future? Yes, definitely we have. But I would not, of course, for obvious reasons, what those strategies would be to further and progress our negotiations and come out with a favourable outcome." When asked about the steps to ensure that China does not occupy the heights vacated by India, he said, "We will trust but we will verify and we have put our systems in place to make sure that there is no reoccupation of these heights. It is part of the agreement." The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disengagement-win-win-situation-for-india-china-army-chief-954931.html
24-02-2021||National||India plans new social media controls after Twitter face-off||Chafing from a dispute with Twitter, India plans to oblige social media companies to erase contentious content fast and assist investigations, according to a draft regulation. New Delhi's planned "Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code" - a copy of which was seen by Reuters - come as various nations around the world try to assert tighter control over powerful Big Tech firms. Facebook faced a global backlash from publishers and politicians last week after blocking news feeds in Australia in a dispute with the government over revenue-sharing. In India, Twitter ignored orders to remove content over farmers' protests, fuelling the zeal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government since 2018 to tighten regulation for content it deems disinformation or unlawful. The latest draft rules - which would be legally enforcable -say companies should remove content as early as possible, but not later than 36 hours, after a government or legal order. They must also assist in investigations or other cyber security-related incidents within 72 hours of a request. Further, if a post depicts an individual in any sexual act or conduct, then companies must disable or remove such content within a day of receiving a complaint, the rules added. Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Twitter, which did not take down all accounts the government alleged were spreading lies about the protests over agricultural reforms, declined to comment. Racial, Religious Context The draft proposal also requires companies to appoint a chief compliance officer, another executive for coordinating on law enforcement and a "grievance redressal officer". All must be resident Indian citizens. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology did not immediately respond to a request for comment. It was unclear when the rules would be announced of if they may undergo further changes. Industry sources say new regulations could hit Big Tech firms' investment plans in India and increase compliance headaches. The rules would also apply across other digital and online media, the draft proposal said. "A publisher shall take into consideration India's multi-racial and multi-religious context and exercise due caution and discretion when featuring the activities, beliefs, practices, or views of any racial or religious group," the draft rules said. Referring to films and other entertainment, including web-based serials, the draft rules called for a "classification rating" to describe content and advise discretion. Streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime have faced complaints in India for obscenity. Police in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh questioned an Amazon executive for nearly four hours on Tuesday over allegations that a political drama, "Tandav", hurt religious sentiments and caused public anger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plans-new-social-media-controls-after-twitter-face-off-954938.html
24-02-2021||National||Higher fares for short-distance trains to discourage needless travel, says Indian Railways||After concerns were raised over the rise in the ticket fares of short-distance passenger trains, the railways on Wednesday said the "slightly high fares" are only to discourage unnecessary travel. "Railways would like to inform that these slightly higher fares for passenger and other short-distance trains had been introduced to discourage people from avoidable travels and those which are not most necessary. These fares are fixed at an unreserved price of mail/express trains for the same distance," the railways said in a statement. The Ministry of Railways issued the clarification after a section of media reported that the Railways was charging higher fares from the passengers travelling in the short-distance trains. "Covid-19 is still around and in fact worsening in some states. Visitors from many states are being subjected to screening in other areas and discouraged to travel," the Railways said. "Higher price is be seen as a proactive measure of Railways to prevent crowding in trains and stop Covid from spreading," the Railways said. Since the lockdown triggered by Covid-19 was eased, the Railways is running only special trains. It started with long-distance trains and now, short-distance passenger trains are also being run as special trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-fares-for-short-distance-trains-to-discourage-needless-travel-says-indian-railways-954951.html
24-02-2021||National||India turns table on Turkey, Pakistan, slams OIC for raising Kashmir issue at UNHRC||India on Wednesday turned the table on Turkey and Pakistan, slamming the two nations for raising the issue of Jammu and Kashmir at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). New Delhi also dismissed the statement made by Yousef A Al-Othaimeen, Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), at the UNHRC, referring to the human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir. “We reject the factually incorrect and unwarranted references to India. We regret that the OIC countries continue to allow Pakistan to misuse OIC platforms to indulge in anti-India propaganda,” said S Pujani, Second Secretary of the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations offices in Geneva. She was making a statement at the 46th session of the UNHRC, exercising India’s right to reply to the allegations made by Pakistan, Turkey and the OIC. “As a country with one of the world’s worst human rights records, Pakistan would do well to put its own house in order, before venturing to point a finger at India,” she said, referring to “violence, institutionalized discrimination and persecution” of the minorities in the neighbouring country. She cited a report published by the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan to point out that an estimated 1,000 women, mostly aged between 16 and 25 years – from minority communities were subjected to abduction followed by forced conversion and forced marriage in that country every year. She also noted that Shias, Hazaras and Ahmadiya communities had continued to face persecution, state-condoned violence and discrimination in Pakistan. Earlier, speaking at the 46th session of the UNHRC, Shireen Mazari, Minister for Human Rights of Pakistan, alleged that India had exploited the Covid-19 pandemic to “accelerate” the “pace of its colonization project” in Jammu and Kashmir. Turkey’s Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu too referred to alleged human right violations in Jammu and Kashmir during his speech at the UNHRC and called upon the Government of India to “ease current restrictions” in the Union Territory. He also called for resolution of the issue of J&K as per the UN Security Council’s resolutions. “As regards the remarks made by Turkey, we find them completely unacceptable. It is ironical for a country which has trampled upon its own civil society to pass unjustified comments on other’s internal matters,” Pujani said, presenting New Delhi’s statement at the UNHRC in response to the remarks made by Cavusoglu. “As far as the subject of UN Resolutions is concerned, we would advise Turkey to practise what it preaches by first implementing those UN Resolutions that apply to it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-turns-table-on-turkey-pakistan-slams-oic-for-raising-kashmir-issue-at-unhrc-954954.html
24-02-2021||National||Former Union minister Vijay Sampla takes charge as NCSC chairman||Former Union minister Vijay Sampla took charge as the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) on Wednesday and said he would adopt a "three-tier priority to resolve all the issues being faced by the Dalit community". Sampla is counted amongst the prominent Dalit faces of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Punjab. "It is a matter of pride for me that the Union government has assigned such an important responsibility to me," he told reporters. Sampla said his focus would be on resolving the social issues being faced by the Dalit community. "I will work to ensure that Dalits get justice in government departments, whether at the state level or at the central level, that they are not subjected to any sort of exploitation in these departments," he added. Sampla said in order to ensure prevention of injustice, exploitation and to address various issues being faced by Dalits, whether socially or in government departments, he will be submitting reports in the form of suggestions to the president from time to time. He added that the NCSC will engage to participate and advise on the planning process for the socio-economic development of the scheduled castes and to prevent atrocities against them. Sampla joined the BJP in 1998. After winning the Lok Sabha election from Punjab's Hoshiarpur, he served as the Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment from 2014 to 2019. He has held several key posts in the BJP's Punjab unit, including that of its president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-vijay-sampla-takes-charge-as-ncsc-chairman-954955.html
24-02-2021||National||Wish to make 2021 the year of tuberculosis, says Union health minister Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday outlined the progress made in ensuring all tuberculosis patients received free-of-cost, high-quality care in the last few years and expressed confidence these gains would help de-stigmatize the disease and realize the goal of a TB-free India by 2025. "We wish to make 2021 the year of tuberculosis," he said as he chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials of the Union Health Ministry and other development partners to launch a Jan Andolan against tuberculosis involving Advocacy, Communication and Social Mobilization (ACSM). Vardhan outlined the various steps taken by Government of India under the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme (NTEP) in combating the disease backed by bold commitments of both affirmative action and resources, a Health Ministry statement said. The minister underscored the importance of newer approaches to tackle the disease and the need for a sustained focus to achieve the target of a TB-free India. "While the NTEP continues to augment efforts to further strengthen TB management and service delivery, it is only when the wider population uses the essence of democracy and the spirit of Jan Andolan through generation of awareness, encouragement of healthcare seeking behaviour within their communities, and de-stigmatization of TB, would the movement against the disease be a success," he said. He highlighted the importance of reaching the maximum population quickly, ensuring full participation and cooperation of communities and community-based groups in various stages of TB response as the foundational pillars of his brainchild movement, the statement said. Drawing inspiration from lessons in Covid-19 management, where India has not only successfully dealt with the pandemic, Vardhan said, "The pandemic has brought the focus back on the role of focused and rigorous messaging in creating an appetite for accurate information and appropriate behaviours and hygiene practices." "Similar nationwide messaging on TB symptoms can drive notification levels up and build awareness on the precautionary behaviour related to control of TB infection in the country," he said. He recollected steps taken by him as Delhi's health minister in generating awareness against polio which involved the participation of neighbourhood chemist shops. He chaired deliberations on a National Technical Support Unit (NTSU) that is proposed to be set up in collaboration with development partners to support Government of India's efforts, both nationally and in states, to help strengthen on-ground program delivery by employing various advocacy and communications approaches to generate demand and create awareness on the services available under the TB program, the statement said. Development partners attending the event communicated the impact of their work in the past few years and shared their plans to support the proposed Jan Andolan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wish-to-make-2021-the-year-of-tuberculosis-says-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-954960.html
24-02-2021||National||Serum Institute hails first supply of Covid-19 vaccine under Covax initiative||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday said it has initiated supplies of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield to Covax, the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to the vaccine for all countries. "It is a historic moment for all of us as Covax receives its first doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by SII, COVISHIELD. We are delighted to see the combined efforts of everyone result in saving the lives of millions," SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a tweet. SII will continue to be at the forefront of fighting the pandemic with affordable and immunogenic vaccines, he added. India on Wednesday dispatched the first batch of six lakh coronavirus vaccine doses to the African country of Ghana under the Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access (Covax) in collaboration with the UNICEF, which aims to cover 92 countries under the initiative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-hails-first-supply-of-covid-19-vaccine-under-covax-initiative-954963.html
24-02-2021||National||India expected to harvest record wheat, rice crops this year||India is likely to harvest a record 109.24 million tonnes of wheat this year, the farm ministry said, further boosting stocks at government granaries that are fast running out of storage space due to more than a decade of bumper production. Wheat output in India, the world's second-biggest producer, is expected to go up by 1.3% in the crop year to June 2021, the Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Ministry said in its second crop forecast for 2020/21. Rice output is estimated to rise by 1.2% to 120.32 million tonnes. India is the world's biggest rice exporter and second-biggest producer. The Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Ministry forecast this year's total grains output at a record 303.34 million tonnes against 297.5 million tonnes produced in the previous year. Output of rapeseed, the main winter oilseed with the highest oil content, is expected at 10.4 million tonnes, higher than previous year's production of 9.1 million tonnes. Production of chickpeas, a variety of pulses, is likely to be 11.62 million tonnes against 11.08 million tonnes harvested in the previous year. Any increase in rapeseed and chickpea production cuts imports of expensive vegetable oils and pulses - the commodities that are mostly in short supply in India, the world's biggest importer of both cooking oils and protein-rich pulses. Also, a string of bumper rice and wheat harvests - thanks to high-yielding seed varieties, increasing farm mechanisation and good weather conditions - have bumped up local supplies. Brim-full granaries have hardly any extra space to accommodate new season harvests that will start trickling in from next month, potentially exposing food stocks to rains and rodents. Despite bumper harvests, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is grappling with discontent in the countryside, with tens of thousands of farmers protesting about three new agricultural laws introduced in September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expected-to-harvest-record-wheat-rice-crops-this-year-954968.html
24-02-2021||National||India 2nd biggest target of cyber criminals in Asia Pacific in 2020: IBM||India was the second most attacked country by cybercriminals after Japan in Asia Pacific in 2020, according to an IBM report released on Wednesday. In 2020, IBM Security X-Force observed attackers pivoting their attacks to businesses for which global Covid-19 response efforts heavily relied, such as hospitals, medical and pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as energy companies powering the Covid-19 supply chain. "India was the second most attacked country in the Asia Pacific. Attacks on India made up 7 per cent of all attacks X-Force observed on Asia in 2020. "Finance and insurance was the top attacked industry in India (60 per cent), followed by manufacturing and professional services," the report said. Ransomware was the top attack type, accounting for around 40 per cent of total cyber attacks. In addition, X-Force observed digital currency mining and server access attacks had hit Indian companies last year. "We also witnessed cybercriminals using relief efforts and public health information as spam lures including targeted attacks on critical components of the vaccine supply chain. These all remain issues in 2021," Sudeep Das, Security Software Technical Sales Leader, IBM Technology Sales, India/South Asia, said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-2nd-biggest-target-of-cyber-criminals-in-asia-pacific-in-2020-ibm-954969.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Freedom of speech includes the right to seek a global audience: Top quotes from Disha Ravi’s bail order||On Tuesday, 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi was granted bail by a Sessions Court in Delhi, much to the dismay of the Delhi Police. She was named "key conspirator" behind the dissemination of a toolkit for the January 26th farmer's protests originally created by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg. However, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted Ravi bail on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and two sureties of like amount. He also stated that the charge sheet has "scanty and sketchy evidence" and the accused had “absolutely no criminal antecedents”. Here are some of the most notable quotes from the judgement: - “Citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.” - "This 5,000 years old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters. Holding that difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies" (citing Rig Veda). - “Since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and PJF, also becomes meaningless.” - “In my considered opinion, freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience. There are no geographical barriers to communication. A citizen has the fundamental right to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of law and as such have access to an audience abroad.” - "Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of ‘Bail’ against a 22-year-old young lady, with absolutely blemish-free criminal antecedents and having firm roots in the society, and send her to jail.” - “Investigating agency can’t be permitted to further restrict the liberty of citizen on basis of propitious anticipations.”  - “Even our founding fathers accorded due respect to the divergence of opinion by recognising the freedom of speech and expression as an inviolable fundamental right. The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of The Constitution of India.” -  “I’m also conscious of the fact that the investigation is at a nascent stage and police is in the process of collecting more evidence, however, the investigating agency made a conscious choice to arrest the applicant accused upon the strength of material so far collected and now they cannot be permitted to further restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations.” - “Still further, there is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation or exhortation on the part of the applicant/accused and the above-said organisations and its associates to foment violence on January 26, 2021.” - “In the absence of any evidence to the effect that the applicant/accused agree or shared a common purpose to cause violence on January 26, 2021, with the founders of PJF, it cannot be presumed by resorting to surmises or conjectures that she also supported the secessionist tendencies or the violence caused on January 26 simply because she shared a platform with people, who have gathered to oppose the legislation." Furthermore, the Court stated that even if the contents of the toolkit could be called mischievous or exaggerated, they were not seditious as there was no incitement to violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/freedom-of-speech-includes-the-right-to-seek-a-global-audience-top-quotes-from-disha-ravi-s-bail-order-954713.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||BJP doing politics of intimidating people: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday accused the BJP of doing politics of intimidating people, a day after Amazon Prime Video's India Originals Head recorded her statement here in connection with an FIR over the alleged derogatory depiction of Hindu deities in web series "Tandav". "Today, the way the BJP government is strangling the freedom of expression, it shows that the BJP, which practices politics by intimidating people, is itself scared," Yadav charged in a tweet in Hindi tagging a photo of Amazon Prime head Aparna Purohit, while she was going to the Hazratganj police station here for recording her statement on Tuesday. "Whether it is a matter of arrest on a tweet or any web series created in the name of entertainment, considering women as weak the BJP is lodging FIR against them," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister charged. Purohit got her statements recorded at the Hazratganj Police Station as per the court’s direction. Some questions were asked and if need be she will be called again. The probe is on in the case related to the web series, Deputy Commissioner of Police Somen Barma had said. The Allahabad High Court had earlier this month ordered no coercive action be taken against Purohit in the case. In January, an FIR was lodged at the police station against Purohit, series director Ali Abbas, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki, and an unidentified person. The nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming on the platform in January. In Uttar Pradesh, FIRs have been registered against the show in Greater Noida and Shahjahanpur also, besides Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-doing-politics-of-intimidating-people-akhilesh-yadav-954748.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Delhi Police put up 'warning' posters at Tikri border to disperse farmers||As thousands of farmers are still standing strong at the Delhi borders, as a precautionary measure, the Delhi Police have put up hoardings at the Tikri border to disperse the protesting farmers. The posters are titled ‘Statutory warning”, and are written in Hindi and Punjabi. It reads, “Your gathering has been deemed illegal. You are being warned to disperse, otherwise, legal action will be taken against you.” A similar ‘warning’ poster was put up at Delhi borders on January 26, some posters were recently put up against as a ‘precautionary’ measure. However, the Delhi Police said that no action was being taken against the farmers. The posters have been creating unease among farmers, but they have said that they "won’t budge". The news website quoted another farmer saying, “We strongly condemn such actions. Farmers are protesting in a peaceful manner at the borders for 90 days and we will continue to protest till our demands are met. We are not even sitting inside Delhi.” Thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, including Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at multiple Delhi borders against the three farm laws, which they are afraid, will do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of the big private corporations. While the government has been projecting the laws as agricultural reforms, farmers have been demanding the repeal of the three legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-police-put-up-warning-posters-at-tikri-border-to-disperse-farmers-954757.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Congress' fall in Guj civic polls detrimental to democracy: Sanjay Raut||With the Congress getting a drubbing in the recent Gujarat municipal polls, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said the Congress' fall in this manner is not in the interest of democracy and the partywill have to think about it. Talking to reporters here, Raut also alleged that the BJP used several tactics to remove the Congress from power in Puducherry and the "misuse" of power and money by "people sitting in Delhi" is not in the interest of the country. He said such tactics are being used in Maharashtra too, but the ruling Shiv Sena is standing firmly in the state along with Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies NCP and Congress. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, who led the Congress government, resigned on Monday ahead of the confidence vote after his ministry was reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations of his party MLAs and a DMK legislator in recent days. In Gujarat, the BJP won 483 out of 576 seats in six municipal corporations, where elections were held on Sunday, while the main opposition Congress won only 55 seats and failed to even open its account in Surat. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) put up an impressive show by winning 27 seats, all in Surat, and emerged as the main opposition in the municipal corporation there. Reacting to the results, which were declared on Tuesday, Raut said, "Surat is an important municipal corporation and the people have elected AAP as the principal opposition party...the Congress will have to think about it, we all have to think about it." He welcomed the AAP's success in Surat. "But why people rejected a big party like the Congress, in Gujarat or in other states, the Congress's fall in this manner is not in the interest of democracy," he said. The Rajya Sabha member alleged that the BJP removed the Congress from power in Puducherry using several tactics. He said such tactics are being used in Maharashtra too and were also deployed in Madhya Pradesh, where the Congress lost power to the BJP in March last year. "But, there is a big difference in Puducherry and Maharashtra. The chief minister here is Uddhav Thackeray and the Shiv Sena is standing firmly with the two constituents of the (ruling) Maha Vikas Aghadi," Raut said. All parties should take lessons from the development in Puducherry, the Rajya Sabha member said. He said the alleged misuse of power and money by "people sitting in Delhi" is not in the country's interest. "There will be no democracy left in the country, if there is no opposition. And this country will not be there if there is no democracy left. If there is no country left, then a Desi East India company will run the country," Raut said. Meanwhile, an editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said some people are dreaming that Maharashtra is next after what happened in Puducherry. "...they should keep dreaming...Maharashtra's mind is firm and intentions are strong. The game played in Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh will not work on the soil of Maharashtra," the Marathi publication said. It said the Congress was once strong in southern states, and now it does not have even a small Union Territory like the Puducherry under its belt there. The Congress is sharing power with the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha in Jharkhand, but efforts are being made to destabilise the government there also, it alleged. "...such an atmosphere is detrimental to democracy. The politics which is going on to attain only power keeping aside principles and ethics is worrying," the Shiv Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fall-in-guj-civic-polls-detrimental-to-democracy-sanjay-raut-954775.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur bail plea matter posted for February 26||Labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur could not get immediate relief with the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday posting her bail plea matter for February 26. The court of Justice Avneesh Jhingan also directed the state of Haryana to place on record the subsequent medical report of Kaur. The court has fixed the matter for February 26, said Kaur's counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state of Haryana filed its reply in a matter pertaining to her alleged illegal confinement, which the high court had earlier taken suo motu cognisance. Kaur was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12. In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested last month by the Sonepat police. In her plea filed, Kaur had also claimed that she was falsely arraigned as accused in an FIR lodged under various sections, including 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In her petition, the labour rights activist mentioned that she was targeted and falsely implicated in this case as she was successful in generating massive support to the farmers' movement. Kaur is currently lodged in Haryana's Karnal jail. She hails from Punjab's Muktsar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/labour-rights-activist-naudeep-kaur-bail-plea-matter-posted-for-february-26-954789.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah's 100 plus target in Assam is meant for us: Bhupesh Baghel||Ridiculing Union Home minister Amit Shah's setting a target of winning 100 plus seats in Assam, Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel has said he is actually 'speaking for us' like it happened in Chhattisgarh where his "mission 65 plus" came true for the opponent. The Congress-led Grand Alliance will sweep the upcoming elections to 126-member Assam Assembly with three-fourth majority as the people are looking for 'parivartan' (change) from the BJP government, the Chhattisgarh Chief Minister said. Baghel, a close confidant of Rahul Gandhi, has been appointed as the Observer by the All India Congress Committee for its Assam unit for the state polls due in March-April. "Amit Shah went to Chhattisgarh and said 65 plus. I had told then that 65 plus he is saying for us. The result came and we won 68 seats, which have become 70 now. "So, Amit Shah is saying it for us in Assam too where we will get 100 plus," Baghel told PTI in an interview. In 2018, the BJP had set a target of winning over 65 seats under its 'mission 65 plus' in the Chhattisgarh assembly polls, but interestingly, the Congress had registered a landslide victory in over 68 out of 90 assembly segments. Talking about the poll scenario in Assam, he said "People are looking for a 'parivartan' because they are not happy with the government's works. The promises made were not fulfiled. The BJP showed dreams, which were not realised. People are feeling cheated." Big promises made by the BJP on a range of issues like implementation of Assam Accord, publishing a correct National Register of Citizens (NRC), tea workers' wage, sealing of Bangladesh border and expressway on both sides of Brahmaputra were not fulfilled, he added. "Assam is going to see the next government by the Grand Alliance. We will form the government with three-fourth majority," Baghel asserted. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a Grand Alliance with AIUDF, CPI, CPI (M), CPI(ML) and Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) to fight the upcoming Assembly election against the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The 2016 elections in Assam gave a fractured mandate and no party got an absolute majority. The Congress had won 26 seats, while the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) bagged 13. The BJP became the single largest party with 60 MLAs, while its allies Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) had won 14 and 12 seats respectively. The ruling coalition also had the support of an Independent MLA. Continuing his tirade against the BJP and its leadership, Baghel alleged that Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is "lying and misleading" people on sensitive issues, including Citizenship (Amendment) Act and Clause-6 of Assam Accord. Reacting to Sarma's statement that the rules of CAA, when framed, will have "striking balance" between advantages given to Hindu immigrants and interest of the Assamese people, the Congress leader said, "CAA is prepared for national implementation. How can the state change it? Himanta Biswa Sarma is lying and misleading the people only for the election. Lok Sabha passed the CAA and the Government of India will implement it. That is why we are opposing it." Baghel also slammed Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal-led state government for not implementing Assam Accord and its Clause-6, while asserting that the Congress is fully committed to the historic document. On failure of sealing the border with Bangladesh, he said, "Why have they not done it in five years? The government has committed fraud with peoples' sentiment. They have tried to dismantle the cultural heritage of Assam. That is why our slogan is 'BJP bhagao, Assam bachao'." Countering BJP's allegation of Congress indulging in minority politics along with AIUDF, Baghel questioned how many illegal immigrants have been deported during the tenure of BJP governments at the centre and state. "Just see how many were deported during Congress period and BJP period, and you will know who is doing appeasement. They only do lip politics and then forgets it after grabbing power," he added. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora had last month claimed that only 1,822 foreigners were deported from across the country from 2014 to 2017 and as per the reply of the Home Minister in Parliament the figure of deportation stood at 82,728 foreigners during UPA tenure from 2005 to 2013. On the NDA's charge of Congress forming a communal alliance with AIUDF, Baghel said, "BJP is unnecessarily shouting against AIUDF and our alliance. It's a six party alliance and they are silent on CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and AGM." He further said that all the alliance partners fought separately in the last election and BJP got the benefit. "So, we have decided to unite all the votes against BJP to win and it is simple mathematics," he added. On the charge of Congress becoming a Muslim party due to joining hands with AIUDF, Baghel said, "Why don't BJP talk about their achievements of the last five years? Let them talk about what they have given to Assam and its farmers, tea workers, poors and youths. "What did they do to save the Assamese culture? The question is how to save Assamese culture. It's very rich. People from all castes, creeds, races and religions live here with brotherhood. But, they are into divide and rule politics between Hindu and Muslim. This is the face of BJP, which never seeks votes on their performance." Baghel also pointed out that BJP itself has tied up with AIUDF to rule the zilla parishads in several districts, including Darrang, Karimganj and Nagaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shahs-100-plus-target-in-assam-is-meant-for-us-bhupesh-baghel-954791.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Govt ushered historic increase in MSP, doing everything possible to double farmers' income: PM||On the completion of two years of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his government ushered a historic increase in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops and was doing everything possible to double the income of farmers. He also said that over the last seven years, the government has taken many initiatives for transforming agriculture. From better irrigation to more technology, more credit and markets to proper crop insurance, focus on soil health to eliminating middlemen, the efforts are all-encompassing, he asserted. "On this day, 2 years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed. The tenacity and passion of our farmers is inspiring," Modi said. "Our government had the honour of ushering a historic increase in MSP. We are doing everything possible to double the income of farmers," he said in a series of tweets using the hashtag "KisanKaSammanPMKisan'. He also said insightful content could be found on the NaMo App, offering a glimpse of the work done for farmers. The prime minister's remarks come on the second anniversary of the launch of the PM-Kisan scheme under which a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The remarks also assume significance as they come amid a protest by farmers at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-ushered-historic-increase-in-msp-doing-everything-possible-to-double-farmers-income-pm-954794.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||It is through 'conspiracy' by BJP and its allies that my govt was toppled: Narayanasamy||Former Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Wednesday cautioned voters against supporting the alliance comprising the BJP, the AINRC and the AIADMK in the coming Assembly polls as these parties would have no qualms about merging the Union Territory with Tamil Nadu. Addressing party workers during a demonstration to condemn the "toppling" of the Congress-led government in Puducherry, Narayanasamy said, "My government was toppled through undemocratic and scrupulous designs and conspiracy hatched by the BJP in coordination with the AINRC and AIADMK." He launched an emotional tirade against the BJP and its allies for "committing murder of democracy" by adopting "unprincipled practices to lure turncoats" to topple the democratically elected government here. "Even before my government was formed in June 2016 the Centre had posted the former IPS officer Kiran Bedi as Lt Governor of Puducherry in May that year. This was a clear proof of the plan of the NDA to rock the boat and disturb democratically elected government." Narayanasamy, who led the Congress government, resigned on Monday ahead of the confidence vote after his ministry was reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations of his party MLAs and a DMK legislator in recent days. He called on Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who had earlier directed a floor test to prove his majority, and submitted the resignation of his four-member cabinet. President Ram Nath Kovind has accepted the resignation. The Congress leader claimed that the BJP led alliance would bite the dust in the forthcoming polls and all the contestants of the saffron party and its alliance partners would lose deposit. "If by any chance the alliance comprising BJP and its allies comes to power, the separate identity of Puducherry as a union territory would be dismantled and its merger with neighbouring Tamil Nadu would happen," he alleged. Asserting that the SDA headed by Congress would get elected in the ensuing polls, Narayanasamy said, "we will form the next government to serve the people." VCK leader Tirumavalan in his address said the BJP led government at the Centre had shown its political machinations by dislodging the Congress led governments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Karnataka and a few other states. "On the same line the Narayanasamy led Congress DMK coalition ministry was ousted in Puducherry. The toppling of the government elected by the people of Puducherry was a shameless act on the part of the BJP," he said. Tirumavalavan listed several unique and progressive measures the Narayanasamy headed government had implemented for housing facilities andeducational advancement of the students belonging to SC and ST and Other Backward classes. He said the VCK would extend its cooperation to the secular democratic alliance here. He asked the people to ensure that those who had "fallen a prey to allurements and shifted their allegiance" were taught a lesson in the Assembly polls due in the next few months."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-is-through-conspiracy-by-bjp-and-its-allies-that-my-govt-was-toppled-narayanasamy-954799.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||People will give befitting reply to BJP in polls for 'subverting' mandate in Puducherry: Moily||Accusing the BJP of using money power to make the Congress government fall in Puducherry, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said the people will give a befitting reply to the saffron party in upcoming polls for "subverting" a popular mandate, and asserted that upholding democratic ideals will be the main issue in the elections. Moily, who is the Congress' senior observer for upcoming polls in the Union Territory, also said the party's alliance with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) will continue, and together they will get a "thumping" majority in the elections. In an interview with PTI, Moily claimed the Puducherry polls will mark the "beginning of the fall of the BJP" in the country and the strengthening of democratic power through the Congress party. Lashing out at the BJP, the former Union minister said they never allowed the Congress government to function in Puducherry by fronting then Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi. "Her only exclusive mission was that the Congress government does not function. From time to time, the issue was brought to the notice of Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and Home Minister (Amit Shah), either through media or directly by the CM V Narayansamy, but they did not listen," Moily said. His attack on BJP comes two days after the Congress government in Puducherry fell after Chief Minister Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote in the Assembly with the coalition ministry reduced to a minority due to a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator recently. Moily alleged the central government led by Modi and Shah "killed democracy" in Puducherry for the last four-five years as no development programme was allowed to prosper. He claimed that MLAs were also suffocated and were given the impression that even if the government was elected back, Bedi will not allow even the new dispensation to function. "They (BJP) lured them with money and power. The MLAs were tempted as they were already frustrated with the government not being allowed to function," he said. Moily described the spate of resignations of MLAs and the fall of the government as an "open massacre of democracy directly abetted" by the Government of India through the Lieutenant Governor. However, he said the government fell not because of the spate of resignations but due to nominated MLAs being allowed to vote. "Nominating three MLAs and giving them the power to vote was the most undemocratic thing that could be done. Even the judiciary also did not act very quickly," he said. Asked about Bedi's removal as LG recently, Moily claimed that the BJP thought that it would help them in the polls as the electorate would have run against it because she did not allow the government to function. "So, they want to put everything on Kiran Bedi. Even though Kiran Bedi was only a puppet in their hands now they will put everything on her and say she has done it and we have no role to play. This is the game played against Congress," he alleged. On what would be the key poll plank in the upcoming elections, Moily said upholding democratic ideals will be the main issue. "Supporting BJP in Puducherry would mean writing the epitaph of the Constitution, in other words, people will not vote for BJP because of the game played by it against the basic tenets of democracy," he said. Moily said the polls will be about the subversion of people's mandate by the BJP. "This naked display of autocracy and throwing the principles of democracy to the wind will be given a befitting reply by the electorate," he said. Moily hailed Narayansamy for his work as the chief minister while dealing with natural calamities and in controlling COVID-19. "The people will punish them (BJP). They have committed the gravest crime by obstructing benefits of development to reach people," he said. Moily said the people of Puducherry have seen through the BJP's game plan. "The ugly demonstration of their money power, political power, and intolerance to other party's rule will have to come to an end in this country and Puducherry will be the real field to demonstrate that," he said. With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own. Elections for the 30 assembly seats in Puducherry are likely to take place in the next few months. Moily also asserted that the fall of the Congress governments in Madhya Pradesh last year and in Puducherry was completely different. "In Puducherry, it is not about the elected MLAs, it was the nominated MLAs who led to the government's fall. If there was no voting power to the nominated MLAs, the government would not have fallen," he said. Congress will bounce back, Moily added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-will-give-befitting-reply-to-bjp-in-polls-for-subverting-mandate-in-puducherry-moily-954803.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Modi is the biggest riot monger, will meet worse fate than Donald Trump: Mamata Banerjee||Dubbing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the “biggest riot monger” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that he would meet a “worse fate” than former US President Donald Trump. “Narendra Modi is the biggest riot monger in the country...He will meet a worse fate than former US President Donald Trump,” said Mamata. She was addressing a Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Hooghly district at the same venue where the Prime Minister addressed a public meeting two days back. The TMC supremo said that Modi was talking too much asking him to wait till the Assembly elections were over and find out who is stronger between them. “Narendra Modi ji and your demon friend; you are talking too much. Talk a bit more. I will tolerate for two months and then I will see who is stronger, strong not by muscle power but strong with the power of democracy,” said Mamata. She slammed the BJP government at the Centre over the CBI’s move of questioning Rujira, the wife of her nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee in relation to a coal pilferage case and accused the saffron party of labeling a young woman as a coal thief. “You enter my house and label a 22 -23 year old woman as a coal thief. But you are going around with coal thieves yourself,” said Mamata. Accusing the saffron party of resorting to “political vendetta” the Chief Minister challenged it to get all TMC workers including her arrested. She further alleged that the BJP, CPI(M) and the Congress joined forces in Bengal. Mamata said that there were “20 lakh TMC workers” in Bengal adding how many would the BJP be able to get arrested. “Remember, a wounded tiger is more dangerous than a healthy tiger,” said Mamata. Challenging the BJP, CPI(M) and Congress to “play the game” against her, Mamata said that the game would start soon and she will be goalkeeper. “There will be one game in the 2021 Assembly elections. CPI(M), Congress and the BJP will be on one side and TMC on another. I will be the goalkeeper. Let’s see how many goals they can score. Rest assured they will not be able to score a single goal,” said Mamata. Hurling the ‘outsider’ jibe at the BJP, Mamata said that “ Gujarat will not rule Bengal. Modi will not rule Bengal. Bengal will rule Bengal.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-is-the-biggest-riot-monger-will-meet-worse-fate-than-donald-trump-mamata-banerjee-954814.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi's North-South comment divides Congress||Not just the BJP, but a section in the Congress are also now finding fault with Rahul Gandhi's remarks on South Indians taking  issues more seriously than those from the North, exposing a division in the party over the former party chief's stand on issues. On a day Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala targeted the BJP for its criticism of Rahul on the issue, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma openly expressed his opposition to the remarks and said the party never "disrespected a region" and Rahul should clarify his statement to clear "conjecture or misunderstandings". Senior Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal soon joined Sharma in taking exception to Rahul's remarks, saying the voters anywhere in the country are wise and one should not denigrate their wisdom. Sharma, Congress Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha who was overlooked for the post of Leader of Opposition after Ghulam Nabi Azad retired earlier this month, and Sibal were two of the 23 senior leaders known as G-23, who wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi seeking clarity on the leadership issue and placed themselves against Rahul. The latest flash point was a comment Rahul made in Kerala: "For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the North. I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues." BJP leaders had on Monday lashed out at Rahul accusing him of being an 'opportunist,' alleging that he found fault with North Indians. At a press conference on Tuesday, Surjewala tore into the BJP for accusing Rahul of belittling north Indians, saying the North-South divide is a "toolkit" being sold by the saffron party to news channels and public to counter its leader's call to question the government on real issues. Accusing the BJP of raising "superficial issues on a daily basis" to divert attention from people's issues, he said the real issues were of a "nose-diving" Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and small and medium businesses "virtually in ruin". However, Sharma appeared not in consonance with the spokesperson and said, "Congress never divided the country. Each part of India is equally important. North India has also contributed a lot. We had front-ranking leaders of the freedom struggle - Motilal Nehru, JL Nehru, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Govind Vallabh Pant, Lala Lajpat Rai just to name a few." "After independence there have been illustrious PMs - Pt Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Atal Bihari Vajpayee - they all represented UP. Recently it was Dr Manmohan Singh from north India, so Congress has never disrespected a region," he was quoted by ANI as saying.   He said Rahul made an observation, "perhaps sharing his personal experiences and not disrespecting any part of India or dividing". He can clarify in what context he made that observation "so that there is no conjecture or misunderstanding." Sharma also said they are grateful to Amethi, which elected Sanjay Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Capt Satish Sharma, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul. "There is no question of being disrespectful. It's not the philosophy of Congress. We've believed in a united India," he added. Sibal said he is nobody to comment on what Rahul said. "Rahul said it and he can explain in what context he said that. I can only say that voters wherever they are, north, south, east or west, they are wise. We must respect electors in the country and not denigrate their wisdom," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhis-north-south-comment-divides-congress-954817.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Congress stages walkout from Madhya Pradesh Assembly over rising fuel prices||Congress legislators in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday staged a walkout from the state Assembly to protest against the fuel price hike and rising inflation. Some Congress legislators got up at their places at the end of the question hour, alleging that inflation and fuel price hike have been creating difficulties for the common people. They demanded that the state government provide a relief to the people by reducing fuel prices. Later, senior Congress MLA Sajjan Singh announced that his party would stage a walkout over the rising prices of fuel and essential commodities. Accordingly, the opposition party legislators walked out of the House shouting slogans. Thereafter, they also held a 'dharna' (sit-in) protest in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the Assembly premises for some time. Some of the MLAs wore black jackets with slogans against rising fuel prices and inflation written on them. Earlier during the question hour, Congress MLA Sanjay Yadav accused the state government of being anti-tribal, during the discussion on tourism department. In his reply, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, denied the charges and accused the previous Congress government of stopping the development works in the areas represented by the BJP MLAs. Chouhan assured that all the approved development works would be carried out and said the state government's revenue collection has suffered a lot due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-stages-walkout-from-madhya-pradesh-assembly-over-rising-fuel-prices-954833.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Insulting Indians favourite pastime of Rahul Gandhi, says Javadekar; calls opposition leader 'superficial'||Amid a political slugfest over Rahul Gandhi's 'north-south' comment, Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday called the opposition leader "superficial" and said "insulting Indians" was Gandhi's "favourite pastime". Javadekar also said the Congress leader has been severely admonished on social media while his cabinet colleague Ravi Shankar Prasad asserted that the remarks have raised questions over the level of responsibility shown by the former chief of a national party. "Insulting Indians is a favourite pastime of Rahul Gandhi. Indians are not superficial you are Mr Rahul Gandhi," Javadekar tweeted. Later during a post-Cabinet media briefing, the information and broadcasting minister said the BJP leaders have already reacted to that and "social media pe poori dhulayi hui hai" (he has been severely admonished on social media too). Prasad said, "I do not take political questions generally (during the post-Cabinet briefing), but this is one question on which I want to speak...Gandhi talks about fresh air when he goes to north-east and when he is in South India, he says the atmosphere in Kerala is different from the north". "Yours is a national party and you are differentiating the country's atmosphere. This certainly raises a question about the level of your responsibility (as a national party leader)," the minister added.   Addressing a public gathering in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday, Gandhi had said,"for the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north. I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues." The comments triggered sharp reactions from several BJP leaders, including some senior ministers, who immediately accused the Congress of being an 'opportunist' and alleged that Gandhi belittled North Indians, despite him and his family members winning several elections from Amethi in Uttar Pradesh in the past. Reacting to the attack from BJP leaders, the Congress on Wednesday said Gandhi had given a clarion call to the people to question the government on real issues and the north-south divide was a "toolkit" being sold by the BJP to the public. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the BJP was raising "superficial" issues on a daily basis to divert the country's attention from the people's issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/insulting-indians-favourite-pastime-of-rahul-gandhi-says-javadekar-calls-opposition-leader-superficial-954876.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||Only Motera stadium renamed after PM Modi, complex continues to have Sardar Patel name: Govt||Amid a controversy over a cricket stadium in Gujarat being renamed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government on Wednesday said the name change involves only the Motera stadium and the entire sports complex continues to be named after Sardar Patel. Soon after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the world's largest cricket stadium in Ahmedabad, which will now be known as 'Narendra Modi stadium', social media was flooded with remarks including by some leaders of the Congress and other opposition parties who alleged that the renaming exercise amounted to an "insult" to Sardar Patel. Asked about the allegations, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, however, told reporters that only the Motera stadium has been renamed and the complex continues to be named after Vallabhbhai Patel. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who was present alongside Javadekar at the media briefing after a cabinet meeting, also took a swipe at the Congress leaders, asking whether party chief Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi have so far praised the world's tallest statue of Sardar Patel erected at Kevadiya in Gujarat. Javadekar said the two Congress leaders have not even visited the statue. Prasad continued, "I want to say this with full responsibility that a tourist place getting global praise has not been visited yet or praised by the two Congress leaders. What else is there to say?" Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a Home Minister who had banned their parent organisation! Or maybe this is advance booking to ensure the next visiting Head of State is hosted here, like Trump? Or is this the beginning of a legacy-creation-thru-labelling spree (sic)?" His party colleague Rajeev Satav said, "Renaming Motera cricket stadium from Sardar Patel to Narendra Modi is an absolute disgrace. This shows how narcissistic our PM has become. This is outrageous and a clear sign of autocratic dictatorship." Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, without directly talking about the stadium, tweeted a Hindi quote of Sardar Patel, "There is something unique in this soil, which has always been the abode of great souls despite many obstacles."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-motera-stadium-renamed-after-pm-modi-complex-continues-to-have-sardar-patel-name-govt-954889.html
24-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi avenged Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's ban on RSS by removing name from Motera stadium: Congress||Pounding on the BJP for renaming the Sardar Patel stadium in Gujarat after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Congress on Wednesday claimed that it was done to avenge Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's act of banning the RSS after Mahatma Gandhi's death. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "Beautiful how the truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium. Adani end. Reliance end. With Jay Shah presiding. #HumDoHumareDo." Beautiful how the truth reveals itself. Narendra Modi stadium- Adani end- Reliance end At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Modi government knows that it has not done anything worthy for successive governments to remember and that was why it was usurping credit for things done by others. "Modi has renamed an existing stadium built in 1983 during the Congress government and in an unprecedented fashion has removed Sardar Patel's name. This is the second time he has insulted great sons of Gujarat and international icons. In 2017, he replaced the photo of Mahatma Gandhi with charkha from the Khadi calendar and replaced it with his own," he said. "Today he has done the same with Sardar Patel. We understand the acrimony and hatred you have for the two icons...Patel has banned RSS...Now you have avenged that act. History will not forgive you," Khera said. By removing Patel's name, he said, Modi and the BJP have hurt and insulted every Indian. "You have Adani end and Reliance end at the stadium. That is the story of India," he said. Khera also claimed that Modi fears that he would face the fate of LK Advani whom he has "sidelined". He also defended the Congress government's naming of projects and similar infrastructure after Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, saying that the successive governments have done it as a tribute to previous governments and prime ministers. In other reactions, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a home minister who had banned their parent organisation! Or maybe this is advance booking to ensure the next visiting Head of State is hosted here, like Trump? Or is this the beginning of a legacy-creation-thru-labelling spree?"  Congress MP Rajeev Satav said, "Renaming Motera cricket stadium from Sardar Patel to Narendra Modi is an absolute disgrace. This shows how narcissistic our PM has become. This is outrageous and a clear sign of autocratic dictatorship." Without referring to the stadium, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted a Hindi quote of Sardar Patel, "there is something unique in this soil, which has always been the abode of great souls despite many obstacles." "इस मिट्टी में कुछ अनूठा है, जो कई बाधाओं के बावजूद हमेशा महान आत्माओं का निवास रहा है।" ~ सरदार पटेल||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-avenged-sardar-vallabhbhai-patels-ban-on-rss-by-removing-name-from-motera-stadium-congress-954919.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||UP man gets death penalty for rape, murder||A local court here awarded death penalty to a man for raping and killing an 18-month-old girl. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh on the convict. Additional District and Sessions Judge Chandra Vijay Shrinet on Monday held Guddu, alias Gullu, guilty of the crime and awarded a death sentence. District Government Advocate Ramchandra Rajput on Tuesday said the girl was raped and murdered in 2014. After killing her, the victim threw the body in a village pond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-gets-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-954622.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Rape accused in UP flees from police custody||One of the accused persons arrested in connection with the alleged gangrape of a minor girl in a village here, on Tuesday escaped from police custody in Allahabad. Superintendent of Police Abhinandan said that Gulshan, an accused person along with another person was arrested on February 20 following an encounter. Gulshan sustained a leg injury in the encounter, after which he was admitted to SRN Hospital in Allahabad. On Tuesday morning, he gave a slip to two cops posted there. The SP said that a case has been registered against both the constables, and the matter is being probed. A number of teams have been formed to arrest him. Three men allegedly gang-raped a minor girl at a village here on Saturday, police said. The accused have been identified as Raju, Gulshan and Satyam. According to police, Raju and Gulshan have been arrested. Police said Raju had called her for an outing on Friday and took her to a secluded spot. Three others -- Gulshan, Satyam and an unidentified person -- arrived there. Gulshan and Satyam also raped the girl along with Raju. They also thrashed the girl and fled after issuing threats to her, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-accused-in-up-flees-from-police-custody-954664.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Rape victim, family get security after Priyanka dials Gehlot||The Rajasthan Police on Tuesday provided security to a rape victim and her family after her mother met Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi at a rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura. After talking to the woman, Priyanka Gandhi called Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot following which he sought a report from police about the case and gave necessary directions. Commenting on it, Bharatpur SP Devendra Vishnoi said, "The family said there was a threat to them, therefore, the security was provided on Tuesday.” The SP said the rape case was registered at the Jurhara police station in April last year. On the other hand, members of the accused’s family also met the DGP and alleged that the allegations in the FIR were false and demanded a fair probe. “They said the facts mentioned in the FIR and the statement of the victim before the magistrate are contradictory,” sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-victim-family-get-security-after-priyanka-dials-gehlot-954704.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Delhi Police response sought on Shantanu Muluk's bail plea||A court here on Wednesday sought response from the Delhi Police on the anticipatory bail application of Shantanu Muluk, who along with Disha Ravi is accused of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted bail to Ravi on Wednesday, posted Muluk's bail application for arguments on Friday. Muluk had got transit bail from the Bombay High Court on February 16 for a period of 10 days. During the brief hearing held through video-conferencing on Wednesday, the court also noted that Muluk has been granted protection from arrest till February 26. The matter was adjourned after the public prosecutor said that the investigating officer of the case was not present today and “it would be better if the matter is heard in physical presence.”  Muluk, along with Ravi and another co-accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail, while Ravi was granted bail on Tuesday after nine-day custody.  If convicted for sedition, the accused may get a maximum jail term for life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-delhi-police-response-sought-on-shantanu-muluks-bail-plea-954725.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||No extra chance if UPSC attempts exhausted in 2020; SC dismisses plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said any relief to UPSC aspirants for an extra attempt in Civil Services examinations 2021 despite being age-barred would have a cascading effect on various competitive examinations where a large number of candidates appeared during Covid-19 pandemic. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar dismissed a plea by a group of petitioners led by Rachna for an extra attempt for the UPSC Civil Services Prelims 2021, terming it as "lame excuse" for additional shot in the examination held for selections to prestigious IAS, IPS and IFS. The petitioners claimed some of them could not perform upto their optimum level due to the disruptions caused by the pandemic. The court, however, said everyone must have faced some constraints, impediments or inconvenience in one way or the other in the various examinations held in year 2020. "What is being claimed under the guise of Covid-19 pandemic is nothing but a lame excuse in taking additional attempt to participate in the Civil Service Examination 2021," the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi, said. At present, candidates from general category get six attempts till age of 32, OBC candidates nine attempts till 35 and SC/ST candidates unlimited attempts till the age of 37 years to appear in Civil Services examinations. The UPSC had already given extra time to the candidates by postponing the preliminary examination from May 31 to October 4, 2020 The top court said it was dissuaded to exercise plenary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution in policy decisions. It also pointed out the 2020 rules for competitive examination published by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) did not provide any discretion to the government to grant any relaxation either in attempt or age of the candidates. Though the Union government agreed to provide an extra chance to those who were not age-barred and appeared as last attempt in 2020 exam, the court said any relaxation either in age or attempt would be discriminatory for other candidates. The petitioners contended earlier in 2015 similar concession was granted by the government. The court, however, said it was done due to change in the examination pattern and syllabus. "No mandamus can be sought to the the Union government to come out with a policy granting relaxation to the participants who had availed a final and last attempt or have crossed the upper age, as a matter of right," the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-extra-chance-if-upsc-attempts-exhausted-in-2020-sc-dismisses-plea-954731.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi makes negative Covid-19 test must for travellers coming from 5 states||People reaching Delhi on flights, trains and buses from five states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab where Covid-19 cases have seen a spike, will have to show negative Covid-19 test report before entering the national capital. Delhi government's action came against the backdrop of rising cases in the five states, which also included Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Sources said the directive will come into effect from Friday night and it will be effective till March 15. People travelling in flights, trains and buses from these states will have to produce negative test reports before entering the national capital. The issue was discussed at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday. Earlier this week, Karnataka had imposed similar restrictions on travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-makes-negative-covid-19-test-must-for-travellers-coming-from-5-states-954739.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt presents first paperless Budget||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government on Wednesday presented its first paperless Budget in the state Assembly. "The state budget 2021-22 will be paperless this time. Efforts have been made to take every section of society together. Corona has affected the economy so efforts will be made to gather financial resources," Gehlot said while presenting the budget. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, finalised the Budget at his residence on Tuesday. It is the third budget of the Ashok Gehlot led government in the state.  The Rajasthan government did not propose any new tax in its budget for the financial year 2021-22, but announced relief measures of up to Rs 910 crore through various exemptions. The budget has projected a revenue deficit of Rs 23,750.04 crore and fiscal deficit of Rs 47,652.77 crore for the coming financial year 2021-22. The fiscal deficit is 3.98 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). In his budget speech, he said: "I feel that every section of the society has suffered due to the corona pandemic so no new tax has been proposed but relief of about Rs 910 crore is being provided during this corona period." The budget estimates a revenue deficit of Rs 23,750.04 crore in FY 2021-22. Giving a brief overview of the budget estimates for the financial year 2021-22, Gehlot said that during this period revenue receipts are estimated to be Rs 1,84,330.13 crore, revenue expenditure Rs 2,08,080.17 crore and revenue deficit is Rs 23,750.04 crore. While presenting the revised estimates for the financial year 2020-21, he said that revenue receipts during this period were Rs 1,47,980.19 crore, revenue expenditure was Rs 1,89,701.80 crore while revenue deficit was Rs 41,721.61 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-presents-first-paperless-budget-954741.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Minor girl raped by uncle in Uttar Pradesh||An 11-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her uncle in the district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Monday night when the girl was sleeping in her house. The accused, Shubham (20), took her to his house and allegedly raped her, Station House Officer (SHO) City Kotwali Jaishyam Shukla said. When the girl's parents found her missing in the morning, they searched for her and later informed the police, he said. She was later found in the room of the accused who was arrested, the SHO said. The man is said to be a drug addict, he said, adding that the girl has been sent for a medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-by-uncle-in-uttar-pradesh-954743.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Four unidentified militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag||Four unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces militants in Srigufwara area of Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Wednesday. The encounter erupted after a joint team of Army's 3-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Shalgul forest in Srigufwara, 55 km from here, on Wednesday morning, reports said. As the joint search team approached the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering a gunfight, reports added. A local news agency KNO, quoting an unknown police official, said that four unidentified militants were killed so far while the operation was on. However, a police spokesperson said that no militant has been killed so far. “4 militants trapped. Operation going on. No militant killed so far,” he said. As a ‘precautionary’ measure, internet services were snapped in the whole of Anantnag district. On February 19 three militants affiliated with Al-Badr outfit were killed in Badigam village of south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Earlier on January 29, in the first encounter of 2021, three militants were killed in the volatile Tral area of Pulwama district. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-unidentified-militants-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-954758.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Student allegedly set on fire after failed gang rape attempt in Uttar Pradesh||A college student who was found lying without clothes and severely burnt along a national highway in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district has claimed she was set on fire after a failed attempt to gang-rape her, police said on Wednesday. According to Superintendent of Police S Anand, the girl told investigators that three people tried to rape her in a field near Rai Kheda village on Monday and when they did not succeed, they poured kerosene and set her on fire. The police officer, however, added that she frequently changed her statements and also said that she was not aware of how she reached the hospital from the third floor of her college building. The BA second-year student was admitted to a hospital in the district and later referred to Lucknow. Dr SC Saundriyal, director of Syama Prasad Mookerjee Civil Hospital, Lucknow, where the girl is undergoing treatment for 72 per cent burns, told PTI, "Her condition is stable right now." Earlier, reports said she suffered 60 per cent burns. In CCTV footage, the girl -- a student of a college run by a trust of former union minister Swami Chinmayanand -- was seen coming down alone from the third floor, the police said. "Investigations with the help of CCTV footage have found that the girl went out of the college campus from a broken outer wall about 20 minutes after entering the premises and was seen walking alone on a canal road," Anand said. Prior to this, the girl could be seen talking to her friends outside a classroom and visiting a library, the SP said. Three teams led by deputy superintendents of police (Dy SPs) and a Special Operations Group (SOG) team have been deployed. Besides, another team led by a Dy SP with five policemen is present at SPM Civil Hospital. After recording the girl's statement in Lucknow, the investigating officer will take up the matter, Anand said. Over a dozen students of the college, including her friends, have been questioned. The girl had called a person of her village on mobile phone on the day of the incident and he has also been questioned, the SP said. According to Asif Ali, a resident of the village where the student was found lying without clothes, the villagers had covered her with a stole before calling the police. The SP said in the field where she was lying, some tumblers were found but there was no trace of liquor. The girl, a native of a village in the Jalalabad police station area, studies in Swami Shukdevanand Post Graduate College run by Mumukshu Ashram of Chinmayanand. The ashram was at the center of a controversy in 2019 after a female student of a law college run by it accused Chinmayanand of sexual assault. However, the student later withdrew her charges against Chinmayanand, who was arrested in the case in September 2019 and released on bail nearly five months later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/student-allegedly-set-on-fire-after-failed-gang-rape-attempt-in-uttar-pradesh-954779.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Lt Governor Manoj Sinha asks tourists to be goodwill ambassadors of Jammu and Kashmir||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has asked tourists coming to Jammu and Kashmir to be goodwill ambassadors of the union territory. During a visit to the Dal Lake on Tuesday evening, Sinha interacted with several tourists from different parts of the country and enquired about the experiences of their visit to Jammu and Kashmir. "Be the goodwill ambassadors of Jammu and Kashmir and carry the message to your respective areas that J-K is an ideal and safe tourist destination," the Lt Governor asked the tourists. While assuring the tourists a safe and pleasant visit to the UT, Sinha observed that the tourism department, local community, and other stakeholders are collectively providing tourists a friendly environment to facilitate their visit. From eco-tourism to winter sports, Jammu and Kashmir offers a host of attractions to tourists to experience the scenic beauty, warm hospitality, rich culture and heritage of J-K and make their visit to the union territory a memorable one, the Lt governor added. He advised the tourists to also explore the unexplored beautiful places of the union territory. The tourists, while sharing their experiences, said they feel delighted to visit Kashmir, an official spokesperson said They also said Jammu and Kashmir is a safe place for all kinds of tourism activities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-governor-manoj-sinha-asks-tourists-to-be-goodwill-ambassadors-of-jammu-and-kashmir-954787.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan govt to bring Universal Health Care scheme worth Rs 3,500 crore: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government on Wednesday presented the Budget for 2021-22 and said it will bring a Universal Health Care scheme worth Rs 3,500 crore. He said that from next year, universal health coverage will be implemented at a cost of Rs 3,500 crore, under which every family in the state will get medical insurance benefit of up to Rs 5 lakh. "For the first time in the country, we are going to implement universal health coverage in the state in the coming year at the cost of Rs 3,500 crore," Gehlot said. A Bill on Right to Health will be introduced in the Rajasthan Assembly, he said. Further, Gehlot said that his government has been farmer friendly and it will present an agriculture budget separately from the coming year in view of better future and interests of the farmers. In a first, the Gehlot-led Congress government presented its first paperless budget in the state assembly. "The biggest challenge before us while making this budget was that despite the difficult economic conditions, there should be no shortage of resources for the development of the state. We are taking this resolution to mobilize economic resources with far-reaching thinking," Gehlot said. Referring to the coronavirus pandemic, he said, "The last one year has been very difficult for all of us. We have strengthened the health infrastructure in the state, turning this disaster into opportunities. Corona RT-PCR investigation facility has been ensured in all districts of the state." Gehlot announced a special Covid package. He said that the government has provided assistance of Rs 1,155 crores at the rate of Rs 3,500 per family to 31 lakh helpless, destitute families during this pandemic. "Now, I announce further assistance of Rs 1,000 as final instalment to these families in the coming year," he said. The chief minister announced the launch of Indira Gandhi Urban Credit Card Scheme for self-employment and employment needs of street vendors of urban areas and youth and unemployed people of all areas. Under this scheme, an interest free loan of up to Rs 50,000 will be provided to five lakh needy people. He announced a Rs 500-crore package for tourism development, which was severely hit due to the Covid pandemic. The Chief Minister said, "to provide employment opportunities to the youth of the state, more than 50,000 posts will be recruited in the next two years." Every district will have a nursing college. Apart from eight existing nursing colleges, 25 new colleges will be opened, he said. Candidates participating in competitive examinations will be provided free travel in roadways buses, Gehlot said. Under the Jeevan Rakshak Yojana, Rs 5,000 and citation will be given to good samaritans who save lives in road accidents. Gehlot announced increasing the unemployment allowance currently payable to eligible youth by Rs 1,000, and organizing the common competitive exam for some examinations in the state. As many as 1,200 Mahatma Gandhi Government Schools will be opened in villages with a population of 5000, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-to-bring-universal-health-care-scheme-worth-rs-3500-crore-ashok-gehlot-954816.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt shamelessly protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari: Uttar Pradesh govt tells Supreme Court||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the Punjab government was “shamelessly” protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari by denying his presence before a special court to face trial in several heinous offenses.  Ansari, a BSP MLA, is lodged in the district jail Roopnagar since January 2019 in connection with an alleged extortion case.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the UP government, slammed the Punjab government before a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan.  Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Ansari, said his client was a small fry, who was being cornered by a mighty state.  Mehta added that he was such a small fry that the Punjab government was shamelessly protecting him.  The top court fixed the matter for further hearing on March 2 as senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing the Punjab government, sought an adjournment citing personal grounds. Mehta said he has no objection to Dave’s plea for adjournment.  In a written submission, the UP government, through advocate Garima Prasad, said it was "very much an interested party to find out how the nexus has taken place amongst the functionaries of the State of Punjab with the conduits of the accused gangster and history-sheeter Mukhtar Ansari as also the suspended officials of the State of UP in the said FIR." In a writ petition, it sought direction from the top court to the Punjab government and Roopnagar jail authority to immediately hand over Ansari’s custody to district jail Banda.  It appeared that the transfer of Ansari's custody was meticulously planned and raised a strong suspicion of conspiracy to delay the proceedings before the Special Judge (MP/MLA), Prayagraj, said the UP government.   It also accused the Punjab government of making a mockery of the federal structure of the Constitution by seeking to defend an accused who is a gangster and a history-sheeter. The UP government said that more than 30 FIRs and over 14 criminal trials, including heinous crimes of murder and under sections of the Gangster Act, were pending against him in various MP/MLA courts, where his personal appearance is sought.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-shamelessly-protecting-gangster-turned-politician-mukhtar-ansari-uttar-pradesh-govt-tells-supreme-court-954828.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' unions plan to take farmers' agitation to east, central Uttar Pradesh||In an apparent bid to force the government to concede to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws, the Kisan unions plan to rope in the farmers in the eastern and central regions of Uttar Pradesh. So far, the farmers' agitation has been mostly confined to the western UP districts of Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Mathura and some other places. The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) plans to hold kisan mahapanchayats in every district in Uttar Pradesh's eastern and central regions in the next few days. BKU President Naresh Tikait on Wednesday addressed a 'kisan mahapanchayat' in Barabanki district, barely 30 kilometres from the state capital of Lucknow, and exhorted the farmers to rise against the farm laws. Tikait, who addressed the farmers at Harakh in the district, termed the government 'arrogant' and said that the latter should listen to the issues raised by the farmers and change its attitude. ''The way to the eastern UP goes through Barabanki....the farmers must raise their voice against the farm laws and only then will they be able to create awareness about them in the other districts in the region,'' he added. ''If the prime minister is not ready to take back the farm laws, then we too are not ready to withdraw from the borders,'' he said. The BKU president said that Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who hails from the eastern UP district of Mirzapur, should support the farmers.  ''If the government allows Rajnath Singh to speak his mind then he will certainly support us,'' Tikait said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-unions-plan-to-take-farmers-agitation-to-east-central-uttar-pradesh-954848.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander who was diagnosed with Covid-19 dies in Mohali hospital||Noted Punjabi singer and actor Sardool Sikander died on Wednesday at a Mohali hospital where was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. He was 60. Sikander, who had undergone a renal transplant in 2016 and was admitted to hospital on January 19, passed away at 11.55 am, sources at Fortis Hospital said. They said his condition worsened in the last few days and he was put on life support systems. Sikander, regarded an icon in the Punjabi music industry, is survived by his singer-wife Amar Noorie, and music composer sons Sarang and Alaap Sikander. The untimely death of the singer led to condolences from various quarters, including fellow musicians, actors and politicians. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh described him as a legendary singer and said he was "extremely saddened". "He was recently diagnosed with #Covid19 and was undergoing treatment for the same. The world of Punjabi music is poorer today. My heartfelt condolences to his family and fans," he said on Twitter. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal also expressed his shock. "Saddened to learn about the demise of legendary Punjabi playback singer Sardool Sikander. A huge loss to Punjabi movie & music industry. Prayers for his family, friends & fans. May his soul rest in peace!" Badal said in a tweet. Sikander, who acted in several Punjabi films, including "Jagga Daku", initially came into the limelight with appearances on radio and TV during the early 1980s. His album 'Roadways di Laari' was an instant hit. Born at Kheri Naudh Singh in Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, Sikander belonged to the Patiala Gharana of music and his album "Husna de Malko" in 1991 sold over five million copies. He had several hit songs to his credit. These included "Sanu ishq brandi char gayi" and "Ek charkha gali de wich dha laya". He also sang the track "Mari Koyal Ne Aisi Cook" in the 2003 Bollywood film "The Hero: Love Story of a Spy" Patiala MP and former Union minister Preneet Kaur said Sikander's death had left a a big vacuum in the Punjabi music industry and also in the hearts of millions of fans worldwide. Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan remembered the singer as a melodious voice, life of the party and a friend like no other. Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana shared Mann's post on his Instagram Story and wrote "Rest in Peace Sardool sahab." Singer-composer Daler Mehendi said Sikander's death was a "big loss to our family and music industry". Actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh called the late singer the "pride of Punjabi music". Oh WAHEGURU 🙏🏽 According to Bollywood music composer Vishal Dadlani, Sikander's loss is "far too personal". "A true pioneer, he was the soul of humility & a wellspring of music. My condolences to the family, esp. to my brothers @AlaapSikander & @SarangSikander1," Dadlani said. Actor-comedian Kapil Sharma said Sikander had such a powerful voice that even a layman would sound melodious while singing his songs. Sharma said he was fortunate that Sikander visited his residence on the occasion of his daughter's first Lohri. "All of us were happy, but we didn't know it would be our last meeting. You'll be missed a lot paaji. May God keep you close," he added. Singer Harshdeep Kaur said she was saddened to hear about the demise of the iconic singer. "Huge loss to the music Industry. Prayers for his family," Kaur wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabi-singer-sardool-sikander-who-was-diagnosed-with-covid-19-dies-in-mohali-hospital-954857.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||17-year-old girl dies two days after being gang-raped in UP's Hamirpur||A 17-year-old girl, who was allegedly gang-raped two days ago in a village here, died on Wednesday while she was being taken to a hospital, police said. The teenager was undergoing treatment in the village in Maudaha area but her condition started deteriorating on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police Narendra Kumar Singh said. She was being taken to a community health centre from the village when she died, he added. Meanwhile, Circle Officer, Maudaha, Saumya Pandey said the victim's family did not report the incident and that the police came to know about it only after the teenager's death. "We are waiting for the post-mortem report, and the matter is being probed," she added. Speaking to reporters, the victim's father alleged that his daughter was raped by five men on Monday night. He said he did not inform the police as he was afraid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-girl-dies-two-days-after-being-gang-raped-in-ups-hamirpur-954908.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||UP Assembly passes religious conversion bill despite protest from Opposition parties||Amid protests by the Opposition, the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed by voice vote a bill aimed at curbing religious conversions by fraudulent or any other undue means, including through marriage. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill, 2021 seeks to replace the ordinance promulgated in November last year that provides for imprisonment up to 10 years and a maximum fine of Rs 50,000 for violators. The bill was passed in the House even as Aradhana Misra, the Congress Legislative Party leader and Lalji Verma, the leader of BSP in the Assembly, protested. Under the bill, a marriage will be declared "null and void" if the conversion is solely for that purpose, and those wishing to change their religion after marriage need to apply to the district magistrate. The bill mainly envisages that no person shall convert, either directly or indirectly from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet, convince or conspire such conversion. The onus to prove that the conversion has not been done forcibly will lie on the person accused of the act and the convert, it said. An aggrieved person, his/her parents, brother, sister, or any other person who is related to him/her by blood, marriage or adoption may lodge an FIR about such conversion, according to the bill. BJP leaders had said the legislation intends to counter alleged attempts to convert Hindu women to Islam in the guise of marriage, which right-wing Hindu activists refer to as 'love jihad'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-passes-religious-conversion-bill-despite-protest-from-opposition-parties-954914.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Women commando force now a part of Uttarakhand police||A women commando force became part of the Uttarakhand police on Wednesday. Uttarakhand is the fourth state in the country to have such a force, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said at a function held at the police lines here on the occasion.  There are 22 well-trained women commandos in the force who can play a big role in training young girls in self-defense techniques and physical agility, he said. Rawat also honoured trainers Shifu Shaurya Bhardwaj and Rubina Korky for imparting training to the women commandos. DGP Ashok Kumar said that at a time when terrorist outfits are making use of women operatives, an all-women commando force can be very effective in counter-terrorist operations. A Smart Cheeta Police consisting of both men and women personnel was also launched on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-commando-force-now-a-part-of-uttarakhand-police-954917.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||J&K security situation has improved, but Pakistan-backed terror still a threat, says Indian Army chief M M Naravane||Army chief Gen M M Naravane Wednesday said that there is "definitely a great improvement" in the internal security situation in Jammu and Kashmir but Pakistan-promoted terror still remains a threat. He said Pakistan is committed to the strategy of supporting terrorism in all its forms as terrorist launchpads continue to be operated and terrorists continue to be there on the other side of the Line of Control looking for an opportunity to cross over. Naravane exuded confidence that with continued engagement with Pakistan, there could be some sort of an understanding because "unsettled borders and violence on the borders help no one". "We are always wanting peace and tranquillity in our border areas, whether it be the western front or the northern front and the LAC (Line of Actual Control). Or whether it is on the Indo-Myanmar border, we are always looking for peace and tranquillity and our role is to ensure that so as to the rest of the nation can develop," Naravane said. The Army chief was speaking at a webinar organised by Vivekananda International Foundation. Talking about terrorism in the Valley, Naravane said the winter months are always a little bit of a lull period when the passes are closed and snowfall is heavy. He said with the waning of winter, as the passes open and the onset of summer, the Army is always prepared for a fresh influx from across the border. "But having said all that, there is definitely a great improvement in the internal security situation in the union territory of J&K. When I say that, I don't say that just based on the emotion but on various parameters you can judge the figures," Naravane said. He said the number of terrorist-initiated incidents has gone down so have the incidents of infiltration bids across the LoC. He added that there were no instance of stone pelting, no incidents of IED attacks. "These are facts and figures which speak for themselves that there has been an improvement on the ground in the J&K. However, that threat still remains a threat in being. "The Pakistan angle and the terror angle still remain a threat in being," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-security-situation-has-improved-but-pakistan-backed-terror-still-a-threat-says-indian-army-chief-m-m-naravane-954925.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Srinagar-Leh national highway to be reopened for regulated traffic from Feb 28||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday announced that the Srinagar-Leh national highway will be reopened for vehicular traffic on February 28, officials said. Kashmir Divisional Commissioner P K Pole convened a meeting to review the status of Srinagar-Sonamarg-Gumri (SSG) road scheduled to be thrown open for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. On that day, the road will be officially opened by the Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh for traffic movement, they said. Ladakh Divisional Commissioner Saugat Biswas joined the meeting through video conferencing. During the meeting, it was given out that the road stands cleared for one-way traffic but based on a weather advisory, the road shall be opened for civilian traffic from February 28, they said. It was informed during the meeting that several advisories need to be issued in view of the slippery road condition and avalanche warnings, including allowing the plying of vehicles with chains for both HMVs and LMVs and one-way traffic at Zojila pass to avoid accidents. The Kashmir divisional commissioner said both advisories shall be put in place to prevent any exigency while there shall be proper timing to allow movement of vehicles from Sonamarg and Minamarg. The cut-off time for vehicles from Sonamarg side shall be 10 am and from Minamarg, the cut-off time for vehicles has been proposed as 11 am, he added. To ensure mobile connectivity for travellers along the highway in case of any emergency, the divisional commissioner directed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to provide logistic support to BSNL and Reliance Jio networks to resume cellular connectivity. He also directed the Chief Engineer, BRO to provide different kinds of assistance including accommodation, food, petrol, etc to the travellers during emergency along the highway. The divisional commissioner directed for close coordination among the Deputy SPs and Collectors on both sides of the pass to ensure hassle-free movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagar-leh-national-highway-to-be-reopened-for-regulated-traffic-from-feb-28-954953.html
24-02-2021||North and Central||Why mention Modi's name '10 times' in Governer address? asks Kamal Nath||Taking potshots at the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh, Leader of Opposition Kamal Nath on Wednesday asked what was the fear that led to the mention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's name "10 times" in the Governors address to the Assembly. The Congress leader was speaking during a debate in the Assembly on Governor Anandiben Patels customary address on the opening day of the budget session on Monday. Nath termed the Governor's address as "visionless and directionless". The former chief minister said the Governors address mentioned the name of Modi "10 times". Nath said he doesnt think Modi needs to be "promoted" in the state Assembly. "I was wondering if I was sitting in the Lok Sabha or the Vidhan Sabha. What was the fear? The state government is run by the chief minister," said the Congress MLA, a former Member of Parliament. The Governor's address should reflect the direction and vision of the state government, but these two elements were missing from Monday's speech, Nath said. The BJP claims to be working for the welfare of farmers, but there was no mention in Patels speech about the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws, he said. Nath also sought to corner the state government on issues of unemployment and rising fuel prices. He claimed "210 farmers" have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against the agri legislations onthe borders of Delhi. Farmers will become "bonded labourers" of big corporates after the implementation of the three agri- marketing laws enacted by the Modi government in September last year, Nath said. Countering Nath, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said there was no question of agriculturists becoming bonded labourers due to the laws that seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. Chouhan said he will reply to each and every point raised by Nath. The Leader of Opposition also targeted the BJP government over the alleged existence of mafias in Madhya Pradesh. The Governors address did not mention what the BJP government is doing to bring investments in the state, said Nath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-mention-modis-name-10-times-in-governer-address-asks-kamal-nath-954957.html
24-02-2021||Opinion||The problem with China’s new coastguard law||China’s National People’s Congress Standing Committee passed a law on January 22, 2021, authorising its coastguards to open-fire on foreign vessels in the contested waters around its periphery. The law empowers its coastguards to use all necessary means to stop or prevent threats from foreign vessels and details the circumstances for using different weapons - hand-held, shipborne and airborne.  It also allows the coastguards to demolish other countries’ structures built on Chinese-claimed reefs, board and inspect foreign vessels and create temporary exclusion zones to stop other vessels from entering the Chinese-claimed waters. The Chinese coastguard enjoyed most of these provisions before the ratification of the National Coastguard Law. But this legislation provides adequate legal backing to them on how to use force, assert sovereignty and deal with the regional and extra-regional actors.  Also, these practices are not unique to the Chinese coastguard. For instance, Vietnam expanded its coastguards’ role by empowering it to open fire to “protect the sovereignty and sovereign rights in defence and security situations,' to warn ships operating “illegally” in its territorial waters.  Regional and extra-regional stakeholders have reacted to China’s new Coastguard Law. The US State Department expressed concerns over the language of the law and claimed that it could be used to intimidate China’s maritime neighbours. The Philippines’ Foreign Secretary, Teodoro Locsin Jr., tweeted that the new Chinese law “is a verbal threat of war to any country that defies” it. The Philippines has also filed diplomatic protests against China for its coastguard legislation. Japan’s Foreign Minister Motegi Toshimitsu claimed, “Japan is staying alert and paying close attention to its effect on us. I believe the law should not be used in a way that violates international law.” The 1982 United Nations Convention on Law of the Seas doesn’t contain a clear ruling on the Maritime Law Enforcement agency’s (MLE) use of force. This gap was addressed, up to an extent, in 1999 by the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) by establishing rules for the MLE’s use of force. Although ITLOS remains the primary governing principle, the states apply domestic law for policing maritime activities.  Wang Wenbin, China Foreign Ministry’s spokesperson, also highlighted this when he said that the Coastguard Law “is a normal legislative activity of the [National People’s Congress]. The relevant contents of the draft are in line with international conventions and practices of many countries. China’s policy and position on maritime issues remain unchanged.” Three ambiguities in the law But there are three ambiguities within the Chinese law that merits greater attention. One, the use of the words “waters under national jurisdiction.” The National Coastguard Law’s Article 3 applies to the coastguard’s official activities in China’s “jurisdictional waters.” The law’s previous draft defined the term as China’s “internal seas, territorial sea, contiguous zone, exclusive economic zone, continental shelf, and other waters under the People’s Republic of China’s jurisdiction.”  Furthermore, “internal seas” was also defined as the seas on the landward side of China’s maritime baselines. But these explanations were removed from the final draft, intentionally keeping it undefined.  China claims over 80 per cent of the South China Sea through its “nine-dash line”, which stretches over 2000 km from the mainland to Indonesia and Malaysia. It implies that the Chinese coastguard, which already operates in the South China Sea’s contested water, are now legally empowered to use force through firearms, shipborne and airborne weapons in this region.  Article 49 states that the officers (in charge) may use firearms directly if there is no time to issue a warning or if a warning may lead to more severe consequences. Furthermore, Article 50 requires the officers to “reasonably assess the necessity in using firearms,” according to the “nature, extent, and urgency” of the danger posed by the unlawful activities.  But, the draft version had an article that required the coastguards to shoot below the vessel’s waterline during an open fire. This provision was removed from the Coastguard Law’s final version. The Chinese coastguards can misuse Article 49 to fire without warning.  Moreover, as Southeast Asia expert Collin Koh highlights, Article 50 is open-ended and left to the coastguard’s interpretation. It increases the risk of potential abuse by on-scene coastguard commanders. The two articles combined have an escalatory potential and could impact the regional stability on China’s periphery, especially in the South China Sea. The probability for escalation of the crisis is the highest if the Chinese coastguards misuse this law in the future. These three ambiguities, together, could make China’s maritime periphery – the Yellow Sea, the East China Sea, the Taiwan Strait and the South China Sea – a more dangerous place. The new law may well become detrimental to regional security and could perhaps also impact the final phase of the South China Sea’s Code of Conduct negotiations. (Suyash Desai is a research analyst with the China Studies Programme at the Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-problem-with-china-s-new-coastguard-law-954705.html
24-02-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi slams Kerala's LDF govt over deep-sea fishing contract; says will form a ministry exclusively for fishing sector||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi ventured into the sea off the Kollam coast in south Kerala during the early hours of Wednesday, in a fishing boat along with a group of fishermen. In a surprise gesture, Rahul, who was camping in Kollam, reached the Vadi beach in Kollam during the early hours of the day and ventured into the sea in one of the fishing boats. He even dived into the sea along with fishermen to pull the net and spent some time in the sea. But with just one fish, the catch during the day was quite scanty. Rahul later said during an interaction with the fishermen that he had a first-hand feel of the hardships being faced by them and the poor returns they are getting. He asserted that he would stand with the fishermen and try to address their problems. A ministry exclusively for the fishing sector is one of his priorities, he added. Rahul also attacked the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala for the deal with a US firm for deep-sea trawler manufacturing. He also attacked the BJP government at the Centre citing the fuel price hike. He said that the increasing fuel price is also making fishermen’s life more miserable. Biju, one of the fishermen who accompanied Rahul, told a section of local media that Rahul interacted with the fishermen to know about their living conditions and also had food with them in the boat. When the fishermen dived into the sea to set the fishing net, he also dived into the sea. "But Rahul was quite upset over the poor catch during the day, which is quite normal during the current season," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-slams-keralas-ldf-govt-over-deep-sea-fishing-contract-says-will-form-a-ministry-exclusively-for-fishing-sector-954742.html
24-02-2021||South||Kerala withdraws cases related to Sabarimala, CAA stir||The Kerala government has decided to withdraw cases registered in connection with the agitations against the Sabarimala women entry issue and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. A statement from the Chief Minister's office said that cases that did not involve serious criminal charges would be withdrawn. A total of 1,573 cases were registered in the state between September 2018 and January 2019 in connection with protests against the entry of women in the age group of 10 to 50. Over 68,500 people were arraigned in these cases and 12,225 were arrested. The Opposition Congress and the BJP as well as various Hindu outfits had been demanding the withdrawal of cases registered against thousands of persons in connection with the Sabarimala women entry issue. The Congress had also demanded that the cases registered in connection with protests against CAA should be withdrawn and had announced that once they come to power, the cases would be withdrawn. Thousands of persons, including many devotees who took part in 'Nama Japa' (Chanting) demonstrations against Sabarimala women entry, were arraigned in the cases. The pendency of the cases was also causing hardships to many in getting police clearance certificates for various purposes like securing jobs. Several individuals were arraigned in more than one case. Many BJP leaders, including state President K Surendran, were arrested in connection with Sabarimala stirs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-withdraws-cases-related-to-sabarimala-caa-stir-954745.html
24-02-2021||South||President's Rule likely to be imposed in Puducherry today||President’s Rule is likely to be imposed in Puducherry today evening after the Lt Governor's recommendation.  Sources told DH that an order to this effect will be issued late Wednesday evening after the Union Cabinet's approval. The Cabinet meeting is currently under way. The V Narayanasamy-led Congress government fell on Monday after failing to prove its majority in the House, months before the union territory goes to polls. Under the President’s Rule, the Governor becomes the constitutional head of the state. The Vidhan Sabha is either dissolved or prorogued and the Election Commission is obligated to conduct re-election within six months of this imposition. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/presidents-rule-likely-to-be-imposed-in-puducherry-today-954772.html
24-02-2021||South||PM Modi, AIADMK pay tributes to Jayalalithaa on her 73rd birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid rich tributes to former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa on her 73rd birth anniversary for her services to the people. Senior ruling party leaders, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam garlanded her statue here at the party headquarters and paid floral tributes. The AIADMK marked the occasion by organising state-wide events like the distribution of welfare assistance to beneficiaries and organising medical camps. Modi tweeted, "Remembering Jayalalithaa Ji on her birth anniversary. She is widely admired for her pro-people policies and efforts to empower the downtrodden. She also made noteworthy efforts to empower our Nari Shakti. I will always cherish my several interactions with her." Confidante of late Jayalalithaa, V K Sasikala, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T T V Dhinakaran also paid floral tributes to 'Amma' here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-aiadmk-pay-tributes-to-jayalalithaa-on-her-73rd-birth-anniversary-954773.html
24-02-2021||South||PM Modi to address BJP public meeting, launch projects in Puducherry on February 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a public meeting organised by the BJP here on Thursday and also inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects for the poll-bound union territory. Puducherry BJP Chief Swaminathan told PTI that after landing at the helipad at 10.30 am, Modi would drive to JIPMER to unveil the centrally sponsored projects. He will then proceed to the venue of the public meeting. This will be Modi's second visit to the union territory during the last 3 years as he had earlier visited the Auroville International project in neighbouring Villupuram district close to Puducherry in 2018 and had also addressed then a public meeting. The PM's trip comes amid a totally changed political environment in Puducherry as V Narayanasamy who headed the Congress ministry here since 2016 had resigned along with its entire cabinet on February 22. His resignation forwarded to the Centre has since been accepted by President Ram Nath Kovind. With none of the parties in the opposition block comprising AINRC, AIADMK and BJP evincing interest to stake claim to form the ministry, there are indications that Puducherry is headed for President's rule.  The opposition has 14 members (AINRC seven, AIADMK four and three nominated members belonging to the BJP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-address-bjp-public-meeting-launch-projects-in-puducherry-on-february-25-954783.html
24-02-2021||South||14-year-old student drugged, raped by seven in Malappuram||A teenage student has allegedly been raped by seven people after befriending her through Instagram in the district, police said on Wednesday. Two of the accused allegedly gave her narcotics like ganja to the 14-year-old victim before sexually assaulting her, the police said. While the two accused have been arrested, investigation is on to trace other culprits, they said. The assault came to light after the girl, staying with her mother, brother and grandparents, told about the abuse to one of her relatives 10 days ago, the police said. Her father is working abroad. A case was registered on February 17 following the information provided by the district Childline, they said. According to the police, the girl had been using instagram in her mother's phone for the last eight months. The accused, who were not inter-connected, were her instagram friends, the police said. They belong to the age group of 19-24, they said. The accused have been charged under IPC Section 376 (punishment for rape) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Two accused, who abused the girl after giving her drugs, have also been booked under the Juvenile Justice Act 77 (Penalty for giving intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug or psychotropic substance to a child).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-year-old-student-drugged-raped-by-seven-in-malappuram-954835.html
24-02-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi assures inclusion of fishermen's demands in Congress manifesto for Kerala polls||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday sought to reach out to fishermen in poll-bound Kerala, assuring them his party would include their needs in its election manifesto as he sailed with a group of fishers and expressed admiration for their work in sea braving odds. During an emotional interaction with thousands of fisherfolk, including women, at Thangassery beach in this southern coastal district, he also lashed out at the LDF government over the controversial pact for building trawlers, claiming it might affect the livelihood of fishermen. "I understand and respect what you do. I admire what you are doing. Many times, we eat the fish but we will not understand the hard work behind and how it reached our plate," the Congress MP representing Wayanad in the state said. He ventured into the sea with some fishermen in their boat from Vadi beach here around 4.30 am and spent nearly an hour with them before reaching the venue of interaction. Gandhi also cast the net with them but could only catch one squid. Clad in blue t-shirt and khaki trousers, the Congress leader could be seen waving hands to the onlookers from the boat while reaching back to the shores. He told the fishermen that his party was consulting with various sections of society in order to prepare the election manifesto for the assembly polls, likely in April-May, and that their demands would be included and fulfilled. Gandhi, who wound up his two-day tour of the state after the interaction, recalled he had pointed out in the Congress- led UDF meeting held here on Tuesday that the front should have a dedicated fishermen manifesto. "So I would like the fishermen of Kerala and the Congress party and the UDF to have a conversation in the next two-three weeks and decide what they want in the manifesto," he said. Gandhi, who last week interacted with fishermen in Puducherry, reiterated his claim that there was no 'dedicated' ministry for them. Comparing the fishermen with farmers, he said "like farmers farm the land, you farm the sea... farmers have their ministry in Delhi but you don't have a ministry in Delhi. "No one speaks for you in Delhi. So the first thing I would like to do is to have a ministry dedicated to the fishermen of our country. So that your issues can be defended and protected in this country," he said. After similar remarks at Puducherry, BJP leaders, including Union ministers, had taken a swipe at Gandhi, saying such a ministry already exists and accused him of practising politics of 'lies'. Referring to the agreement signed by a state-owned corporation and a US firm for alleged deep sea fishing, the former Congress president said he would like to see what they were going to do with the trawlers. "I would certainly look intowhat the Kerala government is doing with regard to the trawlers they are building. I don't like an unfair situation. I am for competition but not unfair competition. There should be a level playing field for everybody," he said. The UDF has raised charges, including corruption, against the Left front government over the alleged deep sea fishing contract with US-based EMCC International. In the wake of the controversy, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had directed the officials concerned to cancel the MoU between EMCC and Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) and probe the circumstances under which it was signed. He reiterated his party's promise of Nyay Yojana, included in the draft manifesto released by the UDF last month, and said it would guaranteeevery poor person Rs 72,000 a year in their bank account. "In our manifesto, we are developing a version of Nyay. ...Every single poor person in Kerala will get the money in the bank account. That would make their lives easier and help them to educate their children," he added. Talking about his boat ride, Gandhi, who addressed the fishermen as "brothers' throughout the interaction, said he wanted to get a sense of what many of them go through every day. "I went to sea early in the morning with my brothers. From the moment the boat left the shore and till the moment it reached back the shore, every force was trying to fight my brothers," he said. Sharing his experience of sailing with the fishermen, Gandhi said they take the entire risk. "They put their entire labour and fight the sea. They buy the net and somebody else gets the profit," he said. They threw the net and pulled it back out and there was one squid in it, he said. "So the whole investment that was put into the boat, into the journey, the petrol within one minute, we saw there was no return. In my mind, I was expecting a net full of fish and the net came back empty. So I saw with my own eyes, your experience," Gandhi added. Highlighting hardships of fishermen, he said petrol and diesel prices go up every single day and the fishing community cannot buy an engine beyond a certain size. Gandhi continued his attack on the central government over the rise in fuel prices and alleged money from the people were being given to "two or three businessmen". "Today the petrol price internationally is dropping. But in India the petrol and diesel price is rising. This money is being taken from your pockets and given to two or three businessmen in India.I would like to make sure that more of this money comes into your pocket," he said. The Congress MP said the fishermen also told him that they did not have any insurance. "I have a sense of what you deal with. And now, when a fisherman comes to me to tell that they are struggling, I understand a little bit what they are going through...," Gandhi told the gathering. "They cooked some fish on the boat. For the first time I realised, directly with my own eyes the difficulty to get the fish on the plate," he said amidst thunderous applause. Noting that he wanted to work with them to make their life easier, the Congress leader also said he might not be able to resolve all their problems but can certainly address as many as he can.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-assures-inclusion-of-fishermens-demands-in-congress-manifesto-for-kerala-polls-954852.html
24-02-2021||South||Panel constituted to investigate sexual harassment charges against Special DGP in TN||Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday instituted a six-member enquiry committee to probe allegations of sexual harassment against a senior police officer in the rank of Special Director General of Police (DGP) by a woman IPS officer. The officer Rajesh Das, Special DGP (Law and Order), was also placed under compulsory wait at the office of DGP. The panel was formed after the woman officer in a complaint to Director General of Police J K Tripathy and Home Secretary S K Prabhakar alleged that Rajesh Das, Special DGP (Law and Order) misbehaved with her while they were travelling together in a car during Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami's visit to a central part of the state a couple of days back. Sources said the woman officer in her complaint said that Das, who was on a visit to her current workplace, alleged that he inappropriately behaved with her when they were travelling in the same car. The woman officer, sources added, went ahead reporting the incident despite pressure from her colleagues not to persist with the complaint. She is also understood to have de-boarded the car midway after the officer misbehaved with her. The enquiry committee was formed after the complaint by the IPS officer led to a political uproar with the DMK leading the pack in accusing the AIADMK government of trying to “protect” the male officer, who is considered close to the top brass of the dispensation. DMK President M K Stalin, and party MPs Kanimozhi, and Tamizhachi Thangapandian took to Twitter seeking to how a government that cannot protect its own women officers and protect women. While accusing the AIADMK government of “covering up” allegations of sexual harassment against IG S Murugan, Stalin demanded that Das be suspended from his post and a criminal case be filed against him. “The protector also needs protection during ADMK rule. When a woman IPS officer is sexually harassed by a higher-ranked officer and the CM takes no notice of it, what hope do 'ordinary' women have in this regime?” Kanimozhi asked. The six-member committee will be headed by seasoned bureaucrat Jayashree Raghunandan, and will consist of two more women and three male officers. A notification issued by Prabhakar on Wednesday afternoon said the committee will enquire allegations of sexual harassment against Das. “The Committee shall take necessary further course of action as per the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (Central Act 14 to 2013) on the said complaint,” the order read. Hours later, the government said Das has been placed on the waiting list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/panel-constituted-to-investigate-sexual-harassment-charges-against-special-dgp-in-tn-954905.html
24-02-2021||South||Kerala govt scraps second deep-sea trawling deal with US firm||Succumbing to political pressure and protests, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala has decided to scrap a second deal with a US firm related to deep-sea trawling. The government initially scrapped a Rs 2,950 crore MoU between EMCC International India, a subsidiary of US-based EMCC Global Consortium, and the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC), for building 400 trawlers. However, another MoU for Rs 5,000 crore investment in research and development in the field of deep-sea fishing and allocation of four-acre land to the firm were not scrapped. As the Opposition parties, mainly the Congress-led UDF, was stepping up attack against the government over the issue, the Pinarayi Vijayan government decided to scrap the second deal also. Even the Latin Catholic Church that represents a major chunk of the fishermen community had openly expressed resentment over the deal. Apart from the interaction by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi with the fishermen, the Congress is also initiating a series of protests including marches across the coastal areas of Kerala. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is also staging a sit-in in the coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday demanding a judicial probe into the entire row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-scraps-second-deep-sea-trawling-deal-with-us-firm-954924.html
24-02-2021||South||Jayalalithaa's true loyalists should unite to bring back AIADMK govt: Sasikala||V K Sasikala on Wednesday took yet another step towards claiming the legacy of her friend and former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa by appealing to the “true loyalists” of the late leader to “unite” to ensure that the AIADMK government is voted back to power in the upcoming assembly elections. In her first public appearance after she returned to Tamil Nadu on February 9 from Karnataka, Sasikala paid floral tributes to the portrait of Jayalalithaa on her 73rd birth anniversary and announced that she will soon meet cadres and the public. In a brief televised address, Sasikala, who was removed as interim general secretary of the AIADMK by its current leadership, recalled Jayalalithaa's statement that the AIADMK would continue to rule Tamil Nadu for over a hundred years even after her lifetime. “True loyalists of Amma (Jayalalithaa) should unite and face the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Our goal, as Amma said, is to ensure that the AIADMK rules the state for 100 years. Keeping this in mind, we should work towards bringing back the government to power. I will extend my support,” Sasikala, who was flanked by her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, said. By asking “true loyalists” of Jayalalithaa to “unite”, Sasikala has not just staked claim to the legacy of her late friend and asserted her authority but also sent a signal to the current AIADMK leadership to make peace with her. Later, a statement issued by her “camp office” had the AIADMK flag and mentioned Sasikala's designation as general secretary of the party. The close confidante of Jayalalithaa also met actor-politician Sarath Kumar, Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) Chief Seeman, and ace director Bharathiraaja on Wednesday. However, the AIADMK said the message to unite was only for the cadres of the AMMK and not for its partymen. The party also put up a united face with Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam cutting a cake on the occasion of Jayalalithaa's birthday and paying tributes at her memorial, which is closed for the public. In the evening, leaders lit lamps at their house and took a pledge to “protect” the party. “Sasikala is not just claiming the legacy of Jayalalithaa but also sending across the message that she is of a different quotient from EPS and OPS. She thinks they are not on par with her. She is negating the duo's influence in the party and is projecting her as the person who can unite the AIADMK,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, told DH. Sasikala's statement is significant as it comes just weeks before the Election Commission of India (ECI) is set to announce the schedule for the Assembly polls. The AIADMK has not yet finalised its alliance partners as it is under pressure from the BJP to include the AMMK in the combine to prevent a split of anti-DMK votes. However, the AIADMK leadership is not too keen on the idea. Sasikala, who has revived a case challenging her removal as interim general secretary by the AIADMK General Council, is battling to “reclaim” her authority over the party and its current leadership. Both EPS and OPS, who had worked under Sasikala not just when Jayalalithaa but even after her death, are now opposed to her entry into the AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jayalalithaas-true-loyalists-should-unite-to-bring-back-aiadmk-govt-sasikala-954930.html
24-02-2021||South||Hyderabad student who misled family, police with false story of rape ends life||A 19-year-old pharmacy student, who had earlier this month misled the Hyderabad Police claiming that she was abducted, assaulted and raped while returning from college, ended her life on Wednesday by consuming sleeping tablets. On February 10 evening, the girl called her mother and told her that the driver of the auto she was travelling in was moving past her stop at a high speed, despite her pleas. The police immediately swung into action after receiving a complaint from her mother. After managing to talk to her and receiving her location on their phone, the police traced her to an isolated location in Annojiguda on Hyderabad outskirts, in a partially undressed manner. The woman, said to be in trauma at that time, was admitted to a hospital for treatment. However, the investigation by the Rachakonda Police Commissionerate based on CCTV footage and questioning of the auto driver revealed that the woman had cooked up a story. When confronted with the evidence, the girl, police said, confessed to making up the rape version as she wanted to leave her home because of some family issues. But due to the police involvement, she panicked and narrated a fake story. The girl, from the Ghatkesar area near Hyderabad, was reportedly staying at her relative's house since the episode that scared the locals. The pharmacy student was declared dead by the doctors of a local government hospital where she was rushed for treatment on Wednesday morning. Police are probing the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-student-who-misled-family-police-with-false-story-of-rape-ends-life-954944.html
24-02-2021||South||Kerala creates over 400 government jobs||As the protest by job aspirants snowballed into a major row in Kerala, the state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to create 400 new posts in the government sector. The Cabinet also decided to give government jobs to 82 medal winners of the National Games who were on an indefinite protest in front of the government secretariat over the last 45 days. The decisions came at a time when the Opposition Congress-led UDF was making the protest by job aspirants a major political issue. Even Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called on the protesting job aspirants on Tuesday. The protest by those who cleared the Kerala Public Service Commission's recruitment tests was continuing as any decision on extending the term of the list was still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-creates-over-400-government-jobs-954949.html
24-02-2021||State||KSRP scripts history in promoting women constables||Scripting a new chapter in the history of Karnataka Police, as many as 72 women constables were promoted to the rank of ‘head constables’ on Tuesday. Interestingly, this is for the first time in the history of Karnataka police that a constable has been promoted after completing three years and four months of service According to Alok Kumar, Additional Director General of Police, KSRP, this is for the first time in the police department that a constable has been promoted to a higher rank after completing three years and four months of service. Manjula Hunagundi, a KSRP constable, was promoted as head constable after a ‘brief stint’ as constable. Alok Kumar decorated the constable with Chevron on her uniform at an in-house function in KSRP. On the other hand, Ranjitha and H R Anitha, constables in the 4th battalion of KSRP, were promoted to the rank of head constable after a prolonged service of 24 years. Further, a total of 11 constables with more than three-and-a-half years and another 34 constables with five- plus years of service were also promoted to the higher rank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrp-scripts-history-in-promoting-women-constables-954623.html
24-02-2021||State||Minister Suresh Kumar calls schools for another round of talks||As the row over the order of 30% cut in school tuition fee led to massive protests, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Tuesday invited private school managements and parents for another round of talks. He was addressing the protesting teachers, non-teaching staff and private school management representatives at Freedom Park.  “We had given time for private school managements and parents’ organisations to discuss the fee issue and come to the conclusion. But as they failed to come to any decision, the department of public instruction had to hear both of them and submit the report to the government, based on which the order on fee cut was issued,” Suresh Kumar explained. The minister said that the government would protect the interest of both parents and private school managements while taking decisions and the issue be sorted out without causing trouble to anyone, the minister added. However, justifying his efforts to convince the chief minister and finance department officials to release a financial package for teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic, the minister said, “I had discussed with everyone concerned over a financial package for teachers and support staff at private schools, but it did not work. I will again discuss it with the chief minister today.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-suresh-kumar-calls-schools-for-another-round-of-talks-954624.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Disha Ravi's mother elated, thanks supporters after bail is granted||Going through intense stress and anxiety for over 10 days, the family of climate activist Disha Ravi said it was relieved by the Delhi court's decision to grant her bail. Expressing joy over the court’s order, Disha’s mother Manjula Nanjaiah thanked all the supporters who stood by her daughter in the hour of distress. Manjula, unable to hold back tears, spoke to media persons at her home in Abbigere in Bengaluru and reposed faith and trust in the country’s judiciary. "I am relieved and very happy. I believe in India’s legal system. There is value to the truth in India. I don’t know how to say thanks to all the people who supported Disha and came out for her,” Manjula said. However, the family refused to share any more details about their daughter’s release and arrival in Bengaluru. Speaking to DH, Prasanna, one of Disha’s advocates in Bengaluru said that Disha’s aunt has gone to New Delhi to receive her. “We are yet to chalk out plans about the future and will discuss with the family,” he said. Meanwhile, activists and civil rights group volunteers are happy over the Delhi court's order on Disha's bail plea.    Kishan, a volunteer with All India Students Association (AISA) said, "It (the bail) was a step that had to be taken regardless. We will not stop at this but await what happens next as we had fundamentally challenged the arrest itself." Leo Saldanha of ESG said, "Perhaps, the bail order is the best development of the day. The language used by the judge to explain the importance of the right to freedom of expression is heartwarming. The way in which the judge said that this right is not specific to one country, but is a universal right is something incredible."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/disha-ravis-mother-elated-thanks-supporters-after-bail-is-granted-954625.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Increase forest cover to 33%: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa tells Forest Department||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday told the Forest Department to strive to increase the forest cover from 22% of the total area of the state to the ideal target of 33% and urged the officials to develop harmony with tribal communities and farmers. "I have been made aware of several financial issues. The government will make an honest effort to address any requirement with regard to funds. You have the big responsibility of conservation and we are with you," he said. Stressing the importance of Western Ghats for Karnataka, he said 51 personnel from the department have lost life while on duty. “You have the responsibility of protecting the nation’s wealth. I request you to develop harmony with farmers and tribal communities. Without their cooperation, we can’t take up conservation work,” he said. A retired PCCF said this was the first time in 35 years that a sitting chief minister had come to Aranya Bhavan and addressed the officers of the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/increase-forest-cover-to-33-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-tells-forest-department-954808.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chikkaballapur quarry blast: 5 held, 2 cops suspended||Five persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the blast at a quarry in Hirenagaveli near Gudibande in Karnataka's Chikkaballapur district.  The horrific blast that occurred during a bid to hide explosives from the authorities claimed six lives on Monday night. Raghavendra Reddy, one of the two partners of the quarry, and employees Venkatashiva Reddy, Praveen, the driver of the Tata Ace used to hide explosives, Mohammed Riyaz Ansari and Madhusudan Reddy were arrested by the police. Raghavendra Reddy was arrested from Gorantla in the Ananthpur district of Andhra Pradesh. GS Nagaraj, another partner of the quarry and accused number one in the case, is still on the run. Two police officers were also suspended by the district administration for dereliction of duty, according to GK Mithun Kumar, Superintendent of Police, Chikkaballapur. "A complaint was filed against owners of Bhramaravasini Sanders for illegal blasting and storage of explosives. Since the police officials failed to arrest the accused despite complaints, they were suspended," he said. Six people, including a citizen of Nepal, lost their lives while attempting to cart away explosives hidden around the crusher, hours after a raid by authorities at the facility on February 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-5-held-2-cops-suspended-954836.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa calls on public representatives to introspect||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said democracy can be successful only if public welfare is the primary goal of every elected representative, as he called on them to introspect. "Both the ruling party and opposition have to work with caution so that no untoward incidents happen in the legislative assembly and the council, but as public representatives, we have to question ourselves whether we are following it, we have to introspect," Yediyurappa said. "Our conduct should be such that it shows the path for the future generations, if we are always conscious about this, mistakes won't happen," he said adding successful implementation of democracy is possible with good traditions and practices. The CM was speaking at a meeting on the topic "An introspection-preventing the decline of parliamentary values", organised by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, Karnataka Branch, here. Noting that in today's juncture the social values are deteriorating, he said, "If the last person in the society has to get the government facilities, public representatives have to look at everyone equally." An inclusive society is possible only when the common good is seen above individual interests. Karnataka Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah were among others present at the event. Public expect their representatives to be the voice of those who are exploited and downtrodden, and the bearers of the values enshrined in our constitution, Yediyurappa said. "Democracy can be successful, only if public welfare is the primary goal of every elected representative," he observed. "Before independence, our political stalwarts were such that they used to think that their existence was for the sake of the country, it is unfortunate that post-independence political stalwarts started thinking that the country is there for them, as a result we have reached this sorry state," he said. Protecting the dignity of the house (assembly/council) is the duty of every public representative, the Chief Minister said as he spoke about strengthening the democracy and responding to the needs of the people, by ensuring a pro-people administration with the help of powers wested constitutionally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-calls-on-public-representatives-to-introspect-954853.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Insurance companies to disburse crop damage claim amount by next month: B C Patil||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Wednesday said crop insurance companies have assured that they would start disbursing insurance claims made by farmers for loss of crop during Kharif season by the end of next month. The government has already met with representatives of insurance companies on the pending disbursement of claims for crop loss in the previous Kharif season. Insurance companies have assured that they will settle the claim amount by the end of next month, Patil told reporters. Despite natural disasters, the state produced a record 140 lakh tonnes of food grains in the previous Kharif season, he said. At present, 52% of posts are vacant in the state agriculture department. The department has been hiring some staff on a contract basis. State bags award: Earlier, Patil received a top performer award in the highest percentage of Aadhar authenticated beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme). Karnataka emerged on top among states with 97% PM-KISAN beneficiaries authenticating with Aadhaar. More than 90% of beneficiaries in Karnataka are being paid benefits via Aadhar based payment mode which is the highest in the country. The Union Ministry of Agriculture instituted the award to encourage states to link details of beneficiaries with Aadhaar number to ensure seamless payment under PM-KISAN. B C Patil received the award from Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an event held in New Delhi. The PM-KISAN Scheme was launched by the Centre on February 24, 2019, to provide income support to all landholding small and marginal farmers’ families across the country. Under the scheme, Rs 6,000 will be provided in a year to farmers’ families having cultivable land holding up to 2 hectares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/insurance-companies-to-disburse-crop-damage-claim-amount-by-next-month-b-c-patil-954937.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Darshan apologises, Jaggesh decides to end controversy||The controversy involving senior actor Jaggesh and ‘Challenging Star’ Darshan seemed to have settled on Wednesday with Darshan tendering an apology “on behalf of his fans and celebrities” and Jaggesh “putting an end to everything in the interest of the Kannada film industry.” “I don’t know what happened. Jaggesh is a senior actor and a bigger man. If he has been hurt or insulted by me or my fans, I will tender an apology. I did try to teach out to him for an apology after my fans targeted him,” Darshan said in Bengaluru. “I don’t know who created the controversy, why was it created and why was it spread,” he said. Meanwhile, Jaggesh, currently shooting for his latest film Totapuri at Attahalli near Bannur in T Narasipur in Mysuru district said that he would put an end to everything in the interest of welfare of the Kannada film industry. “I adore Darshan now and in future.” “A conspiracy was hatched to accost me in Ramanagar and create ruckus. There was a plot to block Bengaluru-Mysuru highway and exhibit ‘their’ power across the state,” he said. Jaggesh claimed that he stood by Darshan whenever the latter landed in trouble. An audio clip that reportedly had Jaggesh’s voice had gone viral on social media. The person in the clipping was heard making certain remarks against Darshan and his fans. Jaggesh had clarified that he spoke about a web designer named Darshan, but not the ‘Challenging Star.’ Darshan’s fans were enraged by the content of the clip and stormed the sets of Jaggesh’s film Totapuri on February 22. Jaggesh was forced to tender an apology. Some of them videographed the incident on their mobile phones and uploaded it on social media. As Jaggesh took to Twitter expressing his anger over the incident, his fans in Bengaluru flocked to the office of the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce and demanded action against those who misbehaved with him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/darshan-apologises-jaggesh-decides-to-end-controversy-954974.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||A month on, no breakthrough in Shivamogga blast case||More than a month after a blast at quarrying site claimed six lives in Hunasodu near Shivamogga, the authorities concerned are yet to act on the errant officials. Two officials had been suspected in connection with an identical incident at Chikkaballapur on Tuesday. While the police claim that they have been probing the case from various angles, action has not been initiated against anyone till now. The prolonged probe has led to suspicion among people that the government was trying to shield culprits involved in the incident. A prominent leader of BJP told DH on the condition of anonymity that the government was protecting the culprits as a majority of those involved in illegal stone mining activities belong to the ruling party. He said there is an association of illegal stone quarry owners led by a BJP leader in the district. So, the police are unlikely to initiate action against them. The district administration has suspended crusher units after the incident. But it did not initiate action against those operating them. Tunganagar police sub-inspector had seized a huge quantity of explosives in August last year. But the officer did not register a cse against the persons involved.  “I wrote to the Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking action against a police officer. But it did not happen,” the BJP leader said.  Meanwhile, KPCC spokesperson Kimmane Ratnakar has demanded the government to order a judicial inquiry into the incident to bring the culprits to justice. Speaking to DH, he said the government was protecting the people responsible for the incident as licensed contractors are either the close aides of the legislators or ministers of the ruling party. “Many times, they do Benami transactions of mining activities. Neither the deputy commissioner nor the SP will bring out the truth. So, the government must appoint a probe panel headed by a sitting high court judge at the earliest and uncover the dark side of mining activities in the district,” he urged.  Meanwhile, the police team, probing the case, has discovered that not just two vehicles but five, including a bike, were burnt in the incident. The officials of the regional transport authority, who visited the blast site, gathered spare parts of the vehicles. The chassis numbers of vehicles had too had been found out.  This has led to suspicion that the death toll in the incident might have increased. So, far, the police have claimed that six persons were killed in the incident. Eight persons have been arrested so far.  Speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said the probe into the incident was in progress and a report would be submitted to the government soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-month-on-no-breakthrough-in-shivamogga-blast-case-954975.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Forest minister appeals to CM B S Yediyurappa to end mining in forest areas||Coming under attack from politicians and people alike, the Forest Department on Wednesday flagged several issues to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, with regard to illegal mining, rising man-animal conflict and delay in release of funds. The chief minister held a meeting with the heads of the department, where officials from all the 13 circles were present, to understand various issues.  Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali said rampant illegal mining in the forest areas was been leading to high numbers of man-animal conflict and sought the chief minister’s intervention to put an end to mining in forest areas. “Mining in forest areas should be stopped or permits should be given with strict conditions to ensure the wildlife is not disturbed,” he said. Limbavali said that the delay in releasing the compensation for loss of crop or life had added to the problem. “We are getting funds once in three months. We request prior sanction of funds which will not be used for any other purpose except for paying compensation. In some cases, the delay is causing emotional issues where villagers sit on a dharna with the body of the victims,” he said. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Vijaykumar Gogi briefed the meeting on the measures taken up by the department and the achievements made in forest and wildlife conservation over the last few years. He raised the long-pending issue of the wage revision of frontier staff, who have been demanding a hike from the last three years. “We have raised the qualifications for hiring the deputy range forest officers. The minimum qualification was raised from pre-university certificate to degree. But the salary has remained the same,” he said. Gogi said the department believes that erecting a railway barricade of 500 km can put an effective check on the elephant menace. The present barricade of 175 km has played a major role in controlling the number of elephant conflicts. “Till then, we are dependent on trenches and solar fences,” he said. Limbavali, who spoke later, told the chief minister that he will take a delegation to New Delhi to request release of CAMPA (compensatory afforestation) funds for erecting railway barricades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/forest-minister-appeals-to-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-end-mining-in-forest-areas-954976.html
24-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fee cut: School managements move Karnataka HC||The High Court on Wednesday ordered notice to the state government on a batch of petitions filed by the associations of private schools. The petitions challenge the state government circulars on fee reduction and also regarding the display of fee structure, submission of audit reports and infrastructure. The petition filed by the Karnataka State Minorities Educational Institutions Managements Federation has challenged the circulars regarding collection of only 70% of the fees and the circular mandating display of fee structure and submission of audit report. The petition filed by the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), along with some schools, challenged the circular on fee reduction and the circular on the infrastructure. The circular on the infrastructure stipulates installation of an overhead tank with a high capacity pump of 10,000 litres’ capacity, adequate space around the campus for fire safety and regarding obtaining no objection certificate from the Fire department, renewable once in every five years. Justice R Devdas ordered notice to the state government and also directed to file a statement of objections. The petitions contended that the January 29, 2021 circular on collection of only 70% of the fees, collected in 2019-20 (without any other changes), affects their rights. This is more so in the case of minority educational institutions. The minority educational institutions enjoy protection under Article 30 of the constitution, the petition said. The petitioners said when calculated, the reduction of fees would amount to nearly 50% as there are no admission fees and other charges for the academic year 2020-21. The petition said the schools are spending more on conducting online classes, which requires additional infrastructure. On the issue of circular pertaining to infrastructure, dated November 20, 2020, the petition stated that most of the schools are budget schools and cannot afford to run from pillar to post for obtaining certificates from the Fire department. The school managements are facing financial crunch due to Covid-19 and since many parents have not made the payment of fees, the circular will further burden the schools, the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fee-cut-school-managements-move-karnataka-hc-954985.html
24-02-2021||West||Funds sanctioned for Babasaheb Ambedkar, Balasaheb Thackeray memorials||Giving a major push to grand memorials in honour of Babasaheb Ambedkar and Balasaheb Thackeray, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has sanctioned Rs 360 crore for the two ambitious projects. While Rs 260 crore has sanctioned for the memorial project in honour of Babasaheb Ambedkar, the chief architect of India’s Constitution, at the now-defunct Indu Mill, Rs 100 crore was sanctioned for the memorial of Balasaheb Thackeray, the late Shiv Sena founder and charismatic leader, at the erstwhile Mayor’s bungalow at Shivaji Park. Both the projects are located in the Dadar area of Mumbai. The funds were sanctioned at the meeting of MMRDA presided over by its Chairman and state’s Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde. To enable the project involving the memorial of Dr Ambedkar, the documents related to the transfer of 12-acre land owned by the National Textile Corporation (NTC) has been handed over to the Maharashtra government. The Indu Mill is close to Chaityabhoomi, where the last rites of Dr Ambedkar were held. The project will have a 350-feet high bronze-cladded statue, accessed by a circular ramp, with a dome in ‘Buddhist Architecture' style as the pedestal. There would be a large meditation centre, exhibition halls, Parikrama-path connected to Chaityaboomi, conference halls, and so on. The total cost of the project is expected to be over Rs 600 crore. The Balasaheb Thackeray Memorial Public Trust will undertake the memorial project in honour of the leader at the sea-facing bungalow. It may be recalled, a few years ago, the Mayor’s official residence was shifted to the heritage bungalow at the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan-Zoo at Byculla by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/funds-sanctioned-for-babasaheb-ambedkar-balasaheb-thackeray-memorials-954723.html
24-02-2021||West||Palghar lynching case: SC asks Maharashtra Police to place fresh charge sheet on record||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Maharashtra Police to place on record the second supplementary charge sheet filed in the case related to the alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Palghar district in April last year. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy was informed by the counsel for the Maharashtra government that a second supplementary charge sheet has been filed in the case. The bench said the fresh charge sheet shall be placed before it on record in two weeks and posted the matter for further hearing thereafter. On September 7 last year, Maharashtra Police had informed the top court that it has punished "delinquent" policemen for dereliction of duty in the case. The top court on August 6 last year had asked Maharashtra Police to apprise it of the inquiry and action taken against the errant police personnel in the case. Maharashtra Police had said that as many as 18 delinquent police personnel have been awarded varying punishments and some of them have been dismissed from service and some of them have been compulsorily retired. Some delinquent cops have been punished with salary cuts also, it had said, adding that the state's criminal investigation department has so far filed two charge sheets in the alleged lynching case. On June 11 last year, the top court had sought a response from the state government on two petitions seeking a separate probe by the CBI and the NIA into the alleged lynching. The bench was hearing petitions including the one filed by sadhus of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' and relatives of the deceased seers. Their plea alleged the investigation by the state police was being conducted in a biased manner. The other plea, seeking an NIA probe into the incident, has been filed by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay. Besides the Maharashtra government, one of the petitions has arrayed the Centre, CBI and the director-general of police of Maharashtra as respondents in the matter. The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral in Surat in Gujarat amid the COVID-19-induced nationwide lockdown when their vehicle was stopped and they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 last year in the presence of police. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, who was driving the vehicle. While hearing a separate plea seeking a CBI probe in the case, the top court had on May 1 directed the Maharashtra government to submit a status report on the investigation in the matter. The plea filed by 'sadhus' of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' has sought transfer of the probe to the CBI, claiming that there is "reasonable apprehension of bias" if Maharashtra Police proceeds with the investigation. "Several video clippings have emerged on social media and news reports which very clearly demonstrate the active involvement of the police present, who can be seen handing over the three persons to the unlawful assembly of persons gathered," the plea has claimed. The police have arrested over 100 people in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-case-sc-asks-maharashtra-police-to-place-fresh-charge-sheet-on-record-954765.html
24-02-2021||West||Metallic pin removed from child’s lung after 2 years at Mumbai hospital||A team of doctors from Zen Multispeciality Hospital in Mumbai gave a new lease of life to a 10-year-old girl who had accidentally swallowed a large metallic pin with a sharp end two years ago. A team, led by ENT doctors Dr Kshitij Shah and Dr Shalaka Dighe, supported by paediatric pulmonologist Dr Sagar Warankar and an anaesthesia team led by Dr Pramod Kale performed a successful surgery at the hospital. The patient recovered and was discharged within 48 hours. The 10-year-old girl from Mumbai accidentally swallowed the metallic pin. An x-ray of the abdomen was done and it failed to reveal the foreign body and everybody eventually forgot about the incident. Her life was smooth until she started complaining of dry cough after 1.5 years. The patient visited Zen Multispeciality Hospital for further investigation. “To our utter surprise, an x-ray of the chest revealed a metallic foreign body in the lower airway on the left side. A CT scan of the chest was done to precisely locate the foreign body. After an initial attempt at removal of the foreign body by flexible bronchoscopy, a decision was made to perform a rigid bronchoscopy,” said Dr Shah. Dr Dighe said rigid bronchoscopy is a procedure done to gain access to the patient's airway using a hollow metallic tube under general anaesthesia. The foreign body was successfully removed without any complications and without an external scar on the body after an hour-long surgery. “The child was hale and hearty a couple of hours after surgery. Failure to remove the foreign body via bronchoscopy would mean a very morbid open surgery (thoracotomy) to remove it.” “For over 1.5 years, the girl was fine and did not encounter any problems. But suddenly she started coughing. We panicked, feared that she had coronavirus and took her to Zen Hospital. We are thankful to Zen Hospital for promptly treating our child and urge other parents like us to keep away sharp or metallic objects like pins or coins from their children,” said her father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/metallic-pin-removed-from-child-s-lung-after-2-years-at-mumbai-hospital-954768.html
24-02-2021||West||Covid-19: Hotels, eateries to stay shut in Nagpur on weekends||Considering the recent rise in Covid-19 cases, the civic body in Maharashtra's Nagpur city on Wednesday directed that restaurants, hotels and eateries will remain closed on weekends till further orders, an official said. This comes after the district administration on Monday ordered the shutting of schools and colleges till March 7. In a revised order, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has informed that restaurants, hotels and eateries along with shops will remain closed on weekends till further orders, the official said. However, kitchens of hotels, restaurants and eateries can continue to function for online food delivery, he said. The order further stated that swimming pools and libraries will also remain closed till March 7, the official said. Following a review meeting, Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut had informed that the administration has decided to close schools, colleges and coaching classes till March 7. All major markets in the district will also remain shut on weekends, it was stated. Nagpur has recorded 1,44,534 Covid-19 cases, including 4,291 casualties and 1,33,775 recoveries. As on Tuesday, the district had 6,468 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-hotels-eateries-to-stay-shut-in-nagpur-on-weekends-954826.html
24-02-2021||West||Woman spends night besides son's body thinking he is alive||A 70-year-old woman spent an entire night besides her son's body and tended to his wounds, believing he is alive after he got injured fatally during a fall at home in Mumbai, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place in the wee hours of Monday when the 42-year-old victim, who was in an inebriated state, fell in the bathroom at their home in Kalina area. The man, who hailed from Meghalaya, received fatal head injuries, a police official said. After some time, when the woman saw him lying there motionless, she dragged him out of the bathroom and laid him next to her elder son, who is also bed-ridden, he said. Believing him to be alive, she applied turmeric powder on the victim's injuries. Next morning, when he did not wake up, the woman informed her relatives who rushed to her house. The family members alerted the police who reached the spot and took the victim to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead, the official said. The victim had been out of work following the coronavirus-induced lockdown and the family was facing a monetary crunch, he added. "On the basis of primary information, we have registered an accidental death report and an investigation is underway into the case," Assistant Commissioner of Police, Vakola Division, Avinash Dharmadhikari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-spends-night-besides-sons-body-thinking-he-is-alive-954830.html
24-02-2021||West||Stones pelted at Dalit man's wedding party in Gujarat; FIR against 9||A group of persons allegedly pelted stones at the wedding procession of a Dalit man in Gujarat's Aravalli district while objecting to a traditional headgear worn by some of his relatives and the use of a DJ music system, an official said on Wednesday. The incident took place when the procession was heading for the marriage in Linch village near Bayad town on Tuesday evening, following which an FIR was registered against nine men of the Rajput community, inspector R M Damor from Ambaliyara police station said. Some people from Linch allegedly threw stones at the marriage procession when it entered the village, the official said quoting a complaint lodged by a cousin of the bride. "The accused objected to Dalit men and women in the procession wearing 'safa' (traditional headgear). They allegedly threw stones at the procession and also hurled casteist slurs," the official said. When the complainant and other family members tried to reason with the accused and urged them to stop the stone pelting, one of the accused allegedly assaulted a relative of the bride, as per the FIR. "The accused also allegedly warned the groom's family and others to refrain from wearing the traditional headgear and playing music on DJ system during the wedding. They also gave death threats to the complainant and his family members," Damor said. A case has been registered against nine persons on charges of rioting, assault, criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act), he said. No arrest has been made so far, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stones-pelted-at-dalit-mans-wedding-party-in-gujarat-fir-against-9-954859.html
24-02-2021||West||Congress leaders seek probe of MP Delkar's death||Congress leaders in Maharashtra on Wednesday approached state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and demanded probe into the BJP's alleged "role" in the death of Dadra Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar. The state BJP trashed the allegations. The body of Delkar (58), independent MP from the Union Territory, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his hotel room in south Mumbai on Monday. A suicide note in Gujarati was also found at the spot, according to police. A Congress delegation led by the party's state unit spokesperson Sachin Sawant had a video conference with Deshmukh and alleged that Delkar was being harassed by the Union government and the Union Territory's officials. Police should be asked to "probe the role of the BJP" in the death, the Congress demanded. Deshmukh, a minister from the NCP, assured them that the guilty will not be spared. Maharashtra BJP's chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye dismissed the Congress' allegations, saying all Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi have the habit of lying, and Sawant sees a BJP connection in anything and everything. Meanwhile, asked about the contents of the purported suicide note, a police official declined to comment and added that Delkar's family had not lodged any complaint regarding his death so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-leaders-seek-probe-of-mp-delkars-death-954884.html
24-02-2021||West||Palghar cops punch holes in Indian Navy sailor's claim of kidnap||Nearly a fortnight after a man was found with severe burn injuries and subsequently died, police investigations have punched holes in the claims of Indian Navy sailor Surajkumar Dubey and circumstances that could have led to his death. The Palghar police are also investigating whether he ended his own life as a result of a heavy debt burden. Dubey, a 27-year-old leading seaman, who was attached to INS Agrani, a leadership training establishment in Coimbatore, has taken a loan to the tune of Rs 22 lakh from various sources. He was found in the Vavji-Vajlipada jungle in Gholwad by locals on February 5 with nearly 90 per cent burn injuries from where he was shifted to a hospital at Dahanu and then to INHS Asvini, the naval command hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. However, before he passed away, he had given a dying declaration, in which he had alleged that he was kidnapped by three persons from the Chennai airport and was brought to Palghar and burnt after he refused to pay Rs 10 lakh. Palghar’s Superintendent of Police Dattatreya Shinde formed 10 teams of 10 members each which visited his hometown, Chennai, Coimbatore, Mumbai and fanned through the Palghar district. After the police team reached Chennai, from the CCTV footage of the airport it concluded that he was not kidnapped there as the victim had claimed. He was also seen stepping in at an ATM kiosk, bus stop and hotel. In Talasari in Palghar, he was also seen purchasing diesel from a petrol pump. Dubey, who hailed from Chainpur in Jharkhand, had boarded a Raipur-Hyderabad-Chennai flight on January 30-31, however, failed to join duty on February 1, which was confirmed to Mumbai Police by authorities at INS Agrani. CCTV footage revealed that he came out of the airport - as against the claim of getting kidnapped at the airport - and had dinner at Hotel Sarvesh and then walked to the Koyambedu bus depot. The next two days on January 30 and February 1, he had checked into a lodge in Vellur.  "CCTV footage and staffers of lodges have confirmed it," said Shinde. In the evening of February 1, he had himself called up his cousin and shouted 'Irfan...Irfan' and then disconnected the phone thus creating doubts that he was kidnapped by some Irfan.  "The CCTV at check posts did not match with the SUV that Dubey had mentioned," he said. Investigations by the Palghar police have revealed that the victim invested in stock markets and had piled up huge debts of over Rs 22 lakh – which include nearly 8 lakh as personal loan, borrowing of over Rs 5 lakh from a colleague and a loan of Rs 9 lakh from his future in-laws. Despite the huge loans he had picked up, his two accounts in different branches with the State Bank of India showed a measly sum of Rs 392. Police also checked his Demat accounts and collected details of his profile from Credit Information Bureau India Ltd. The claim that he was blindfolded when he was taken from Chennai to the place where he was burnt was also busted as it is not possible for one to go through harsh terrain blindfolded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-cops-punch-holes-in-indian-navy-sailors-claim-of-kidnap-954913.html
24-02-2021||West||Covid-19 surge rings alarm bells in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Covid-19 figures zoomed significantly on Wednesday as the state reported 8,807 fresh cases and 80 deaths – taking the state back to what it was nearly four months ago. The progressive total now stands at 21,21,119 cases and 51,937 deaths. What compounded concerns was that, in Mumbai, 1,167 cases and 4 deaths were reported. On the other hand, 2,018 cases and 21 deaths were reported in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). In terms of daily Covid-19 cases, similar figures used to be reported in October 2020. At the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Covid-19 situation was discussed and it was decided to aggressively promote the ‘Mee Jawabdar’ campaign to pursue people to wear masks, wash and sanitise hands and maintain social distancing. An update on the vaccination programme was also shared and the plan was reviewed. "The situation is serious again," said Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman of Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-rings-alarm-bells-in-maharashtra-954926.html
24-02-2021||West||Goa Budget Session scheduled during Lent; Oppn slams govt||The Opposition in Goa is up in arms over the dates of the upcoming Budget Session from March 24 to April 12, which coincides with the Catholic Holy Week of Lent, with Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat accusing the BJP-led coalition government of being insensitive to the state's Catholic community. "It is shocking to note that the BJP government in Goa has scheduled the 12-day session of the Goa assembly which coincides with the Holy Week of the Catholic community," Kamat said on Wednesday, reacting to the notification issued by the Legislature department earlier today. Kamat has said that the Opposition would seek alteration in the dates of the Budget Session during an upcoming meeting of the Business Advisory Committee, which finalises the agenda for an Assembly session. "The Holy Week commences on March 28 and goes up to April 3. One of the working days according to the assembly schedule during the Holy Week is Thursday, when Catholics observe Maundy Thursday. Goa is known for its communal harmony and respect for all religions," he also said. The 46-day period of Lent follows Carnival and is a period of fasting and religious observances for Catholics. Maundy Thursday is regarded by Catholics as the day when Jesus Christ is believed to have participated in the Last Supper with his apostles. Lent or the 'Lenten period' ends on the eve of Easter Sunday. Roman Catholics account for nearly 26 per cent of Goa's nearly 1.5 million population. Former Deputy Chief Minister and Goa Forward party president Vijai Sardesai also slammed the Goa government for the decision. "In order to become a BJP star, @DrPramodPSawant is working hard to destroy Goa’s social harmony. It’s shameful that the @goacm chose to hold the #BudgetSession during #HolyWeek, observed by all #Goan Catholics across the state. Sawant should change the dates immediately!" Sardesai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-budget-session-scheduled-during-lent-oppn-slams-govt-954933.html
