25-02-2021||First Edit||Bail orders: Setting standards||The last two days have seen the tale of two bails linking the lives of a 22-year-old girl and an 82-year-old man both of whom were considered by the country’s law enforcement agencies as threats to the state. While the contention that they challenged the strength of the state is very questionable, there is no question that their bail has strengthened the rule of law in the country. The judges who granted them had different reasons for setting them free. But the thread running through them is the acceptance of the right of an individual to be protected against wanton and arbitrary acts of vengeance by the state. The country has recently been turning into a territory unsafe for fundamental rights and common democratic freedoms. The bail orders from Mumbai and Delhi would give us the right to and chance for a hope on this.  The Delhi sessions court order in the case of Disha Ravi, who was picked up by the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and made to spend days in jail on the most serious charge in the penal book but with the flimsiest of evidence, is a resounding affirmation of the rights of the citizen against the might of the state. It demolished every ground for the arrest and jailing of the activist and made some key observations which should guide the actions of the executive and even decisions of all courts. These should be plain in a democracy: “A government cannot jail citizens for disagreeing with it. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of governments. Freedom of speech also includes the right to seek global audience. Mere engagement with persons of dubious credentials is not a crime. Creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence.”  All these are derived from the tenets of the Constitution, rulings of the Supreme Court and the best conventions and practices of democracy. That is also an assertion of lawfulness, fairness and equity which are cardinal to the system of justice.  The Bombay High Court’s decision to grant conditional bail to Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, is also welcome, though it is belated and constrained by stringent conditions. An important aspect of the order is the acceptance of the right to health as a ground for bail. The court does not seem to have questioned the grounds of arrest and incarceration of the ailing poet as the Delhi court did in the case of Nisha Ravi. But the two bail orders have set standards which will hopefully be followed in many similar cases that exist now and will come up in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bail-orders-setting-standards-955018.html
25-02-2021||In Perspective||Urban resilience taking a back seat||India, even though is highly vulnerable to disasters due to its geographical location, has made significant strides in reducing the loss of life in the recent past. This success can be attributed to systematic and improved efforts of disaster risk management in our country. Two issues are central to the current disaster management model - a) risk assessment based on historical records of disasters, and b) district as a unit. The inadequacy of this model was clearly manifested in glacier burst in Uttarakhand and second such grey area inadequate disaster management at city level. According to UN estimates (2015), in 1960s, twice as many people lived in rural settings (two billion) than in urban areas (one billion). But by the year 2007, urban and rural populations were almost exactly equal at 3.33 billion each and since then the global urban population was increasing steadily. In 2016, it was four billion, while the rural population was only 3.4 billion. In 2017, urban population was 55% of global population and was projected to increase to 68% by 2050 and India will have added 416 millions of urban dwellers. This shift indicates not only a demographic shift, but a paradigm one that places towns and cities at the centre of the development trajectory of country, and assigning cities and towns a critical role in the structural transformation of our economy. Thus, economic prosperity will be dependent on seamless functioning of the city economy and any disruptions can upset this fragile balance with adverse impact on the overall economy. For instance, cyclone ‘Hud Hud’ in 2014 caused about Rs 2,100 billion of damage in Vishakapatnam and 40 lives. Heavy rainfall in 2015 in Chennai has caused the city about Rs 14,000 crore in damages and loss of about 280 lives. About 21 cities, including Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad are racing towards zero groundwater levels, with a potential to affect the access for 100 million people. Similarly, heat waves conditions worsening year after year. Icing on the cake is the rampant growth of cities devoid of any long-term comprehensive planning, offering a perfect recipe a disaster. A World Bank study warns that poor urban planning and management would cost Indian cities somewhere between $2.6 and $13 billion annually and 1.2 to 6.3% of the GDP by 2050. We have the more than 9,000 urban centres – comprising urban agglomerates; Tier 1, 2 and 3 and each one represents an apex form of a complex web of institutions, infrastructure and information, dependent each other for a seamless functioning. But this fragility is under constant threat of two factors: Shock – a phenomenon threatening major loss of life, damage to assets and a city’s ability to function, and provide basic services, particularly for poor or vulnerable populations, urban flood, earthquake etc. Stress – a chronic (ongoing or cyclical) natural or human-made event or phenomenon that renders the city less able to function and provide basic services, particularly for poor or vulnerable populations, such as water scarcity, inadequate infrastructure etc. Climate-resilient cities There are a few international initiatives to support urban resilience such as Asian Cities Climate Change Resilience Network, Cities Development Initiative of Asia, UNHabitat’s Cities and Climate Change Initiative, Rockefeller Foundation’s 100 Resilient Cities Programme, USAID’s Climate Change Resilient Development programme, Global Resilience Partnership, ADB’s Urban Climate Change Resilience Partnership etc, to support cities to be climate resilient. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), apex organisation for urban affairs, should handhold the urban centres of the county at different stages of their progress into resilient cities by following a roadmap towards resilience that consists of: a) Risk identification and communication, b) Management, c) Institutional and Legislative Support System, and most importantly d) Financial Allocations. But, local authorities are unable to generate required resources and they need to depend on the allocations from state government, which in turn is dependent on the Union government. But, contrary to the pressing requirement, in Union Budget of 2021-22, MoHUA has been allocated only Rs 54,581 crore, comprising Rs 27,500 crore for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Rs 13,750 crore for Smart Cities Mission/Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation and other urban missions. The Climate Smart City Framework offers a limited financial allocation, but only to successful cities in the competition. This means just about 100 cities in entire country will benefit, that also based on competitive selection which again depends on proactive nature of a particular municipal corporation rather than its vulnerability. In sum total, at this rate of financial allocations, urban resilience in India will be in quicksand in near future. On the other hand, Central government allocates funds under State Disaster Relief Fund and State Disaster Mitigation Fund to each state as recommended by the Finance Commissions. The 15th Finance Commission has suggested modifications to these allocations into, a) Mitigation, and b) Response categories. Under the category of Response, 10% of total funds are earmarked for capacity building activities. City administrations can seek some allocation under this head to enhance their preparedness and resilience to deal with increasing disasters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/urban-resilience-taking-a-back-seat-955020.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nandi Hills to be developed as international tourist destination: Health Minister K Sudhakar||Popular hill station Nandi Hills in Chikkaballapur adjoining Bengaluru will be developed as an international tourist destination, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday. Sudhakar, who is also district in-charge minister, said Nandi hills and surrounding places are very attractive. Along with beautiful flora and fauna Nandi Hills also have a historical and spiritual significance, he pointed out. "Nandi Hills has all the qualities to be developed as an international tourist destination.Government has already sanctioned Rs 10 crore for the purpose," Sudhakar told reporters here after inspecting the ongoing works in the region. Stating that there was a public demand for a ropeway for the past 15 years, he said an international agency had earlier agreed for the project, but the idea was later dropped. "Now the dream will become a reality."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nandi-hills-to-be-developed-as-international-tourist-destination-health-minister-k-sudhakar-955257.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Children’s film by Mysurean to be released in March||Many film personalities trace their origin to Mysuru and Mysuru region. A new addition to the cinema tribe, from Mysuru, is producer, director and cinematographer Kumara Swamy from KR Nagar. It is a re-entry for the 69-year-old film enthusiast, after a couple of decades. Even though Kumara Swamy is not new to films, as he has worked with directors like Puttanna Kanagal and Devanand, ‘Namma Bharatha’, which is certified as a children’s film, is his pet project. “Namma Bharatha was planned to be released last year, but due to the Covid crisis, it had to be postponed. It may be released in March,” he said. Recalling his initial career, Kumara Swamy said, “Even as a 10th standard student, I started a photo studio in KR Nagar. In 1974, I completed a diploma in Cinematography in Bengaluru. Then I worked for a few films in Mysuru, Bengaluru and also Mumbai as assistant to cinematographers like S Maruti Rao and D K Prabhakar.” “The film is based on two real incidents, scripted by Ravishankar Mirle, also from erstwhile KR Nagar taluk. The story revolves around colonisation, sacrifices of freedom fighters, patriotism and guidelines for hoisting and unfurling of the national flag,” he said. Producer S A Srinivas of Saligrama, brother-in-law of thespian Dr Rajkumar, said that he is also from the erstwhile KR Nagar taluk. “I have seen Kumara Swamy since our childhood days. He was interested in photography even as a boy. He dabbled with some business, after returning from Mumbai. Now, with his diverse experience, he has made a good film,” he said. Vageesh, playing a freedom fighter’s role, the protagonist in the film, said that it is not the usual run of the mill movie. “It is a realistic film. The future generations will not have regard for the nation and its Independence, if they are not aware of the sacrifices of the people during the freedom struggle. Thus, this film is an effort to document the turn of events that lead to the Independence,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/children-s-film-by-mysurean-to-be-released-in-march-955333.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||6,500 lorries to stay off the roads today||Condemning the hike in fuel prices, the lorry owners of the district have decided to keep their vehicles off the road for a day on Friday, as a mark of protest against state and the Union government. The lorry owners said that their transport business has severely affected due to the hike in fuel prices and due to unscientific charges on transport vehicle. B Kodandaram, president of the Lorry Owners' Association said that there are 6,500 trucks in Mysuru district and all the vehicles will be off the road for a day. The government must revise the fuel prices, extension of expiry time of E-Way Bill are a few demands among the others, he said. The lorry owners and agents will stage a protest near the deputy commissioner's office at 11 am. The trucks, whether they are empty or loaded will stay wherever they are for the day, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/6500-lorries-to-stay-off-the-roads-today-955334.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vatal protests against TN’s river-linking project||Condemning the Cauvery river-linking project in Tamil Nadu, Vatal Chaluvali Paksha leader Vatal Nagaraj staged a protest, in Chamarajanagar on Thursday. Vatal, along with his supporters gathered near the DC's office and raised slogans against the Centre, state and Tamil Nadu government. Vatal demanded to drop the project, taken up by the Tamil Nadu government, connecting Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundaru rivers. Condemning the project, 'Black Day' will be observed in Bengaluru on Friday, he said. Speaking on the occasion, Nagaraj said, "The Tamil Nadu government has taken up the river-linking project in a secret manner. The Union government has released Rs 7,000 crore in the first phase and there are possibilities of allocating more funds. The project will have an impact on Karnataka." When the TN government has been chalking out projects, the Karnataka government has no information about it. This shows the total intelligence failure. Chief Minister Yediyurappa is not aware of the project and is busy in saving his post, he criticised. After Jayalalitha, the present TN government has become an agent for the BJP and RSS. Hence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has given approval for constructing 118-km canal, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vatal-protests-against-tn-s-river-linking-project-955335.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Defeated in MCC poll as I am CM's relative: Sunanda||BJP corporator Sunanda Palanetra, who was defeated in the Mayor election on Wednesday, said, “I was not elected as I am Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s relative. There was a political conspiracy behind my defeat.” Speaking to reporters here, on Thursday, Palanetra said, “KR Nagar JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh and his supporters had said that B S Madappa’s daughter (Palanetra’s father) will be Mayor of Mysuru. I am pained as I was not made Mayor.” Palanetra said that she will meet the CM on his birthday. “I am upset with the defeat. I have decided to tender my resignation. I have written a letter to the Chief Minister, seeking his advise,” she said. However, BJP city president T S Srivatsa said that the party is with Palanetra and will not allow her to resign. “We had all hopes that the JD(S) will support the BJP candidate. But, in the last movement, JD(S) joined hands with the Congress, even though BJP MLAs tried to convince JD(S) leaders,” he said. Palanetra had all the possibilities to win the poll, if the JD(S) and the Congress parties had contested separately, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/defeated-in-mcc-poll-as-i-am-cms-relative-sunanda-955336.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Education dept chalks out plans to improve SSLC results||Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department of Public Instruction is chalking out programmes to improve Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination results for academic 2020-21. The department has planned to create student-friendly atmosphere, in order to ensure that the students will appear for the examination without fear and hesitation. With only a limited time left, the department has come up with several programmes to prepare the students, also aimed to improve SSLC results. The department has designed a ‘Passing Package’, which will help every student to score the minimum marks required to pass the exam. The process of implementing the package with the support of the respective teachers’ is under progress. "The department has identified 180 high schools in Mysuru district, which had failed to secure a minimum of 60%. The department has appointed 60 officials as nodal officers, Each officer will take care of three such schools. It is similar to adoption,” said Deputy Director for Public Instructions Panduranga. "The respective official will pay a visit to the school once a week and check the academic progress of students. If the expected progress is not visible among the students, special priority should be given to enhance student learning activity and to improve grasping power. The respective teacher and the officials concerned will take care of it. The nodal officers are given the responsibility of ensuring that all students will clear the examination," the DDPI said. The district was in ‘B’ grade, last year. It has to be noted that Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has scrapped the district-wise ranking system from 2019 and introduced grading system, to ensure healthy competition among the districts. An officer attached to the Education department said that grading will be calculated using three main parameters and the districts will be awarded A, B and C grades. For calculation, 40% weightage is given for overall pass percentage of the district, 40% for average marks scored by students (pass/fail) and 20% to the number of students who get distinction and first-class marks in the exams, said the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/education-dept-chalks-out-plans-to-improve-sslc-results-955337.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan DC insists on rainwater harvesting||Deputy Commissioner R Girish said that the youths should be encouraged to take measures for rainwater harvesting. After releasing a poster on the theme ‘Catch the Rain’, in Hassan on Thursday, the DC said, “The youth should educate the people on the importance of saving water. If the people waste water, thinking that it is an easily available resource, free of cost, the situation may turn worse. In future, it would become inevitable for them to fight, to get water, even for drinking purpose.” Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer B A Paramesh explained the importance to save water and urged the people to construct check dams, recharge pits, collect water on roofs of houses and other buildings. He said, the youths should be encouraged to join hands to protect water bodies like lakes and ponds to save water. Nehru Yuva Kendra district coordinator Abhishek and volunteer B T Manav were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-dc-insists-on-rainwater-harvesting-955338.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dist admin aims to promote toxic-free healthy jaggery in Ch'nagar district||The district administration has decided to revive the jaggery units that are functioning with conventional methods and introduce latest technology, and at the same time create awareness among the unit owners and the farmers on not using chemicals for jaggery. The Khadi and Gramodyog division of the Zilla Panchayat, with the help of JSS Skill Training Institute, has been providing training for the interested farmers and the jaggery unit owners. The first phase of training has been completed and the second phase will be in Chamarajanagar and Yalandur taluks. The next training will be held at Kollegal and Gundlupet taluks. The third phase will be held from February 25 to March 3. There are around 250 jaggery units in the district and most of them are facing closure. The main objective of the programme prepared by the Khadi Gramodyog division is to manufacture chemical-free jaggery and train the farmers with demonstration using latest technologies. Khadi Gramodyog division deputy director Rajendra Prasad said that the jaggery is produced in the district using conventional methods, for which the expenses and wastage is high. Moreover, chemicals are being used to get an attractive colour. The programme would help them to adopt new technologies in jaggery making and also maintain cleanliness and hygiene at the units. There are also plans to develop Aalemanes at a cost of Rs 8 crore. Some farmers have shown interest. Such modern jaggery units have been established in Mandya district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dist-admin-aims-to-promote-toxic-free-healthy-jaggery-in-chnagar-district-955339.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa government is 'dead', has to be removed: Siddaramaiah||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged the B S Yediyurappa Ministry in Karnataka was the "worst government" he had seen his political life and it has to be removed. The leader of the opposition in the state assembly, who has been hitting out at the government over various issues, also said there was no government in the state as it was "totally dead". "There is no government in Karnataka today, there is some kind of anarchy. There is no government at all, the government is totally dead," he claimed. Speaking at a party meeting here, the former chief minister alleged no development activities were taking place in the state because of this. "Not even one paisa of work is happening....if you ask for funds, they (government) say because of corona there is no money," he said. For measures to tackle the pandemic they have taken a loan of Rs 36,000 crore. "They might have spent Rs 6,000 crore or 7,000 crore on corona, 50 per cent of which or even more they have swallowed (pocketed)," he alleged. Siddaramaiah compared Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government, comparing it to a "Dakota bus". He urged Congress workers and Sharath Bachegowda, an independent MLA from Hoskote, who extended support to the party on Thursday along with his followers, to sharply oppose what he called anti-people policies of the BJP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-government-is-dead-has-to-be-removed-siddaramaiah-955241.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress onboards Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda||Hoskote legislator Sharath Bachegowda, an Independent, on Thursday formally extended support to the Congress. Since he cannot join the congress, Sharath became an associate member of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP). Sharath, 37, is the son of BJP's Chikballapur MP B N Bachegowda. The BJP expelled Sharath last year after he rebelled and contested the December 2019 bypolls, which he won as an Independent by defeating the party's candidate M T B Nagaraj. “I'm also announcing outside support to the CLP,” Sharath said during an event to mark his entry into the Congress fold. “This (move) isn't for my personal growth, but the development of my taluk,” he said. For the Congress, onboarding Sharath will give the party a face to bank on in the Hoskote constituency. For long, Hoskote was seen as the pocket borough of Sharath's father Bachegowda who represented the segment ever since he was with the Janata Dal 1994 onward. Congress' Nagaraj (now with BJP) managed to infiltrate the constituency for the first time in 2004. The sizeable Muslim population of Hoskote could work in Sharath's favour. “Since Sharath is an Independent, he can’t join our party as the anti-defection law comes in the way,” CLP Leader Siddaramaiah said. “He can’t join any party during his term till 2023.” Siddaramaiah, however, vowed to support Sharath. “This BJP government is the worst that I’ve seen,” he said. “It must be removed and Sharath will be a part of that.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-onboards-hoskote-mla-sharath-bachegowda-955264.html
25-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Asnotikar, GTD will not quit JD(S): Deve Gowda||Rajya Sabha member H D Deve Gowda, on Thursday, said that there is no question of former Minister Anand Asnotikar and MLA G T Devegowda quitting the JD(S). Addressing media persons, in Hassan, he said, "Devegowda has spoken to me. There is no need for unnecessary speculations. Has any one of them told you about quitting the JD(S)? But, after losing the elections, Madhu Bangarappa has not come to the party office, for one-and-a-half years, despite me asking him to visit the office. He should understand the efforts of H D Kumaraswamy to make him MLA". Without mentioning any names, Gowda said, "Some people have been saying that JD(S) will become non-existent by 2023. But, it is not possible for anyone to finish off the party. There are lakhs of party workers. New programmes would be chalked out for organising the party from the grassroots level". Commenting on the hike in fuel and LPG prices, Gowda said, the price rise would burden the public and also farmers. To a query, he said, I will direct the party leaders to hold protests in all districts against the price rise and also on the problems faced by the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/asnotikar-gtd-will-not-quit-jds-deve-gowda-955295.html
25-02-2021||Main Article||Criminal Defamation Law: Time to abolish it||The justice seekers will suffer the penal nature of the process and if they succeed, that relieves only a part of their pain. Criminal defamation is a redundant anti-expression law, which is a burden on citizens and threat to any communicator. It causes fear and prevents free expression. Law of criminal defamation is abused by those in power to further victimise the victims of their crimes. The criminal proceedings for defamation will have a chilling effect on the victims and instils fear in them against reporting the crime committed on them. Very rarely one will find a Priya Ramani to stand with courage and fight wrongs. It will be too early to describe such fight as ‘successful’ because the rivals in such cases are generally resourceful, rich and powerful to pursue the appeals till the Supreme Court. The tragedy is that the prosecution on the charge of sexual harassment is pushed to sideline and uncertainty. “It was me, the victim, who had to stand up in the court as an accused,” said Priya Ramani after a Delhi court rightly rejected the allegation of criminal defamation by journalist-turned-politician M J Akbar, who was accused by her of sexual harassment. This statement reflects the status of ‘rule of law’. It is undoubtedly a great success for Priya Ramani against Akbar. Now, the accusation that Akbar sexually harassed needs to be proved. It is fraught with tough tests, procedural difficulties, evidence issues, shortage of courage on the part of constitutional office holders and honesty of prosecutors. This is the candid example of abuse of defamation as a crime, not only to prevent the prosecution of charges against them, but also as a propaganda tool. Akbar’s case strengthens the demand for the decriminalisation of defamation to prevent its abuse which threatens reporting of crimes by powerful men. The victims of sexual harassment face two immediate threats to stop them from reporting that crime - one, character assassination and two, defamation complaints - both civil for heavy compensation and criminal wrong that threatens with imprisonment. The justice seekers like Ramani will suffer the penal nature of the process and if succeeded, that relieves only a part of their pain. This is because the process itself became worse than punishment in our judicial system. When Akbar is accused of the charge, the accuser-victim Ramani is turned into accused and made to suffer the process and perhaps will continue to do so for decades in appeals and reviews. The question is whether complaining itself attracts criminal charge of defamation? If a person has no freedom or right to complain, what is the value of criminal justice system and the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech? The magna carta started in 1215 with a right to petition at fundamental of all civil rights, which includes right to complain. Are we giving up this age-old established right? Section 499 of IPC defines crime of defamation with 10 proclaimed exceptions. Accusation preferred in good faith is a significant exception. It is the eighth exception, which says: Accusation preferred in good faith to autho­rised person: It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority over that person with respect to the subject matter of accusation. The IPC gave an illustration also: If A in good faith accuse Z before a Magistrate; if A in good faith complains of the conduct of Z, a servant, to Z’s master; if A in good faith complains of the conduct of Z, and child, to Z’s father—A is within this exception. Public good If anybody has made an imputation or allegation of crime for protection of his or her or other interests, it is not defamation. This rule is incorporated in ninth exception, which says: “Imputation made in good faith by person for protection of his or other’s interests; It is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another provided that the imputation be made in good faith for the protection of the inter­ests of the person making it, or of any other person, or for the public good”. The Penal Code also gave following illustrations: (a) A, a shopkeeper, says to B, who manages his business; “Sell nothing to Z unless he pays you ready money, for I have no opin­ion of his honesty”. A is within the exception, if he has made this imputation on Z in good faith for the protection of his own interests. (b) A, a Magistrate, in making a report of his own superior offi­cer, casts an imputation on the character of Z. Here, if the imputation is made in good faith, and for the public good, A is within the exception.  Priya Ramani has made an imputation of sexual harassment against the journalist, in order to protect her dignity in her interest. It may not be an accusation made to appropriate authority as explained in the eighth exception, because it was part of #MeToo agitation which may be said as not an appropriate authority. But it squarely falls under the ninth exception. Without complaining or exposing, it is not possible for her to get justice. Thus, it is an established legal principle that complaining or making an imputation to protect own interests is not defamation. It is in public interest and for rule of law, it should not be criminal defamation if that it is part of a complaint. If less and less number of people complain and more prefer to suffer in silence, all crimes including sexual harassment will flourish. It is pathetic that in the Indian legal system, the victim must suffer prosecution while the accused uses the legal machinery to secure his reputation. The test for core truth must wait until the powerful man’s fight for reputation is completed. The criminal charge of defamation is an impediment to book the criminals into process of punishment. This crime should not be allowed to be a tool to prevent the process of rule of law. The victims should be facilitated to put the law in motion, irrespective of the status of the criminally accused person. Time has come to abolish criminal defamation from statute books to help victims to complain and journalists to comment. (The writer is former Central Information Commissioner and Professor of Law)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/criminal-defamation-law-time-to-abolish-it-955019.html
25-02-2021||Mysuru||Sunanda Palanetra to resign as Mysuru Corporator||BJP Corporator Sunanda Palanetra, who tasted defeat in polls for the Mayor in Mysuru held on Wednesday, will tender her resignation as a corporator. The Corporator has written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP city unit president Srivatsa in this regard. In her letter, she mentioned that she has been serving the BJP for the last 25 years and the upsetting defeat has rendered her unable to concentrate on developmental activites of Ward 59, which she represents. Palanetra sought suggestions from party leaders. BJP had fielded Palanetra as its Mayor candidate. The party leaders had full hopes on getting the JD(S) support but, JD(S) joined hands with Congress party. JD(S) corporator Rukmini Madegowda elected as Mayor and Congress's Anwar Baig as deputy mayor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sunanda-palanetra-to-resign-as-mysuru-corporator-955132.html
25-02-2021||National||Credibility of made-in-India vaccines evident in their high demand: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The credibility of the made-in-India vaccines is evident with those being sought by and sent to a number of countries, which is an example of the success of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat", a senior Union minister said on Wednesday. Responding to a query at a post-Cabinet meeting media briefing on questions being raised over the credibility of the made-in-India vaccines, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said as far as the "credibility (of India's vaccines) is concerned, the products are going to dozens of countries. In many places, they have gone for free, whereas in other places, people are asking for them". The vaccines are even being sent to Latin American countries, he added. "So this is an example of the success of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and we should sing praises that Indian products have made a place for themselves globally," Prasad said. On leaders in other countries taking the vaccine shots first, he said it is about a point of view. "In many places, prime ministers and ministers are getting it done, here we thought that first we will get our health sector fighters vaccinated as that also increases credibility," Prasad said. Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who also addressed the briefing, asserted that the vaccination in India has been the fastest, very successful, "faultless with hardly any complaints". Asked if people would have a choice on which vaccine -- Covishield or Covaxin -- they want to take, he said the country is proud to have two vaccines, both of which are effective with proven efficacy. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. Government functionaries also flagged world leaders from various countries thanking India upon receiving the vaccine consignments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/credibility-of-made-in-india-vaccines-evident-in-their-high-demand-ravi-shankar-prasad-955037.html
25-02-2021||National||SC orders private medical college to deposit Rs 5 cr for taking in students on its own||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed a private medical college of Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh to deposit Rs 5 crore for admitting 132 students on its own in MBBS course in 2017-18, contrary to regulations. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat dismissed a petition by Saraswati Educational Trust, saying "Intentional violation of the regulations by the college cannot be condoned." However, taking note of the fact that the students have completed second year of their MBBS course, the court said cancelling their admissions at this stage would not serve any useful purpose. The court directed Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur to conduct second-year examinations of such students, saying they should be permitted to complete their course and they should be saved from losing three academic years owing to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case. "The students who joined the college knowing fully well that their admissions are contrary to the regulations are directed to do community service for a period of two years after completing their MBBS course," the bench said. The court said the National Medical Commission should constitute a trust with the amount of Rs five crore for helping the needy students in admission to medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. It noted the college did not accede to a request by the MCI for discharge of the students and continued their education. The college claimed the Director General of Medical Education was lethargic and did not promptly respond to its letter, forcing it to admit students from the list of 735 students allotted to it. The MCI, for its part, contended the college can make admissions of students allotted by the Director General Medical Education. In case students from the list of 150 did not join before the last date, the college should have approached this court for extension of time. It also said students who were admitted contrary to the regulations are not entitled to claim any equity and the college which acted in blatant violation of the Regulation was liable to be penalised suitably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-private-medical-college-to-deposit-rs-5-cr-for-taking-in-students-on-its-own-955046.html
25-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Motera stadium's rechristening an ode to world's best spinner||In a move that caught many by surprise, the Motera cricket stadium or the Sardar Patel Stadium, hailed as "world's largest cricket ground", in Ahmedabad was renamed "Narendra Modi Stadium'' on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-motera-stadiums-rechristening-an-ode-to-worlds-best-spinner-955049.html
25-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 25||Petrol and diesel prices continued to soar to new highs as fuel rates were hiked again on Thursday. Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 25: Rs 87.14L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-25-955062.html
25-02-2021||National||Centre withdraws controversial order on scientists' participation in webinars and conferences||The Centre on Wednesday withdrew a controversial order that among other things made it mandatory for scientists and researchers to take prior permissions from the Ministry of External Affairs to participate in international conferences including online seminars. "In view of the easing of restrictions on travel and assembly of people, guidelines issued regarding political clearance for international conferences or seminars or training due to Covid-19 pandemic are no longer applicable," the Ministry of External Affairs said in the new order. "All such events will however continue to be governed by the same rules and regulations applicable to political clearances prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. These rules are available on the website of the Ministry of Home Affairs governing conferences." The withdrawal comes after widespread protests from the scientific community. Partha Majumder, president of the Indian Academy of Sciences last week wrote to the Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank seeking a revocation. The scientists had reacted to the orders issued by the Ministry of Education on January 31, based on the guidelines originally issued by the MEA on November 25. K Vijayraghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government had told DH earlier that the government was seized of the matter and the controversial order was under review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-withdraws-controversial-order-on-scientists-participation-in-webinars-and-conferences-955077.html
25-02-2021||National||India sees over 16,000 single-day Covid-19 cases after nearly a month||The daily rise in coronavirus infections in India was recorded above 15,000 after nearly a month taking the country's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,10,46,914, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 16,738 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,705 with 138 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise of cases stayed below 15,000.  The daily deaths were registered above 130 after a gap of 26 days. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,38,501 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of  97.21 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. The active caseload increased to 1,51,708 which  comprises 1.37 per cent of the total infections, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the ICMR, 21,38,29,658  samples have been tested up to February 24 with 7,93,383 samples being tested on Wednesday. PTI PLB The 138 new fatalities include 80 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 7 from Punjab and 6 each from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,56,705 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,937 from Maharashtra followed by 12,478 from Tamil Nadu, 12,309 from Karnataka, 10,905 from Delhi, 10,256 from West Bengal, 8,721 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-16000-single-day-covid-19-cases-after-nearly-a-month-955090.html
25-02-2021||National||LPG price hike: Cooking gas rate increased by Rs 25||The oil marketing companies (OMCs) again hiked the price of Liquefied Petroleum Gas(LPG) domestic gas cylinder (14.2 kg) by Rs 25 per cylinder from Thursday. This is the third hike in February alone. A domestic cooking gas cylinder now costs Rs 794 in Delhi. The cumulative increase in February alone is Rs 100 on a cylinder. Prior to this, the price of LPG cylinder was hiked on February 14 and February 4. This is the first time in the recent history of India that the cooking gas prices have been increased three times in a month. Since December cooking gas price has been hiked by Rs 200 per cylinder.   The rise in the price of LPG comes at a time when petrol and diesel prices in India have hit the roof. LPG is a byproduct of natural gas and crude oil refining. The price of LPG gas cylinders is determined by state-run oil companies. It used to be revised on a monthly basis until November 2020. However, in December, the OMCs hiked the price twice. The LPG price depends on factors such as international fuel rates and US dollar-rupee exchange rates. The prices keep going up or down based on these factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lpg-price-hike-cooking-gas-rate-increased-by-rs-25-955091.html
25-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination Phase II in India: All you need to know||In the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India, people over 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1. Since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive which was rolled out on January 16, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to healthcare and frontline workers has crossed 1.23 crore in the country. Here's all you need to know on the second vaccination drive: Who is eligible? The second phase will start from March 1 in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and above 45 years with comorbidities will be given vaccines in 10,000 government medical facilities and also over 20,000 private hospitals. Will the vaccines be given free of cost? The vaccine will be offered free at government facilities and for a charge at private hospitals. However, the amount charged at private hospitals will be decided by the Health Ministry within the next three-four days as they are holding talks with manufacturers as well as hospitals. Will PM Modi take the vaccine? Elected representatives above 50 years of age are likely to be vaccinated against Covid-19 in the second round of the ongoing inoculation drive. Ministers as well as the Prime Minister, who would now be in the category of those who can take the vaccination may choose to get inoculated at the place of their choosing as per their wish. However, it is not known with certainty that the Prime Minister will get the jab this time. How to register A new version of the Co-Win app is also likely to be launched soon, where people will be able to log in and register. So far, only government and health officials can log in and register those eligible for the vaccine. Is the vaccine mandatory? So far the vaccine is voluntary but it is advisable to follow the complete schedule of vaccination against the virus to help develop a strong immune response. For eg. If someone has taken the first dose of the vaccine, they are advised to complete their vaccination process as scheduled by the Health Ministry. According to the guidelines, two doses of the vaccine, 28 days apart, have to be taken by an individual to complete the inoculation. Although the second taking the vaccine is voluntary, the Health Ministry advises to receive to complete the schedule of vaccination against the virus to help develop a strong immune response. Will people have a choice in vaccine? The government has not made it clear if people will have a choice of vaccine, Covishield or Covaxin. When asked about it, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said India is proud to have two vaccines that are both effective with proven efficacy. Which vaccines will be administered in the second phase? The government is using these two vaccines of the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech against Covid-19 that have been given the necessary approval by the CDSCO. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said that about 18-19 coronavirus vaccine candidates are in different clinical trial stages and may be available in the coming months. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-phase-ii-in-india-all-you-need-to-know-955094.html
25-02-2021||National||Not making tea no provocation for husband to assault wife: Bombay High Court says wife 'not chattel or object'||Upholding a 35-year-old man's conviction for assaulting his wife, the Bombay High Court has said the wife's refusal to make tea for her husband could not be accepted as a provocation for him to assault her and observed that wife is "not a chattel or an object". In an order passed earlier this month, Justice Revati Mohite Dere said "marriage, ideally, is a partnership based on equality". But, notions of patriarchy and the idea that the woman is a man's property still prevail in society, leading a man to think that his wife is his "chattel", the court observed. The HC also said the testimony of the couple's 6-year-old daughter inspires confidence and cannot be disbelieved. The court upheld the conviction and 10 years' imprisonment awarded to Santosh Atkar (35), a resident of Pandharpur in Solapur district, by a local court in 2016. He was found guilty on the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. As per the order, Atkar and his wife had been having disputes for some time. On the day of the incident in December 2013, his wife insisted on going out without making a cup of tea for him. The man then struck her with a hammer, injuring her grievously. As per the case details and testimony of the couple's daughter, Atkar then cleaned the spot of the crime, gave his wife a bath and took her to the hospital. She succumbed to her injuries after being in the hospital for about a week. The defence argued that Atkar had been provoked into committing the crime because his wife refused to make tea. The HC, however, rejected the argument and held that there existed adequate evidence, including testimony of the man's daughter, to prove the charges against him. "The deceased, by refusing to make tea for the appellant (Atkar), by no stretch of imagination, can be said to have offered grave and sudden provocation for the appellant to assault her, much less, such a brutal assault," it said. "It would not be out of place to observe that a wife is not a chattel or an object," the HC said. Such cases reflect the imbalance of gender and skewed patriarchy, the socio-cultural milieu one has grown up in, which often seeps into a marital relationship, it said. The court said an imbalance of gender roles exists in society, where the wife is expected to do all the household chores. "Emotional labour in a marriage is also expected to be done by the wife. Coupled with these imbalances in the equation, is the imbalance of expectation and subjugation," Justice Mohite Dere said. Social conditions of women also make them handover themselves to their spouses, she said. "Thus, men, in such cases, consider themselves as primary partners and their wives, chattel," the judge said. She said it is unfortunate that such a "medieval notion" of the wife being the husband's property still exists, and the wife is expected to do what her husband wished her to do. "Thus, the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that the deceased by refusing to make tea for the appellant offered grave and sudden provocation, is ludicrous, clearly untenable and unsustainable and as such deserves to be rejected," the HC said while dismissing the man's appeal against his conviction and sentence. The defence also raised questions on the testimony of the couple's daughter, saying it was recorded after a delay of some days and it could not be believed. But, the high court rejected the argument and said, "Her testimony inspires confidence and cannot be disbelieved. There is nothing in the cross-examination of this witness to disbelieve her presence in the house at the relevant time." She (the daughter) is a natural witness, who woke up on hearing the quarrel between her parents and witnessed the assault on her mother by her father, and saw her father clean the spot soon thereafter, the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-making-tea-no-provocation-for-husband-to-assault-wife-bombay-high-court-says-wife-not-chattel-or-object-955111.html
25-02-2021||National||Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad likely to release OTT guidelines today||Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad will hold a press conference at National Media Centre in New Delhi at 2 pm today.  The ministers are likely to announce the guidelines for regulation of OTT (over the top) platforms.  📡LIVE at 2 pm Earlier, Javadekar had said, "Guidelines and direction are almost ready. It will be soon implemented."   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prakash-javadekar-ravi-shankar-prasad-likely-to-release-ott-guidelines-today-955112.html
25-02-2021||National||India, Pakistan reach agreement on ceasefire along LoC||In a surprise move, the armies of India and Pakistan on Thursday announced that they would stop the cross border firing along the Line of Control from midnight of February 24 and 25 in order to have a peaceful atmosphere along the disputed border. This was announced by the Defence Ministry after a telephonic conversation between the Director General of Military Operations (DGMOs) from the two armies over the hotline. "Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight 24-25 Feb 2021," the ministry said in a statement. "In the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGMOs agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence." While India and Pakistan have had a ceasefire agreement since 2003, thousands of ceasefire violations were reported in the last three years, shattering the fragile border peace. The agreement was mostly followed by the two sides till the 2016 Uri terror attack happened. Earlier this month, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed the Parliament that in 2020 there were 5,133 ceasefire violations by Pakistan leading to 46 deaths. This year till January 28, there were 299 such violations causing one death. “The two DGMOs have agreed to instruct their sides to abide by the agreements and also use the Confidence Building Measures of hotline and flag meetings effectively to ensure ceasefire. It is a positive move. However, much will depend upon Pakistan keeping to their part of the agreement. In the short term it may help them at the FATF,” Lt Gen Vinod Bhatia, former Indian Army DGMO and director of Centre for Joint Warfare Studies, Delhi told DH. Even though the hotline between the two DGMOs is in place for many years, generally a junior officer carries out the routine weekly talks. Occasionally a conversation takes place between two Brigadiers and rarely between the two DGMOs. One such dialogue between the Indian DGMO Lt Gen Paramjit Singh Sangha and his Pakistani counterpart Maj Gen Nauman Zakaria on Monday, coupled with back-channel talks between the diplomats from the two sides led to the surprise decision to restore the ceasefire norms on the western front. “India's position has always been one of ensuring a sustained ceasefire along the LoC, however, Pakistan initiates firing in contravention of the ceasefire to aid infiltration by terrorists from across the LoC. Indian Army thereafter retaliated,” said Bhatia, who was the last DGMO to meet his Pakistani counterpart at a bilateral meeting at Wagha border in 2013 for exploring ways to check frequent violations of ceasefire on the LoC. The Defence Ministry in its statement stated that the two countries would utilise the existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-reach-agreement-on-ceasefire-along-loc-955120.html
25-02-2021||National||Covid-19: Mumbai's Oval Maidan to be closed from February 26||In the wake of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases, the Mumbai civic body has decided to shut the iconic Oval Maidan here from Friday, officials said. No sports or other activities will be allowed at the recreational ground in south Mumbai till further orders, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said. "We have decided to shut the ground till further order as a preventive measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus," assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC's A-ward, Chanda Jadhav, said on Thursday. Located in the Churchgate area here, the Oval Maidan, where cricket and football matches are frequently played, witnesses crowds of sports enthusiasts during weekends. A number of walkers and joggers also visit the ground every day. Following a spike in daily Covid-19 cases in Mumbai from the second week of February, the civic body has intensified its drive against citizens moving out without masks and large social gatherings. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 1,167 new Covid-19 cases, the highest daily spike in about four months. The tally of cases in the country's financial capital has gone up to 3,21,698, while the death toll has reached 11,453, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-mumbais-oval-maidan-to-be-closed-from-february-26-955128.html
25-02-2021||National||Would be compelled to take pre-emptive strike when attacked by non-state actor in 3rd state: India at UN||India told a UN meeting that a country would be compelled to undertake a “pre-emptive strike” when confronted by an "imminent armed attack” from a non-state actor operating in a third state, as it highlighted several proxy cross-border terror attacks, including one in Pulwama, perpetrated against it from its neighbourhood, a clear reference to Pakistan. India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador K Nagaraj Naidu said at an Arria Formula meeting organised by Mexico that non-state actors such as terrorist groups often attack states from remote locations within other host states, using the sovereignty of that host state as a “smokescreen”. On this, a growing number of states believe that the use of force in self-defence against a non-state actor operating in the territory of another host state can be undertaken if the “non-state actor has repeatedly undertaken armed attacks against the State; the host state is unwilling to address the threat posed by the non-state actor; the host state is actively supporting and sponsoring the attack by the non-state actor,” he said. “In other words, a state would be compelled to undertake a pre-emptive strike when it is confronted by an imminent armed attack from a non-state actor operating in a third state," he said on Wednesday. "This state of affairs exonerates the affected state from the duty to respect, vis-a-vis the aggressor, the general obligation to refrain from the use of force,” Naidu said at the Arria Formula meeting. The Arria Formula meetings are informal meetings of the Security Council, on ‘Upholding the collective security system of the UN Charter: the use of force in international law, non-state actors and legitimate self-defence’. He noted that Security Council resolutions 1368 (2001) and 1373 (2001) have formally endorsed the view that self-defence is available to avert terrorist attacks such as in the case of the 9/11 attacks. On February 26, 2019, less than two weeks after 40 police personnel were killed in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir in a terror attack perpetrated by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed on February 14, India had conducted a pinpoint and swift airstrike in a pre-dawn operation, described as "non-military" and "preemptive", against the terror group’s biggest training camp in Pakistan’s Balakot. Then Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale had said at the time that “credible intelligence was received that JeM was attempting another suicide terror attack in various parts of the country, and the fidayeen jihadis were being trained for this purpose. In the face of imminent danger, a preemptive strike became absolutely necessary.” Naidu told the informal meeting that India has been subject to cross-border terrorist attacks perpetrated by non-state actors with the active complicity of “another host state”, a clear reference to Pakistan. He stressed that exercising self-defence is a nation’s primary right when a situation demands “immediate and proportionate action” and applies also to attacks by non-state actors. “Some states are resorting to proxy war by supporting non-state actors such as terrorist groups to evade international censure. Such support to non-state actors has ranged from providing and equipping the terrorist groups with training, financing, intelligence and weapons to logistics and recruitment facilitation,” he said. India for decades has been subject to such proxy cross-border and relentless state-supported terrorist attacks from its neighbourhood, he said. "Whether it is was the 1993 Mumbai bombings, or the random and indiscriminate firings of 26/11 which witnessed the launch of the phenomenon of lone-wolves or more recently, the cowardly attacks in Pathankot and Pulwama, the world has been witness to the fact that India has repeatedly been targeted by such non-state actors with the active complicity of another host State,” Naidu said. Naidu told the meeting that exercising self-defence is a primary right of States to be exercised when the situation is imminent and “demands necessary, immediate, and proportionate action” and that customary international law has long recognised the principles governing the use of force in self-defence. He noted that Article 51 of the UN Charter is not confined to “self-defence” in response to attacks by states only. "The right of self-defence applies also to attacks by non-state actors. In fact, the source of the attack, whether a state or a non-state actor, is irrelevant to the existence of the right of self-defence.” Naidu stressed that India believes that instances where states have exercised the right of self-defense to attack non-state actors located in other states must be consistent with Article 2(4) of the UN Charter. But “preemptive actions taken to fight the menace of terrorism, even without the consent of the state hosting the non-state actors, meets this criterion because such actions are not of reprisal since their prime motive is for protecting the affected states’ national integrity and sovereignty,” he said. Article 2(4) of the UN Charter states that “all Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations.” Noting that Article 2(4) of the UN Charter requires that states refrain from the use of force, he said the drafting history of Article 51 of the UN Charter and the relevant San Francisco Conference Report of June 1945 that considered Article 2(4) of the UN Charter mentions that “the use of arms in legitimate self-defence remains admitted and unimpaired.” He added that Article 51 also explicitly acknowledges the pre-existing customary right of self-defence, as recognised by the International Court of Justice and the UN Security Council by stating that “nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/would-be-compelled-to-take-pre-emptive-strike-when-attacked-by-non-state-actor-in-3rd-state-india-at-un-955129.html
25-02-2021||National||Heirs of father of woman can inherit property under Hindu Succession Act: SC||The Supreme Court has said heirs of the father of a woman can inherit property under the Hindu Succession Act and they cannot be held as "strangers". A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy referred to Section 15(1)(d) of the Hindu Succession Act and said the heirs of the parental side of a Hindu woman are covered under persons entitled to succession of property. "A perusal of Section 15(1)(d) indicates that heirs of the father are covered in the heirs who could succeed. When heirs of the father of a female are included as person who can possibly succeed, it cannot be held that they are strangers and not the members of the family qua the female," the bench said. Section 15(1)(d) of the Hindu Succession Act relates to general rules of succession in the case of female Hindus and says that property can be inherited upon the heirs of the father. The top court said the term "family" has to be understood in a wider sense so as to include within its fold not only close relations or legal heirs but "even those persons who may have some sort of antecedent title, a semblance of a claim or even if they have a spes successionis". The judgement came in a case related to the property inherited by a woman named Jagno. She entered into a family settlement after death of her husband Sher Singh and settled the property in favour of her brothers' sons. The descendents of the brother-in-law of Jagno challenged the transfer of the property. The apex court held that in the present case, Jagno, who as a widow of Sher Singh who had died in 1953, had succeeded to half share in the agricultural land and she was the absolute owner when she entered into a settlement. "We, thus, do not find any merit in the submission of counsel for the appellants that the defendants-respondents were strangers to the family. In view of our discussions, we do not find any merit in this appeal," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heirs-of-father-of-woman-can-inherit-property-under-hindu-succession-act-sc-955135.html
25-02-2021||National||I am sure global pharma industry will support India's WTO proposal of IP waiver for Covid-19: Piyush Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday expressed hope that global pharmaceutical industry will show "big heart" and support India's proposal in the WTO for relaxing certain provisions in a multilateral agreement on intellectual property with a view to containing the Covid-19 pandemic. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organisation) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "I am sure the industry will show big heart across the world and support the TRIPS waiver that India has proposed at the WTO so that the entire world can come out of the Covid-19 pandemic much faster and bring back the 'V 'shaped recovery to the entire world," Goyal said at a FICCI webinar on pharmaceuticals. He said that the developed world is under pressure as a host of WTO members including least developed countries and African nations are supporting this proposal. On one hand, the developed countries "talk about supporting each other and multilateral fight against Covid-19 pandemic, but on the other hand, they are looking at protecting the interests of a few companies," he rued. The minister said the world is fighting the pandemic which could potentially cost USD 9 trillion to the world economy and many sectors like tourism, hospitality, and travel have collapsed. He said the proposal of India and South Africa would allow more and more countries to get equitable access to medicines and other products. The waiver, proposed by the two countries, would cover obligations in four sections of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement -- Section 1 ( copyright and related rights), Section 4 (industrial designs), Section 5 (patents) and Section 7 (protection of undisclosed information). Further Goyal also said following best standards and quality norms would help boost growth of the pharma industry. Waiver is a legal instrument provided for exceptional circumstances under the WTO, which is a Geneva-based body dealing with global trade norms and adjudicating trade disputes. Since Covid-19 pandemic is an extremely exceptional crisis, the proposed limited, temporary and proportionate waiver from certain provisions of TRIPS Agreement, is within the framework of multilateral trading system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-am-sure-global-pharma-industry-will-support-indias-wto-proposal-of-ip-waiver-for-covid-19-piyush-goyal-955137.html
25-02-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Centre not to take court's view combatively on having EIA draft in all languages||The Delhi High Court on Thursday said its view that the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) should be translated in all 22 languages in the Eight Schedule of the Constitution should not be taken so "combatively" by the central government. People in remote areas are "our citizens" who need to be heard and may not understand the draft if published only in English and Hindi, the court said. "View taken by the court should not be taken so combatively by the Union government," a special bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said to the Environment Ministry which has been against translating draft EIA in the vernacular languages. "Why are you resisting it so hard," the bench said to the ministry and asked what would be the prejudice caused to the government if objections were invited from their own citizens. The court said that people living in remote areas of the country might not understand the contents of the draft EIA if it was published only in English and Hindi. "They (people in remote areas) are our citizens. They also need to be heard," the bench said. It also said that the statutory scheme as well as principles of good governance demand that everyone should be included in the consultative process. The bench said it would be easy for the government to get the draft EIA published in all the languages and suggested that it can be ordered in the peculiar facts of the instant case i.e it would not be considered as a precedent. It asked Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma to come with instructions on the next date of hearing, March 26, on whether the draft EIA can be translated in all the 22 languages for a better consultative process. ASG Sharma, during the hearing, told the bench that translation in all 22 languages posed various administrative difficulties and the translations may not conform to the actual content of the draft EIA. He also assured the bench that the government was not being combative with regard to the court's view. The ASG further said that over 20 lakh responses have been received with regard to the draft EIA and therefore, it cannot be said that the consultative process or participation by stakeholders was skewed. The bench was hearing the government's plea seeking review of its June 30, 2020 direction to the Environment Ministry to translate the draft EIA notification in all the 22 languages within 10 days of the order and had also extended till August 11 the time for receiving remarks from the public. The order came on a PIL by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayana, seeking publication of the notification in all vernacular languages and also extension of the time to receive public comments on it. The order was initially challenged by the ministry in the Supreme Court which allowed the government to withdraw its appeal and instead file a review before the high court. The apex court also put on hold the proceedings in the contempt plea filed by Tongad for non-compliance of the June 30 direction. Subsequently, the ministry filed a plea seeking review of the June 30 order on grounds that official documents are required to be published only in Hindi and English.   Sankaranarayanan, had on January 27, told the court that while the draft has been translated in all the languages by the government, it was not publishing the same and wanted to argue on whether such translations was required under the law. The draft EIA 2020, according to Tongad's plea, provides for post facto approval of projects and does away with public consultation in some cases. The petition by Tongad had claimed that the draft EIA 2020 completely supersedes and replaces the existing environmental norms. "This draft notification proposes significant changes to the existing regime, including removing public consultation entirely in certain instances, reducing the time for public consultation from 45 days to 40 days, and allowing post facto approvals for projects," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-centre-not-to-take-courts-view-combatively-on-having-eia-draft-in-all-languages-955142.html
25-02-2021||National||OTT, social media guidelines released: Key takeaways||Union Ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar on Thursday announced the guidelines for social media and over-the-top (OTT) platforms. Addressing the press conference, Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "Social media is welcome to do business but must not overrule dignity of civilised existence." He added that several concerns have been raised over the misuse of social media platforms. Likewise, Javadekar also said that digital news portals will be held to the same standards as print media. However, he also added that media freedoms will be upheld as "Freedom of the press is the spirit of democracy." Here are the key takeaways from the press conference: 1. Prasad said that grievances on social media platforms should be addressed as early as possible. Under the new policy, social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter would have to remove flagged content as soon as possible, but not later than 36 hours after a government or legal order. 2. If there are complaints against the dignity of users, particularly women - exposed private parts of individuals or nudity or sexual act or impersonation etc - social media platforms will be required to remove that content within 24 hours and redressal within 15 days after the complaint is filed. "This is designed to respect the dignity of women and to empower ordinary users of social media," Ravi Shankar said. 3. "The government welcomes criticism and right to dissent but it is very important for the users of social media to have a forum to raise their grievance against the misuse of social media," Ravi Shankar said. 4. Social media platforms will now have to disclose the first originator of the message or tweet if the authority of the court order dictates. This refers to where the message first originated and , holding the originator accountable for its dissemination. If in an instance where the originator of the message resides or is in a country outside India, the first originator of the message in this country will be held accountable. 5. Social media platforms to have a chief compliance officer, residing in India, who will be responsible for ensuring compliance of Acts. The platforms are also required to have nodal contact person, residing in India, for coordination with law enforcement agencies.  6. Social media platforms will also be required to appoint a grievance officer, who shall register complaints withiin 24 hours. They will work in coordination with the authorities to resolve issues.  7. The laws will come into effect within three months, Ravi Shankar added.  8. Prakash Javadekar stressed that OTT platforms must self-regulate. "OTT platforms will have to have a self-regulating body, headed by retired Supreme Court or High Court judge or very eminent person in this category," he said. 9. He also announced that OTT platforms must follow self-classification for categorising content age-wise.  10. "We have decided to have a three-tier mechanism for OTT platforms. OTT and digital news media will have to disclose their details. We are not mandating registration, we are seeking information," said Javadekar.  11. Even OTT platforms and digital news portals have been asked to set up a grievance redressal system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ott-social-media-guidelines-released-key-takeaways-955157.html
25-02-2021||National||Ignoring merit in public job selection violation of Constitution: Supreme Court||Selections to public employment should be on the basis of merit and appointing people with lesser merit ignoring those who have secured more marks would be in violation of the Constitution, the Supreme Court has said. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Indira Banerjee made the observation while upholding an order of Jharkhand High Court which allowed appointment of 43 persons for post of Police Sub-Inspectors on the basis of their merit after authorities prepared a revised select list correcting the irregularities. An advertisement was issued for the appointment to the posts of Police Sub-Inspectors, Attendants (Sergeant) and Company Commanders by the Home Department of the Government of Jharkhand in 2008. The final result was published and 382 candidates were selected but later a High Level Committee was constituted by the state government to examine the irregularities in the selection process. Unsuccessful candidates filed petitions in the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi. During the pendency of the petitions in the high court, the appointments of 42 candidates made on the basis of the original select list were cancelled. As many as 43 people were appointed on the basis of the revised select list that was prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee headed by the Director General of Police, Jharkhand. The high court had observed that 43 petitioners cannot be held responsible for the irregularities committed by the authorities in the matter of their selection and there is no allegation of fraud or misrepresentation on their part. The top court rejected the plea filed by some intervenors saying that they have no right for appointment to posts beyond those advertised. "There is no doubt that selections to public employment should be on the basis of merit. Appointment of persons with lesser merit ignoring those who have secured more marks would be in violation of the Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India," the bench said in last week's judgment. It said that relief granted to 43 petitioners is mainly on the ground that they have already been appointed and have served the State for some time and they cannot be punished for no fault of theirs. "The intervenors are not similarly situated to them and they cannot seek the same relief. The other ground taken by the intervenors in the petitions before us is that relief was denied to them only on the basis of a wrong statement made on behalf of the State Government that there were no vacancies. "No doubt, the intervenors have placed on record material to show that there was no shortage of vacancies for their appointment. One of the reasons given by the High Court for not granting relief to the intervenors is lack of vacancies. However, we are not inclined to direct appointment of the intervenors as selections pertain to an advertisement issued in 2008," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ignoring-merit-in-public-job-selection-violation-of-constitution-supreme-court-955164.html
25-02-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases in India at 1,51,708, over 89 per cent of new cases from seven states: MoHFW||India's Covid-19 active cases were recorded at 1,51,708, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday, highlighting that the surge was due to rise in daily new cases in some states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. A total of 16,738 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 89.57 per cent of the new cases are from seven states. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,807. It is followed by Kerala with 4,106 cases while Punjab reported 558 new cases. The Centre has deputed high-level multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir (UT) to ascertain reasons for the surge and coordinate with the state health departments in Covid-19 control and containment measures. The Centre has also written to states and UTs to focus on undertaking aggressive measures to break the chain of transmission.  States and UTs have been advised to increase testing in a focussed manner in the affected districts with the appropriate split of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and to also ensure that all symptomatic negatives of antigen tests are compulsorily tested via RT-PCR tests.  The positive persons are to be isolated/hospitalised, all their close contacts be traced and also tested without delay. They have been advised to critical review the emerging situation on a regular basis with district officials concerned to ensure that gains made so far in Covid-19 management are not lost. The country has been witnessing a continuous decline in cumulative positivity rate. Till February 25, the cumulative positivity rate stands at 5.17 per cent. Till 7 am today, the vaccination coverage was 1,26,71,163 through 2,64,315 sessions, as per the provisional report. These include 65,47,831 healthcare workers (HCWs 1st dose), 16,16,348 HCWs (2nd dose) and 45,06,984 frontline workers (FLWs 1st dose). The 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. Vaccination of the FLWs started on 2nd Feb 2021. On Day-40 of the vaccination drive (24th February), 5,03,947 vaccine doses were given.  Out of which, 2,87,032 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 9,959 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 2,16,915 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. Out of total 1,26,71,163 vaccine doses, 1,10,54,815 (HCWs and FLWs) have received 1st dose of vaccine and total 16,16,348 HCWs have received the 2nd dose of vaccine. Eight states account for more than 56 per cent of the total vaccine doses. Each of them has administered more than 6 lakh doses. Uttar Pradesh have vaccinated 9.68 per cent of the total doses (12,26,775).  Eight states account for 61 per cent of the total second vaccine doses. Karnataka vaccinated maximum number of HCWs for second dose i.e. 11.08% (1,79,124). Twelve states and UTs have administered second vaccine dose to more than 80 per cent of the eligible HCWs. These are Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Nagaland, D&D, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep, Kerala, Gujarat, Tripura, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Sikkim.  Ten states and UTs have vaccinated more than 60 per cent of registered FLWs. These are D&N, Rajasthan, Lakshadweep, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,07,38,50. "The gap between total recovered cases and the active cases is constantly rising and stands at 10,586,793 today. A total of 11,799 recoveries were registered in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-in-india-at-151708-over-89-per-cent-of-new-cases-from-seven-states-mohfw-955169.html
25-02-2021||National||Centre lays down rules for social media, OTT, digital news portals||Seeking to tighten its grip, the government on Thursday announced guidelines to regulate social media, online streaming platforms and digital news portals by asking them to set up grievance redressal mechanisms. Contending that the government was adopting a “soft-touch regulatory approach”, Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said social media companies, OTT platforms and digital media will have to set up a grievance redressal mechanism for ordinary users and timely resolution. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, unveiled on Thursday, were necessary as the government had received several complaints raising concerns over the “rampant abuse of social media platforms”. “Social media platforms, upon being asked either by court order or by a government authority will be required to disclose the first originator of a mischievous tweet or a message,” he said.  However, such information would be required to be furnished only in cases that have punishments of five years' imprisonment and above under the law, he said. “This should be only in relation to sovereignty & integrity of India, the security of the state, public order, relations with foreign states, or rape, sexually explicit content etc,” Prasad said. Digital media will have to follow norms of journalistic conduct of the Press Council of India and the programme code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. “We are only providing a level-playing field between offline and digital media,” the minister said adding that the government was not assuming any additional powers. OTT platforms would be required self-classify content into five age-based categories – U (Universal), U/A 7+, U/A 13+, U/A 16+, and A (Adult) and implement parental locks for content classified as U/A 13+ or higher. The rules also mandate such platforms to put in place “reliable age-verification mechanisms for content classified as 'A'. For OTT platforms and digital media, the first two tiers would be self-regulatory while the third tier would involve an oversight mechanism that would involve establishing an inter-departmental committee for hearing grievances. The rules state a publisher will have to appoint a grievance redressal officer, based in India, who will be responsible for the redressal of grievances received by it. The officer will take a decision on every grievance received by it within 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-lays-down-rules-for-social-media-ott-digital-news-portals-955178.html
25-02-2021||National||UK court orders Nirav Modi's extradition to India, says he conspired to destroy evidence||Nirav Modi, the diamond merchant wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, on Thursday lost his legal battle against extradition as a UK judge ruled that he does have a case to answer before the Indian courts. The 49-year-old appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London and showed no emotion as District Judge Samuel Goozee handed down his judgment at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London. “I am satisfied on the evidence that a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering is established,” said Judge Goozee, as he read out parts of his judgment in court and concluded that he will send his ruling to the UK's Secretary of State, Priti Patel. It is the Cabinet minister who is authorised to order an extradition under the India-UK Extradition Treaty and has two months within which to make that decision. The Home Secretary’s order rarely goes against the court’s conclusions, as she has to consider only some very narrow bars to extradition which are unlikely to apply in this case, including the possible imposition of a death penalty. Whatever the ministerial decision, the losing side – Nirav Modi – has up to 14 days within which to approach the High Court and seek leave to appeal after the Home Secretary’s decision. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London. Nirav Modi was arrested on an extradition warrant on March 19, 2019, and has appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison for a series of court hearings in the extradition case. His multiple attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down, both at the Magistrates’ and High Court level, as he was deemed a flight risk. Nirav Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-court-orders-nirav-modis-extradition-to-india-says-he-conspired-to-destroy-evidence-955185.html
25-02-2021||National||Co-accused in Nodeep Kaur case has injuries: Medical report||A medical examination of a co-accused with Nodeep Kaur in a criminal case conducted by Chandigarh-based Government Medical College and Hospital has found two fractures on his hand and foot and some broken nail beds on his toe caused by a "blunt object". Shiv Kumar, president of Majdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, was held a few days after the arrest of labour rights activist Kaur. Kaur was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12. Kumar is a co-accused with Nodeep Kaur in a criminal case registered by Sonipat police. The Punjab and Haryana High Court on February 19 had directed Superintendent, Sonipat Jail to get the medical examination of Kumar conducted by the GMCH after Kumar's father alleged that his son was brutally tortured by Sonipat police. According to a GMCH medical report submitted in the high court on Wednesday, "All the injuries were more than two weeks old and were caused by blunt object/weapon." "There is a fracture distal phalanx of the second digit of left hand. Fracture of base of 5th Metatarsal bone of right foot," the report said. Among injuries, four of the injuries were simple in nature and two were of grievous nature, as per the report. "Right foot swelling present and tender to touch….Swelling and tenderness on left foot. Nail beds of right 2nd and 3rd toe are broken and underlying skin in reddish in colour and showing healing changes. The left big toe shows blackish discolouration. Nails of left thumb and index finger shows bluish-black discolouration with tenderness," it said. According to a psychiatric evaluation of Kumar, he appeared sad and distressed with occasional crying spells. "He expressed a preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feeling of loneliness, uncertainty about future," it said. "Overall, evaluation is suggestive of post-traumatic stress disorder like symptoms," as per the report. According to 24-year-old Kumar, who provided information about his case to the five-member medical board of GMCH formed for his medical examination, he was picked up on January 16 from a protest site at Kundli and was taken to old Kacheri, Sonipat where the CI (police) staff assaulted him. "They tied both his feet, lay him on the ground and hit him on the soles. His 2nd, 3rd and 5th toenails of the right foot were torn and the nail of the big toe of the left foot became blue. They also hit him on the buttocks with flat sticks. Then they tied his hands and stretched his legs," the medical board report said quoting allegations made by Kumar. "He was made to lie on the ground with both legs straight and a metal pipe was placed on his thigh and rolled over the thighs by two people. They also hit him on both hands and palms and also on the back of his head. He was not allowed to sleep for three days. "The CI staff took his statement and asked him to give names and when he could not do so, they tied him to a chair and poured water to his head. He was mentally and physically abused in the police remand and they also poured hot water on his feet and any blisters that formed were burst by them," it was alleged. However, senior police officials were not immediately available for comment on Kumar's allegations. Meanwhile, the Haryana Police has refuted charges of labour rights activist Kaur of being physically assaulted while accusing her of extorting money from industrialists. In a status report submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday, the Haryana Police has described the accusations levelled against it as "baseless". The report was submitted in a matter pertaining to Kaur's alleged illegal confinement, of which the high court had earlier taken suo motu cognizance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-accused-in-nodeep-kaur-case-has-injuries-medical-report-955186.html
25-02-2021||National||RSS chief advocates 'Akhand Bharat', says Pakistan in distress ever since partitioned from India||Advocating the need for"Akhand Bharat" (undivided India), RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday said countries such as Pakistan which broke away from India are now in distress. Speaking at a book launch here, Bhagwat said "Akhand Bharat" is possible through "Hindu Dharma" but not through force. "There is a need to make glorious"Akhand Bharat" for the welfare of the universe. That's why there is a need to awaken patriotism....as truncated India has a need to be united (once again), all the divided parts of India which no longer call themselves as India, they need more," he said. Stressing that the concept of"Akhand Bharat" is possible, Bhagwat said some people had expressed serious doubts before the partition of the country whether it would be divided, but it happened. "If you ask six months before the partition of this country, nobody would have guessed. People asked Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru that there was a new topic coming up about the formation of Pakistan." "What is it? (Replying to that) he said that it (the partition) was a dream of fools," the RSS chief said. According to him, Lord Wavell (during British rule) also said in British Parliament that God has made India one and who is going to divide it. "But ultimately it (partition) happened. What seemed to be impossible happened, so it cannot be ruled out that "Akhand Bharat" which may seem to be impossible, will not happen..because, there is a need for Akhand Bharat," he said. Bhagwat said separated regions of India which don't call themselves as Bharat any longer, for them it is much more a necessity of reuniting with "Bharat". According to him, there is unhappiness in the terrains of "Akhand Bharat" which now do not call themselves as Bharat. "There is unhappiness.They did all they could, but did not find any remedy.And remedy is only one which is reunification (with Bharat) and all their problems will get resolved." "We talk of uniting them, not to suppress them.When we talk of "Akhand Bharat" our intention is not with power (to achieve it) but to unite through dharma which is 'Sanatan' (eternal) which is humanity's dharma and of the entire world and today it is called as Hindu dharma," the RSS chief said. "Gandhar became Afghanistan. Is there peace and tranquility in Afghanistan since then? Pakistan was formed. From that date till now is there peace and tranquility?" he asked. He said India has the endurance to overcome several challenges and the world looks towards it to overcome difficulties. With "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" (world is one family) belief, India can again offer happiness and peace to the world, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-chief-advocates-akhand-bharat-says-pakistan-in-distress-ever-since-partitioned-from-india-955191.html
25-02-2021||National||Congress joined hands with Ajmal for 'lust for power': Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday attacked the Congress for joining forces with Badruddin Ajmal's AIUDF in Assam because of its "lust for power". The Congress' "greed" to capture power in the state will remain unfulfilled and the BJP along with its ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which symbolises Assamese identity, will win the assembly polls with a two-thirds majority, Shah told a public rally at Borduwa, the birthplace of Srimanta Sankardeva, the 15-16th century saint, scholar and religious reformer, in Nagaon district. "The Congress talks about providing security when it is joining hands with Ajmal. It's ony because of its lust for power that it has joined hands with Ajmal. "The party did nothing to free Assam from violence and infiltration despite having a prime minister who was elected from the state," he said, referring to Manmohan Singh who is a Rajya Sabha member from Assam. Lok Sabha MP Ajmal's All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) wield's considerable influence among Bengali speaking Assamese Muslims. Enumerating various schemes that the Modi government has launched for Assam, Shah said people will weigh the measures undertaken by it in seven years against those by the Congress over 70 years in the upcoming polls. Shah also accused the parties formed in the aftermath of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests of "helping the Congress which used bullets to suppress the Assam agitation against foreigners". He said these parties were formed so they could chip away at BJP's votes and help the Congress but they will not succeed. Congress leaders are sighted in the state only during elections and later get busy making rounds of the corridors of power in New Delhi to fulfil their vested interests, he alleged. Prime Minister Modi will never turn his back on Assam and the North East, and will go to any extent to make the region a growth engine of the country, he said. It is with this intention that Modi visited different states of the North East at least 35 times during the last five years, Shah said. "The prime minister wants to take the region forward on the path of progress and make it free from corruption, violence and infiltration," he asserted. The home minister extolled Srimanta Sankardeva for his role in unifying Assam with the rest of the country more than 500 years ago which prompted Mahatma Gandhi to remark that it was he who initiated 'Ram Rajya' in the state. "The spirit will be rekindled," he said. Shah had, during an earlier visit to Guwahati on December 26 last year, remotely laid the foundation stone for the development and beautification of Batadrava Than at Borduwa, the birth place Sankardeva at an estimated cost of Rs 188 crore. The Than, a Vaishnavite monastery, is being developed as a centre of art, culture, research and spirituality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-joined-hands-with-ajmal-for-lust-for-power-amit-shah-955192.html
25-02-2021||National||Indian Newspaper Society asks Google to pay Indian publishers for use of news content||Indian Newspaper Society has asked Google, the global information search engine, to compensate Indian newspaper publishers comprehensively for the using content published by the newspapers, and share its advertising revenues properly. In a letter to Google India Country Manager Sanjay Gupta, Indian Newspaper Society (INS) President L Adimoolam demanded that Google should pay for news generated by the newspapers which employ thousands of journalists on the ground, at considerable expense, for gathering and verifying information. Since the content which is generated and published by newspapers at a considerable expense is proprietary, the Society noted that it is this credible content that has given Google authenticity in India ever since its inception. Pointing out that publishers have been providing complete access to "quality journalism with credible news, current affairs, analysis, information and entertainment", INS said there is a huge distinction between the editorial content from quality publications and fake news that is spreading on other information platforms. The Society said that, over the past year, publishers across the world have been raising the issue of fair payment for content and of proper sharing of advertising revenue with Google. INS noted that Google has recently agreed to better compensate and pay publishers in France, the European Union and notably in Australia. Publishers are also facing a very opaque advertising system, as they are unable to get details of Google's advertising value chain. The INS insisted that Google should increase the publisher share of advertising revenue to 85 per cent, and also ensure more transparency in the revenue reports provided to publishers by Google. Noting that the INS has been engaged in discussions with Google on these vital issues, the letter reiterated that "Indian print media is the most credible source of news and information in the country, and newspapers play a vital role in nation-building. However, the pandemic and the current digital business model have been unfair to publishers, making it unviable for the print media industry. We invest heavily on journalism, the core of our news operations, because newspapers play a vital role in society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-newspaper-society-asks-google-to-pay-indian-publishers-for-use-of-news-content-955194.html
25-02-2021||National||Indian expats in UAE seek exemption from self-paid Covid tests on arrival in India||Indian expats in the UAE are seeking exemption from the self-paid Covid-19 tests for passengers on their arrival in India, saying it would be an added burden for those returning home after losing their jobs during the ongoing pandemic, according to a media report. In a plea, the expats have urged the Indian government to fund the RT-PCR test on arrival in India and exemption for children below 12 years from getting tested twice- in the UAE and India. Various community groups and social workers have supported the plea, the Gulf News reported. India has since February 23 made it mandatory for passengers to produce the negative report of the RT-PCR tests taken within 72 hours before their departure to India. The passengers are also required to undergo self-paid confirmatory molecular test on arrival in India. The on-arrival test cost would be an additional burden for several Indian families flying home, Ashraf Thamarassery, a prominent social worker and winner of India’s Pravasi Bharatiya Samman Award for NRIs, said. “There are many people, who have lost jobs, flying back home. There are families with four or five members leaving the UAE. Also, how can people, who are leaving after staying without any documents and financial cases, pay this amount? Those who came on visit visa looking for jobs will also be affected,” Thamarassery was quoted as saying in the report. He said the Indian government should urgently address the issue and help fund the tests. He said that the people coming to the UAE are also tested on arrival but the government is bearing the cost of testing passengers of all nationalities. K V Shamsudheen, who runs Sharjah-based Pravasi Bandhu Welafre Trust, said he has written a letter to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to stop the “self-paid” test on arrival. Meanwhile, some expats are even delaying their journey to India hoping that the government would revise the rules, the news report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-expats-in-uae-seek-exemption-from-self-paid-covid-tests-on-arrival-in-india-955204.html
25-02-2021||National||Crime has increased by 100% in Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav quotes NCRB to put Nitish on the mat||“The present Government which blows its own trumpet and spreads falsehood about good governance has been thoroughly exposed,” tweeted the RJD leader in Hindi. In a separate tweet, Tejashwi, the former Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, questioned Nitish how the liquor mafia dared to kill a police official and injure his colleague. “These liquor mafia, who have direct access to you, have shown the audacity to kill a police officer. Where and how do they get so much of strength that they kill a cop in an encounter?” blasted Tejashwi in another Hindi tweet. Tejashwi quoted NCRB report to buttress his point that those who have accused the previous RJD regime as ‘Jungle Raj’ have been presently presiding over ‘Maha Jungle Raj’ as crime figure (97,850 cases in 2005) has doubled (1,96,911) by 2018. “Nowadays, elected representatives and journalists who question the Government are also harassed by officials,” said Tejashwi, while speaking to mediamen on the Assembly premises. He cited the case of CPI-ML Mehboob Alam who had a scuffle with a police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crime-has-increased-by-100-in-bihar-tejashwi-yadav-quotes-ncrb-to-put-nitish-on-the-mat-955205.html
25-02-2021||National||UP CM Yogi Adityanath heads to West Bengal to campaign for BJP ahead of Assembly polls||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is all set to further sharpen the 'Hindutva plank' of the BJP in the forthcoming assembly poll in West Bengal to wrest power from the TMC. Adityanath, who was among the star campaigners of the BJP, is likely to address over a dozen election rallies in the poll-bound state, according to the BJP leaders here. BJP sources said that the UP chief minister, considered to be a 'Hindutva icon', was among the most sought leader of the saffron party in the West Bengal assembly poll. Sources said that Adityanath would be addressing a public meeting in the Muslim-dominated Malda district in the poll-bound state on Tuesday. He would also be taking part in the saffron party's Poribortan Yatra' (march for the change) there. The UP chief minister would be campaigning extensively in the West Bengal assembly poll. ''He may well address over a dozen election rallies there,'' said a BJP leader. UP BJP leaders said that a large number of people, especially from the eastern region, from the state lived in West Bengal. ''Adityanath will be useful in garnering the support of these people in favour of the BJP,'' said a senior party leader here. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Mamata Banerjee government had denied permission for the landing of Adityanath's chopper in the state. Saffron clad Adityanath, who is also the 'mahant' (religious head) of the famous Gorakhnath Temple, would also be campaigning in Kerala and the other poll-bound states. He had recently taken part in BJP sponsored 'yatras' in the southern state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-heads-to-west-bengal-to-campaign-for-bjp-ahead-of-assembly-polls-955216.html
25-02-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates various projects in Tamil Nadu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated to the nation key projects in Tamil Nadu, including the 2x500 mw Neyveli new thermal power plant, and laid the foundation stone for important initiatives in the state. The Neyveli project is a lignite based power plant designed for power generation capacity of 1000 MW with two units of 500 MW capacity each. The prime minister also inaugurated virtually a 709 MW solar power project of NLCIL and over 4,000 tenements in Tiruppur, Madurai and Tiruchirappalli, at an event attended by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam. Modi also laid the foundation stone for the extension, renovation and modernisation of Lower Bhavani Project System.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-various-projects-in-tamil-nadu-955224.html
25-02-2021||National||ISRO completes launch rehearsal of PSLV-C51 mission, two satellites drop out||The Indian Space Research Organisation on Thursday completed launch rehearsal of the PSLV-C51 mission slated for February 28. India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C51) is scheduled to launch Brazil's Amazonia-1 as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger satellites from first launch pad of Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR, Sriharkota, about 100 km from Chennai, at 10.24 am on Sunday. The Bengaluru-headquartered space agency had announced on February 5 that there would be 20 co-passenger satellites. Indian Space start-up Pixxel announced two days ago that due to "certain software issues" its first satellite 'Anand' would no longer be part of the payload on board the PSLV-C51 rocket. And on Thursday ISRO confirmed that its nano satellite INS-2DT will also be not part of the mission. "INS-2TD also faced some technical issues and could not make it to this flight, PSLV-C51," Chairman and Managing Director of ISRO's commercial arm NewSpace India Limited (NSIL) G Narayanan told PTI. PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission is the first dedicated PSLV commercial mission for NSIL, which is undertaking it under a commercial arrangement with Seattle, US-based satellite rideshare and mission management provider, Spaceflight Inc. PSLV-C51 will use 'DL' variant of PSLV equipped with two solid strap-on boosters, according to ISRO. The 637-kg Amazonia-1 is a optical earth observation satellite. The 18 co-passenger satellites are: four from IN- SPACe (three UNITYsats from consortium of three Indian academic institutes and one Satish Dhawan Sat from Space Kidz India) and 14 from NSIL. IN-SPACe (Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre) is an independent nodal agency under Department of Space (DoS) for allowing space activities and usage of DoS-owned facilities by NGPEs (Non-Government- Private-Entities) as well as to prioritise the launch manifest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-completes-launch-rehearsal-of-pslv-c51-mission-two-satellites-drop-out-955231.html
25-02-2021||National||Direct Education Ministry to withdraw memorandum: Mamata writes to PM Modi||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to direct the Ministry of Education to immediately withdraw its revised guidelines which stipulated state-aided universities to get prior consent from the ministry for holding global conferences. Publicly-funded universities will have to get the prior consent of the ministry if they want to hold online global conferences on issues pertaining to the security of the country or matters directly "related to India's internal matters", the ministry said on January 15. Banerjee said the revised guidelines have put several restrictions in respect of holding online/virtual international conferences/seminars/training even for state-aided universities. She also alleged that state governments were not consulted before the issuance of the memorandum. In the letter to PM Modi, Banerjee wrote, "Our universities must enjoy the highest possible degree of self-governance and freedom. "Knowledge is neither created by nor belongs to any single country and community. Reasonable regulations and restrictions are understandable. However, the restrictions imposed by the office memorandum under reference, further highlights the intention of the government of India towards centralisation of the higher education system in our country." Highlighting that digital platforms have become a boon for teachers and students in rural areas, small towns and cities, Banerjee said, "It will not be out of place to mention that education is in the Concurrent list of Constitution and any non-consultation by the government of India with the state governments before issuing any such instructions to the educational institutions will be against the spirit of the federal structure." Any such communication will only be viewed as an example of "contempt of constitutional powers of the states", Banerjee said. The state governments are duly empowered under law to deal with any act committed by any educational institution which violates any law or is contrary to the interest of national security, Banerjee said in her letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/direct-education-ministry-to-withdraw-memorandum-mamata-writes-to-pm-modi-955232.html
25-02-2021||National||Motera stadium: Sitaram Yechury joins meme fest, says it's a 'pawri' of cronies||Jumping on the 'pawri ho rahi hai' bandwagon, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday used the trending meme to mock the Centre's explanation for renaming a cricket stadium in Gujarat after Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying it was a "pawri (party) of cronies". Soon after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the refurbished Sardar Patel cricket stadium, which will be known as 'Narendra Modi Stadium', in Ahmedabad on Wednesday, social media was flooded with remarks including by some leaders of the Congress and other opposition parties who alleged that the renaming exercise amounted to an "insult" to Sardar Patel. However, the government said the name change involves only the Motera stadium and the sports complex where it is located will continue to be named after Sardar Patel. "Yeh Narendra Modi Stadium hai, yeh iske do Ends hain...aur yeh cronies ki pawri ho rahi hai (This is the Narendra Modi Stadium, these are its two ends...and a party of cronies is going on)," Yechury said in a tweet, sharing a picture which showed the names of two bowling ends of the stadium -- "Reliance" and "Adani". 'Pawri ho rahi hai' began trending began after a video of Pakistani Instagram influencer and content creator Dananeer Mobeen, wherein she is seen enjoying with her friends, went viral early this month. In the short video clip, Mobeen is heard saying, "Ye humari car hai, ye hum hain, aur ye humari pawri ho rahi hai (This is our car, this is us and this is our party going on)." Spread over 63 acres, the Narendra Modi Stadium is the world's largest cricket arena that can accommodate 1.32 lakh spectators. It has been built at an estimated cost of Rs 800 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/motera-stadium-sitaram-yechury-joins-meme-fest-says-its-a-pawri-of-cronies-955235.html
25-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Government brings in regulations for social media, OTT platforms||In your evening news brief, Government brings in regulations for social media and OTT; Nirav lost his legal battle against extradition, and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani says that his government will bring in a law against ‘love jihad’.  Here is the top news of February 25, 2021:   The government on Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firm like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country.   The government on Thursday announced new rules to curb misuse of social media platforms, as it mandated firms to appoint grievance officer, disclose the first originator of mischievous information and remove, within 24 hours, content depicting nudity or morphed pictures of women. Concerns have been raised about rampant abuse of social media platforms and spread of fake news and the government is bringing in a "soft touch" regulation, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said while announcing the new guidelines.   UK Extradition judge ruled that Nirav Modi conspired to destroy evidence and intimidate witnesses. UK Extradition judge ruled that fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi has a case to answer for in India. Nirav lost his legal battle against extradition as a UK judge ruled that he does have a case to answer before the Indian courts.   Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday said at an election rally that his government will bring in a law against "love jihad" to stop the "kidnapping" and conversion of Hindu girls. Speaking at Godhra in Panchmahal district, Rupani reiterated the government's intention to table the legislation in the coming budget session of the state Assembly. BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have enacted laws to penalise `fraudulent conversions' to stop what party leaders term as "love Jihad" or an alleged conspiracy to convert Hindu women through marriage. Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-government-brings-in-regulations-for-social-media-ott-platforms-955238.html
25-02-2021||National||Recognising same-sex marriage may cause havoc with personal laws, Centre to Delhi HC||The Union government has opposed before the Delhi High Court a plea for registration of marriage between a same-sex couple, saying no fundamental right can be claimed for it as "marriage" is essentially a socially recognised union of two individuals, governed either by personal laws or codified statutory laws. In a 50-page affidavit, the Centre said in view of larger statutory framework, there existed a legitimate state interest in limiting the legal recognition of marriage to persons of opposite sexes only. "By and large the institution of marriage has a sanctity attached to it and in major parts of the country, it is regarded as a sacrament. In our country, despite statutory recognition of the relationship of marriage between a biological man and a biological woman, marriage necessarily depends upon age-old customs, rituals, practices, cultural ethos and societal values,” it said. The government further said living together as partners and having a sexual relationship by same-sex individuals (which is decriminalised now) is not comparable with the Indian family unit concept of a husband (man), a wife (woman) and children. It maintained that any interference in the matter would cause complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws in the country. Responding to a PIL by activist Abhijit Iyer Mitra and others, the Centre said the acceptance of the institution of marriage between two individuals of the same-gender is neither recognised nor accepted in any uncodified personal laws or statutory laws. It said the petitioners sought to re-write the legislative text and intent governing marriage and other ancillary issues. It also said whether a relationship be formalised by way of a legal recognition of marriage is essentially a question to be decided by the legislature and can never be a subject matter of judicial adjudication. Actually, it is for the legislature to judge and enforce societal morality and public acceptance based upon Indian ethos. The government said marriage between a biological man and a woman takes place either under the personal laws or codified laws namely, the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, the Christian Marriage Act, 1872, the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936 or the Special Marriage Act, 1954 or the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969. Further, the parties entering into marriage creates a social institution having its own public significance from which several rights and liabilities flow. "Family issues are far beyond mere recognition and registration of marriage between persons belonging to the same-gender," it pointed out. Maintaining that western decisions sans any basis in Indian constitutional law jurisprudence, cannot be imported in this context, the government said marriage as a union between a "man" and a "woman" is intrinsically linked to the heterogeneous institution of marriage and acceptance by the Indian society based upon its own cultural and societal values recognised by the competent legislature. Asserting that the principles of legitimate state interest as an exception to life and liberty under Article 21 would apply to the present case, the government said observations of the Supreme Court in Puttaswamy case (right to privacy) and Navtej Singh Johar (decriminalisation of Section 377 IPC) may not be treated as conferring a fundamental right of being recognised in a marriage under laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recognising-same-sex-marriage-may-cause-havoc-with-personal-laws-centre-to-delhi-hc-955247.html
25-02-2021||National||Supreme Court declines to consider plea against online voting in SCBA polls||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a plea by an advocate for secret ballot in forthcoming poll for office bearers for the SC Bar Association on February 27, saying a voter cannot claim violation of fundamental right in online polls due to Covid-19 pandemic.  Advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav sought a direction to conduct the election strictly by way of secret ballot in physical form adhering to the by-laws of the SCBA. A bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman and B R Gavai, however, asked Yadav to withdraw his petition.  During the course of the hearing, the bench asked the petitioner as to how Article 32 petition was maintainable. To this, the petitioner replied, a 1995 Constitution bench judgment regarding the Bar Association said this.  "You are a voter here. There is no fundamental right violation," the bench said.  The election for office bearers of the SCBA is scheduled on February 27, Saturday, after the AIIMS New Delhi, opined for conducting the election through virtual mode, citing the "probability of spread of Covid-19 in large congregation." Yadav questioned the mechanism used by the agency to identify the real voter or to ensure no proxy voting would be done. He also said the members of the SCBA were not ready to adapt to the virtual or hybrid method of elections as most of the lawyers have gone back to their respective native places. "There is a remote possibility to access to the internet and the virtual mode of elections is not practical and if they don’t vote, their valuable right will be vanished," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-against-online-voting-in-scba-polls-955250.html
25-02-2021||National||PM Modi to deliver inaugural address at Khelo India Winter Games opening ceremony||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at the opening ceremony of the second Khelo India Winter Games to be held at Gulmarg in north Kashmir from February 26 to March 2. Modi will attend the inauguration of the five-day long event via video conferencing on Friday, the Press Information Bureau said in a statement. The event is being organised by the Sports Ministry in collaboration with the J&K Sports Council and the Winter Games Association of J&K. The disciplines that will feature in it include alpine skiing, nordic ski, snowboarding, ski mountaineering, ice hockey, and ice skating among others. A total of 27 states, Union Territories and boards will be participating in the games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-deliver-inaugural-address-at-khelo-india-winter-games-opening-ceremony-955256.html
25-02-2021||National||PM Modi underlines support for farmers; says NDA aims to ensure their dignity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday sought to underline his government's commitment for the farmers, saying it has strived to ensure their prosperity and dignity without any dependence on middlemen. In a statement that comes amid the sustained protests by farmers outside Delhi for nearly four months opposing the new Central farm laws, he said the NDA also wanted to bring a paradigm shift in the agricultural sector. For years, small businessmen and small farmers were ignored but the "NDA government has given topmost priority to these two sections," he said in his address at a public meeting in this western town of poll-bound Tamil Nadu. "It has been our honour to work for the small farmer of India. In the past seven years our efforts for small farmers are aimed at giving them a life of prosperity and dignity," he said. With the launch of initiatives, including soil health cards, the government wanted to bring a paradigm shift in the agriculture sector, he said. Taking a swipe at the DMK-Congress combine in Tamil Nadu, Modi said their "meetings are like corruption hackathons" where "their leaders sit and discuss on how to loot." The NDA's governance was one with compassion while the opposition's was "misgovernance with corruption," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-underlines-support-for-farmers-says-nda-aims-to-ensure-their-dignity-955265.html
25-02-2021||National||Rs 80 lakh-crore public money at risk if PSBs are privatised: UFBU||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi signalled a move to privatise PSU banks, the United Forum of Banking Unions (UFBU), the apex bank employees union, claimed that Rs 80 lakh crore hard-earned money belonging to the people is at stake. “Today, Indian banks are facing biggest challenge of Non-Performing Assets in which share of corporate is more than 70% who are daydreaming to be the owner of those public sector banks, and it is most unfortunate that Prime Minister is facilitating it,” UFBU Convenor Devidas Tuljapurkar said. According to him, it may prove to be disastrous since it will put more than 80 lakh crore hard earned savings of the common man at risk. He also said that under the banner of UFBU, bank employees will undertake a two-day strike on 15-16 March. “India is still confronted by poverty, unemployment, hunger, there is acute economic disparity and geographical imbalances. There is a need to implement social sector lending schemes in which the private sector banks hardly contribute,” said Tuljapurkar. He pointed out that in the implementation of the Jan Dhan Scheme, the share of private sector banks is less than 5 per cent and its share is insignificant for other schemes like Mudra, Swadhan, Stand UP India, Make In India, etc. which are intended for employment generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-80-lakh-crore-public-money-at-risk-if-psbs-are-privatised-ufbu-955279.html
25-02-2021||National||Nirav Modi extradition: Now for UK minister Priti Patel to sign off||A UK court ruling on Thursday that Nirav Modi does have a case to answer before the Indian courts in relation to the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case clears the legal pathway to the diamond merchant's extradition, with the Westminster Magistrates’ Court judgment now making its way to the desk of British Home Secretary Priti Patel for a sign off. India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after considering a number of further issues. Under the provisions of the act, the Secretary of State must consider the possible imposition of the death penalty, in which case extradition cannot be ordered; the rule of specialty, which prohibits a person being dealt with in the requesting state for matters other than those referenced in the extradition request; and whether or not the person was in the UK following extradition from another state, in which case that states permission must be obtained before extraditing to a third state. If these factors do not prevent extradition, the minister must order extradition within two months of the day on which the District Judge referred his decision to the Secretary of State, in this case by the end of April. The Home Secretary's order rarely goes against the court’s conclusions, as she has to consider only these very narrow bars to extradition which are unlikely to apply in Modi's case. However, as witnessed in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya – who remains on bail in the UK while a "confidential" matter, believed to relate to an asylum request, is resolved – there is still some way to go before Modi can be formally moved from Wandsworth Prison in London to Barrack 12 Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and face trial in India. The ministerial decision aside, the judge has informed Modi of his right to seek an appeal in the High Court and has up to 14 days to make that application after the Home Secretary has made her decision known. Any appeal, if granted, will be heard at the Administrative Division of the High Court in London. It is also possible to appeal to the UK Supreme Court but this is only possible if the High Court certifies that the appeal involves a point of law of general public importance, and either the High Court or the Supreme Court gives leave for the appeal to be made. Modi's legal team did not immediately confirm if he intends to appeal against Thursday’s ruling in the High Court and he will remain behind bars at Wandsworth Prison on judicial remand until the next stage in the legal process. Meanwhile, Indian-origin minister Priti Patel has a number of matters related to Indian economic offenders adding up – with Mallya’s case yet to be fully resolved and that of accused arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari set to begin its magistrates’ court journey from April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-extradition-now-for-uk-minister-priti-patel-to-sign-off-955280.html
25-02-2021||National||No territory conceded under disengagement pact with China: MEA||India on Thursday said it has not conceded any territory as part of the disengagement agreement with China and asserted that it has rather enforced observance of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to prevent any unilateral change in the status quo. At an online media briefing here, Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there has not been any change in India's position on the LAC and the mutual redeployment as a result of the disengagement process should not be misrepresented. Asked about the recent agreement on the de-escalation process in Ladakh's Pangong Lake area, he said the factual position has been very well conveyed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and in a Defence Ministry statement, which he said was aimed at setting the record straight in view of certain misleading and misinformed comments that appeared in the media. "... India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and it has prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," Srivastava said. Last week, armies of the two countries which have been locked in a standoff in eastern Ladakh concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. However, issues still remain. During the talks, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas like Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to bring down tension in the region. To a question on a court ruling in the UK on fugitive businessman Nirav Modi's extradition, Srivastava said the government will liaise with the British authorities for his early extradition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-territory-conceded-under-disengagement-pact-with-china-mea-955292.html
25-02-2021||National||Centre's regulations on social media evoke divergent views from legal experts||The government's new regulations for social media platforms and OTT players Thursday evoked divergent responses from legal experts with one section saying these would be valid till they contain reasonable restrictions while some opposed on grounds of infringement of privacy and free speech under the Constitution. The Centre Thursday announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The regulations also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country. While senior advocate Ajit Sinha said if the restrictions were reasonable, then the rules can be imposed, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy said it will impact the privacy rights and the freedom of press. Sinha, however, added that the prima facie view is that these social media platforms will be governed by the Indian law and the government will have the power to regulate. "The social media rules will be valid till the time they contain reasonable restrictions under Article 19 (freedom of speech and expression). If the restrictions are reasonable then certainly the rules can be imposed". "The prima facie view is that now these social media platforms will be governed by the Indian law...and the government will have the power to regulate... Unreasonable restrictions, if any, in the rules can be the only factor which can be used to challenge them in the court of law," Sinha said. Guruswamy raised the question as to how bureaucrats can decide what the contents of OTT platforms be and the courts are there to hear such concerns. She said end-to-end encryption provided by the platforms to protect privacy of the users would end by forcing to reveal the identity of the originator of the content. "The new Information Technology Rules, 2021, seek to regulate social media intermediaries like WhatsApp and Signal. By forcing the identity of the originator to be disclosed, this will burden end to end encryption facility that is provided by these platforms. This will impact privacy, speech, express and conscience rights under the Constitution," Guruswamy said. She further said the rules also forced the OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime to be subjected to oversight by the government, which will impact artistic creativity and expression.  "Who are bureaucrats to decide what the content should be? The courts are already there at present to hear concerns. Finally, the rules by seeking to regulate digital media will hurt freedom of press.  "How can you regulate the press by the IT Act? This has not happened before. What happens to freedom of press, speech expression," she added. Welcoming the regulations, advocate Mrinal Bharti said freedom of speech was of paramount importance but it also entailed responsibility and accountability.  "It's a welcome step to regulate this platform. Freedom of speech is of paramount importance but it also entails responsibility and accountability. These rules place importance on self governance and ensure a grievance redressal mechanism.  "Since, misinformation and misuse needs to be controlled, these rules will pave the way for it. However, it will be interesting to watch how this unfolds," Bharti said.  Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and lawyer Vrinda Grover did not offer their views, saying they would react after going through the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-regulations-on-social-media-evoke-divergent-views-from-legal-experts-955294.html
25-02-2021||National||British had policy of divide and rule, Congress party believes in divide, lie and rule: PM Modi||Kickstarting the BJP's election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday mounted a blistering attack on the Congress and DMK, saying their meetings are like "corruption hackathons" where their leaders sit and 'brainstorm' on how to loot. Hitting out at the opposition, he said while its style of politics was "misgovernance with corruption" that of NDA was "governance with compassion" which would deliver. At Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, he started his speech with the "Vetrivel Veeravel" cry dedicated to Tamil deity Lord Muruga and harped on Tamil pride, praising its culture. In two government events in the respective cities, he also recited couplets from Tamil classic Tirukkural. In separate public meetings in Coimbatore and neighbouring union territory of Puducherry, the Prime Minister latched on to dynasty politics and charged both DMK and Congress with trying to "launch and relaunch" their first families with no success. He said both parties are suffering from internal contradictions. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi came under attack for his recent 'north-south' remarks, with the PM accusing the party leaders of "putting one community against another." Congress party's policy was to "divide, lie and rule" and its culture of feudal politics, dynasty politics and patronage politics was ending and people all over the country were rejecting it, Modi said at a public meeting in Puducherry. Training his guns against the Congress, whose party-led government fell on Monday after it was reduced to minority in the wake of resignations, he said "the Congress culture you saw in Puducherry for five years is how the party works nationally." "Our colonial rulers had the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. Sometimes their leaders put region against region, sometimes they put community against community." During his Kerala visit on Tuesday, Gandhi had said he was used to a "different type of politics" in north India and coming to the southern state was "very refreshing" as people are interested in "issues", which drew condemnation from the BJP, whose leaders accused him of an opportunistic anti-North bias. "...They are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies," Modi said about his party's archrival. Modi also took on Gandhi over his statement that there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry at the Centre, adding the NDA government had set it up in 2019. Modi hit out at former Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, implying he headed a 'high command' government that served the interests of a few Congress leaders in Delhi. He also slammed him for "lying" about the complaint made by a woman against the government during the Congress leader's visit here a fortnight ago. Later, at a party rally at the western Tamil Nadu city of Coimbatore, the prime minister launched a scathing attack on DMK, saying whenever it comes to power, it promotes a strongman culture. Taking a swipe at the DMK-Congress combine in Tamil Nadu, Modi said their "meetings are like corruption hackathons" where "their leaders sit and brainstorm on how to loot." "Those who are given the most innovative ways are given posts and ministries. The opposition style of politics is based on bullying and harassing. Whenever DMK comes to power, they promote a strongman culture," he alleged. In every district they have anti-social elements who trouble innocent people, he said in his criticism of the Dravidian party. "The party cadres leave no chance to get extortion money. You know who suffered most in such a culture. It is the women of Tamil Nadu. Entire Tamil Nadu knows how DMK treated Amma (the late) Jayalalithaa ji," he said, without elaborating. He said DMK has lost the right to be called an all-Tamil Nadu party, saying it last secured majority on its own 25 years ago. "Both the Congress and DMK are suffering from internal contradictions. Both parties have tried to launch and relaunch their respective first families but they have not got success." "There is a continuous family drama there. Both are so busy in internal matters and they can't deliver good govenance to Tamil Nadu," Modi said. In contrast, the NDA family, of which the ruling AIADMK is a part, was united and its sole aim was to ensure the welfare of Tamil Nadu and its people, he said. "The way the NDA government at the Centre and the Tamil Nadu government have worked is a classic example of cooperative federalism. We have worked together for the benefit of the people of Tamil Nadu. The work done has been extensive," the PM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/british-had-policy-of-divide-and-rule-congress-party-believes-in-divide-lie-and-rule-pm-modi-955305.html
25-02-2021||National||Fee charged by private medical colleges should be reasonable: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said although private medical colleges have the autonomy to decide on fee, what they charge must be non-exploitative and reasonable. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said though the court is an agreement with the submissions of private medical college management that fee as proposed by them should be considered by the admission and fee regulatory committee, it is no more Res integra that the right conferred on the institutions to fix fee for professional courses is subject to regulation. The bench pointed out that the fixation of fee payable by students pursuing their medical courses in Kerala since 2017-18 has not been finalised till date. One college complained of non-finalisation of fee from the year 2016-17 and the students are continuing their education after remitting a provisional fee. “It need not be reiterated that unaided professional institutions have the autonomy to decide on the fee to be charged, subject to the fee not resulting in profiteering or collection of capitation fee. Regulation of fee is within the domain of the committee which shall ensure that the fee is non-exploitative and reasonable,” court said. The court termed as an “error” the Kerala High Court’s direction to the Committee to take into account only audited balance sheets, and provisional profit and loss accounts in the absence of audited balance sheets, to fix the fee. It agreed with the argument of senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, representing the state government, that no fetter can be placed on the exercise of power for fee fixation by the Committee. The top court, however, directed the committee to expeditiously reconsider the proposals of the private self-financing colleges for fee fixation from 2017-18 onwards. “It (Committee) can direct the managements to furnish any information that is required for the purpose of arriving at a decision that the fee proposed by the managements is neither excessive nor exploitative in nature,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fee-charged-by-private-medical-colleges-should-be-reasonable-sc-955319.html
25-02-2021||National||Nirav Modi’s move to Barrack 12 may benefit mental health, UK court finds||The UK court, which had been presented with detailed submissions regarding the precarious mental health of Nirav Modi and a family history of depression and suicide during the extradition proceedings, concluded on Thursday that the diamond merchant's state of mind may well benefit from a move from his London prison cell to Barrack 12 at Mumbai Central Prison on Arthur Road. As part of a very comprehensive judgment handed down by District Judge Samuel Goozee at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London in which he found a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the 49-year-old diamond merchant, it is noted that Modi's risk of suicide may be high but there is no evidence to point to immediate suicidal intentions. The judgment refers to the expert defence witness who had assessed Modi, forensic psychiatrist Dr Andrew Forrester, to point out that Barrack 12 may well be a positive change from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London where he is being held on judicial remand, with the COVID-19 pandemic playing a "significant role" in the deterioration of his "depressive disorder". "Mr Modi’s condition is far from unusual… As Dr Forrester identifies, Nirav Modi’s progressive deterioration is linked to the restricted prison regime on remand at HMP Wandsworth and although he has expressed suicidal ideas, Dr Forrester confirms in several places in his report that suicidal intentions are not immediate in nature," the judgment reads. "The regime awaiting NDM (Nirav Deepak Modi) in Barrack 12, when you consider the video, would I have no doubt, be an amelioration of his current conditions of detention, especially when considered alongside the extensive assurances provided by the GOI [government of India]," reads Judge Goozee’s ruling, alluding to the latest video of Barrack 12 submitted by the Indian authorities last year. During the course of his assessment of the legal safeguards of Modi’s human rights in an Indian prison, Judge Goozee was quite complimentary of the "clean and well decorated" cell in Mumbai where the businessman is to be held on being extradited. "I find that the video of the cell and the approach to the cell is the best evidence and an accurate portrayal of the conditions in those cells,” notes Goozee. He adds: "It has a very high ceiling, adequate natural light from grilled windows, ceiling fans and strip lighting. I find that NDM will be provided with a thick cotton mat, a pillow, sheet and blanket. He will be able to apply on medical grounds to have a bed. He will have access to drinking water ‘at will’. "He will have access to the bathroom which is attached to the cell and appears to be clean and is newly decorated. It has a lavatory; shower and the basin has a constant supply of water. He will be able to wash each day and will receive adequate food. He may be allowed food from home if the court permits." With reference to concerns around "stretched" medical staff resources within Mumbai Central Jail on Arthur Road, the judge pointed to the Indian government assurance that Modi can consult his own private doctors and psychiatrists and also noted that there is no "overcrowding" in Barrack 12. "NDM’s mental condition is not such that it removes his capacity to resist the impulse to commit suicide… it is clear the Indian authorities have capacity to cope properly with NDM’s mental health and suicidal risk, bolstered by NDM being able to access private treatments from clinicians. I also weigh up the strong public interest in giving effect to extradition treaty obligations,” the judgment reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirav-modi-s-move-to-barrack-12-may-benefit-mental-health-uk-court-finds-955320.html
25-02-2021||National||Indian Railways to reactivate facility to book unreserved tickets through app||In a move to decongest ticket booking counters and to ensure compliance of social distancing norms, Indian Railways has decided to reactivate the facility to book unreserved tickets through UTS ON MOBILE app. "Indian Railways unreserved train services are being introduced in a phased manner. In order to avoid any inconvenience to passengers in booking unreserved tickets and to ensure norms of social distancing at booking counters while purchasing the tickets, It has been decided that in addition to UTS on mobile App facility available on suburban sections, this facility may also be reintroduced on non-suburban sections of zonal Railways,"  the Railway Ministry in a statement said, The statement from the Railway Ministry said,"Zonal Railways have been instructed that whenever unreserved train services are introduced on any zonal Railway, the zonal Railway concerned may accordingly enable UTS on mobile app for issuing unreserved tickets."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-reactivate-facility-to-book-unreserved-tickets-through-app-955321.html
25-02-2021||National||Sri Lanka must respect rights of Tamils, India tells UNHRC||Sri Lanka should respect the rights of its minority Tamils, India on Thursday told the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), which of late once again threw the spotlight on the atrocities allegedly committed by the security forces of the island nation during the 2009 crackdown on the rebels. “We believe that respecting the rights of the Tamil community, including through meaningful devolution, contributes directly to the unity and integrity of Sri Lanka,” Indra Mani Pandey, India’s permanent representative to the United Nations in Geneva, told the Human Rights Council. “Therefore,” he added, “we advocate that delivering on the legitimate aspirations of the Tamil community is in the best interests of Sri Lanka.” Pandey was participating in an interactive dialogue at the UNHRC on the report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, on Sri Lanka’s progress in investigating allegations of atrocities committed by the security forces of the island nation during the military offensive against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in 2009. With the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu round the corner, the government led by the BJP over the past few weeks raised its pitch over rights of Tamils in Sri Lanka, nudging Colombo to fully implement the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Indian Ocean island nation to ensure devolution of power to the local governments in its Tamil-majority Northern and Eastern Provinces. India highlighted the “legitimate aspirations” of the Tamils in Sri Lanka on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on a tour to poll-bound Tamil Nadu. He had reaffirmed India’s steadfast support to Tamils in Sri Lanka during an earlier visit to the state. Bachelet’s report last month noted that the failure of the Sri Lankan government to address past violations of human rights had significantly heightened the risk of such violations being repeated. The damning report highlighted the worrying trends over the past year, such as deepening impunity, increasing militarization of governmental functions, ethno-nationalist rhetoric, and intimidation of civil society. “Nearly 12 years after the armed conflict in Sri Lanka ended, impunity for grave human rights violations and abuses by all sides is more entrenched than ever, with the current government proactively obstructing investigations and trials, and reversing the limited progress that had been previously made,” the report by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights pointed out. “The assessment of the High Commissioner regarding developments nearly 12 years from the end of the conflict raises important concerns,” Pandey stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-must-respect-rights-of-tamils-india-tells-unhrc-955325.html
25-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination: Registration of beneficiaries on Co-WIN for 2nd phase to start from March 1||As the country gears up to inoculate people above 60 years of age and those over 45 with comorbidities against Covid-19 from March 1, official sources on Thursday said these beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from Monday itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the session sites. Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at a number of private hospitals, the Centre said on Wednesday. "The eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself. There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at a nearby session site to get vaccinated," R S Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration, said. He said the new version of the Co-WIN platform will be GPS-enabled and the beneficiaries will have the option to choose the inoculation session site both at the government and private facilities. There will be volunteers to help those opting for walk-in registration with the process if they are not tech-savvy. Co-WIN, a digital platform, was created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery. One will also have the option to get inoculated in a state different from his or her home state. People aged above 45 years will have to upload a medical certificate mentioning their comorbid conditions. The government is yet to specify the conditions that would be included in the over-45 age group with comorbidities. "Co-WIN will be able to take registrations and appointments from multiple applications, including Aarogya Setu or any other application such as a common service app," Sharma said. A beneficiary will just have to register with his mobile number and in turn, will receive an OTP with which his account will be created. One can also get their family members registered on the account. The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday, in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and above 45 years with co-morbidities will be administered the vaccine at 10,000 government medical facilities and over 20,000 private hospitals, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday. "Whoever goes to a government centre will be administered the vaccine free of cost. The Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and send them to all the states," he said. Those who want to get vaccinated at private hospitals will have to pay and the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as it is in discussions with the vaccine manufacturers as well as the hospitals, Javadekar said. Asked if people would have a choice as regards which vaccine -- Covishield or Covaxin -- they want to take, the minister said the country is proud to have two vaccines, both of which are effective with proven efficacy. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-registration-of-beneficiaries-on-co-win-for-2nd-phase-to-start-from-march-1-955326.html
25-02-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar discuss LAC disengagement with Chinese minister||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday spoke to each other on phone and reviewed the mutual withdrawal of troops by both sides to end the 10-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “Discussed the implementation of our Moscow Agreement and reviewed the status of disengagement,” Jaishankar tweeted after talking to Wang. Spoke to State Councilor & Foreign Minister Wang Yi this afternoon. Discussed the implementation of our Moscow Agreement and reviewed the status of disengagement. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA have already completed the withdrawal of front-line troops from the face-off points on both the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso. The two sides on February 20 last also agreed to find mutually acceptable ways to resolve the stand-off elsewhere along the LAC – the de facto boundary between the two nations in the western sector. The external affairs minister and the Chinese foreign minister had a bilateral meeting on the sideline of a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow on September 10 last year. They had reached a five-point consensus, which had led to the resumption of the talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the PLA to end the stand-off along the LAC. The two sides, however, took four months to start the disengagement process, beginning with the withdrawal of front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso. The senior military commanders could finalise the plan for a mutual withdrawal of troops from both banks of the lake during the ninth round of talks on January 24. They had another meeting on February 21, when the two sides agreed to find mutually acceptable ways to resolve the stand-off elsewhere along the LAC, like Gogra Post, Hot Springs and Depsang.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-discuss-lac-disengagement-with-chinese-minister-955327.html
25-02-2021||National||SC orders, MPs concerns, user complaints trigger for social media guidelines, says govt||A slew of complaints about OTT content hurting religious sentiments and “double standards” by social media platforms may have proved to be the trigger for bringing social media, online streaming platforms and digital news portals into the regulatory net. Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad spoke about “serious concerns and consequences” raised at different forums, including in Parliament, judicial orders and civil society deliberations on misuse of social media. Recent OTT shows such as Tandav, Paatal Lok, Sacred Games, Mirzapur and others have come under scrutiny for hurting religious sentiments and being offensive to specific communities. However, the specific High Courts where these petitions have been filed have rejected or refused to entertain the petitions because they do not fall under their purview. In the recent Budget Session of Parliament, several members of parliament had asked Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on whether the government was “aware of the facts that content/web series” aired on OTT platforms were “full of sex, violence, abuse, vulgarity” and disrespect religious sentiments. The recent violence at Red Fort on Republic Day, when farmers had taken out a tractor rally in the national capital, too proved to be a trigger for speeding up the regulatory net for social media. “All social media is welcome, but most respectfully I would state that there should be no double standards. When there is an attack on the Capitol Hill of the US Congress, social media supports police action. But when there is an aggressive attack on Red Fort, a symbol of India's freedom where the Prime Minister unfurls the national flag. This is plain unacceptable,” Prasad said. Javadekar recalled that during the first half of the Budget Session members had put 50 questions in both the Houses of Parliament on regulating OTT content. Members had also voiced concern over fake news. Recently, FIRs were registered in several states against the makers and actors of Saif Ali Khan-starrer Tandav following complaints that there was inappropriate depiction of UP Police personnel as well as a character playing the role of prime minister in the show. Earlier, a kissing scene in a temple premise in 'A Suitable Boy' also triggered a controversy. Prasad also cited a Supreme Court order suggesting that the government may frame necessary guidelines to eliminate child pornography, rape and gangrape imageries, videos and sites in content hosting platforms and other applications. Another apex Court order had directed the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to appraise the timeline with respect to completing the process of notifying the new rules. The ad-hoc committee of the Rajya Sabha had also expressed alarm on the issue of pornography on social media and its effect on children and society as a whole and recommended for enabling identification of the first originator of such contents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-mps-concerns-user-complaints-trigger-for-social-media-guidelines-says-govt-955328.html
25-02-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 caseload crosses 16,000 mark after 40 days||After a hiatus of 40 days, India’s daily Covid-19 count crossed the 16,000 mark once again on Thursday riding high on the rise in cases in nine out top 20 most populous states in the last one week. The sharpest rise in the seven-day average of daily new cases has been seen in Maharashtra where counts have more than doubled – from roughly 2,300 on Feb 11 to over 6,600 on Feb 24. Such increases have jacked up India's average daily counts from about 11,000 two weeks ago to over 16,700 currently. According to the Union Health Ministry, 16,738 people were infected by the SARS-CoV-2 in the last 24 hours. It was on January 16 when more than 16,000 people were infected last time. Moreover, 138 people were killed in the last 24 hours. Nearly 90% of these new Covid-19 cases are from seven states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Central teams have been sent to each of these states along with West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Jammu and Kashmir to probe. The rise came as a surprise to many experts as the caseload was moving south in the entire country barring Kerala since mid-September. But notwithstanding the large numbers, Kerala is witnessing a declining trend in the number of fresh cases whereas the epidemic curve is clearly on the rise in Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. While experts highlighted the need to conduct detailed epidemiology and viral investigations to understand the reason behind the increase, they are not yet describing the phenomenon as a “second wave” yet. “A second wave of a virus typically refers to a resurgence of a viral infection after a period of low transmission below the outbreak potential. The number of new cases will have to continually increase over a certain period,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “Although the reproduction number (R, which denotes the infectivity of the virus) for the country appears to have crossed above 1, it is too early to infer it is a second wave yet. We need to see if the increase in cases sustains steadily over at least 2-3 weeks with an R-value above 1.5,” he added. Meanwhile, more than 1.3 crore people have received the vaccine till Thursday, of which 65.82 lakh are health care workers who got the first dose and 18.61 lakh are health care workers who received both the doses. In addition, 46.24 lakh front line staff were also inoculated. The Centre has announced starting the vaccination for the general population from March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-caseload-crosses-16000-mark-after-40-days-955340.html
25-02-2021||National||India wants 'normal neighbourly relations', Pakistan scotches speculation about back-channel talks||India on Thursday expressed its desire to have “normal neighbourly relations” with Pakistan, as the armed forces of the two nations agreed to stop firing across the Line of Control (LoC). Pakistan, however, dismissed speculation in media that its agreement with India to stop cross-LoC firing was the result of back-channel talks between the two nations, particularly between Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Special Assistant on National Security, Moeed W Yusuf, and his counterpart in New Delhi, Ajit Doval. “There is nothing more than meets the eye here,” Yusuf posted on Twitter, denying reports about his back-channel talks with Doval. He stated that no such talks had taken place between him and the National Security Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I have seen claims by Indian media that attribute today's ceasefire announcement between Pakistani and Indian DGMOs to back-channel diplomacy between me and the Indian NSA. This is baseless. No such talks have taken place between me and Mr. Doval. 1/4 The Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan issued a joint statement, agreeing that the soldiers of the two nations would strictly adhere to all pacts reached between them earlier and cease firing across the LoC. The agreement was reached after months of allegations and counter-allegations by both sides blaming each other for violation of the 2003 ceasefire pact. The agreement between the DGMOs came two years after New Delhi’s relations with Islamabad reached a new low over the February 14, 2019 attack on India’s Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir by Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist organization based in Pakistan. The attack was followed by India’s air-strikes at a JeM training facility in Pakistan. “India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan. We have always maintained that we are committed to addressing issues, if any, in a peaceful bilateral manner,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. He, however, did not clarify if India was planning to restart its talks with Pakistan to resolve outstanding issues, including the issue of Jammu and Kashmir. “On key issues, our position remains unchanged. I don’t need to reiterate it,” said the MEA spokesperson. India has been maintaining that while it remains ready to hold talks with Pakistan, the neighbouring country must stop exporting terror to create conducive atmosphere for such engagements. “The welcome development on the LoC is a result of discussions through the established channel of (the) DGMOs. Obviously these are by their very nature not in the public eye and done privately and professionally through the direct channel,” tweeted Khan’s Special Assistant on National Security. “Pakistan has continued to call for the 2003 ceasefire agreement to be honoured and I am glad we have reached the understanding. It must be followed in letter and spirit. Doing so will save innocent lives so no one should question the intent. Nor should wrong inferences be drawn. There is nothing more than meets the eye here.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wants-normal-neighbourly-relations-pakistan-scotches-speculation-about-back-channel-talks-955347.html
25-02-2021||National||India's trade policy continues to rely on tariff, export taxes: WTO review report||India's trade policy remained largely unchanged since last review in 2015 as the country continues to rely on instruments such as tariff, export taxes, minimum import prices and licensing, according to certain members of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). These views are part of the minutes of the meeting of India's seventh trade policy review, which was held during January 6-8 this year. The chairperson of the review meeting was Harald Aspelund from Iceland. In his concluding remarks, the chairperson stated "members noted that India's trade policy had remained largely unchanged since the previous review (in 2015), with continued heavy reliance on instruments such as the tariff, export taxes, minimum import prices, import and export restrictions, and licensing". On customs duties, it said, concerns were expressed with respect to its complexity and uncertainty, the increase in tariff rates, tariff preferences and tariff concessions. Highlighting that India was an active user of trade remedies, members asked India to take a more cautious approach in applying anti-dumping and safeguard measures and emphasised that all relevant investigations should be conducted in conformity with WTO provisions. It added that concerns were expressed about the alleged high level of government intervention in the agriculture sector. "Members recognised the importance of the sector in supporting livelihoods and food security; however, they urged India to reform its agricultural policies that continued to be based on significant levels of domestic and export support for key crops, including through subsidies for certain crops such as sugar, and to inputs," according to the minutes, which are posted on WTO website. Further, it added that the WTO members commended India on its strong economic growth during the review period, particularly in the services sector, allowing India to become one of the world's largest economies. "Members believed that the continuous economic reforms focussed on increasing efficiency and inclusiveness contributed to these positive developments and led to an improvement in socioeconomic indicators, such as per-capita income and life expectancy," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-trade-policy-continues-to-rely-on-tariff-export-taxes-wto-review-report-955349.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders medal winners in telling lies: PM Modi says 'shocked' at Rahul's fisheries remark||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took a dig at the fallen Congress government in Puducherry saying that the wind is changing its direction in the union territory.   Stating that Puducherry didn't get a people's government in 2019, PM Modi said, "Puducherry deserves a government whose high command is the people of Puducherry not a small group of Congress leaders sitting in Delhi. NDA assures Puducherry - the next government will be a people-powered government." While addressing a rally in Puducherry, the prime minister said that the high-command Congress government in Puducherry made it a point to damage every sector of governance. "Traditional mills were closed. Local industry was troubled. The Congress doesn't believe in working for the people," he said.  During his visit, PM Modi inaugurated a slew of completed projects and laid the foundation stone for others, including in the ports and highways sectors. The prime minister inaugurated a Blood Centre at state-run JIPMER, a Sports Authority of India (SAI) girls hostel at Lawspet and a reconstructed Heritage Mairie Building.   He also said that he "was shocked" at Rahul Gandhi's "will make fisheries ministry" remark as they had made one in 2019. "Our colonial rulers had the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. Sometimes their leaders put region against region, community against community," he said. He further added that Congress leaders are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies. Modi laid the foundation stone for the four-laning of Sattanathapuram-Nagapattinam National Highway section, Medical College Building at Karaikal New Campus of JIPMER-Phase I and the development of Minor Port at Puducherry under Sagarmala scheme. He also laid the foundation stone of Synthetic Athletic Track, Indira Gandhi Sports Complex in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-medal-winners-in-telling-lies-pm-modi-says-shocked-at-rahuls-fisheries-remark-955122.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Modi targets Rahul over his 'north-south' remarks, lashes out at Narayanasamy||Attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his recent 'north-south' remarks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday alleged the party's policy was to "divide, lie and rule." Not mincing words, he said the Congress culture of feudal politics, dynasty politics, patronage politics was ending and people all over the country were rejecting the party. He also expressed shock over Gandhi's contention that there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry. "...They are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies," Modi said addressing a public meeting in poll-bound Puducherry, as he said people of the union territory were celebrating the "freedom from misgovernance of Congress." Modi hit out at former Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, implying he headed a 'high command' government that served the interests of a few Congress leaders in Delhi. He also slammed him for "lying" about the complaint made by a woman against the government during the Congress leader's visit here a fortnight ago. Pitching Puducherry as a region with potential in various sectors, he said the NDA wanted to make it the BEST, saying the acronym meant the UT being a hub of Business, Education, Spirituality and Tourism. Training his guns against the Congress, whose party-led government fell on Monday after it was reduced to minority in the wake of resignations, he said "the congress culture you saw in Puducherry for five years is how the party works nationally." "Our colonial rulers had the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. Sometimes their leaders put region against region, sometimes they put community against community." "They are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies," he said, apparently referring to Gandhi's recent statement in Kerala. During his Kerala visit on Tuesday, Gandhi had said he was used to a "different type of politics" in north India and coming to the southern state was "very refreshing" as people are interested in "issues", which drew condemnation from the BJP, whose leaders accused him of an opportunistic anti-North bias. Modi also took on Gandhi over his statement that there was no 'dedicated' fisheries ministry at the Centre, adding the NDA government had set it up in 2019. "Congress leaders says we will make a fisheries ministry. I was shocked. The truth is, it is the current NDA government that had made a ministry for fisheries in 2019." "The budget allocated for fisheries has grown more than 80 per cent in two years," he said, adding the earlier NDA dispensation under the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had established a ministry for the tribal communities as well. Referring to the BJP's sweep of the Gujarat municipal polls, he said the number of wards won by the saffron party was ten times that of his party's archrival Congress. "This is how big the gap is..," he said. "People all over India are rejecting Congress. Their seats in parliament are the lowest ever. The Congress culture of feudal politics, dynasty politics, patronage politics is ending. India is young, aspirational and forward looking." Recalling his earlier Puducherry visit, he said the exceitement and energy is 'excellent' now and that "the winds of change" here are visible today. He said people were happy for two reasons, with one of them being him earlier launching several developmental works. The other reason was that people of Puducherry were celebrating was the "freedom from misgovernance of Congress," he said referring to the fall of the Narayanasamy government. While the people had voted for Congress with great hopes in 2016 that their problems would be solved, after five years they were disappointed and "their dreams and hopes are broken," he said. In 2016, the people of the UT did not get a government of people but one that was serving the high command of the Congress. "They got a government that was busy serving Congress high command in Delhi." "Their priorites were different. Your former chief minister was an expert at lifting the slipper of his top party leader but did not have the interest to lift people out of poverty in Puducherry," he said, alluding to a past incident involving Narayanasamy and Gandhi. During a 2015 visit of flood affected areas here, images purportedly showing Narayanasamy holding slippers for Gandhi had gone viral, though the latter claimed he offered his footwear to the Congress leader after he removed his shoes to wade through stagnant water. "Puducherry deserves a government whose high command is the people and not a small group of Congress leaders sitting in Delhi," Modi added. He also lashed out at the former CM for "lying", referring to a video recently where he was accused of wrong translation of a woman's speech in Tamil to Gandhi. "A few days ago,the entire nation saw a video. A helpless woman was complaining about Puducherry government, about the chief minister (of) the neglect during cyclone and floods." "One could see the pain in her eyes. One could hear the pain in her voice. Instead of telling the truth to the nation the former Puducherry CM gave a wrong translation of the woman's word. He lied to the people and his own leader. Can a party whose culture which is based on lies ever serve the people," he asked. The Congress government had damaged every sector in the UT. Traditional mills were closed and industries were in trouble, Modi said, adding he could understand that Congress does not believe in working for the people. "What I cannot understand is that as to why Congress does not want others to work," he said and alleged that the Congress government did not cooperate in implementing schemes and funds were not also utilised. He also wondered why the earlier Congress government had not conducted civic polls despite Supreme Court direction and slammed its "anti-democratic mindset." Modi appealed to people "to reject anti-democratic forces and support the NDA's governance and restore the past glory of puducherry," in the coming polls, likely in April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-targets-rahul-over-his-north-south-remarks-lashes-out-at-narayanasamy-955149.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Amit Shah talks of making Assam, northeast biggest contributor to India's GDP||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said the journey the BJP started five years ago in Assam will continue till the state along with other states of the northeastern region emerges as the biggest contributor to the country's GDP. The journey initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been taken forward by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Shah said after attending the 'Mahayagya' at the Shivlinga shaped 'Maha Mrityunjaya' temple, believed to be the tallest Shiva temple in the world, in Assam's Nagaon district. "This is just the first step and the journey will continue till Assam becomes violence-free, infiltrator-free and flood-free," Shah said. The BJP and its alles are in power in all the eight states of the northeast. Assam, once known for agitation and violence, is marching forward on the path of development under the leadership of the prime minister, Sonowal and Sarma, he said. People now know Assam for investments being made in various sectors like education and tourism, he added. Shah said today was an auspicious day for Assam as the temple has been consecrated. Shah, who arrived in Guwahati past Wednesday midnight, flew to Nagaon to attend the 'Pran Pratishtha Mahotsav' (consecration) of the temple where priests from Tamil Nadu and other states, including Assam, are organising 11-day Mahayagya in Puranigudam area of the district. Shah was accompanied by Chief Minister Sarbanada Sonowal, North East Democratic Alliance convenor and Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, BJP state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and other senior state party leaders. The temple authorities received Shah at the gates and, after making a 'parikrama' (circumambulation) of the temple, he drove to the 'Yagya' site where he participated in the rituals flanked by Sonowal and Sarma. The three leaders were offered 'angavastram' and 'rudraksh' necklace by the priests performing the rituals. The temple is also being developed as a centre for religious studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shah-talks-of-making-assam-northeast-biggest-contributor-to-indias-gdp-955150.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||PDP, NC, Hurriyat welcome Indo-Pak agreement over ceasefire||Regional National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and moderate Hurriyat Conference Thursday welcomed the fresh agreement between Indian and Pakistan armies over ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC). “A big & welcome development that India & Pakistan have agreed to a ceasefire along the LoC. Dialogue is the only way forward if both countries want to stop the unending cycle of violence and bloodshed across the borders and J&K,” former CM and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. Earlier this week Mufti had asked the Centre to talk with Pakistan to end bloodshed in Kashmir. While welcoming the ceasefire agreement, the NC vice-president and another former CM Omar Abdullah tweeted: “We welcome it and hope that the statement will be followed in letter & spirit. JKNC has always been a strong supporter of the Ceasefire along the LoC. This will allow people living along the LoC & IB to go about their normal lives with minimal disruption & risk.” Welcoming Indo-Pak joint military statement, wherein both have agreed to stop firing along the LOC in Jammu and Kashmir, moderate Hurriyat in an emailed statement said, “It is a move in the right direction, which will provide huge relief to the beleaguered people living under constant threat on the LOC and end the bloodshed there.” Earlier in the day, India and Pakistan agreed to “strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control (LoC) and all other sectors” with effect from midnight of February 24. A joint statement said, “This was agreed between the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMO) of both countries during discussions over the established hotline.” It further said that in the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders, the two DGsMO agreed to address each other’s core issues and concerns which have the propensity to disturb peace and lead to violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pdp-nc-hurriyat-welcome-indo-pak-agreement-over-ceasefire-955170.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||It’s Sasikala vs EPS and OPS in fight for Amma’s legacy||The battle for late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa’s legacy is heating up between her former aide and ousted party leader V K Sasikala and the current AIADMK dispensation, notably CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and his Deputy O Panneerselvam. Against the backdrop of the upcoming assembly elections, the AIADMK matriarch’s name, which still has a lot of clout in the state, has taken centre stage again and Sasikala’s release after a four-year term in a disproportionate assets case has made matters murky. Sasikala has been sending across strong messages, signalling her re-entry into the political scene ever since she set foot outside Bengaluru’s Parappana Agrahara prison in late January. After Jayalalithaa's death in December 2016, Sasikala was elected the AIADMK's interim general secretary and as its legislature party leader in February 2017. However, with the Supreme court restoring her conviction in the assets case, she had chosen her then loyalist K Palaniswami to be the chief minister before proceeding to Bengaluru to serve the sentence. However, much water has flown under the bridge since then. People whom Sasikala had carefully placed in higher positions are now against her and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran. Both EPS and OPS, who had worked under Sasikala not just when Jayalalithaa was alive but even after her death, are now opposed to her entry into the AIADMK. “There is no chance. She is not even a member of the AIADMK,” Palaniswami had said in response to a question on the possibility of Sasikala joining the party before her release. The CM was hand-picked by Sasikala as the AIADMK Legislature Party leader moments after the Supreme Court upheld a 2014 trial court order sentencing her to four years in prison. To another question on the AIADMK's stand vis-a-vis Sasikala, Palaniswami had reiterated that he was “100 per cent” sure that his former boss would not be accommodated again. Flagging off the fight The latest duel started after Sasikala's car sported an AIADMK flag when she was discharged from Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital and also on her way back home from Karnataka. The AIADMK reacted by filing a complaint against her for “illegally” using the party flag on her car. A war of words broke out between the AIADMK and the AMMK, a party led by Sasikala's nephew Dhinakaran, with the former maintaining that she was not even a party member and had no right to use the flag and the latter claiming that she was the AIADMK general secretary. Even before entering Chennai, Sasikala paid tribute to her ‘Akka’ on her return to the state in Krishnagiri district and called for unity to jointly defeat the "common foe" while invoking Jayalalithaa’s legacy. Birth anniversary brouhaha More recently, Sasikala staked a claim to Amma's legacy by timing her first public appearance after reaching Chennai with Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary on February 24 and paying her a floral tribute. “True loyalists of Amma (Jayalalithaa) should unite and face the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Our goal, as Amma said, is to ensure that the AIADMK rules the state for 100 years. Keeping this in mind, we should work towards bringing back the government to power. I will extend my support,” Sasikala, who was flanked by her nephew and AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, said on the occasion. Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam-led AIADMK, on their part, took a pledge to guard the people and party in Amma's path and cut a massive 73-kg cake at the party headquarters. Palaniswami, marking the commencement of observance of Jayalalithaa's birth anniversary as state event from this year, garlanded her statue and unveiled a museum and a knowledge park in the Phoenix-themed memorial of Jayalalithaa at the Marina beach. The AIADMK also asked its cadre to take a pledge in the name of J Jayalalithaa to guard the party by lighting a lamp in their houses. Sasikala strikes back 67-year-old Sasikala has also revived a case filed in 2017 challenging the AIADMK general council's decision of removing her as interim general secretary of the party. In 2017, the AIADMK had suffered a split with O Panneerselvam, now deputy chief minister, and Palaniswami heading two factions, but they later merged the groups and the general council of the combined party removed Sasikala from general secretary post and expelled Dhinakaran from the party in in September, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/it-s-sasikala-vs-eps-and-ops-in-fight-for-amma-s-legacy-955226.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Despite claiming to be Bengal’s daughter, you are aloof on safety of women: Nadda to Mamata Banerjee||Launching a frontal attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday said despite claiming to be “Bengal’s daughter and Didi” she was aloof to the safety of women in the state which was in an alarming condition. “Mamata ji you claim to be ‘Banglar mey (Bengal’s daughter), Banglar Didi (Bengal’s elder sister). We have no objection to that. You are Bengal’s daughter. But crimes against women are reaching an alarming level in the State and you ate doing nothing,” said Nadda. He was addressing the gathering at Barrackpore in the North 24 Paraganas district held to mark the culmination of BJP’s ‘Parivartan Yatra’ in Bengal. Seeking to corner the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo on the cultural front, Nadda that she did not represent the “real Bengali culture” and that the BJP would restore it to its former glory once it comes to power in the state. The BJP president also said that Bengal would not only get vaccines against Covid-19, but BJP would ensure that it gets vaccines against cut money and extortion. “Yesterday (Wednesday) Mamata Didi sought the Prime Minister’s help in proving free Covid-19 vaccines to the people of West Bengal. The Centre has already announced that those above the age of 60 and those above the age of 45 and have comorbidity will get free vaccines,” he said. Taking potshots at the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Nadda said that it was time that the party was sent home for some “aram” (relaxation) and BJP was given some “kam”( work).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/despite-claiming-to-be-bengal-s-daughter-you-are-aloof-on-safety-of-women-nadda-to-mamata-banerjee-955242.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Asaduddin Owaisi slams TMC govt for not allowing his rally in Kolkata||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday blasted the Kolkata Police for 'denying' permission for his rally in the poll-bound West Bengal capital and mocked at ruling TMC MPs for talking about democracy in Parliament. The Hyderabad MP, whose party has decided to contest the polls in the eastern state, claimed permission was denied for the rally scheduled for Thursday without assigning any reason. "You (Trinamool Congress Government) allow (Union Home Minister) Amit Shah to hold a public rally. You allow BJP to hold public rallies. Congress and Left hold rallies. But not MIM. Why?..." he asked. Talking to reporters here, he said the TMC MPs in Parliament use 'flowery' terms such as democracy and freedom of speech, but it does not reflect at the ground level in West Bengal. Once the Code of Conduct for the polls likely in April- May comes into force, AIMIM would be compelled to approach the Election Commission, against the continuation of the police officer (who rejected permission) in the same post, he added. "If the officer is there, the elections will not be free and fair," he contended, a day after his party announced the cancellation of the rally citing denial of police permission for it. He was scheduled to kick off his party's campaign ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections with the rally in the minority-dominated Metiabruz area of Kolkata. On possible alliance with with Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui, who had recently floated the Indian Secular Front (ISF), the MIM supremo said they were in discussions with the former. His party has handed over a list of constituencies which it intends to contest, he said. Replying to query, he said there was a political vacuum in Gujarat and his party will work with Chhotubhai Vasava's Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/asaduddin-owaisi-slams-tmc-govt-for-not-allowing-his-rally-in-kolkata-955258.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Cong slams Centre over LPG price hike, spokesperson Supriya Shrinate holds press meet sitting on empty cylinder||In an unusual protest against the LPG price hike, a Congress spokesperson on Thursday conducted a press conference sitting on an empty cylinder as the party accused the Modi government of being "anti-people". The Congress' attack on the government came after cooking gas price was hiked by Rs 25 per cylinder across all categories, including subsidised fuel and those availed by Ujjwala scheme beneficiaries. Hitting out at the government, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said price of domestic gas cylinder has been increased by Rs 200 in the last three months and petrol and diesel prices have moved "towards hitting diesel century". "The pitch of the Modi government, which is batting for billionaire friends on both ends of the economy, is full of high prices and inflation for the common people," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using cricketing analogy. Later, at the party press conference on the LPG price hike, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and party secretary (communication) Vineet Punia sat on empty cylinders to register their protest against the government move. The mike was also kept on a gas cylinder. In a lighter vein, Shrinate also quipped that going forward this would be the use of cylinders as it was not affordable to get them refilled. Slamming the government, she said, "Mr Modi likes to get stadiums named after him but the only century he has scored is perhaps in the price of petrol shooting above Rs 100 a litre." Shrinate said, "Why are you (government) anti-people. Why are you raising prices. Why are you not rolling back the excise duty hikes." "This government did not just increase prices but they lie through their teeth," she alleged. Prime Minister Narendra Modi blames rise in crude oil imports on the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) but the truth it that crude oil imports have gone up from 83 per cent in "our tenure to 88 per cent in their tenure". "The government also lied about subsidy on LPG cylinder. The reality is that this government has made market and controlled prices the same. It is the difference between the market and controlled prices which is the subsidy. So, if you are paying Rs 794 as market price and the controlled price is Rs 500, you would have got 294 as subsidy," Shrinate said. "But this government, because it has raised prices so often and so frequently, from December to now prices have gone up by Rs 200, the market and the controlled prices are almost the same so there is no subsidy," she said. The government wants to burden the common man with fuel price bills whether it is petrol, diesel or gas. She asked why the government is not rolling back excise duty, why it is lying about import of oil and why it is "anti-poor' and "anti-people". A 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi now costs Rs 794 as against Rs 769 at which they were supplied on Wednesday, according to a price notification from state-owned fuel retailers. LPG is available only at one rate, market price, across the country. The government, however, gives a small subsidy to select customers. However, this subsidy has been eliminated in Metros and major cities through successive price increases over the past couple of years. So, in places like Delhi, there is no subsidy paid to customers and all LPG users pay a market price of Rs 794.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-slams-centre-over-lpg-price-hike-spokesperson-supriya-shrinate-holds-press-meet-sitting-on-empty-cylinder-955261.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Congress, DMK leaders brainstorm how to loot: PM Modi||Targeting the DMK and Congress as he launched BJP's campaign for Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleged that the meetings of the two parties are like “Corruption Hackathons” during which their leaders “brainstorm how to loot.” He also accused the DMK and Congress of putting the interests of their respective “first families” over the welfare of the state and country. Addressing a public meeting in the industrial city of Coimbatore, Modi termed as “classic example” of cooperative federalism the way the ruling parties in Tamil Nadu and at the Centre – AIADMK and BJP – are working. The Prime Minister devoted a considerable portion of his speech to list out initiatives that his government have taken to “protect” the interests of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), and the textile sector. He also spoke about the frequent power cuts during the 2006-2011 DMK regime and reminded people about their “sufferings.” As the state gets into election mode, Modi tore into the DMK and Congress on corruption and dynastic politics. He also invoked late J Jayalalithaa asking people to think about how the DMK, which talks about the safety of women, treated her. “Sadly, leaders who troubled Jayalalithaa Ji have been rewarded by DMK and Congress,” Modi said, adding that the assembly elections are happening at a critical moment of Indian history. “In the last few years, the people of India have given a strong message and spoken that they want development-oriented governance,” he added. Contending that the nation was witnessing two distinct styles of politics today, Modi asked people to compare between Opposition's misgovernance with corruption and NDA's governance with compassion. “The Opposition style of politics is based on bullying and harassing. Both methods are very different. For Opposition, what matters is personal gain. DMK and Congress meetings are like Corruption Hackathons. Their leaders sit and brainstorm how to loot,” Modi said, in a harsh attack on the two parties. BJP, which is making a concerted effort to emerge as a major player in Tamil Nadu, has announced that it will contest the assembly elections in an alliance with the AIADMK. Western Tamil Nadu, under which Coimbatore falls, is considered a stronghold of the AIADMK and the breeding ground for BJP. Further, the Prime Minister attacked the Congress and DMK for suffering from internal contradictions and alleged that both parties have tried to “launch and relaunch their respective first families” but to no success. “There is continuous family drama there! They cannot deliver good governance to Tamil Nadu...DMK has lost the right to be called an All Tamil Nadu party. The last time they won a full majority on their own in the state was 25 years ago,” he said in his speech. Modi further said the NDA stands for regional aspirations and national progress while listing out the “reforms” that the NDA Government has brought in in the farm sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dmk-leaders-brainstorm-how-to-loot-pm-modi-955283.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||Congress, DMK meet on seat-sharing inconclusive; parties to meet again||Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the leader of the Opposition-led alliance in Tamil Nadu, on Thursday kicked off their talks to arrive at a seat-sharing arrangement for the Assembly polls. However, no agreement was reached as there was a “wide gap” between the demand from Congress and the offer from the DMK. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC), and DMK told DH that two or three more rounds of discussions are needed to thrash out a deal. Though the DMK and Congress leaders have held informal talks on the number of seats earlier, this is the first time leaders of the two parties sat across the table and held discussions. “There was a wide gap between the demand from our party and the number of seats offered by the DMK. We started off with a number, and they gave a number. The gap was wide. But the discussions were held in a cordial atmosphere. We hope to arrive at a conclusion in future meetings,” a senior TNCC leader told DH. The sources said the Congress began the negotiations with a demand for around 45 to 50 seats, but the DMK stuck to around 20 seats. “Only half of the number asked by us were offered today. And decisions are arrived in one meeting. We will continue to meet and get a respectable number for the Congress,” another leader in the know said. Former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Congress General Secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, and AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao represented Congress, while the DMK team consisted of its General Secretary Durai Murugan, and leaders like Kanimozhi. Congress contested 41 Assembly seats as part of the DMK alliance in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, the DMK has expressed its inability to allot the same number or anything close to that citing increase in the number of alliance parties in the combine. The DMK also says its cadre want the party to contest maximum number of seats. Congress leaders feel anything less than 30 seats would not augur well for the party, which has a committed vote bank of 4 per cent in Tamil Nadu. “We would need at least 30 seats to convince our party men. The DMK should understand that it would benefit immensely from Rahul Gandhi's campaign in the state,” another leader said. When contacted, a DMK leader said Thursday's meeting was just the first one, and if the differences persist, leaders of the two parties – Rahul Gandhi and M K Stalin – might talk and resolve the issue. Apart from the Congress, the DMK alliance consists of Left parties, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), and a few other parties. Congress and DMK have been in an alliance since 2004 except from 2013 to 2016 when the two parties parted away and contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls separately. Both Congress and DMK drew blank in the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dmk-meet-on-seat-sharing-inconclusive-parties-to-meet-again-955317.html
25-02-2021||National Politics||AAP only party to challenge BJP in the country: Arvind Kejriwal||Citing his party's recent success in the Surat municipal polls, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the AAP is the only party that is challenging the BJP in the country. Participating in roadshows in Seelampur, Kondli and Trilokpuri ahead of the municipal by-elections on February 28, he said voting for the AAP will usher in development since the party runs the government in Delhi. Seeking votes for his party candidates Mohammad Isharaq Khan from Chauhan Bangar ward, Dhirendra from Kalyanpuri and Vijay Kumar, Kejriwal said the Congress was drawing a "zero and it's useless to vote for it". "The Congress is being wiped off from everywhere, you must have heard about the municipal election results in Surat. Congress got zero seats in Surat. The Aam Aadmi Party is the only party to challenge the BJP across the nation," he said at Seelampur. The AAP national convener also said his government has provided "zero power bills, good hospitals and schools" in Delhi, and asked people to vote for his party candidates in the municipal bypolls on Sunday. "The Aam Aadmi Party is in government for the last six years in Delhi. We have taken all measures to develop Delhi, improve schools and hospitals, made bus rides free for women, and provided free electricity. If you vote for us and our councillor wins, we will work together for the development of Delhi," Kejriwal said. The bypolls in five municipal wards are expected to witness a contest among main rivals AAP, BJP and Congress. The AAP had won four of the wards – Chauhan Bangar, Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Rohini-C – while the BJP had bagged Shalimarbagh in the 2017 civic body elections. The Shalimarbagh ward fell vacant after the death of the sitting BJP councilor, while the AAP councilors on the remaining four wards contested the Delhi Assembly polls last year and became MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-only-party-to-challenge-bjp-in-the-country-arvind-kejriwal-955348.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk gets protection from arrest till March 9||A Delhi Court on Thursday granted interim protection from arrest to Shantanu Muluk till March 9 in the case of Google 'Toolkit', created to gather online support for the farmers' protest.  Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who has earlier granted bail Bengaluru's climate activist Disha Ravi, posted the application filed by Shantanu for consideration on March 9 as Delhi Police sought time to file a detailed reply in the matter.  Additional Public Prosecutor Irfan Ahmed sought seven days time for the purpose, contending the investigating agency needs to confront him in view of contradictory replies given by accused persons.  Appearing for Shantanu, advocate Vrinda Grover asked the court to extend his interim protection. Prosecutor Ahmed said that he has instructions that there will be no coercive action against him. Shantanu was granted interim protection till February 26 by the Bombay High Court.    In his anticipatory bail plea, Shantanu said he had already joined the investigation on February 22. He has cooperated with the investigation and has handed over all his devices, namely, laptop, iPad and phone to the police, although no seizure memo was prepared, Shantanu said in his bail plea.  His plea also said that Shantanu was not a political person and he had no religious or political goals apart from exhibiting sympathy for farmers. "Applicant believes in peaceful protest and condemns any and all violence whatsoever. He has been concerned about the environment and that is the only reason he has been working with the Extinction Rebellion movement," the plea said. He also claimed that he got to know that some 'toolkit' has been shared with environmental activist Greta Thunberg only after he was informed about it by others.On February 3, Swedish climate activist Thunberg had shared this 'toolkit' in a tweet, which she later deleted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-shantanu-muluk-gets-protection-from-arrest-till-march-9-955096.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Adityanath slams Opposition for creating ruckus during Governor's address||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday criticised the opposition for its behaviour during the Governor's address to the joint sitting of the state legislature last week, saying it does not augur well for democracy. Opposition parties had raised slogans and staged a walkout during the Governor’s address in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on the first day of the Budget session on Thursday last. While wrapping up the discussion on the governor's address, Adityanath said, "Such behaviour does not augur well for democracy. Nor will it do any good to any party".           "Their behaviour during the address of governor will not strengthen democracy. We have to shun bad practices and adopt good ones. But there are those who work contrary to this, leave good practices and adopt bad traditions and try to do more bad," the chief minister said in the Legislative Council.           "Their behaviour against a governor, who also happens to be a woman, is not good. But it is there in history and the state guest house episode is an example of their behaviour.         "It's a misconception that one who shouts and creates ruckus while raising an issue is considered good. People do not consider it as good. In public life, we should set an example for people to follow," the chief minister said.           "Continuing the bad tradition will do no good to any party or people. But it is a matter of habit which refuses to change," he said.           Adityanath's reference to the state guest house incident dates back to June 2, 1995, when SP lawmakers and supporters created a ruckus at the venue where BSP leader Mayawati was meeting her legislators purportedly to pull the plug on the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-slams-opposition-for-creating-ruckus-during-governors-address-955160.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Closure of Nangal Hydel Channel for repair will affect water supply to Delhi: Chadha||The closure of Nangal Hydel Channel for one month for repair will affect a quarter of water supply to the national capital in summer, which could lead to an unprecedented water crisis and even law and order situation, Delhi Jal Board vice chairman Raghav Chadha said on Thursday. Chadha said a letter has been written to the Union government to postpone the repair and undertake it some other time. "The blind closure of the channel will affect supply of 232 MGD (million gallon per day) of water supply from the Beas river to Delhi for one month in March-April. It is 25 per cent of water supply in Delhi and could lead to unprecedented water crisis and even law and order situation," he said. Chadha said the Delhi government is in constant touch with the Centre over the issue and hoped that the impending crisis will be averted. He said they have also appealed to the Jal Shakti Ministry to convene a meeting of all stakeholders to discuss the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/closure-of-nangal-hydel-channel-for-repair-will-affect-water-supply-to-delhi-chadha-955161.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||No proposal to reduce tax on petrol, diesel: Uttar Pradesh government||There is no proposal to reduce tax on petrol and diesel as revenue is needed to ensure betterment of health services and other development works due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Thursday. Replying to Samajwadi Party (SP) member Narendra Verma during the question hour in the state Assembly, Cabinet Minister Satish Mahana said, "There is no proposal under consideration to reduce tax on petrol and diesel in view of the resources and financial requirements for improving health facilities and other developmental works keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic." Currently, consumers in Uttar Pradesh are getting diesel at a lower price than the states of Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Punjab and Uttarakhand, he said.  Similarly, petrol is available at lower prices here as compared to Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Orissa, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh, he added. About the decrease in LPG prices, the minister said since the Goods and Services Tax (GST) came in force on July 1, 2017, the state has no right to reduce the tax. It is for the GST council to decide on it, he said. The opposition Congress and SP staged a walkout, saying the government was "anti-farmers, anti-women, and anti-common man".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-proposal-to-reduce-tax-on-petrol-diesel-uttar-pradesh-government-955172.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||17-year-old girl drugged, raped by five youths in Haryana||A 17-year-old girl, a class 12 student, was allegedly drugged and raped by five youths, including the cousin of one of her friends, near her village in Kurukshetra district, police said on Thursday. Three of the accused have been nabbed by the police while efforts are on to arrest two others, an official said. Among the three arrested, two are 18 years old while the third one is a juvenile, who was sent to an observation home. Sub-Inspector Praveen Kaur, who is investigating the case, said, “One of the accused youths is a cousin of the victim's friend.” She said the victim had gone to her friend’s house after school on February 22 when she felt dizziness and her friend told her that her cousin would drop her at home The accused, however, took the victim to a place near Umri Chowk in Kurukshetra where four other accused, including a youth who works at a hotel and the juvenile, were already present, and they all raped her there, the SI said, quoting the victim’s complaint to the police. At the time of committing the crime, the accused had also drugged the girl, the SI said. Kurukshetra’s Superintendent of Police Himanshu Garg told media persons that an FIR was registered based on the complaint filed by the victim’s father. According to the complaint, her father had dropped her at the school at 7 am on February 22, the SP said. As per the complaint, after school hours, she used to go to a centre for the English-speaking course at 1.30 pm and return home by 4 pm. The victim’s family members got worried when she failed to return home till evening, the SP said, adding they contacted the coaching centre and were informed that the girl did not attend the course that day. “The parents started searching for her. At about 7 pm, when they were going to the police station at Barara chowk for filing a case, they saw two boys with a girl coming on a motorcycle from the Ladwa town side. “They recognised her from the school dress when the motorcycle reached near them. While the girl was seated in the middle, the boy sitting behind her had been pointing a country-made pistol at her head,” the complaint said. The girl’s family members intercepted the motorcycle and managed to rescue the girl after overpowering one of the accused, the police said, adding at that time too, the girl was in a drugged state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-girl-drugged-raped-by-five-youths-in-haryana-955201.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Baby found decapitated, mother succumbs to injuries in Uttar Pradesh||A 13-month-old baby was found decapitated, while her seriously injured mother died on the way to hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place in Vijay Naglia village on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, they said. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh said the woman, Jitendri (23), was mentally challenged and her husband is a tailor in Rajasthan. On the night of the incident, Jitendri, her baby and her three sisters-in-law were sleeping in the same room while her one brother-in-law and his wife were sleeping in another room. The father-in-law of Jitendri and her other brother-in-law were sleeping outside the home, police said. Around 1 am, the sisters-in-law of Jitendri heard someone jump off the roof. When they did not see Jitendri and her son in the room, they reached upstairs, where they found the baby decapitated, they said. A sickle, a packet of poisonous substance and a milk bottle were also found, police said. They along with the villagers, who arrived there upon hearing their screams, started a search for Jitendri. They found a room locked from the inside in a forlorn house on the backyard of their home, police said. When they broke open the room, Jitendri was found lying unconscious with injury marks around the neck, they said. Jitendri succumbed to the injuries on the way to hospital, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baby-found-decapitated-mother-succumbs-to-injuries-in-uttar-pradesh-955237.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal's security cover allegedly reduced||Sources in the Delhi government alleged on Thursday that the security cover of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been scaled down, a charge denied by the Union Home Ministry. "The development at the behest of the BJP leadership has come two days after the Aam Aadmi Party's impressive performance in the Gujarat civic body polls," a source claimed. The number of commandos of the Delhi Police in Kejriwal's security has now been reduced from six to two, the sources alleged. However, Home Ministry officials said no such decision has been taken by it. The AAP won 27 seats in the municipal polls in Gujarat's Surat, where the party convener will participate in a roadshow on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwals-security-cover-allegedly-reduced-955260.html
25-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to switch its fleet of cars for electric vehicles within 6 months: Manish Sisodia||All departments of the Delhi government will now use only electric vehicles, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday. The transition to EVs will be done within the next six months, he said. The government, which has over 2,000 cars in its fleet, hopes its decision will inspire other cities in the country and the world to tackle the issues of pollution and climate change with the urgency they deserve, he said. The announcement came a day after the Aam Aadmi Party-led government launched a campaign, 'Switch Delhi', to encourage private vehicle owners to take a pledge to shift to electric vehicles and install a charging point within their premises in the next three years. "It's history! Driven by the vision of CM @ArvindKejriwal to make Delhi the 'Electric Vehicle capital', Delhi govt today became the 1st in the world, not just India, to mandate its entire hired car fleet to switch to electric WITHIN a deadline- 6 mths. @SwitchDelhi begins at home," Sisodia tweeted. "Over 2,000 cars will be impacted by this decision and will transition to EVs in next 6 months. We hope this decision inspires cities and govts around India and the world to tackle the pollution and climate change problem with the seriousness and urgency it deserves," he said. The Delhi government had in August last year launched an Electric Vehicle Policy to tackle the problem of air pollution. Under the policy, it promised to waive registration fee, road tax, and provide an incentive of up to Rs 1.5 lakh for new cars in the national capital. Under Delhi's EV policy, 12 four-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives. Sisodia hoped that using Delhi as an example, cities of the world would ensure that using electric vehicles is an important agenda in the fight to curb pollution. "It is necessary to focus on the challenges related to a sustainable environment. Delhi Government has prioritised the issue of curbing environmental distress along with its other major agenda items," he aid. Sisodia pinned faith on the idea that the decision of switching to electric vehicles by all departments of Delhi Government will be a key step in encouraging more sustainable practices in the national capital and thereby curbing environmental distresses such as pollution. The Transport Department of Delhi will be the nodal department to monitor the progress of the transition from existing diesel or petrol vehicle fleet to EVs. It will also be necessary for all departments to produce monthly action reports on the transition to EVs by the 5th of every month to the nodal department. "The people of Delhi have time and again made efforts towards making our environment, our city green and clean. Switching to electric vehicles will be another effort that all of us together, as citizens of Delhi, will take to ensure that we continue this fight towards sustainability," he said. 'Switch Delhi' is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the Delhi government to sensitize each and every Delhiite about the benefits of switching to EVs as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi's EV policy. The campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating each and every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles. While the first two weeks of the campaign have focused on promoting two and three wheeler owners to switch to EVs, the third week targets four-wheeler vehicle owners to adopt EVs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-switch-its-fleet-of-cars-for-electric-vehicles-within-6-months-manish-sisodia-955308.html
25-02-2021||Oasis||Knowing comes through not knowing||The great orientalist, poet and scholar A K Ramanujan wrote in his memoirs that while studying at Indiana University in the US, he had a professor, whose name I'm forgetting. That professor was extremely erudite and had a convincing answer to almost every query raised by the students. Yet, he was honest enough to categorically say, 'I don't know,' whenever he had no answer or explanation to a query. That quality of honestly saying, 'I don't know' endeared him to all, especially to students and they would respect him all the more because of his disarmingly humble habit of accepting a number of times that he didn't know. " It's far better and praiseworthy to say, 'I don't know' than giving a misleading answer to create a false impression that one knows everything, " said Booker T Washington. So very true. Even the so-called polymaths or versatile geniuses will find many subjects and areas, which are not their metiers. Ghalib put it so succinctly and honestly in one of his couplets: 'Sukhanvari ko main ne samjha apna ilaaqa/ Haif, kai baar isi halqe mein thokar khaai maine' (I thought that poetry was my territory/Alas, I fell flat in my own sphere).  The realization of one's limitations opens up the doors to wisdom. Socrates' cryptic statement articulates this: What I know well is that I don't know. Ludwig Wittgenstein's Knowing comes through unknowing is a mantra we all must follow. Only when you're ignorant about something and honest about your ignorance, can you learn that and eventually master. The legendary French composer Frederic Chopin wrote that one day when he was a young performer on the stage in Paris, it suddenly dawned on him that certain notes in his pianissimo were faulty, he hesitatingly accepted that before an august gathering of connoisseurs and promised that he'd learn them better. Those learned cognoscenti appreciated his honesty and wished him well for his future concerts. Chopin took twelve years to master Piano Sonata 1, just because he could say at a young and impressionable age that he didn't know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/knowing-comes-through-not-knowing-955024.html
25-02-2021||Panorama||BJP uneasy as Congress smells opening in UP’s ‘Jatland’||As the ongoing agitation of farmers in protest against the new farm laws nears 100 days, there are indications of political churning in the ‘Jatland’ (Jat dominated districts) in western Uttar Pradesh prompting the Congress and some other regional outfits to nurture hopes of regaining a foothold in the region and dent the BJP support base. Congress, which has been reduced to a fringe player in state politics, has been going all out to capitalise on the farmers’ anger in the hope of reaping rich electoral dividends in the next assembly election in the state, which are due in less than a year’s time. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is also the party in-charge of the state, has been hopping from one district to another and addressing ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ in the region assuring the farmers of her party’s full support to their agitation. Priyanka has already addressed half a dozen ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ in Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Bijnore and some other districts in the past few days. She has also been meeting the farmer leaders in an attempt to garner their support ahead of the next assembly poll. The Congress, which could win only one seat - that of Raebareli in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and only seven seats in the 2017 assembly poll - has planned to hold a series of ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ in the ‘Jat’ dominated districts in the days to come. "We are getting good response from the farmers,’’ said a UP Congress leader here pointing to the crowds at the meetings addressed by Priyanka. The leader said that the Congress would be holding meetings of the farmers in 27 districts of western UP in the next few months as part of its ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’ campaign. According to the Congress leaders the party is working to bring the ‘Jats’ and Muslims together once again. The two communities, which together form around 35% of the electorate in the 19 western UP districts, can upset the electoral applecart of any party in the region. In some districts like Mathura and Baghpat, the ‘Jats’ form 30 to 40% of the electorate. The presence of senior Congress leader Imran Masood and former party MLA Harendra Malik, a ‘Jat’, at Priyanka’s meeting in Muzaffarnagar was a pointer in this direction. "We can defeat the BJP if we are able to get the support of these two communities,’’ Malik said. In the past, the two communities used to be the vote bank of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) but the 2013 communal riots in Muzaffarnagar in which 60 people were killed and thousands others, mainly Muslims, displaced, divided them to the benefit of the BJP. The division pushed the RLD on the brink of political extinction in the state. Sensing an opportunity, the RLD leaders, including its vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, son of former union minister Ajit Singh, have also been rallying the farmers of the region against the farm laws and attending the farmers' 'mahapanchayats' in different districts. The RLD top leadership has directed the party workers to fan out in the villages, especially those dominated by the 'Jats' and solicit their support for the ongoing protests against the farm laws. BJP, on the other, finds itself on the backfoot in the region, which it had swept in 2019 LS polls and also in 2017 assembly election riding on the ‘Jat-Muslim’ divide. The saffron party leaders had to face the wrath of the farmers, especially those from the ‘Jat’ community, when they visited some of the villages to meet the ‘khap chaudharies’ (panchayat chiefs). ‘’We will allow them to enter our villages only after they resign from their party,’’ said Sachin Jawala, a ‘khap chaudhary’ in Shamli district, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow. Jawala’s remarks came after Union Minister Sanjiv Baliyan went to meet the farmers at Bhaiswal village in the district. The angry farmers not only raised slogans against the saffron party but also blocked their way by parking their tractors on the road. No MSP hike Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait urged the farmers to ask the BJP leaders why there had been no increase in the MSP (minimum support price) of sugarcane in the past few years. The farmers have also called for ‘’social boycott’’ of the BJP leaders. Naresh Tikait also asked the farmers not to ‘invite’ the BJP workers and leaders at social functions. What appeared to have queered the pitch for the BJP were the remarks by Naresh Tikait that the 'Jats' had committed a blunder by shifting their allegiance to BJP. ''Ajit Singh ko hara kar hamne bahut bari bhool ki,'' (it was a great mistake on our part to defeat Ajit Singh), Tikait had said at one of the mahapanchayats of the farmers in Muzaffarnagar town a few days back. Guru Bachan Singh, a Baghpat based scribe, who hails from the ‘Jat’ community, said that both the Congress and the RLD were vying for the votes of the community. ‘’At the moment, Jats are very angry with the BJP….the remarks by BJP lawmaker Nand Kishore Gujjar have only fuelled this anger,’’ Singh told DH. Gujjar had allegedly threatened the agitating farmers. "Who gets the support of the community will depend on many factors….which party takes the lead in supporting them will be the key,’’ he remarked. BJP leaders, however, sought to keep a brave face and claimed that the saffron party would be able to ‘convince’ the farmers about the benefits of the new farm laws. ‘’We have been trying to reach out to the farmers to allay their fears and misgivings…we will succeed,’’ said BJP legislator from Meerut, Suresh Rana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-uneasy-as-congress-smells-opening-in-up-s-jatland-955022.html
25-02-2021||Panorama||Collaborate to innovate||Devoting an entire chapter to innovation, the recently released Economic Survey 2020-21 called upon Indian businesses to ramp up R&D investments to achieve the country’s aspiration to emerge as the third-largest economy. But, in doing this, it is important for Indian companies to remember that in the last two decades, companies and institutions the world over have moved from bespoke to collaborative innovation models.  If there were any doubts about the importance of collaboration, the Covid-19 experience should have dispelled these. It is a collaboration between industry and universities/research labs that has given the world Covid-19 vaccines in such a short time. Scientists from both the Jenner Institute and the Oxford Vaccine Group are the pioneers in ChAdOx1 - chimpanzee adenovirus vaccine vector - the vaccine technology used in AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute. Bharat Biotech created an indigenous vaccine based on a sample of the SARS-CoV-2 virus isolated by India’s National Institute of Virology There is evidence of the importance of collaboration from pre-Covid times too. Bharat Biotech developed lysostaphin, an antimicrobial, in collaboration with the Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology. The company collaborated with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences for the pioneering rotavirus vaccine. Indian research labs have not only collaborated with Indian companies but also with multinationals. The National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) developed a technology for microencapsulation by which tiny particles or droplets are surrounded by a coating to give small capsules with useful properties, leading to six US patents. P&G, a leading multinational in the consumer products industry, licensed the technology from NCL and sponsored further research. After five years, technology created a perfume that was encapsulated and diffused over weeks. This was used in the Downy range of fabric conditioners sold in the USA.   We need to make such collaborations a standard practice. The traditional mechanisms of collaboration between industry, universities and research labs are of two types. Mechanisms like meetings and conferences, consultancy and contract research, and training are arms-length in nature. While mechanisms like creation of physical facilities and joint research indicate a long-term commitment on both sides. The focus should be to enhance the long-term collaboration capability of India’s universities, research labs, and industry to collaborate on joint research that can result in innovation.   This intertwining has several barriers. There is often a belief among researchers in universities and research labs that fundamental research is their focus and more important than applied research. Further, there is often little incentive for Indian universities and research labs to collaborate with the industry. Finally, there are transactional issues like appropriating value from collaboration in the domains of intellectual property ownership and licensing.  What can be done to enhance collaboration? As MNCs do, Indian industry needs to create boundary-spanning roles staffed by professionals who understand the requirements of internal product development and R&D teams and are well networked with universities and research labs to initiate and manage collaborations. Universities and research labs need to make the industry consultancy cells/technology transfer offices more impactful. Another focus for universities and industry labs must be to remove red tape that hinders collaboration and licencing of technology. The National Innovation and Startup Policy introduced in 2019 provides useful guidelines on Intellectual Property ownership management, technology licensing and institutional startup policy.  There are a couple of macro interventions that are applicable in the Indian context. First, we need to put in place mechanisms that enhance trust, as meaningful collaboration requires a minimum threshold level of trust.  Second, it will be worthwhile to document collaboration initiatives, successes and failures, and to identify macro and organization-level factors that nurture and inhibit collaboration in a nation-wide study. We need to get to the root causes of why innovation works or not before planning for industry-wide interventions.    (Krishnan is Director and Professor of Strategy at IIM Bangalore. N Dayasindhu is Co-founder and CEO at Itihaasa Research and Digital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/collaborate-to-innovate-955023.html
25-02-2021||Right in the Middle||What is in a name?||In days of yore, it was common in north Indian villages to name the first male child Mukhtar. It signified ‘Head’ and was someone who would assume authority. Following the custom, my eldest brother was named so. The other brothers had names signifying valour or bravery. When I, as the youngest of five brothers, was born, my father may have lost enthusiasm.  My given name was spelt as Rejender throughout my school years. When we were filling up our forms for matriculation exams, my namesake teacher corrected the spellings to Rajendra since that is how he spelt his name.  After marriage, my wife shortened it to Raj. Though it evoked unpatriotic memories of the British rule, I gave in to the endearing demand of the spouse. I was posted as the Brigade Major in Palampur with a namesake Brigade Commander Rajindar. He called me Raj. But there was a slight confusion. His wife also called him Raj. So when we four were together, my wife called me Raj, Noor called her Brigadier husband Raj and he, in turn, called me Raj. Lamenting how common our name was, the Brigadier self-deprecatingly remarked that if one threw a stone into a crowd, the chances were high that it would hit a Raj. On being posted to the battalion, I was third in seniority. Our 2 IC was Major Rajinder. This led to some hilarity when in the Mess the CO called this name and two of us responded with a ‘yes sir’.  Later, when I was posted for raising the National Security Guard, the General commanding the Manesar complex, called me Raj. But more often he would call me Beta. This endearment was so much on his tongue that in addition to calling most of us beta, he would also often address his wife similarly.     My shortened name Raj finally has stuck with me. This has not been without problem though. The TV channels where I sometimes appear send me remuneration through bank cheques made out in the name of Raj Kadyan. However, the name in the account is what was recorded in my matriculation certificate and consequently in the PAN card and later the Adhaar card.  Our Keralite daughter-in-law Gayathri is an avid history buff. Our grandson has been named Kush after the character in epic Ramayana. The boy, born abroad has studied in the US, Canada and UK. He gets teased in his class and complains of not being named a Joshua or a Jacob. He is still too young to understand the significance of native roots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/what-is-in-a-name-955021.html
25-02-2021||Second Edit||Afghanistan far away from peace||A year after the United States and the Taliban signed the Doha Agreement, Afghanistan is no closer to even the tiniest bit of peace or security. Indeed, violence levels have soared over the past year. According to United Nations Mission to Afghanistan’s annual report, civilians bore the brunt of the fighting: 8,820 civilians perished over the past year. The Doha Agreement provided for a withdrawal of all US soldiers in 18 months in return for the Taliban participating in talks with the Afghan government. The Taliban also promised to stop providing shelter to foreign terrorist groups on Afghan soil. The agreement was met with great scepticism by the Afghan government and countries like India. Still, the Ashraf Ghani government went along with the accord, released thousands of Taliban prisoners to pave the way for the intra-Afghan talks. However, a year since the US and the Taliban signed the agreement, the security situation in Afghanistan is alarming; multiple massacres have happened even in Kabul. And while intra-Afghan talks began in September, they stalled for weeks with the Taliban refusing to show up at the negotiating table. The US is reviewing the Doha Agreement. This is understandable. The pact, which was negotiated and signed by the Donald Trump administration, was flawed to begin with. Anxious to pull out its soldiers to win votes at home, Trump did not bother to get the Taliban to commit and deliver on promises. It made a few concessions. Despite the repeated requests of the Afghan government and the international community, the Taliban did not declare a ceasefire and has persisted with its violent campaign. Withdrawing American troops in such circumstances would be dangerous. Hence, the US could keep its forces in Afghanistan past May. The Taliban is upset with the US decision and could walk out of the Doha pact. While this would be unfortunate, persisting with an agreement that has not seen the Taliban emerge a responsible actor or brought peace to the Afghan people makes little sense. On Tuesday, the Taliban announced that it is returning to the Doha talks. This is a tactical move aimed at blaming the Americans for the likely end of the Doha Agreement. A sharp surge in violence can be expected in the coming months. The Taliban’s spring offensive lies ahead. With many of its fighters freed from Afghan prisons, its capacity for fighting has grown. Pakistan will play an important role in the unfolding scenario. Its continued support to the Taliban will fuel further violence. It will suffer the blowback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/afghanistan-far-away-from-peace-955017.html
25-02-2021||South||RSS worker murder: 8 SDPI activists held in Kerala||Eight workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) have been taken into custody in connection with the killing of an RSS worker in the district, police said on Thursday. Nandu, 23, was allegedly hacked to death by the workers of the SDPI, a political offshoot of Popular Front of India (PFI), following a clash between two groups in Nagamkulangara near Cherthala, on Wednesday night.   According to the police, at least six people belonging to the SDPI and the RSS were injured in the clash between their workers. They have been admitted to various hospitals in Alappuzha and Ernakulam, police said. One of the injured workers of the RSS is said to be serious, they said. BJP is observing a dawn-to-dusk hartal in the district to protest the violence against their workers. According to reports, tension had been brewing in the area following a march organised by the SDPI recently in protest against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's Kerala visit to inaugurate BJP's Vijay Yatra from Kasargod to Thiruvananthapuram. The area had witnessed back to back protest marches by two groups following the SDPI programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-worker-murder-8-sdpi-activists-held-in-kerala-955103.html
25-02-2021||South||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu mandates 7-day quarantine for travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra||With the number of people testing positive showing an increase in Kerala and Maharashtra, the Tamil Nadu government has made it mandatory for those coming from the two states to undergo 7-day home quarantine and self-monitoring for another 7 days. Releasing fresh guidelines for monitoring of Covid-19 cases, the Health Department asked people coming from other states to monitor their health for 14 days and report to a hospital if they develop symptoms associated with the novel coronavirus infection.  The government has also made testing at airports compulsory for travellers arriving from countries like Britain, South Africa, and Brazil. They will be allowed to exit the airport premises only after a negative test. In case they test positive, the passengers will immediately be taken to a hospital for treatment.  Those testing negative, the guidelines said, will have to undergo another Covid-19 test after seven days. “If tested negative, they will be released from quarantine and asked to monitor their health for a further seven days,” the guidelines said.  Asking people returning from other states to self-monitor their health for 14 days, the guidelines said those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra should quarantine themselves at home for seven days and self-monitor their health for another seven days. It said testing will be done on all symptomatic individuals. “If they test positive and are symptomatic, they will be taken to hospital isolation. If they are positive and asymptomatic, they will be taken to the Covid Care Centre for management,” the guidelines said. The government also said it has categorised patients into three groups – mild cases, mild, moderate cases, and severe cases and high-risk cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-mandates-7-day-quarantine-for-travellers-from-kerala-maharashtra-955110.html
25-02-2021||South||Congress holds 'satyagraha' demanding removal of Kerala Minister||The Congress on Thursday launched a 'satyagraha' protest at Poonthura, a fishing hamlet near here, demanding the removal of Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma in connection with an alleged deep sea fishing deal between the government and a US-based firm. By launching the day-long stir, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala also wanted the government to carry out a judicial probe into the alleged conspiracy behind the controversial agreement and remove the reported changes made in favour of the firm, EMCC International, in the fisheries' policy of the state. In view of the raging controversy, the Left government, the other day, decided to cancel two MoUs signed with the company and ordered an internal inquiry on the circumstances under which such a deal was signed. The step was taken reportedly to avoid further controversies, with the opposition levelling fresh charges and bringing out what they term as "evidence" almost every day. "The probe ordered by the government under principal secretary T K Jose is not acceptable. Because he is the secretary and can a deal be signed in the state without the knowledge of the secretary and the Chief Minister?" the Congress leader asked. Urging the government to order a judicial probe into the matter, Chennithala said if the CM did not know anything, what is the point of him sitting in that chair. If the opposition had not raised the matter, the cabinet would have given consent to the deal, which would have adversely impacted the lives of lakhs of fishermen in the state, he told reporters at Poonthura. KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran inaugurated the satyagraha, which would continue till 4 pm. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar would open the concluding session. The state government had first decided to cancel the MoU signed for the Rs 2950 crore-worth project between EMCC International and Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC). On Wednesday, they also resolved to nullify another pact, worth Rs 5000 crore, with the US-based firm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-holds-satyagraha-demanding-removal-of-kerala-minister-955123.html
25-02-2021||South||RSS worker murder: BJP alleges Kerala govt sided with culprits||Condemning the killing of an RSS worker in the Alappuzha district, the BJP on Thursday alleged that the Kerala government was siding with the culprits belonging to the SDPI as the ruling CPI(M) had a political alliance with the Islamic outfit. BJP state president K Surendran also urged the government to ban the activities of the Popular Front of India (PFI), the parent outfit of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), in Kerala describing it as a "terror organisation". Nandu, 23, was allegedly hacked to death by the workers of the SDPI following a clash between two groups in Nagamkulangara near Cherthala, on Wednesday night. Police have taken eight SDPI workers into custody in connection with the incident. "The police is helping the SDPI workers who killed the RSS worker in Nagamkulangara", Surendran alleged in a press conference here. He alleged that both the CPI(M)-led LDF and the Congress-led UDF were working together with the SDPI in the state. "The LDF has forged a political understanding with the SDPI in the state", Surendran alleged referring to the ruling front's alleged understanding with the outfit to secure power in a civic body in the state. Senior BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan alleged that both the Communists and the Congress were encouraging the "terror outfits like Popular Front of India" in the state to keep them as their vote bank. He said the Centre will take necessary steps against the "religion-based terrorist activities" being witnessed in the southern state. Meanwhile, the SDPI Alappuzha district committee in a statement, alleged that it was the RSS workers who had carried out "a planned attack" against its campaign organised in Nagamkulangara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-worker-murder-bjp-alleges-kerala-govt-sided-with-culprits-955158.html
25-02-2021||South||TN raises retirement age to 60; cancels board exams for 10th & 11th standard||It was raining announcements in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Thursday. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who has making a slew of announcements and sops for people in the run up to the elections, surprised school students by declaring that board exams for 9th, 10th and 11th standard stand cancelled for the 2020-2021 academic year. He also announced that the government was increasing the age of retirement of its employees from 59 to 60. The age was increased to 59 from 58 last year as the government found it difficult to pay them benefits in view of the Covid-19 situation. “Students have been learning only through Kalvi TV for the past one year, and considering the difficulties in learning online, the syllabus was reduced. Moreover, after taking into account the difficulties and suffering faced by students and teachers and the demand from parents, the government has decided not to conduct board exams for 9th, 10th and 11th standard,” Palaniswami said. He added that the students will be promoted to the next class without any exams. The government had cancelled exams for 10th standard students for the academic year 2020-21 due to the Covid-19 situation. The announcement evoked mixed reactions, with educationalists flagging concerns over cancellation of exams. “TN Govt decision to pass all 9th,10th, & 11th students may not be 100% right decision. Could have conducted online exam for 10th standard at least. For 11th standard students its going be challenging when they face competitive exams like NEET when they complete 12th,” Jayaprakash Gandhi, career consultant and analyst, said. In another announcement, Palaniswami said the retirement age will now be increased to 60 from the current 59. The announcement will be applicable to employees working with the government, its allied organisations, and PSUs who will be retiring on May 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-raises-retirement-age-to-60-cancels-board-exams-for-10th-11th-standard-955162.html
25-02-2021||South||PM Narendra Modi launches various projects in Puducherry; assures Centre's support for UT's development||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated a slew of completed projects here and laid the foundation stone for others, including in the ports and highways sectors. Insisting that the Centre has made many efforts to improve rural and coastal connectivity, he said farmers across the country were innovating and that it was the duty of his government to ensure their produce got good market. "Good roads do exactly that," he said while laying the foundation stone for the four-laning of NH 45 A Sattanathapuram-Nagappattinam stretch covering Karaikal district. The four-laning activity will certainly lead to better connectivity while economic activity will pick up pace, he said. At the same time it will improve access to the holy Shaneeswaran temple at Tirunallar and provide easy interstate connectivity to The Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health and the Nagore Dargah, both located in nearby Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu, he noted. "The four laning will also draw industry and ensure job opportunities for local youth," Modi said, while assuring all possible help for the development of this union territory. "The government of India has made many efforts to improve rural and coastal connectivity. The agriculture sector will gain from this (four laning). Across India our farmers are innovating. It is our duty to ensure their produce get good market," he added. The Prime Minister inaugurated a Blood Centre at state-run JIPMER, a Sports Authority of India (SAI) girls hostel at Lawspet and a reconstructed Heritage Mairie Building. The heritage building will add to the beauty of the beach promenade. He laid the foundation stone for the Medical College Building at Karaikal New Campus of JIPMER-Phase I and the development of Minor Port at Puducherry under Sagarmala scheme. Modi also laid the foundation stone of Synthetic Athletic Track at Indira Gandhi Sports Complex in the Union Territory. The starting of various development works will improve people's life in Puducherry and the works cover diverse sectors, he said. Observing that prosperity was closely linked to good health, Modi stated that India in the last seven years has made many efforts to improve fitness and wellness. The SAI hostel is "one more attempt to improve" sporting facilities in India, he said, adding, the 100-bed building will accommodate sportswoman from volleyball, hockey, weightlifting and kabaddi among others. On healthcare, he said it was one sector that would play a key role in the coming years and noted that "nations that invest in health care will shine." The inauguration of the Blood Centre in JIPMER at Rs 28 crore was "in line with our objective to provide quality healthcare to all," he said. Yet again quoting from the Tamil treatise Tirukkural, penned by saint poet Tiruvalluvar, he said "learning and education are the true wealth while all other things are not stable." Stressing the need for quality health professionals to promote healthcare, he said, "Phase I of medical college building at (JIPMER) Karaikal new campus is a step in that direction. This new environment friendly complex will have all modern teaching facilities required." On the minor ports initiative, the PM said once completed it will help our fishermen. It will provide much required sea connectivity to Chennai...will facilitate the cargo movement for Puduchery and ease load of Chennai port. It will open up possibilities of passenger traffic among coastal cities." Modi said Puducherry has got rich human resources due to various educational institutions, both in government and private sectors. It has a tourism and industrial potential that will provide lot of employment opportunities, he added. Praising the people of Puducherry, Modi called them 'talented.' "The land is beautiful. I am here to personally assure all possible support from my government for the development of the UT," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-narendra-modi-launches-various-projects-in-puducherry-assures-centres-support-for-uts-development-955165.html
25-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan now wants CBSE syllabus for government schools in the state||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has stated that his government will implement the CBSE system in state-run schools for Classes 1 to 7 from the next academic year. In a meeting on the school education sector on Wednesday in Amaravati, the CM further said that the central board prescribed education format would be gradually expanded to the later grades, to bring all the classes up to the 10th standard under the CBSE by 2024. Reddy had earlier decided to convert the medium of teaching in all the government schools from Telugu to English, a move that attracted disapproval from academics to politicians like TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu, Jana Sena's Pawan Kalyan and even vice-president of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who advocated teaching in the mother tongue. The matter also reached the Supreme Court. According to the YSRCP government’s original plans, classes 1 to 6 had to switch to English medium from the 2020-21 academic year, and 7th to 10th added gradually in the next four years. There are 44,512 government schools in the state, with Telugu as the primary language. After the transformation, Telugu would remain only as a compulsory subject in every class.   As to what prompted the decision now to change the board too and thereby the syllabus etc is not clear. “We are working out the modalities and would come out with the details later,” V Chinaveerabhadrudu, AP' school education commissioner told DH. All the government schools in Andhra Pradesh are as of now following the state board education system, with the curricula, syllabi, instructional material prepared for the Primary, Secondary and alternative systems of education by the AP State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) akin to NCERT at the national level. On Wednesday, Reddy reviewed the progress of Mana Badi Nadu Nedu, an ambitious mission launched last year to transform the infrastructure and the teaching-learning environment in government schools. The CM directed the officials to add an English-Telugu dictionary in the Vidya Kanuka kit being supplied free to the school children. Teachers should also be provided with quality dictionaries, Reddy instructed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-now-wants-cbse-syllabus-for-government-schools-in-the-state-955166.html
25-02-2021||South||Trade unions transport strike affects commuters in Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu transport workers affiliated to nine trade unions commenced their indefinite strike on Thursday demanding the government to conclude the 14th wage revision talks immediately, leaving several commuters stranded across the state. The strike by the unions, including DMK-affiliated LPF, CITU, AITUC and INTUC, is also to seek pending terminal benefits of workers retired from 2020 and non-allocation of funds in the budget to compensate the losses incurred by the corporation which is a service sector. The strike caused hardship to commuters, particularly students and office goers. Nearly 50 percent buses plied in the state capital during the early hours and the number of government buses that operated in several districts was abysmally low. A senior official at the state transport department said the MTC operated 50 to 57 percent buses in Chennai from 7 am to 9 am. "We have taken steps to ensure the people were not affected on account of the strike," a senior official said.   The trade union affiliated to the ruling AIADMK - Anna Trade Union - however, resorted to work in Chennai and other parts of the state, as they did not participate in the strike. In Nagercoil, Tiruchy, Madurai, Thanjavur, Cuddalore and Tiruvannamalai, for instance many buses remained at the bays and some of the bus stations wore a deserted look. "The interim relief of Rs. 1,000 per month announced by the transport minister (M R Vijayabhaskar) is not adequate to resolve the issues faced by the employees," K Natarajan, treasurer of LPF, said. He demanded the government to hold parleys with the unions and conclude the 14th wage revision. Apart from interim relief till the conclusion of the 14th wage revision talks, Vijayabhaskar had announced allocation of Rs 536 crore for the settlement of retirement benefits of employees who retired from service from January to April last year. After holding discussion with Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday, the minister had said, "we had paid Rs 972 crore last month for the employees who retired between April and December 2019. With this, we have paid retirement benefits for all the employees."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trade-unions-transport-strike-affects-commuters-in-tamil-nadu-955167.html
25-02-2021||South||PM Modi sounds poll bugle, asks Puducherry to vote to become 'BEST'||Launching a scathing attack on Congress and former Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday appealed to the people of Puducherry to vote the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to power in the ensuing Assembly elections by following the rest of the country which has “rejected Congress.”  Addressing a public meeting in Puducherry days after the Congress government lost its majority, Modi trained his guns on Narayanasamy, accusing him of only “serving” the Congress high command and not the people of Puducherry.  In his speech in English, which was translated into Tamil by Tamil Nadu BJP leader H Raja, Modi tore into Narayanasamy for translating a complaint by a woman from the fishing community into a compliment and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remarks during the latter's visit last week. He also accused the former chief minister of not cooperating with the Centre on the development of Puducherry in the last five years.  “Instead of telling the truth to the nation, the former Puducherry Chief Minister gave a wrong translation of the woman’s words. He lied to the people and his own leader. Can a party whose culture is based on lies ever serve people?” Modi asked.  Modi's visit to Puducherry, during which he inaugurated several projects, is expected to give a fillip to the N R Congress-BJP-AIADMK alliance in the UT which is hoping to overthrow the Congress. The BJP failed to open its account in the 2016 elections, but three of its leaders were nominated to the Assembly by the Centre. The party is now taking efforts to open its account.  Targeting the Congress, he said the party was an expert in telling lies and accused it of pitting region against region and community against community, in an apparent reference to Gandhi's comparison of politics in different parts of the country.  “The colonial rulers adopted the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. They are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies...Congress' seats in the Parliament are at a lowest ever! Their culture of feudal, patronage, dynasty politics is ending. India is young, aspirational, and forward-looking,” Modi said. Contending that Congress is being rejected by people in many states, Modi said the party's strength in Parliament is the lowest ever. “The colonial rulers adopted the policy of divide and rule. Congress has a policy of divide, lie and rule. They are gold, silver and bronze medal winners in telling lies... Congress' seats in the Parliament are at the lowest ever! Their culture of feudal, patronage, dynasty politics is ending. India is young, aspirational, and forward-looking,” Modi said.  He also attacked Narayanasamy saying the leader was more interested in “lifting the slippers of his leader” (Rajiv Gandhi in the 1980s) rather than “lifting people out of poverty.” Alleging that the Congress government was known for “misgovernance”, Modi appealed to the people of Puducherry to vote the NDA to power and support good governance.  “I want Puducherry to be the BEST! NDA wants to make Puducherry the BEST. By best, I mean – B for business hub, E for education hub, S for spiritual hub and T for tourism hub,” he said.   Attacking the Congress government in Puducherry which collapsed on Monday, Modi sought to know why Narayanasamy never conducted panchayat polls despite being nudged by the Supreme Court. He said Congress leaders deliver sermons about democracy to him and the BJP, but fail to look at the mirror.  “Panchayat polls can happen in Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, in Leh-Ladakh but not in Puducherry. People of Puducherry will now punish the anti-democratic mindset of Congress,” he said.  He also criticised Rahul Gandhi for his comments that the fishermen community needs a separate ministry, saying he was “shocked at his remarks.” The truth is, it is the current NDA government that made this ministry for fisheries in 2019. The budget allocated for fisheries has grown more than 80 per cent in just two years,” he said. In his response to Modi, Rahul tweeted: “Dear PM, Fisherfolk need an independent and dedicated ministry of fisheries, not just a department within a ministry. PS- “Hum do Humare do” obviously hurt bad.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-sounds-poll-bugle-asks-puducherry-to-vote-to-become-best-955182.html
25-02-2021||South||TN govt announces 'all pass' for class 9, 10 and plus one students||Students of class 9, 10 and Plus One in Tamil Nadu will not have to take the exams, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced in the assembly on Thursday as he declared them "all pass" this academic year in view of the Coronavirus pandemic. "Taking into consideration the unusual situation being faced by teachers and students, the views of parents besides the opinion of experts, the students of standards: 9, 10 and 11, facing the annual/board exams in 2020-21 education year, are announced as passed without writing the examinations," the chief minister said. Throughout the year the students were taught through the state-run Kalvi Tholaikatchi (education TV channel). "The syllabus was downsized by taking into account the practical difficulties of the teachers and students," Palaniswami added. As the entire world battled against the pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government ordered the closure of schools to prevent the spread of the virus. "The schools were ordered to close from March 25, 2020, to contain the spread of the pandemic and were reopened only for classes 10 and 12 on January 19, after Coronavirus was brought under control considerably," Palaniswami said. Students who came to school were given vitamin and zinc tablets in order to enhance their immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-announces-all-pass-for-class-9-10-and-plus-one-students-955195.html
25-02-2021||South||Karnataka native’s Rs 526 crore offer to Kerala temple hangs in balance||Development project to the tune of Rs 526 crore offered by a devotee hailing from Karnataka to a temple in Kerala is hanging in balance as the credibility, especially the fund source, of the person has come under scanner. Gana Shravan hailing from Chikkaballapur had made the huge offer for the Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple, around ten kilometres from Kochi city about an year back. Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran had held talks with Shravan recently and it was decided to take forward the project after getting concurrence of the Kerala High Court’s Devaswom bench. In the meantime, several complaints were received by the government and the devaswom authorities about the sources of the fund of Shravan, who claims to be involved mainly in the trade of gold, diamond and rare metals and director of SwaamyG companies. Hence, the devaswom ombudsman is now insisting on the source of funds for taking the project forward, especially since Shravan said that the funds would be brought from abroad through a company registered here about a year back, Munnangi Infrastructure Private Limited. Devaswom Board secretary V A Sheeja told DH that the Shravan’s proposal was pending legal scrutiny. Government sources said that the sources of funds were still remaining quite mysterious and several complaints had also come up. Hence the matter was being dealt with utmost caution. Shravan told DH that he had sought 60 days time for furnishing details of the source of funds. He also said that the project was being delayed unnecessarily on the basis of baseless complaints and suspicions. Meanwhile, government sources said that since it was a matter concerning a temple, the Left front government was being highly cautious in handling it to avoid any embarrassments in the future. Shravan said that he made the huge offer as he received all prospects in business after coming down to Chottanikkara temple about five years back. He had proposed renovation of temple, construction of new gopurams (entrance), constructing a marriage hall, waste treatment plant, setting up parking facility and developing the roads leading to the temple. A hospital in the locality is also under consideration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-native-s-rs-526-crore-offer-to-kerala-temple-hangs-in-balance-955199.html
25-02-2021||South||Accepted TRS offer to contest MLC poll to serve people: Narasimha Rao's daughter Vani Devi||The decision of the ruling TRS in Telangana to give an MLC ticket to daughter of former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao has come as a surprise given the Congress roots of her father, but S Vani Devi asserts she has been apolitical and accepted the offer only to serve people. While declining to dwell into Congress leadership not giving her father the due recognition especially after his demise, she, however, said it was TRS supremo and Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who took up birth centenary celebrations of him in a grand manner in June last year. An educationist, the 69-year old noted she has been 'apolitical' and her career was focussed in the fields of education and art. "Whenever I get an opportunity, it is a good thing. Serving the nation, it is a good thing. I can work for more people," she told P T I. Vani Devi said she accepted the offer to contest the coming Telangana Legislative Council biennial election on TRS ticket to serve people through a bigger platform though her father, a native of Telangana and credited with ushering in economic reforms way back in 1990s, was a life-long Congressman. The TRS has fielded Vani Devi as its candidate in the March 14 election to the Legislative Council from Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad Graduates' constituency. She saw serving as an MLC as an appropriate area for her, having worked in the education sector for about 35 years. Serving people was a quality she inherited from her illustrious father, who steered the Congress government from 1991 to 1996 at a critical juncture, she added. Vani Devi worked as a lecturer and founded academic institutions, besides being an acclaimed artist. On the criticism against the Congress over the way it treated Narasimha Rao, Vani Devi, who used to accompany her father during his overseas trips as prime minister, said she was not interested in talking about politics and parties. "We are not interested in criticising anybody, any party. But, the treatment, in spite of his commitment, dedication, service, loyalty, what answer should I give. The world knows. "Those who behaved like that, it is better if they are asked. They know the reason. I don't know. Because, I am not in the picture," she said. Congress has often come under attack for not acknowledging Narasimha Rao's contributions publicly and allegedly not allowing his mortal remains to be placed in the AICC headquarters in New Delhi after his death. However, the Congress also launched its own year-long birth anniversary of the former prime minister in July last year when top leaders, including Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, paid rich tributes to him. Gandhis' praise for Narasimha Rao was significant given the frosty ties that they shared after he became the prime minister in 1991. He was the first leader outside the Nehru-Gandhi family to last a full-term as Prime Minister. Comparing her father and Chandrasekhar Rao, Vani Devi said she had observed the personalities of both. Narasimha Rao steered the country at a critical juncture and Chandrasekhar Rao's fast helped in realising the decades-old dream of separate statehood for Telangana, she said. "The personality (of Chandrasekhar Rao), I felt some proximity with my father. I was eager about centenary celebrations (of Narasimha Rao). I set up a small museum with his personal collections for at least our students to see. It was small. It cannot be bigger." But, suddenly, the Chief Minister announced centenary celebrations on a large scale and thus it reached people within the country and abroad. Noting that service of people was a subject of interest to her, she said there was no ground for her to say no to the offer of an MLC poll ticket. Asked why she chose to contest on behalf of TRS despite her father being a Congressman, she said she had nothing to do with politics all these years, but public service is in her blood. The centenary celebrations have been a massive event in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, while it evoked tremendous response from foreign countries, she said. "He (CM) is doing centenary celebrations on such a large scale. Other parties did not speak much.. My perspective is not to criticise anybody," she added. On some state Congress leaders criticising the TRS move to field her in the MLC election when it could have nominated her as an MLC under the Governor's quota if it wanted to show its respect to Narasimha Rao, Vani Devi said her father did not favour nominated posts. "I will fight. I will go to the public. With their acceptance only, I will go to (reach) any place (as a public representative)," she said, but hastened to add she did not find fault with nominated posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/accepted-trs-offer-to-contest-mlc-poll-to-serve-people-narasimha-raos-daughter-vani-devi-955220.html
25-02-2021||South||Former Puducherry Minister accuses Narayanasamy of being 'disloyal to people, Congress'||Former Puducherry Minister A Namassivayam on Thursday accused V Narayanasamy of being "disloyal and insincere to the Congress high command and the people of the union territory." Namasssivayam, who quit as PWD minister on January 25 and also as MLA and shifted allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), rejected claims by the former chief minister that he was a 'traitor' and said Narayanasamy had failed to fulfill the promises made to the people of Puducherry. Launching a scathing attack on Narayanasamy whose government collapsed on Monday during a public meeting organised by the BJP here during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit, Namassivayam said "he (Narayanasamy) had failed to be loyal to the people, to Congress workers and to the party high command." Terming as baseless the allegation by Narayanasamy that he had been a 'traitor,' the former PWD Minister said the former chief minister had failed to fulfill the promises and assurances given to the people and had failed to measure up to the expectations of the youth. "Narayanasamy had thrown tothe winds all the promises given to the youth and let them down and as a result proved how disloyal he was," Namassivayam said. "His terming me a traitor is utterly untenable. Narayanasamy was only enacting a drama when he kept saying that his government was pulled down by the BJP," he added. Namassivayam said that the whole world had seen how Narayanasamy had misled his own party's leadership by doing a wrong translation of the woes of a fisherwoman during the visit of AICC leader Rahul Gandhi to a coastal village recently. He also took a dig at the former chief minister for claiming that his government had been toppled and recalled how injustice was meted out to him after the Assembly elections in 2016. Namassivayam said Narayanasamy who had not contested the assembly polls in 2016 was preferred as the CLP leader paving the way for him to become the chief minister though there were expectations that he (Namassivayam) would be picked for the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-puducherry-minister-accuses-narayanasamy-of-being-disloyal-to-people-congress-955262.html
25-02-2021||South||President's Rule imposed in Puducherry as Congress govt loses vote of confidence||The Union Territory of Puducherry was on Thursday evening brought under President's rule for the first time in 30 years, after the Congress government led by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy resigned on Monday. President Ram Nath Kovind signed a notification that said President's rule will be imposed in Puducherry as per the recommendation of Lt. Governor, Tamilisai Soundararajan, received on February 22, the day Narayanasamy lost his majority in the Assembly. The notification added that the assembly has been placed under suspended animation. The notification signed by Kovind noted that the President was satisfied that the administration of the Union Territory of Puducherry could not carry on in accordance with the provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963). "Now, therefore, in the exercise of the powers conferred by section 51 of the Act and of all other powers enabling me in that behalf, I (a) suspend, until the constitution of the 15th Legislative Assembly of Puducherry, in relation to the said Union Territory of Puducherry...," the notification added. Soundararajan, in her report to Kovind, had mentioned that no party staked claim to form the government after Narayanasamy resigned as Chief Minister and hence President's rule should be imposed. The Union Cabinet, which met on Wednesday, had approved the decision. Narayanasamy, who assumed office in June 2016, resigned on Monday after his government lost majority. The crisis was triggered after five Congress and one DMK MLA resigned as legislators in the past few weeks, bringing down the strength of the government. While the Congress had the support of 12 MLAs, the Opposition side claimed the support of 14 MLAs, including three nominated members who are BJP leaders. The Congress has squarely blamed the BJP for the fall of its only government in South India with AICC in-charge for Puducherry alleging that Union Home Minister Amit Shah threatened Congress MLAs to resign. This is the first time Puducherry will go under President's rule after 30 years. The last time the UT came under the Central rule was in 1991 for four months. This is the sixth time the UT will be under President's rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/presidents-rule-imposed-in-puducherry-as-congress-govt-loses-vote-of-confidence-955284.html
25-02-2021||South||RSS worker killed in clash with SDPI in Kerala, BJP observes hartal||A 22-year-old Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker was murdered allegedly by workers of the Social Democratic Party of India, a political outfit of the Popular Front of India, at Alappuzha district in Kerala. While the police have already nabbed eight SDPI workers in this connection, the BJP leadership in Kerala alleged that the incident was outcome of the SDPI-CPM nexus in the state. BJP also observed a hartal in Alappuzha. RSS worker Nandu R Krishna was killed on Wednesday night in the clashes at Vayalar in Alappuzha. Another RSS worker also suffered serious injuries in the clash. Some SDPI workers were also reportedly injured. Police sources said that tension between the SDPI and RSS workers prevailed in the region for quite some time and the clash on Wednesday night broke out soon after a demonstration of SDPI in the locality. BJP Kerala president K Surendran said that the left-front government in Kerala had given a free hand to the SDPI and hence they were unleashing an attack on BJP-RSS workers. This was due to the nexus between LDF and the SDPI, he alleged. Meanwhile, SDPI alleged that it was a preplanned attack by the RSS workers without any provocation as they unleashed the attack against SDPI workers soon after a march by SDPI in connection with the coming Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-worker-killed-in-clash-with-sdpi-in-kerala-bjp-observes-hartal-955297.html
25-02-2021||South||Kerala Chief Minister Vijayan says no justification for entry restriction by Karnataka||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that there was no justification for the restriction imposed by Karnataka on the entry of people from Kerala due to Covid-19 as Kerala did not impose such restriction when Covid-19 cases in Karnataka were high. Vijayan told reporters on Thursday that at one point Karnataka witnessed up to 150 deaths and over 10,000 cases. Even then Kerala did not impose any restrictions on entry from Karnataka. Every state can impose travel restrictions, but it should not be in violation of the Centre’s general norms. Hence Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention was sought and a favourable response was expecting, he said. Vijayan also said that the Covid-19 cases in Kerala remained high owing to the state’s effective Covid tracing facilities. It was for this reason that Covid deaths in Kerala were remaining at the lowest rate. The CPM leader also strongly condemned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adiyanath for their critical remarks against Kerala. He said that both of them were united in blaming Kerala. He also slammed the Congress for not fielding candidates for the two Rajya Sabha seats from Gujarat that became vacant. He said that even while Rahul was intervening in the issues of fishermen in Kerala and leading farmers’ demonstration by driving a tractor, he had not yet participated in the protest by farmers in Delhi. Rahul should also look into the crisis being faced by the farmers of Wayanad, which is the outcome of the anti-farmer initiatives of the previous Congress government at the centre and hence he should tender an apology to the farmers on behalf of the Congress. Referring to criticism against Kerala by the UP Chief Minister while addressing a BJP event in Kasargod recently, Vijayan said that 15 per cent of migrant workers in search of jobs in Kerala were from UP and the crime rate of UP was much higher than Kerala.   Defending allegations against his government over the deal with a US firm for building deep-sea trawlers, the Chief Minister said that the deals were only at the stage of a memorandum of understanding and as soon as it came to the government’s notice that the deals were in violation of government’s fisheries policy, the MoUs were scrapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-chief-minister-vijayan-says-no-justification-for-entry-restriction-by-karnataka-955303.html
25-02-2021||State||The Lead: Defining moments of Karnataka - Sugama Sangeetha, the melody of the poets||In this episode of The Lead get to know what is Sugama Sangeetha, how it developed over the years giving itself an iconic status in Karnataka and what its status is now.   Ahmed Shariff: You have heard the rendering of famous compositions like Nityotsava,  Bhavasangama and Mysura Mallige. They all come under the genre called Sugama Sangeetha. What exactly is this and what does it encompass. Today we are joined by Our City editor S R Ramakrishna to know more. listen in. Hi sir, welcome to DH Radio. Ramakrishna S R: Hi, Ahmed. Thanks for having me over. Ahmed: Thank you, sir. It's wonderful to have you on our show. Getting straight to the questions, what is Sugama Sangeeta? Can you explain that to us? Ramakrishna S R: Sugama Sangeeta is a form of music, which seems to be a middle path say between film music and classical music. Whereas in film music typically, the tunes are made first and the songs are written later. And there is a song being created for a particular situation. Film music is very brash and colourful and as you know its almost populist in the way a lot of film music is composed. And then classical music has a lot of rules on the other hand. There is the purity of the raga that has to be maintained and restrained is valued in classical music and you cannot break the rule in classical music. To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-lead-defining-moments-of-karnataka-sugama-sangeetha-the-melody-of-the-poets-955054.html
25-02-2021||State||Cops, mines officials take out joint operation to seize explosives: Home Minister Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the police and the mines & geology department will launch joint operations to identify illegal use of explosives in mining activities and seize them. Bommai told reporters here on Thursday the government has learnt that explosives are being used in some stone crusher units in violation of norms. Besides, licensed stone quarries have been using explosives beyond permissible limits. Hence, a joint operation will be launched and a special notification will be issued in this regard. On the demands by various communities for reservation benefits, he said Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is reviewing the demands to provide justice to all communities. He said there is a need to study which communities must be included on the list of other backward classes permanently on the basis of Supreme Court judgements and the Constitution. Besides, there is a need to study which communities are backward in all walks of life. The SC/ST commission and backward classes commission must recommend the communities for reservation benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cops-mines-officials-take-out-joint-operation-to-seize-explosives-home-minister-bommai-955299.html
25-02-2021||State||Sakaala apathy irks Karnataka minister S Suresh Kumar||Eight years after the government introduced the Sakaala scheme to make public services more transparent, several departments have received zero applications, Sakaala Minister S Suresh Kumar lamented on Thursday. Launched in 2012, Sakaala or the Karnataka Guarantee of Services to Citizens Act, promises delivery of government services within a stipulated time. Kumar was instrumental in its launch. In a review meeting, Kumar found that even though there were 758 services available under Sakaala, many had not received any applications. Expressing concern about this, he sought to know whether it was a result of the public not filing applications for services under the scheme or if it was because officials were accepting applications outside Sakaala's purview. There was also an increase in rejected and pending applications at district and taluk-levels. Owing to this, people were unable to avail services on time. Panels at dist level The government will constitute two committees at the district-level to resolve this situation. A coordination committee will be constituted and district officials have to give a report to Sakaala Mission every Monday. Teams will also be formed to look into pending and rejected applications every Saturday, Kumar said. Kumar himself will review the progress every fortnight. At present, 1,807 appeals to applications are pending. As of January 2021, Chikkamagalur, Chikkaballapur and Shivamogga are the top three performing districts under the programme. Bengaluru Urban remains the least performing district with more than 11,876 applications pending. Belagavi and Mysuru are the other two districts with poor implementation, he added. Chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, who was part of the review meeting, assured that district incharge secretaries would be asked to monitor it strictly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sakaala-apathy-irks-karnataka-minister-s-suresh-kumar-955304.html
25-02-2021||State||'Parva' play tickets available on Rangayana website||The much-awaited ‘Parva’, a seven-and-a-half-hour play, based on a novel of the same name by S L Bhyrappa, a mega-production of Rangayana-Mysuru, will be staged in the city from March 12. The special show of the play, directed by Prakash Belawadi, will be staged on March 12, 13 and 14 at Kalamandira at 10 am. Out of 2,460 seats, Dr S L Bhyrappa Sahitya Pratishtana has reserved 130 seats on all three days. It is sponsoring the tickets at Rs 1,000 each. The remaining seats are priced at Rs 500 and Rs 250, which can be booked in advance. On March 25, 26 and 27, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the play will be staged in three episodes for a duration of two-and-a-half hours from 6.30 pm at Bhoomigeetha. On March 28, Sunday, the play will be staged fully from 10 am. It will be held in a similar manner, every week till April 25, according to Rangayana Director Addanda Cariappa. The price of the tickets is Rs 100 on weekdays and Rs 250 on Sundays. The bookings have started, according to a press release from Rangayana. For details, contact 0821-2512639 or 2512629 or visit www.rangayana.org.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/parva-play-tickets-available-on-rangayana-website-955331.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Goods transporters in Karnataka call for strike on Friday to protest fuel price hike||Goods transporters and lorry owners of Karnataka announced a day-long strike on Friday and warned the Union government of bringing to halt the logistics movements across the country from March 15, if immediate measures are not taken to address the issues of exorbitant petrol and toll rates. G R Shanmugappa, president of the Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents Association, said the exorbitant tax on diesel has caused financial distress. "The state government should immediately reduce the value added tax by Rs 4 and the Centre should reduce the cess," he said. He said the cost per kilometre, including toll, has gone up from Rs 28/km to Rs 34/km. "At least the state government should respond to our demands. All BJP-ruled states have reduced the VAT by Rs 5. Karnataka should follow them," he said. The transporters also opposed the Union government's policy to scrap all the commercial vehicles aged above 15 years. "Such a rule will lead to scrapping of 1.65 lakh vehicles in Karnataka. The government seems to be helping the vehicle manufacturers. If the concern is about emission, we are ready to replace the engine. Let the government facilitate such an arrangement," he said. He also demanded the government to introduce FASTag on NICE Road which has affected movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/goods-transporters-in-karnataka-call-for-strike-on-friday-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-955125.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP leader Gudibande Nagaraj, key accused in Chikkaballapur blast, held||Gudibande Nagaraj, one of the main accused in the Hirenagaveli quarry explosion case in Chikkaballapur district, was arrested by the police on Thursday morning. A local BJP leader, Nagaraj was on the run since the tragic incident that claimed six lives during the late hours of February 22 evening. Another accused, Ganesh, hailing from Tamil Nadu was also arrested by the police. He was among those involved in blasting for the crusher unit run by Nagaraj and three others. Nagaraj was among the four partners running the quarry. Three others, Venkatashiva Reddy, Raghavendra Reddy and Madhusudan Reddy were arrested on Thursday. According to the police, eight accused in the blast case have been arrested. Police had named 15 people in the FIR, including the six deceased who perished in the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-leader-gudibande-nagaraj-key-accused-in-chikkaballapur-blast-held-955176.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Transport corporation workers warn Karnataka govt of renewing protest||The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, which had shut down the bus services across the state in December, sought to remind the state government on Thursday that none of the demands it placed before the transport minister have been fulfilled even as the three-month deadline was nearing its end. After buses of the road transport corporations across the state were halted from December 10 to 14 as part of the protest, Transport Minister Laxman Savadi had said that the government was ready to fulfil nine of the 10 demands of the employees. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, who has been selected the honorary president of the League, said the government has been making announcements that it has fulfilled five demands but none of them has come to fruition. "Fulfilling a demand doesn't mean making an announcement but the actual implementation of the things that they have announced. So far none of our demands has been met," he said. Declining to consider the demand to make them government employees, the government had promised to look into the request of implementing the 6th pay commission in the four road transport corporations (RTC), providing health insurance and streamline the administrative system. R Chandrashekhar, president of the association, said the failure to fulfil the demands within the next 15 days will force them to renew their struggle with the demand to make all the 1.4 lakh workers of the four road transport corporations into government employees. He said the government has not called them for any meeting in the last 75 days after the end of the strike. "They are inviting groups which were not part of the protests. This will only lead to confusion as 70000 members of our league are not given a hearing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/transport-corporation-workers-warn-karnataka-govt-of-renewing-protest-955177.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to decide on proposal to hike bus fares by 20%||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said on Thursday that in the wake of rise in diesel prices, a proposal to increase bus fares has been placed before Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who will take final decision on the issue. The minister said that the RTCs have proposed to hike the fares in view of the rise in diesel price. “The BMTC has sought a rise of 18% in its fares. The issue will be brought to the notice of the chief minister and will be taken up in the upcoming Assembly session and the suggestion of the opposition parties will be taken,” he said. He said that the four transport corporations (RTCs) have suffered a loss of Rs 2,780 crore with the overall revenue loss of Rs 4,000 crore. "As a result, the government has given Rs 1780 crore for providing salaries to the employees," he said. To a question about claim by RTC workers, led by Kodihalli Chandrashakhar, that none of their demands have been met by the government, Savadi said they have already fulfilled six of the nine demands. He said that farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar has no locus standi in the issue of the RTC workers. “Let the workers come and talk to me directly. Farmers and other associations have no place in this issue,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-to-decide-on-proposal-to-hike-bus-fares-by-20-955193.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Back-to-back blasts: Karnataka to undertake audit of explosive materials in quarries||The Karnataka government will undertake an audit of explosive materials in all the quarries and mines across the state in the backdrop of recent blasts at quarries that left 12 people dead, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday. The audit will be carried out jointly by the officials of the Home and the Mines department, he told reporters here, two days after six people were killed at a stone quarry site in Chikkaballapur when gelatin sticks exploded accidentally. The Minister also said the state would crack down on illegal mining and stringent action would be taken if any unauthorised stock of explosives were found during the audit. "An audit of explosive materials will be undertaken to find out the amount of explosives stored at quarries and mining centres, Bommai said. The Home Minister said he would speak to Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani about the audit. "There are illegal mines and quarries in the state against which we will launch a crackdown," Bommai said. According to him, till now these mines and quarries were inspected once in three months but now a circular has been issued for a visit once in a fortnight or a month. Six people were killed when a truckload of explosives went off near a quarry on January 22 on the outskirts of Shivamogga town. In the latest incident, the victims were allegedly disposing of gelatin sticks clandestinely when the explosion occurred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/back-to-back-blasts-karnataka-to-undertake-audit-of-explosive-materials-in-quarries-955239.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tread cautiously with reservation issue: BJP top brass tells Karnataka party leaders||With several castes demanding reservation in government jobs and education or seeking higher quotas in Karnataka, the BJP party high command has cautioned the state leaders in taking a stand on these issues. Apprehending that reservation issues may harm the BJP vote bank, the saffron party asked state leaders not to wade into the issue. The BJP already sought a view from Yediyurappa on the issue and asked him not to take any decision without consulting them.  The party top brass, who summoned Basangouda Patil Yatnal a couple of days ago to Delhi to rebuke him for publicly criticising Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and his family members, also asked him not to engage actively in the issue. Yatnal BJP MLA from Vijayapura, who was actively participating in Panchamasali Lingayats rallies,  was told by the party that he should not harm the organisation by too much engaging in the issue, sources said in the party said. Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani,  who was summoned by Home Minister Amit Shah a couple of days back, also told to tread cautiously on the issue. Nirani, an influential Panchamasali leader,  explained his view on community leaders demand to Amit Shah during his visit to National Capital, sources said. The party top brass closely monitoring the massive rallies held in various parts of Karnataka by different castes on reservation issue for the past few weeks. Since Lingayats are considered as BJP strong vote bank in the state, the saffron party don't want any division within the community on reservation issue, said a BJP leader. The BJP leaders are in the view that the previous Congress government's misadventure to grant a separate religion tag to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community has boomeranged the party as Congress lost heavily in the last assembly polls. The BJP should learn the lesson from Congress and should not face a similar situation, said a leader. Earlier, the party central leadership forced Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to put on hold his decision to recommend granting other backward classes (OBC) status to the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. Separately,  BJP top brass also asked Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar not to hold any separate meetings with party MLAs to avoid any speculation for dissident activities. Both the leaders were told that any meetings they want to hold, should be within the party forum only. The party told them that their recent meetings with some MLAs were lead to unwanted media speculations about the government and leadership. Since the BJP eyes winning Belagavi Lok Sabha, Basavakalyana and Maski Assembly segments bypolls, the party also asked these leaders to work unitedly without giving any scope for differences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tread-cautiously-with-reservation-issue-bjp-top-brass-tells-karnataka-party-leaders-955267.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress leaders question D K Shivakumar over Mysuru mayoral poll outcome||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Thursday found himself at the receiving end of anger from senior party leaders over the Mysuru mayoral election in which the JD(S) bagged the top post.  Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S) was elected Mysuru mayor Wednesday, while Congress’ Anwar Baig became the deputy mayor.  According to the Congress’ pact with the JD(S), the grand old party was to get the mayoral post this time. However, in a plot twist, the JD(S) won the mayor’s seat.  This was widely seen as an extension of Shivakumar's game of one upmanship with Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. Also, this was perceived as a small win for Kumaraswamy who has been feuding with Siddaramaiah.   That this happened on Siddaramaiah’s turf - he is a native of Mysuru district - has not gone down too well within the party.  Shivakumar was confronted about this during a closed-door meeting on Thursday, according to sources. Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar, former speaker KR Ramesh Kumar, former minister Krishna Byre Gowda and others were present.  Apparently, Siddaramaiah said he was peeved that such a decision was taken without his consent. He is said to have accused Shivakumar of having spoken with JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy directly on deciding the outcome of the Mysuru mayoral election.  Siddaramaiah is said to have pointed out how he had never interfered with local politics in the Ramanagara district, which is Shivakumar’s turf.  According to sources, Kumar backed Siddaramaiah. The former speaker is said to have told Shivakumar that the entire development sent out a wrong message, conveying that all was not well in the party.  Throughout the meeting, Shivakumar said he was not at fault and said local Congress leaders took decisions.  Speaking to reporters later, Shivakumar said there was no misunderstanding on the Mysuru mayoral election. “As per the agreement, we should’ve got the mayor’s post. I don’t know why it didn’t happen,” he said, adding that he had sought a report on this from KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayana. Shivakumar refuted the claim that he contacted Kumaraswamy, saying he spoke with JD(S) leader Sa Ra Mahesh on continuing the Congress-JD(S) alliance.  Cong padayatra The Congress will hold padayatras in 100 assembly constituencies as part of a massive organisation-building exercise, KPCC president DK Shivakumar said Thursday. This will start March 3 with a padayatra starting 5 am from the party office all the way till Devanahalli and then Chikballapur, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-leaders-question-d-k-shivakumar-over-mysuru-mayoral-poll-outcome-955324.html
25-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Intach to restore heritage of 4 colonial-era railway stations||Work is set to begin to restore the heritage of four railway stations of colonial-era with officials hoping to transform them into local tourism spots with the help of experts and private funding. The Bengaluru Division of the South Western Railway signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) on Thursday for ‘renovation, restoration and preservation’ of Doddajala, Devanahalli, Avatihalli and Nandi Halt stations some of which date back to 1915. “We estimate that the project for developing the four stations into heritage stations will require about Rs 10 crore. We have brought Intach on board. They will bring private companies who will sponsor the project under the corporate social responsibility scheme,” Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma told DH. The official said that the project will pave way for tourism besides the preservation of culture and heritage. “Intach will come up with the details of the restoration and renovation plan,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/intach-to-restore-heritage-of-4-colonial-era-railway-stations-955366.html
25-02-2021||West||Covid-19 alarm bells ring louder in Maharashtra after over 200 students in Washim hostel test positive||Amid a spurt of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region, 229 students, four teachers and staff in a school and hostel have tested positive for the fatal coronavirus in Washim district. The cases are from a school and hostel at Degaon in Risod tehsil of Washim. Washim’s collector Shanmugarajan S visited Risod and reviewed the situation. Washim district officials said that the cases were reported in the last two to three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-alarm-bells-ring-louder-in-maharashtra-after-over-200-students-in-washim-hostel-test-positive-955097.html
25-02-2021||West||Concentrated spurt of Covid-19 in Vidarbha: Maharashtra health official||The coronavirus is showing a concentrated spurt in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region and the infection is slowly getting transmitted to other places like Pune and Mumbai, a senior state health official has said. If not controlled, it can spread to otherstates in the country, Dr Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 outbreak, told reporters here on Wednesday night. The official, who received a Covid-19 vaccine shot on Tuesday, also said the state could have done much better as far as vaccination is concerned. Maharashtra on Wednesday witnessed a significant rise in coronavirus cases, with more than 8,000 new infections coming to light in a single day after a gap of over four months, health officials said. The state has so far reported a total of 21,21,119 Covid-19 cases, as per official figures. "It is very difficult to say whether this is a second wave, but the virus is showing a concentrated spurt in some areas like Vidarbha, starting from Nagpur, Amravati till Aurangabad (located in Marathwada region)," the official said. Now, the virus is slowly getting transmitted to other districts like Pune and Mumbai, he said. "If we do not control it, it will spread to other states in the country. Whether it will spread 100 per cent, nobody is sure, but yes, it has the potential," he said. On reasonsbehind thespike in Covid-19 cases in some districts of Vidarbha, he said there are three factors -- the first one is the virus, its structure, mutations and capacity of transmission, the second factor is the person who harbours the virus and transmits it to others, and third is the environment, weather, housing structure and pollution. "So, an interplay of the three factors is responsible for the transmission and its ups and downs," he said. He said every viral disease which is outbreak-prone, has shown ups and downs, so in the last two months, Covid-19 cases showed a downward trend and now there is an upward trend. Dr Salunke also said that as indicated by the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the coronavirus mutation in Amravati and Yavatmal districts is not responsible for the present surge in Maharashtra. "However, the ICMR has not been able to come out exactly on whether there is any new mutant or not," he said. A study on this is currently being done by the Pune- based National Institute of Virology and the National Centre for Disease Control in New Delhi and other labs, and samples from eight districts have been sent there, he said. The results of these studies will be available by this month-end, he informed. On precautions and measures that need to be taken to contain the virus, the official said there is no need for any new strategy to tackle the situation as the existing strategies are quite adequate and effective. "Lockdown is the last resort. Setting up of micro- containment zones, restrictions on movement in containment areas, increased surveillance, contact-tracing and increase in testing and isolation of active cases are some of the key steps which can check spread of the virus," he said. Asked about the Covid-19 vaccination in Maharashtra, Dr Salunke said the state could have done better. So far, 10,80,675 have been inoculated in the state. "As a matter of fact, I have been vehemently arguing that the Government of India should have designed communication strategies before January 16. We knew that some doctors, nurses and others were hesitant about taking the jab. Vaccine hesitancy is known phenomena," the official said. Dr Salunke said he had asked his colleagues in the health ministry as to why they did not make preparations earlier to address the apprehensions of those who were going to be given the vaccine shots. This is the reason that the vaccination number in the state is on the lower side, he said. "There is a failure on our side also, that we as doctors should have been more pro-active and should have convinced our colleagues and nurses to come forward to take the vaccine," he said. The Centre on Wednesday announced that people over 60 years and those above 45 with co-morbidities can get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/concentrated-spurt-of-covid-19-in-vidarbha-maharashtra-health-official-955119.html
25-02-2021||West||Maharashtra govt shielding minister linked to woman's death: BJP||Maharashtra BJP Vice President Chitra Wagh on Thursday alleged that the state government is shielding minister Sanjay Rathod, whose name has been linked to the death of a woman, instead of taking action against him. The 23-year-old woman died after falling from a building in Hadapsar area of Pune on February 8. Wagh visited the incident spot on Thursday and also met Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta over the issue. Rathod on Tuesday dismissed the allegations against him, and claimed "dirty politics" was being played following the woman's death. He said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the matter and the police are doing their job. Talking to reporters here on Thursday, Wagh alleged that the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi partners are united in shielding Rathod. "We don't expect anything from ministers, but at least Chief Minister Udhhav Thackeray is a sensitive person and he should take action against Rathod," the BJP leader said. After the woman's death, some audio clips of her purported conservation with two persons went viral. According to Wanwadi police who have registered a case of accidental death, there was no suicide note. "We believe one of the voices heard in the audio clips is of Sanjay Rathod," Wagh claimed. But, the Wanwadi police have not registered an offence against Rathod, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-shielding-minister-linked-to-womans-death-bjp-955152.html
25-02-2021||West||Will bring law against 'Love Jihad' to stop 'kidnapping' of Hindu girls: Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday said at an election rally that his government will bring in a law against "love jihad" to stop the "kidnapping" and conversion of Hindu girls. Speaking at Godhra in Panchmahal district, Rupani reiterated the government's intention to table the legislation in the coming budget session of the state Assembly. BJP governments in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have enacted laws to penalize `fraudulent conversions' to stop what party leaders term as "love Jihad" or an alleged conspiracy to convert Hindu women through marriage. "Assembly session is starting from March 1 and my government is willing to bring in a strict law against love jihad. We will not tolerate this act of kidnapping of Hindu girls," Rupani said. "Women are being lured and converted. This new law is aimed at stopping such activities," he said. He was campaigning for February 28 elections to municipalities, taluka and district panchayats in the state. Rupani had announced on February 15 for the first time that the BJP government in the state will bring in such a law. BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta and the party's Vadodara MP Ranjanben Bhatt had earlier called for a law on the lines of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-bring-law-against-love-jihad-to-stop-kidnapping-of-hindu-girls-gujarat-chief-minister-vijay-rupani-955206.html
25-02-2021||West||Abandoned car near Mukesh Ambani's house triggers bomb scare||An abandoned SUV was found near Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani's house - Antilia, on Thursday evening, causing a bomb scare. The SUV was lying abandoned near a tree located near Antilia – and is suspected to have been parked on Wednesday night. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale, Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh are personally looking into the matter. “A SUV car with 20 suspected gelatin sticks have been found...the matter is being investigated..we will get to the depth of it,” said Deshmukh. “The incident has been viewed seriously. The suspect car is being examined...let’s wait for the investigations to be complete,” said Minister of State for Home Shambhuraj Desai. Teams of Mumbai police, Crime Branch, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, Forensic Science Laboratory are at the spot. The papers found in the car are also being examined. CCTV footage of Antilia, neighbouring buildings and shops are being checked by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abandoned-car-near-mukesh-ambanis-house-triggers-bomb-scare-955272.html
25-02-2021||West||Increased vigil in Maharashtra's Dharavi after 19 Covid-19 cases reported in two days||With 19 coronavirus cases reported in the last two days in Dharavi, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has increased their vigil in Asia’s biggest slum pocket. Spread over 2.1 sq kms, Dharavi is a sort of mini-India, with over 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working there. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometown waiting for businesses to start in full swing. Till Thursday, Dharavi has reported a total of 4,050 progressive coronavirus cases. As of now, there are 37 active Covid-19 cases in Dharavi, according to the BMC. The first Covid-19 positive case and death in Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. Throughout the April and first fortnight of May, the coronavirus cases zoomed but then it was brought down in the June-July period. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy - Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle.  The strategy to contain Covid-19 outbreak there came to be known as the 'Dharavi model' and also earned the praise of the World Health Organisation and the World Bank. The 'Dharavi model' of fighting Covid-19 is being replicated in Mumbai's suburbs of Malad, Kandivli, Borivali and Dahisar on the Western line and Mulund and Bhandup on the Central line, and elsewhere in Maharashtra. On December 25, for the first time, Dharavi reported zero Covid-19 cases and then subsequently on 22, 26, 27 and 21 January and February 2. The slum is sandwiched between the Central and Western suburban train lines in Mumbai , and the movement of people is high.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increased-vigil-in-maharashtras-dharavi-after-19-covid-19-cases-reported-in-two-days-955276.html
25-02-2021||West||Amid Covid-19 surge, Maharashtra curtails Budget Session||Amid the speedy northward movement of the Covid-19 graph in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday curtailed the tenure of the Budget Session amid severe protests by Opposition BJP. The Budget Session has been fixed for 1-10 March, which was earlier planned to be held for the full month. It may be recalled that on February 21, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had expressed serious concern over the rising cases and wondered if it could trigger a second wave. On March 1, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will address the joint session of the Maharashtra legislature. On March 8, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, would table the state Budget for the year 2021-22. “The budget session would be held from 1-10 March,” said parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab. Meanwhile, the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has accused the MVA government of trying to curtail the upcoming Budget Session of the state legislature on the pretext of increasing Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-covid-19-surge-maharashtra-curtails-budget-session-955287.html
