26-02-2021||First Edit||Human rights: Why External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is wrong||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s statement at a session of the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on the need to respect the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty while addressing human rights violations is more a message to the world to refrain from criticising India’s human rights record than an affirmation of the country’s sovereignty. The minister’s words were obviously directed at other countries and organisations outside India at a time when India’s human rights record is increasingly coming under scrutiny. He also said that “violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity and transparency’’. The UNHRC has itself focussed attention on such issues, which would not have been to the government’s liking. Last week, special rapporteurs of the UNHRC had voiced concern that the constitutional changes made in Jammu and Kashmir could undermine minorities’ rights. There is a deterioration of the human rights situation in India in the past few years. That is clear from the increasing attacks on the rights of minorities and on critics of the government, arrests and incarceration of people without following the due process, enactment and enforcement of draconian laws and other undemocratic measures. An atmosphere is even sought to be created in which words like human rights are considered bad and their advocates are mocked as human rights-wallahs and even dubbed "anti-nationals’’. Jaishankar was making the same wrong point when he said that critics of India’s human rights violations are disrespecting the country’s sovereignty. Sovereignty cannot be used as a shield to deflect criticism. The very fact that there is a Universal Declaration of Human Rights and there are various UN conventions on them shows that countries cannot consider the human rights situation in their territory as solely their internal matter. India has itself expressed concern in the past over human rights violations in other countries.  Jaishankar also said that terrorism is the most serious threat to humanity as it violates the right to life. While this is right, terrorism should not also be used as an excuse to deny or violate human rights. Very often, terrorism rises and grows from violation of human rights. Actions and decisions of the government and the laws of the country should conform to the best and universal standards. The claim of "sovereign prerogative’’ is a poor defence for flaws in them. Jaishankar also said that India has “an inclusive and pluralistic society and a vibrant democracy and the Constitution has enshrined basic human rights as fundamental rights’’. But the minister’s case becomes weak when inclusiveness and pluralism come under strain and Constitutional principles are disregarded. It would then be difficult to stop the world from talking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/human-rights-why-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-is-wrong-955368.html
26-02-2021||In Perspective||Liberate education, create thinkers||This year we are celebrating the centenary of Viswa Bharathi University founded by Rabindranath Tagore. Established as Santiniketan in 1863 with the aim of helping education go beyond the confines of the classroom, this initiative grew into the Viswa Bharathi University in 1921, attracting some of the most creative minds in the country.  In many ways this university is quite different compared to others in the country. It still has the rural trappings that Tagore dreamt of. Classes are held in the open under the shade of huge mango trees and students and tutors alike still travel by cycles to keep pollution at bay.  The old buildings made up of mud walls and thatched roofs remain. The guiding principle of this little school is best described in Tagore’s own words: “the highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence.” Ever since the inception of Viswa Bharathi, thanks to the efforts of several commissions appointed to revamp higher education, we have attained considerable improvement in the field with expedited privatisation and liberalised autonomy.  Gradually, higher education has witnessed many-fold increase in its institutional capacity.  Since 2001, there has been a dramatic rise in the number of higher education institutions and enrolment has increased four-fold. The higher education system is now one of the largest in the world, with close to 52,000 institutions. The sector has grown enviably across all levels and disciplines. Since the last few years, the education sector has been recognised as a “Sunrise Sector” for investment.  In the past few months, I used to explore the outskirts of Bengaluru city on a bicycle. In the neighbourhood of Sarjapur road, Mysore road, Begur, Bannerghatta road, Kanakapura road and various other suburbs, a great chunk of the green spaces are all occupied by private universities and international public Schools.  Almost all of them have their main campuses in the city too. Many of those institutions develop huge residential layouts besides them. The business that education fetches is enormous. The curriculum is designed to serve the particular type of labour the corporate giants from India and outside need. The faculty and students are mostly constrained to work in restricted atmosphere without freedom to raise an issue that affects them. The metamorphosis of our traditional system of education to a highly organised cleidoic framework is hailed by many. Concurrently, this system ignores a different genus of learners who prefer aptitude-based learning over specialised job fetching technical learning.  Unfortunately, our much-praised modern teaching methodologies within the confines of high-tech classrooms do not cater to the needs of the latter group. For them, in the absence of an acceptable level of quality, higher education becomes a mere formalism devoid of any purpose or substance.  I have come across a Chennai-based student who had to leave a prestigious institution in Bengaluru she joined with great expectations after her first year of graduation. She had to waste one year due to the rigid rules of attendance. But still she was not ready to give up her passion for field studies and wildlife biology.  She later joined a private university in Mysuru with more flexible framework of coaching. Investing her time and heart in the subject she loved within a liberal campus with teachers who could understand and allow her to be herself made her one of the finest young naturalists in south India. Great leap We are proud of the infrastructural excellence our educational field has earned and the great leap our pedagogy has taken. But aptitude-based learning is still a far-flung dream. We live in a land where great educational visionaries like Gandhiji, Tagore, Vivekananda, Jiddu Krishnamurti, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, Zakir Hussain etc, who considered education as acquiring of knowledge beyond what is academic and professional.  Miserably, our progress in the field today is largely stuffing the mind with information unrelated to life within the well-protected corridors of gated communities. The feeling of security, comfort and contentment which the students enjoy within such fortified campuses make them over-achieving but risk-averse and least passionate about ideas. Very few of them see college as part of a larger project of intellectual discovery and development.  ‘The true purpose of education is to make minds not careers’, says a popular proverb. Until we are able to take our children to the realms of mystery beyond prescribed syllabus, the entire teaching exercise remains hollow and all its professional, scientific and technological triumphs would remain meaningless.  Being a good student in the class has nothing to do with success or happiness in life. The Chinese proverb puts it aptly - “Students are accomplished education consumers. Do not confine them to your own learning, for they are born in another time”.  (The writer is a professor of Zoology and Director of ‘Forest Watch,  a collective focussing on conservation and outreach at Wayanad, Kerala)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/liberate-education-create-thinkers-955370.html
26-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forensic labs in each district of Karnataka: Praveen Sood||Director General and Inspector General of Police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood stated that forensic laboratory would be set up in each district of Karnataka so that results of evidential sample tests would be out soon and it would help police to find the culprits quickly. Speaking to media persons on Friday, he said that the dearth of forensic laboratories in the state is delaying the results of samples that are vital for the investigation of crimes to collect evidence. Many times, police have to wait for more than a year to get the test report. So, the set up of laboratory in each district will reduce the period of sample test report drastically and investigation officers may get it in a month. The government is also strengthening forensic laboratory system," he said. He added that he has directed police to keep a close watch over illegal mining activities, clubs etc. He also claimed that police have done well in cases related to drug abuse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forensic-labs-in-each-district-of-karnataka-praveen-sood-955703.html
26-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||CBI searches office, house of SWR Civil engineer||Central Bureau of Investigation officials knocked on the doors of South Western Railway Senior Division Civil Engineer (West) Neeraj Bafna in the early hours of Friday at Railway Officials quarters in Golf Course, Hubballi. Sources in Railway informed DH that CBI officials from Bengaluru searched the house and office of Neeraj from 3:00 am onwards. The search went on till 4:00 pm at his office. While, there was no official information about the reason for the raid, sources said the raids were part of the case filed against him by a contractor in Bengaluru. Senior SWR officials also confirmed that there were several charges of corruption against Neeraj, and the SWR’s internal vigilance department were investigating them. He was transferred from the Bengaluru division to Hubballi last year. Searches were also held at his houses in Anekal (Bengaluru rural) and Anantapur (Andra Pradesh).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cbi-searches-office-house-of-swr-civil-engineer-955736.html
26-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||HD Kumaraswamy’s party is joker’s party: Yogeeshwara||Launching a tirade against former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara termed JD(S) a party of jokers. Speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a programme in Mangaluru, he said: “Kumaraswamy’s party is like a joker. They will adjust with anyone, be it Congress or the BJP. The party has no morality and has lost all its principles. They jump to the side of those who give them an opportunity. Kumaraswamy is engaged in opportunist politics,” he alleged. “As a chief minister, he spent his time lethargically. Now, he is visiting the constituencies and shedding tears. He visits people when not in power,” Yogeeshwara said. "The majority of the BJP candidates will win in the Old Mysore area in the next assembly election. The JD(S) will lose its seats," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hd-kumaraswamy-s-party-is-joker-s-party-yogeeshwara-955605.html
26-02-2021||Main Article||New BBMP Act: Will it improve Bengaluru?||Will the new Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act  improve the way the city is governed?  It appears as though the government and the Joint Select Committee (JSC) that reviewed the BBMP Bill have heeded neither the lacunae identified by the Comptroller and Auditor General in the implementation of the ‘Nagarapalika Act’ by the state, nor the suggestions made by experts.    The Bill was placed before the legislature without any pre-legislative consultation and disclosure under Section 4(1)(c) and (d) of the Right to Information Act. Even the JSC failed to hold consultations though it had stalwart Opposition members as members. The CIVIC and several experts have been questioning the need for a separate Act for Bengaluru instead of amendments to the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (KMC) Act itself, as improvements are needed for all cities.  That the changes made are not going to solve the problems of Bengaluru has also been expressed by many. Many changes made are at variance with provisions of the KMC Act which apply to other municipal corporations, causing inequality before the  law.  The Administrative Reforms Commission had said that the power to delimit wards and reserve seats and posts for the Council should be vested with the State Election Commission and not the state government.  The new Act attempts to circumvent this criticism by creating a Delimitation Commission which would undertake these tasks.  But this is a camouflage as the recommendations of this Commission are to be reviewed again by the state government.  So, delayed elections can continue to plague BBMP as per the state government’s convenience. Though there is the grandiose statement in the Act that BBMP will be recognised as “an institution of self-government”, MLAs, MLCs and MPs representing Bengaluru continue to be given voting rights in the BBMP Council, repudiating the statement.     All funds required by BBMP to perform the 18 functions listed in Schedule 12 of the Constitution are to be automatically devolved to BBMP by the government.  But some functions may require sharing of tasks between the state and BBMP, in which case `activity mapping’ of the tasks will need to be done before deciding the quantum of funds to be transferred. The Act has not proposed any measures to strengthen planning by the Metropolitan Planning Committee (MPC). Without this, the lack of coordination between the multiple parastatals/agencies, such as BWSSB, BMTC, BESCOM and BDA and the lack of umbrella bodies such as an Integrated Water Management Authority, will continue to plague the city.   There is the surprising commitment that the core functions of the corporation shall have the first charge on the municipal fund. This is a departure from the usual practice one has been witnessing of non-primary needs, such as flyovers being given funds in lieu of mandatory duties, such as providing proper infrastructure for garbage management.   The law says that the Corporation Fund shall be maintained in accordance with the Karnataka Local Fund Authorities Fiscal Responsibility (KLFAFR) Act.  This is a desirable provision which can prevent unrealistic budget formulation, give essential services a push, mandate transparency and public consultation on budget formulation, debt limitation, etc.   Another salutary provision is that all audit shall be under the technical guidance and supervision of the CAG. A key recommendation of CIVIC regarding institutionalising a ‘Performance Management System’ setting key performance indicators for measuring outcomes as per corporation priorities has found a place in the Act.  But that outcomes should be linked to achievement of Sustainable Development Goals at ward level is missing. Colonial practice The term of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor has been extended to 30 months. But there is no clear renunciation of the colonial practice of giving the Commissioner executive powers and reducing the mayor to a figurehead.  The single most important change from the KMC Act is that an intermediate tier of ‘Zonal Committees’ is foreseen between the BBMP Council and the Ward Committees, which facilitates greater decentralisation.  The CIVIC’s suggestion that one of the councillors, and not the zonal commissioner should be chosen as the chairperson of the Zonal Committee has also been accepted. But constitution of an Assembly Constituency-Level Committee under the MLA, between the Ward Committee and Zonal Committee, is an aberration and against the spirit of the 74th Amendment. The territories of up to five contiguous polling stations are to be declared as an ‘Area’ by the state government for calling Area Sabhas, an assemblage of all voters of the ‘Area’.  But five polling stations will have up to 25,000 voters in Bengaluru. Is it possible to have an Area Sabha meeting with 25,000 voters? Ideal would be each Polling Booth Area having about 1,200 voters which should be notified as an ‘Area’.      Nominations without guidelines continue to be the mode for selecting Ward Committee members and Area Sabha Representatives (ASRs).  In contrast, the latest amendments to the Karnataka Municipalities Act provide for the selection of ASRs by the citizens themselves. The recommendation that ASRs should be members of the Ward Committee has found a place but the ASRs are there without voting rights. However, the dubious provision that “the recommendations of the Ward Committee shall be advisory in nature” has been added.  Then why call ward committees a ‘Municipal Authority’ if they have no powers? A Grievance Redressal Authority, independent of the local government, headed by a retired judge or IAS officer, has been included at city level with powers to penalise officials. But its decisions can be reviewed by the Urban Development Department on Appeal. There was a recommendation regarding a ‘Single-Window’ at ward level for collecting applications and grievances, and Ward Committees to conduct physical ‘Janaspandana’ for grievance redressal, but these have been ignored. There are several controversial inclusions against which a PIL has been filed.  These, if not revoked, will take Bengaluru backward and not forward. (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/new-bbmp-act-will-it-improve-bengaluru-955369.html
26-02-2021||National||India in touch with Bangladesh for return of Rohingya refugees found on boat adrift in Andaman Sea||India is in touch with Bangladesh to ensure the safe and secure repatriation of the Rohingya refugees onboard a boat that has been adrift in the Andaman Sea for weeks. The Indian Coast Guard deployed two ships and found the boat, which had sailed from Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh on February 11 last with 90 people onboard – 64 women including eight young girls and 26 men including five young boys. The Indian Coast Guard ships provided food, water and medical assistance to the people on the boat. “The engine of the boat failed on February 15 and since then it has been drifting. Due to the severe conditions, we understand that eight occupants have died and one of the occupants has been missing since February 15,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. Seven of the people on the boat were administered IV fluids after the Indian Coast Guard personnel found it. “We understand that around 47 of the occupants of the boat are in possession of ID cards issued to them by UNHCR (United Nations High Commission for Refugees) office in Bangladesh stating that they are displaced Myanmar nationals and person of concern to UNHCR registered by the Government of Bangladesh,” said the MEA spokesperson. “We are in discussions with the Government of Bangladesh to ensure their safe and secure repatriation,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-bangladesh-for-return-of-rohingya-refugees-found-on-boat-adrift-in-andaman-sea-955376.html
26-02-2021||National||India sent over 3.61 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses to various countries: MEA||India has provided 361.94 lakh doses of anti-coronavirus vaccines to various countries, out of which 67.5 lakh doses have been supplied as grant assistance and 294.44 lakh on commercial basis, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the supply of vaccines to countries will continue in the coming weeks and months in a phased manner but it will be ensured that domestic requirements for the national vaccination programme are kept in mind. "As of now, we have provided a total of 361.94 lakh doses to various countries. This includes 67.5 lakh doses supplied under grant assistance and 294.44 lakh doses under various commercial contracts," he said at an online briefing. Srivastava said India has also offered locally-made vaccines to all members of the diplomatic corps and their families based in the country. "It has been offered not only to the diplomats of countries but also to those of UN agencies and intergovernmental organisations working in India. This drive will cover all the locations where they are based," he said. To a question on the workshop on "Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward" with 10 neighbouring countries that was held on February 18 and addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Srivastava said among other things, the PM proposed a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses, a regional Air Ambulance agreement for medical contingencies, creation of a regional platform for collating, compiling and studying data about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines. The prime minister also proposed creating a regional network for promoting technology-assisted epidemiology for preventing future pandemics, he said. Srivastava said these proposals were very well-received by the participating countries and follow-up action is being taken in consultation with ministries concerned. India has sent consignments of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses as gifts to countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Bhutan, the Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Bahrain, Oman, Afghanistan, Barbados and Dominica. Countries which received vaccines on commercial basis include Brazil, Morocco, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Egypt, Algeria, South Africa, Kuwait and the UAE. In a major announcement, India on January 19 said it will send vaccines under grant assistance to several countries. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring anti-coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sent-over-361-lakh-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-to-various-countries-mea-955422.html
26-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Fall of Cong-led Puducherry govt took a while||Former Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Wednesday Narayanasamy said that his government was toppled through "undemocratic" and scrupulous designs and conspiracy hatched by the BJP in coordination with the AINRC and AIADMK. "Even before my government was formed in June 2016 the Centre had posted the former IPS officer Kiran Bedi as Lt Governor of Puducherry in May that year. This was a clear proof of the plan of the NDA to rock the boat and disturb democratically elected government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-fall-of-cong-led-puducherry-govt-took-a-while-955427.html
26-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 26||Petrol and diesel prices saw a slight respite as fuel rates remained more or less the same as the previous day on Friday.   Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 26:   Rs 87.14L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-26-955431.html
26-02-2021||National||Bharat Bandh today: Everything you need to know||Traders' body Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has called for 'Bharat Bandh' on February 26 demanding a review of the "draconian" provisions of the goods and services tax (GST) regime. Several other transport bodies are also protesting against the changes in the E-way bill and the continuous rise in diesel prices. Here is everything you need to know: 1. The CAIT claimed that more than 8 crore traders belonging to over 40,000 business organisations across the country, including Delhi, will join the 'Bharat Vyapar Bandh' by shutting their commercial establishments. 2. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading anti-farm laws protests at Delhi borders, has appealed to farmers to peacefully participate in a 'Bharat Bandh' called by transport and trade unions today. 3. The CAIT said 'dharnas' (protests) will be held nationwide in 1,500 places. 4. The All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA), representing nearly 1 crore transporters, is also supporting the 'Bharat Bandh call' and will hold a 'Chakka Jam' today. 5. The CAIT has excluded essential services such as medicine shops, milk and vegetable shops from the 'bandh'.  6. Representatives from other traders' bodies like the Federation of All India Vyapar Mandal and the Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal told PTI they have not extended support to the 'bandh'. 7. As many as 6 million trucks including 1.2 million national permit holders (about 75,000 inbound and outbound trucks are in Bengaluru) will go off the roads. Why transporters have called for 'bandh' E-way bill  The CAIT as well as AITWA want the government to scrap the new e-way bill, a permit associated with the inter-state and intra-state movement of goods, or eliminate certain rules from it. The bill mandates transporters to comply with various rules such as covering a total journey of 200 km per day from consignor place to consignee place as per pin code calculated at the shortest distance. The transporters claim that the rule does not take into account many factors such as holidays, accident, congestion en-route or at the unloading place, driver's personal issue. If the E-way bill, which is valid for a day, expires due to any mistake, penalties for a truck amount up to 200 per cent of the tax value, or 100 per cent of the invoice value under Section 129 of CGST Act, 2017.  Rising fuel prices Apart from E-way Bill, AITWA has also represented the skyrocketing diesel prices, which should be reduced and mechanisms need to be discussed and created with the Transport Industry for future regulation.  GST CAIT Secretary-General Praveen Khandelwal observed that voluntary compliance is the key to a successful GST regime, as it will encourage more people to join the indirect tax system, increase the tax base and boost revenue. Almost 950 amendments have been made so far to GST rules in the past four years, he said, adding that the issues related to glitches in the GST portal and the continuous increase in compliance burden are the major lacunae in the tax regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-bandh-today-everything-you-need-to-know-955435.html
26-02-2021||National||Brazil to buy 20 million Covid-19 vaccines from India's Bharat Biotech||Brazil's Health Ministry on Thursday signed a contract to purchase 20 million doses of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine made by India's Bharat Biotech, for delivery between March and May. The ministry said in a statement that the deal is worth 1.6 billion reais ($290,000), with the first 8 million doses expected to arrive in March. To speed up the buying of vaccines in Brazil and deal with the second-deadliest coronavirus outbreak in the world, the ministry said it published new rules last week dispensing with the bidding process. Brazil reported 1,541 new Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, the second-highest daily death toll since the pandemic began, taking total fatalities to 251,498. With 65,998 new cases, the South American country has now registered 10,390,461 cases, the world's third worst outbreak behind the United States and India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazil-to-buy-20-million-covid-19-vaccines-from-indias-bharat-biotech-955445.html
26-02-2021||National||India sees over 16,000 Covid-19 cases for 2nd day in a row||India recorded its single-day increase in coronavirus cases above 16,000 for the second consecutive day as the infection tally rose to 1,10,63,491, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,50,680, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. A total of 16,577 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,56,825 with 120 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. According to the data, the Union Territory of Lakshadweep has reported its first death. The 120 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Punjab.   The number of active cases increased to 1,55,986, which accounts for 1.41 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,50,680 which translates into a national recovery rate of 97.17 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.42 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,46,61,465 samples have been tested up to February 25, of which 8,31,807 samples were tested on Thursday. A total of 1,56,825 deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 51,993 from Maharashtra, 12,483 from Tamil Nadu, 12,316 from Karnataka, 10,905 from Delhi, 10,260 from West Bengal, 8,723 from Uttar Pradesh, and 7,168 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-16000-covid-19-cases-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-955447.html
26-02-2021||National||Explained | How Centre’s new guidelines will impact digital news portals||The government on Thursday announced new guidelines for social media, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and digital news websites, addressing the lack of 'appropriate institutional mechanism’ for digital media. The new code administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is the first of its kind for social media and standalone digital news websites.  According to the code, publishers of news on digital media are required to follow the Norms of Journalistic Conduct of the Press Council of India and the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks Regulation Act. The Centre believes these norms will help curb ‘fake news’ prevalent on digital news platforms. “Of late, some very disturbing developments are observed on the social media platforms. The persistent spread of fake news compelled many media platforms to create fact-check mechanisms,” said a government statement. The government describes these regulations as 'light-touch' rules to bring digital news under the purview of the same rules as offline media. If consumers believe any OTT or news platform has violated any guideline, they will now be able to approach the concerned organisation through a three-tier redressal mechanism set up by the new code. The first level will be self-regulation by the publishers of the content, the second level is regulation by self-regulating bodies of the publishers and the third will be an oversight mechanism. The content publishers have to appoint a Grievance Redressal Officer based in India. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, unveiled on Thursday, were rolled out after the government had received several complaints raising concerns over the “rampant abuse of social media platforms”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-centre-s-new-guidelines-will-impact-digital-news-portals-955480.html
26-02-2021||National||Balakot airstrikes displayed India's strong will to act against terror: Rajnath Singh||The success of Balakot airstrikes displayed India's strong will to act against terrorism, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. "On the anniversary of Balakot Airstrikes, I salute the exceptional courage and diligence of the Indian Air Force. The success of Balakot strikes has shown India's strong will to act against terrorism. We are proud of our Armed Forces who keep India safe and secure," Singh tweeted. On the anniversary of Balakot Air Strikes, I salute the exceptional courage and diligence of the Indian Air Force. On February 26, 2019, Indian Air Force fighter jets crossed the Line of Control and destroyed terror launch pads in Balakot in Pakistan. The strikes were undertaken days after 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed in a terror attack in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/balakot-airstrikes-displayed-indias-strong-will-to-act-against-terror-rajnath-singh-955486.html
26-02-2021||National||EC to announce poll dates for Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry today||The Election Commission is likely to announce the schedule for assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday afternoon. The poll panel has convened a press conference at 4.30 pm. The terms of the legislative Assemblies of the four states is coming to an end in May and June. In Puducherry, President's Rule has been imposed and the assembly kept under suspended animation after the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government resigned earlier this week ahead of a vote of confidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-to-announce-poll-dates-for-kerala-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-assam-puducherry-today-955489.html
26-02-2021||National||Activist Nodeep Kaur granted bail by Punjab and Haryana High Court||Labour rights activist Naudeep Kaur was freed on bail Friday by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which said slapping charges like attempt to murder on her is a "debatable issue" to be considered at a later stage in the trial. Naudeep Kaur was released from a Karnal jail around 7.30 pm, almost six weeks after she was booked for attempt to murder and other criminal offences. Kaur was arrested on January 12 in Haryana's Sonipat for allegedly “gheraoing” an industrial unit and demanding money from the company. Police had claimed that a team of cops was allegedly attacked with sticks, resulting in injuries to seven policemen in the incident. A medical report of Kaur was also placed before the High Court on Friday. According to it, Kaur had "purplish bruises of around 10x7 cm present over LT (left) thigh, lateral aspect, bruises of around 5X6 cm over RT (right) buttock". In her bail plea, the 23-year-old activist had claimed to have been severely beaten up at a police station after she was arrested. The court on February 24 had directed the State of Haryana to place on record the medical report of Kaur after which she was examined at the Sonipat Civil Hospital on January 25. The Haryana Police, however, had denied the charge as "baseless". Accepting Kaur's bail plea, Justice Avneesh Jhingan said invoking Sections 307, 332, 353 and 379-B of the IPC would be a "debatable issue" to be considered at a later stage during the trial. The Court observed, “The petitioner is in custody since 12.1.2021. Albeit the matter is under investigation but that itself would not be sufficient ground to deny personal liberty to the petitioner.” In his order, the judge said it will suffice that the petitioner shall maintain restraint while being on bail to ensure that no law and order issue arises due to her actions. The single judge bench cited that the Supreme Court in the case of Anita Thakur and others versus Govt of J&K and others, 2016, held that holding a peaceful demonstration is a right which can be traced to the fundamental right but this right is subject to reasonable restriction. “It would be appropriate to say that the right to peaceful protest is circumscribed by a thin line. The crossing of line may change the colour of protest. It would be subject matter of trial as to whether the line for peaceful protest was crossed in the alleged incident or not,” as per order. The Sonipat police had booked the Kaur under Sections 148 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 384 (punishment for extortion), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 379-B (snatching and use of force) of the IPC. Kaur, a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and resident of Giadarh village in Punjab's Muktsar, had claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case as she was successful in generating massive support for the ongoing farmers' movement against the Centre's three contentious farm laws. Earlier, a court in Sonipat had granted bail to Kaur in two separate cases of extortion, rioting and other charges. After her release, Kaur thanked people for supporting her. Besides her family members, Delhi Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Manjinder Singh Sirsa was also present when she walked out of the prison. Those present there raised slogans in her favour. Talking to reporters, Kaur said she will always stand by labourers and farmers. I am innocent but there are several innocent women facing the attempt to murder charge who could not come out of jail, she said. To a question on going to the Singhu border, Kaur said she will definitely go there. Calling herself an “ordinary girl”, she said, “I am not that special that there are several cameras around me. There are many women who are already fighting for people.” She exhorted youth to come out on roads to ensure justice for labourers and farmers. To a question, Kaur said she had neither done anything wrong earlier nor will she do any such thing in future. “We were protesting within the ambit of the law,” she said apparently referring to a protest in Sonipat's Kundli on January 12 after which she was arrested. She said she will release all videos. To another question, Kaur said she was brutally assaulted by the Sonipat police. She alleged that Shiv Kumar, a co-accused in one of the cases with Naudeep, was also severely thrashed. Kaur said everybody knows how labourers and farmers were being "exploited". “Black laws were imposed on farmers without consulting them," she said. Earlier in the day, her family expressed happiness over the HC order. Her mother Swarnjit Kaur said, "Being her mother, I am extremely happy. Now after she comes out of jail, we will be able to ask her what she has gone through.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activist-nodeep-kaur-granted-bail-by-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-955493.html
26-02-2021||National||'India believes humanitarian aid to Syria must be consistent'||India has said the scale and severity of humanitarian needs in Syria should provoke the “collective conscience” of the UN Security Council, stressing that “politicisation” of the humanitarian track must end as it voiced concern over the war-torn country's dire situation. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti told the Security Council open briefing on the humanitarian situation in Syria on Thursday that India firmly believes that all humanitarian aid delivery to Syria must be consistent with the United Nations guiding principles of humanitarian assistance. “The scale, severity and complexity of humanitarian needs should provoke the collective conscience of this Council, particularly those who advocate linking of humanitarian assistance to their expected outcomes on the political track. It is difficult to comprehend such an approach,” Tirumurti said. “Politicisation of the humanitarian track must end. It is not feasible for people in need of urgent and dire humanitarian assistance to wait endlessly till political objectives of all parties to the conflict are met fully,” he said. In his remarks, Tirumurti addressed two inter-linked questions of humanitarian access and principles, which are closely interrelated in the context of Syria. "Humanitarian assistance to Syria, be it cross-border or cross-line, must take into consideration the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Syria,” he said. Tirumurti said that concrete steps need to be taken to address hurdles that are obstructing the functioning of both cross-border and cross-line operations, in particular, the delays in granting requisite approvals to humanitarian aid convoys. “All parties need to protect health and humanitarian workers.” He further said the other inter-connected issue is that of comprehensive and objective assessment of unilateral measures imposed by countries on Syria. “Such measures only aggravate the prevailing economic, humanitarian and development crisis, with devastating effects for the entire population, particularly the women, children and the elderly,” Tirumurti added. India underscored the importance of active engagement of the UN with Syria towards the implementation of the UN Strategic Framework to achieve the outcomes that have been set out. India continues to stand shoulder by shoulder with the people of Syria in this grave hour of need, Tirumurti said. He added that earlier this month, responding to the request for emergency humanitarian assistance from the Syrian Government, India delivered more than 2000 metric tons of rice for Syrians through the port city of Latakia and shared more than 10 MT medicines last year to help them through the pandemic. “We stand ready to work with the UN and its agencies to ensure that ‘Made in India’ vaccines, in keeping with the clarion call of our Prime Minister of ‘Vaccines for all’, can also be brought to the aid and assistance of the people of Syria,” Tirumurti said. Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Mark Lowcock, in the briefing to the Council, said Syria’s fragile economy has suffered multiple shocks over the past 18 months, the purchasing power has dwindled substantially as a result and millions of Syrians are resorting to desperate measures to survive. “More than 70 per cent of Syrians say they have taken on new debt over the last year. Many are selling assets and livestock. Parents are eating less so they can feed their children, and they are sending them to work instead of to school. Those who have run out of options are simply going hungry,” he said. Lowcock added that all humanitarian assistance that enters northwest Syria is delivered cross-border and supports 2.4 million people monthly. Without it, “the situation would go from terrible to catastrophic”. Tirumurti voiced concern that Syria is facing a dire situation compounded by a multiplicity of factors like Covid, harsh winter conditions, food insecurity and putting into peril the future of its 17.6 million citizens, including nearly 6.2 million displaced people, the biggest internally displaced population anywhere in the world. “Across the region, 10 million people, including 5.5 million Syrian refugees continue to remain dependent on humanitarian assistance. Children have been particularly badly affected,” he said. He noted with concern that the dire humanitarian situation in Syria has been further worsened by deteriorating economic conditions as well as continuing food insecurity. Tirumurti cited a January 2021 World Food Programme (WFP) report that said the price of Syria’s standard basic food items basket in December 2020 was 236 per cent higher compared to December 2019, a month-to-month increase of 13 per cent that brought the price to its highest record since WFP started monitoring prices in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-believes-humanitarian-aid-to-syria-must-be-consistent-955494.html
26-02-2021||National||25 passengers injured after bus overturns in Amethi||As many as 25 passengers were injured when a double-decker bus overturned near Mishrauli village in the district, police said on Friday. The private bus carrying 65 passengers was on its way to Delhi from Azamgarh when the accident occurred on Thursday night, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Musafirkhana, Manoj Kumar Yadav, said. While two passengers with serious injuries have been referred to the Trauma Centre at Lucknow, others are undergoing treatment at the Community Health Centre in Jagdishpur. Yadav said the driver apparently fell asleep at the wheel leading to the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-passengers-injured-after-bus-overturns-in-amethi-955501.html
26-02-2021||National||Explained | How Centre's new rules will impact social media||The government on Thursday announced new rules to regulate digital content to create a 'level playing field' for all stakeholders, with a Code of Ethics and a three-tier grievance redressal framework for news websites and OTT platforms. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said these rules will empower social media users while bringing in a first-of-its-kind code, which prescribes how digital platforms will regulate themselves to fall in line with Indian laws. Here is how social media companies will be impacted: 1. Big social media companies like Facebook and Twitter will be required to appoint compliance officers in India. Companies also have to appoint grievance officers to receive, acknowledge and resolve complaints within a month. 2. If social media platforms take down any content from their websites, they will have to provide the users with a reasonable explanation and get their feedback. 3. Social media sites have to remove or block offensive or illegal content within 36 hours of being flagged or if 4. Social media platforms will also have to disclose the 'first originator' of any mischievous message. This is a measure of curbing fake news on these platforms. 5. The government will also appoint an officer of the rank of a Joint Secretary or above as an 'Authorised Officer' who can direct blocking of content on digital platforms.  6. Social media companies also have to ban content that is defamatory, obscene, libellous, racist, harmful to minors, threatens the unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-centres-new-rules-will-impact-social-media-955503.html
26-02-2021||National||Election FAQs: What is the Model Code of Conduct?||The Model Code of Conduct (MCC) laid down by the ECI comes into effect soon as the dates for the elections are announced. It is necessary for all political parties to heed the MCC. Let us take a look at what it is and what it comprises. The MCC is a set of rules put in force by the Election Commission of India to guarantee free and fair elections. It is a set of norms that have evolved with political parties consenting to abide by the principles embodied in the said code. It also binds them to respect and observe it in its letter and spirit.  When and where is the MCC applicable? The MCC is valid from the date of announcement of an election, either to the Parliament, State Assembly or Districts, and continues through the election in question. In the case of Assembly elections, the MCC is valid throughout the poll-bound state. In the case of Parliamentary or General Elections, the MCC is valid throughout the country. In the case of by-elections to districts, the MCC is valid throughout the district where the election is to take place. Where does the Election Commission come into the equation? The Election Commission ensures the code's observance by political parties including ruling parties at the Centre and in the States. The EC ensures free, fair and peaceful elections to the Parliament and the State Legislatures. It also ensures that official machinery for electoral purposes is not misused. Further, it ensures that electoral offences, malpractices and corrupt practices such as impersonation, bribing and inducement of voters, threat and intimidation to the voters are prevented.  What restrictions do the governments have during the enforcement of the MCC? 1. Ministers cannot combine their official visit with electioneering work. They can also not make use of official machinery or personnel during electioneering. 2. No transport including official aircraft, vehicles, etc. can be used for the furtherance of the interest of any party or a candidate. 3. A total ban on transfer and posting of all officers/officials directly or indirectly connected with the conduct of the election is put in effect. If any transfer or posting of an officer is considered necessary, prior approval of the Commission must be obtained. 4. No Minister, whether of Union or State, can summon any election-related officer of the constituency or the State for any official discussions anywhere.  5. If a Union Minister is travelling out of Delhi on purely official business, which cannot be avoided in the public interest, then a letter certifying to this effect must be sent from the concerned Secretary of the Ministry/Department to the Chief Secretary of the concerned State, along with a copy to the Election Commission. 6.  Advertisements regarding the achievements of the party at the cost of public exchequer in print and electronic media and the misuse of official mass media are prohibited. 7. If an order has been issued by the States or the Union government with respect to any scheme but no work has begun till the MCC is in force, then no work shall be started in that respect. However, if work has actually started in the field, that can be continued.  8. No fresh release of funds under MPs/MLAs/MLCs Local Area Development Fund of any scheme can be made in any area where the election is in progress, till the completion of the election. 9.  Financial institutions funded, partially or wholly by the Governments shall not take recourse to write off loans advanced to any individual, company, firm, etc. Also, the financial limits of such institutions, while granting or extending loans, should not be enhanced by issuing of loans indiscriminately to beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-what-is-the-model-code-of-conduct-955509.html
26-02-2021||National||3 months on, how farmers galvanised a protest movement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is struggling to beat back his biggest political challenge in years from a protest movement that began with disgruntled farmers travelling to New Delhi on tractors and is now gaining wider support at home and abroad. Simmering in makeshift camps housing tens of thousands of farmers since last year, the movement has seen dramatic growth in recent weeks, getting backing from environmental activists, opposition parties and even A-list Western celebrities. At its heart are three new farm laws passed by the government last September, thanks to the majority BJP enjoys in the lower house of parliament. "To frame this narrowly as agricultural frustration wouldn't explain the scale of what we are seeing," said Neelanjan Sircar, a political science professor at Ashoka University. "This is about some larger frustration with how the government conducts business." Since taking office in 2014, Modi's government has faced increased criticism for suppressing dissent, curbing consultation on major decisions and using its majority to drive legislation through parliament. Led by farmers from India's northern Punjab state, the movement has spread to the country's northern and western farm belts and is now nearing its 100-day mark. Sugarcane farmers from the politically important Uttar Pradesh state, who are suffering lengthy delays in crop payments, are joining forces with rice paddy and wheat growers from other states in opposing the new farm laws. "Our protest will only get bigger in the weeks and months to come as more and more farmers are joining our movement from other parts of the country," said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, a farm leader from Punjab. Western Uttar Pradesh's sizeable Muslim population, whose opposition to the Modi government's citizenship law in 2019 was quietened by heavy-handed policing, has allied with Hindu farm leaders to join the ongoing protests. India's wider civil society, which has seen its ambit steadily narrow during Modi's term, has also thrown its weight behind the farmers' movement alongside academics and students. Global support Senior government officials said they didn't expect this level of pushback against laws intended to attract investment into India's vast agriculture sector. The new farm laws allow private retailers to buy farm goods directly from growers, circumventing India's government-controlled wholesale markets. For over 60 years, Indian farmers have been selling grain to the government at state-guaranteed prices through these wholesale markets, and they say the new laws leave them at the mercy of large private retailers. "The truth is that the laws were introduced to help Indian agriculture by revamping our dated and mothball post-harvest food supply chain," said a government official, who has been involved in talks with farmers, on condition of anonymity. "But perhaps there was an issue with communicating that message to farmers," he added. More recently, a wave of global support for the protests has complicated matters further for the Modi government. Pop superstar Rihanna, Swedish climate change crusader Greta Thunberg and US activist Meena Harris, the niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, all tweeted in support of the farmers this month, drawing a rebuke from India's foreign ministry. A Delhi court later granted her bail, citing a lack of evidence. South Asian advocacy groups in the United States and Britain say they are lobbying those respective governments to pressure India to stop coming down hard on farmers and their supporters. "We are pushing for more action from the US government -particularly Congress - especially in the weeks ahead," said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of The Sikh Coalition in New York. The Sikh Federation in Britain said more than 100,000 people had signed a petition urging lawmakers to discuss the way the Indian government was "harassing" farmers, said Jas Singh, an advisor to the London-based group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-months-on-how-farmers-galvanised-a-protest-movement-955512.html
26-02-2021||National||Disengagement at all friction points necessary to consider de-escalation of troops: India to China||With the military stand-off between India and China appearing to come to an end now, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, have agreed to have a hotline so that they can quickly hold talks in case of future flashpoints in bilateral relations. The two sides agreed to set up the hotline when Jaishankar and Wang had a 75-minute phone call on Thursday. The two sides, however, made it public in New Delhi and Beijing on Friday. The External Affairs Minister told the Chinese Foreign Minister that the dispute over the India-China boundary might take time to resolve, but the disturbance of peace and tranquillity in border areas would have “a damaging impact” on the relationship between the two neighbouring nations. They took note of the completion of the mutual withdrawal of troops by the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso earlier this month. A press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi quoted S Jaishankar telling Wang that after complete disengagement of front-line soldiers from “all friction points” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, the two sides could also look at “broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity”. “It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector. That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship,” the External Affairs Minister told the Chinese Foreign Minister. Wang stressed on the improving border management and control mechanism, apart from advancing talks to resolve the boundary dispute. “While that the two countries have boundary disputes is an objective fact, which should be taken seriously, it is not the whole of China-India relations, and it should be put at a proper place in the overall bilateral relations,” he told Jaishankar. A statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government quoted him saying that China and India, being two big emerging economies, should “pursue development alongside each other, move forward in partnership instead of a hindrance, and work together for shared progress rather than erecting walls against each other." He suggested that the two sides could “begin from easier things and proceed incrementally so as to build up enabling conditions for a better relationship and greater practical cooperation between them”. He also noted that India had proposed three ‘mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests – as the approach to its relationship with China. The hotline between the External Affairs Minister and the Chinese Foreign Minister is going to be the newest mechanism of engagements between the two nations. The two sides already have Special Representatives to lead negotiations to resolve boundary disputes and they have been holding talks since 2003. Wang, himself, is China’s Special Representative for boundary negotiation with India at present, as he wears the hat of the State Councillor of the communist country too. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval, is India’s Special Representative for boundary talks with India. The two sides also have a Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs, led by senior diplomats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disengagement-at-all-friction-points-necessary-to-consider-de-escalation-of-troops-india-to-china-955513.html
26-02-2021||National||Supreme Court says tigress Avni was killed as per its order, refuses to entertain plea||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to consider a plea for initiation of contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Chief Secretary Vikas Kharge and others for announcing a reward for the killers of tigress Avni. The tigress was hunted for allegedly killing and devouring 13 humans in the Pandharkawada-Ralegaon forests of Yavatmal district in Maharashtra in 2018. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "We understand it is a serious issue but we cannot interfere." The court noted that the state government had already submitted its report in the matter.  "We cannot review the decision. Celebration after death was done by villagers and state officials. Villagers were happy and hence, they celebrated. Officers have stated under oath that they did not celebrate," the bench said. The court asked wildlife researcher Sangeet Dongra to withdraw her contempt petition.  The petitioner claimed that human remains were not found in the autopsy of the animal. She questioned the announcement of rewards for killers of the tigress in contravention of the Supreme Court's previous directions.  Avni, the tigress, was said to have killed 13 villagers. She was shot dead near Borati village in Yavatmal in November 2018 by a team of Forest Department officials and civilian hunter Asgar Ali.  The incident triggered outrage among wildlife activists, who alleged that no efforts were made to tranquillise Avni and called it a "murder in cold blood". The top court had in 2018 allowed the killing of Avni if attempts to tranquilise her failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-says-tigress-avni-was-killed-as-per-its-order-refuses-to-entertain-plea-955514.html
26-02-2021||National||'Bharat Vyapar Bandh' may see mixed response||A mixed response is expected to the 'Bharat Vyapar Bandh' on Friday with differential impact across various states, traders' representatives said.  Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal told PTI that markets in the national capital will close after 2 pm.  Sharing feedback on the Bandh's impact in other states, he said all major markets will be shut in states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, whereas it is expected to have 70-80 per cent impact in South India and over 80 per cent impact in the North East states.  CAIT had called for Bharat Bandh to protest against issues related to Goods and Services Tax (GST) and e-commerce.  Khandewal said going forward, CAIT would launch an aggressive agitation from March 1 in various states targeting chief ministers across political parties on GST related issues.  However, traders' bodies are split over joining Friday's nationwide shutdown call. While CAIT claimed that the Bandh would be a "grand success" with more than 8 crore traders belonging to over 40,000 business organisations across the country joining it, other trader bodies which PTI spoke to said it was unlikely to have a significant impact as they have not extended support to it.  Federation of All India Vyapar Mandal (FAIVM) National General Secretary V K Bansal said while markets in Surat will be closed, Bandh is expected to have a 10 per cent impact on markets across the country.  Delhi General Secretary of Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal Rakesh Yadav said it has not extended support to the Bandh and markets in Delhi are expected to be open. Jammu Traders Association President Neeraj Anand said local markets will be open but traders will hold protests.  Uttar Pradesh Traders Association President Sanjay Patwari said there would be a 50-60 per cent impact of the Bandh in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-vyapar-bandh-may-see-mixed-response-955516.html
26-02-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates Khelo India Winter Games, says J&K will be winter sports hub||As Jammu and Kashmir holds the Khelo India National Winter Games in the famous ski-resort Gulmarg, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday said that the state is touching new heights in peace and development Addressing at the inaugural function of the 5-day long Khelo India National Winter Games, via video conferencing, the Prime Minister said that every Indian is keenly looking at the grand festival. “This festival sends a message across the country — One India, strong India,” he said.   The event is being held in north Kashmir’s ski-resort in which hundreds of participants, including international players, are participating. Modi said that the participation of national and international players in the event Gulmarg will raise the morale and self-confidence of every participant. The Prime Minister added that Khelo India Centres will be set up in Jammu and Srinagar, following which such centres will be established in all districts of India. Modi said that sports activities were picking up again after the deadly Covid-19 pandemic slowed down. “Sport is not just a hobby but you learn team spirit and you learn to build self-confidence,” the PM said. “There are many small countries in the world that are earning fame by excelling in various fields of sports.” On the occasion Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports, Kiren Rijiju said, “We will ensure that Kashmiri youth’s participation in Olympic games so that Kashmiri boys too get Olympic medals and make the country proud.” He said that the Center has also approved water sports for Dal Lake in Srinagar in the coming summer. “Water sports have a great potential in Srinagar and Kashmir,” the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-khelo-india-winter-games-says-jk-will-be-winter-sports-hub-955520.html
26-02-2021||National||Coal scam: CBI, ED conduct multiple joint raids in West Bengal||Investigation agencies CBI and Enforcement Directorate on Friday conducted joint raids at various places in West Bengal in connection with the multi-crore coal pilferage scam, sources said. CBI sources said its sleuths raided the official and residential premises of businessman Randhir Kumar Barnwal in Kolkata. ED sources said the agency has started searches at Durgapur and Asansol and also in the city. Both the agencies are concurrently probing the scam. While CBI is looking after the criminal aspect of it, ED is delving into the money laundering angle of the scam. CBI has already examined Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira for her alleged involvement in the coal scam. Banerjee in the nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. It has also issued a look out notice against alleged kingpin Anup Majhi, alias Lala, who has been absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-scam-cbi-ed-conduct-multiple-joint-raids-in-west-bengal-955528.html
26-02-2021||National||Want to fly cheap on domestic flights? Carry no baggage||Air travellers carrying no check-in baggage will now be charged less for flight tickets. Civil aviation regulator DGCA gas now allowed airlines to “unbundle” certain services and make them chargeable on an “opt-in” basis. These services include preferential seating, meal or snacks or drink (except water), use of airport lounge, charges for carrying sports equipment or musical instruments and a fee for special declaration of valuable baggage. The announcement by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) comes weeks after the government approved an increase in fare bands for domestic flights. “As part of airline baggage policy, scheduled airlines will be allowed to offer free baggage allowance as well as Zero baggage/no check-in baggage fares,” a DGCA circular said. However, the airline will have to inform the passenger booking ticket under such fare scheme of the charges that shall be applicable if he turns up with the baggage for check-in at the airline counter, it said. “These unbundled services must be provided on 'opt-in' basis and not on 'opt-out' basis,” the civil aviation regulator said, adding that the charges for such services will be a fixed amount and shall not vary with the base fare for a particular sector. The DGCA said that the decision to unbundle services was taken on the basis of feedback received from passengers. This has the potential to make basic fare more affordable and provides the consumer with an option of paying for the services which she or he wishes to avail, the regulator said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-fly-cheap-on-domestic-flights-carry-no-baggage-955546.html
26-02-2021||National||'Hope other countries follow your example': WHO chief Ghebreyesus lauds India, PM Modi||WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment for supporting vaccine equity and sharing Covid-19 vaccines with over 60 countries across the world, hoping that other nations will follow his example. In a tweet, Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organization, said that India's support in supplying its vaccines is helping over 60 countries to begin the vaccination process. "Thanks India & Prime Minister @narendramodi for supporting #VaccinEquity. Your commitment to #COVAX and sharing #Covid19 vaccine doses is helping 60+ countries start vaccinating their #healthworkers and other priority groups. I hope other countries will follow your example," he said in the tweet on Thursday. India on Wednesday dispatched the first batch of six lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to the African country of Ghana under the COVAX facility in collaboration with UNICEF, which aims to cover 92 countries under the initiative. The doses are a part of the first batch of Covid-19 vaccine the country is acquiring through the Covid-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility (COVAX), which Ghana among nearly 92 countries have signed into. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on February 12 said that India has provided over 229 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines to various countries out of which 64 lakh doses have been supplied as grant assistance and 165 lakh on commercial basis. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India will continue to take forward the global vaccine supply initiative and cover more countries in a phased manner. Consignments of coronavirus vaccine doses were supplied as gifts to Bangladesh (20 lakh), Myanmar (17 lakh), Nepal (10 lakh), Bhutan (1.5 lakh), the Maldives (1 lakh), Mauritius (1 lakh), Seychelles (50,000), Sri Lanka (5 lakh), Bahrain (1 lakh), Oman (1 lakh), Afghanistan (5 Lakhs), Barbados (1 Lakh) and Dominica (70,000), he said. Srivastava said countries which received vaccines on commercial basis are Brazil (20 lakh), Morocco (60 lakh), Bangladesh (50 lakh), Myanmar (20 lakh), Egypt (50,000), Algeria (50,000), South Africa (10 lakh), Kuwait (2 lakh) and UAE (2 lakh). The vaccines are even being sent to Latin American countries. India, the largest drug producer in the world, is currently manufacturing two Covid-19 vaccines- Covishield and Covaxin. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-other-countries-follow-your-example-who-chief-ghebreyesus-lauds-india-pm-modi-955570.html
26-02-2021||National||UK Court orders Nirav Modi’s extradition: What’s next?||A UK court ruled on Thursday that Nirav Modi does have a case to answer before the Indian courts in relation to the $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. This clears the legal pathway for India to extradite the diamantaire. There are still a few steps before Modi can be taken out of the Wandsworth Prison in London to a jail in India and face trial. What comes next in this case? Here are the details: -The order of the Westminster Magistrates’ Court will now make its way to British Home Secretary Priti Patel for a sign-off. -Once Patel reveals her decision, Nirav Modi can challenge the order in the UK high court within 2 weeks. -Any kind of appeal granted to Modi will be heard at the administrative division of the London High Court. -It is expected that Priti Patel will clear the extradition as it is uncommon for the Home Secretary to go against court orders. -If he is extradited, Modi will be held at Barrack No 12 at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. Extradition to India India is a designated Part 2 country by virtue of the Extradition Act 2003, which means it is the Cabinet minister who has the authority to order a requested person's extradition after considering a number of further issues. Under the provisions of the act, the Secretary of State must consider the possible imposition of the death penalty, in which case extradition cannot be ordered; the rule of specialty, which prohibits a person being dealt with in the requesting State for matters other than those referenced in the extradition request; and whether or not the person was in the UK following extradition from another State, in which case that states permission must be obtained before extraditing to a third state. If these factors do not prevent extradition, the minister must order extradition within two months of the day on which the District Judge referred his decision to the Secretary of State, in this case by the end of April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-court-orders-nirav-modi-s-extradition-what-s-next-955574.html
26-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination sessions not to be held this weekend due to digital platform transition||The Covid-19 vaccination sessions will not be held this Saturday and Sunday in view of the Co-Win digital platform transitioning from Co-Win 1.0 to Co-Win 2.0 as India gears up to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 years with comorbidities against the infection from March 1. All states and UTs have been already informed about this transition, the Union Health Ministry said.  The Co-Win software was created for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery. The nationwide Covid-19 inoculation drive to vaccinate healthcare workers was launched on January 16 by the prime minister. Vaccination of frontline workers started on February 2. "The country wide vaccination exercise is being exponentially expanded to include those above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with co-morbidities, from March 1. "On this Saturday and Sunday (Feb 27 and 28), the Co-Win digital platform will be transitioning from Co-Win 1.0 to Co-Win 2.0. In view of this, Covid-19 vaccination sessions will not be scheduled during these two days. The states and UTs have been already informed about this transition," the ministry said. According to official sources eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-Win platform from Monday itself after the transition. There will also be a walk-in provision for beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the session site itself to get  vaccinated. Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals, the government said on Wednesday. "Eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-Win platform from March 1 itself.There will also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the nearby session site to get vaccinated," said R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Covid-19 Vaccine Administration. He said the new version of the Co-Win platform will be GPS enabled and beneficiaries will have the option to choose the inoculation session sites both at the government and private facilities.For those who would walk in, there will be volunteers to help those who are not tech-savvy to get registered. One will also have the option to get inoculated in a state different from the one he or she is a resident of. People aged above 45 will have to upload and provide a medical certificate mentioning their comorbid conditions. The  government is yet to specify the conditions which be included in the over-45 age group with comorbidities. "The Co-Win will be able to take registrations and appointments from multiple applications including Arogya Setu or any other application such as a common service app," Sharma said. One will just have to register in with the mobile number and receive an OTP with which his or her account will be created. One can get their family members also registered on the account. The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive will start from Monday in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and 45 years plus with co-morbidities will be given vaccines in 10,000 government medical facilities and also over 20,000 private hospitals, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday.   "Whoever goes to the government centre will be administered vaccine free of cost. Indian government will pay for them. The government will purchase the necessary doses and will send them to all the states," Javadekar said. Those who want to get vaccination from private hospitals will have to pay, but the amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three-four days as they are in discussions with manufacturers as well as hospitals, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-sessions-not-to-be-held-this-weekend-due-to-digital-platform-transition-955578.html
26-02-2021||National||Arthur Road jail keeps special cell ready to lodge Nirav Modi||With a UK court ruling in favour of extradition of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering in Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, Mumbai's Arthur Road jail has kept a special cell ready to lodge him, an official said on Friday. The jail official said that once Nirav Modi is brought to Mumbai, he will be kept in one of the three cells of barrack number 12, which is a high-security barrack. "Preparations for lodging Nirav Modi in the jail have been completed and the prison cell is ready for him, whenever he is extradited," he said. In a comprehensive extradition win for the Indian authorities, a UK judge ruled on Thursday that fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi not only has a case to answer in the Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. Modi lost his nearly two-year-long legal battle against extradition on all grounds. The 49-year-old jeweller has been repeatedly denied bail due to the seriousness of the allegations against him and remains behind bars in a London prison since his arrest in March 2019. The Maharashtra prisons department had in 2019 shared information with the Centre about the status of the prison and facilities for lodging Nirav Modi. The Centre had sought information about it from the state home department as extradition proceedings for Nirav Modi had then advanced before the Westminster Magistrates Court in the UK, the official said. The state government had submitted a letter of assurance to the Centre about the facilities, which they can provide inside the prison. The prison department had also assured that Modi will be kept in a cell, where the number of detainees will be few. If lodged in the barrack, Modi likely to get three square meters of personal space, where a cotton mat, pillow, bedsheet and blanket will be provided, the official said. The prison department had also assured adequate light, ventilation and storage for personal belongings, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arthur-road-jail-keeps-special-cell-ready-to-lodge-nirav-modi-955580.html
26-02-2021||National||We were resolute, strong about protecting our interests: Jaishankar on border issue||India was strong and resolute when it came to handling the border issue and dealt with it in an effective manner, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday in an apparent reference to the standoff between India and China. Similarly, India also dealt effectively with the Covid-19 pandemic and its economic impact by fashioning its own response after listening to everyone, he said at the inaugural session of the 'Asia Economic Dialogue' organised by the Pune International Centre. "Last year, we had three big developments which all impacted us nationally. They impacted the world as well -- one was Covid-19, the second was its economic impact and the third was the challenges that we found on our border which obviously had implications," the External Affairs Minister said. "In each of these cases, I would assert to you that they were difficult challenges. There were a lot of debates as indeed there should be, there were tough decisions, lot of second guessing and a lot of free advice given around. I would say, as a government we listened to everything and then we did what we thought was the right thing to do," he asserted in his remarks during the session titled 'Resilient Global Growth in a Post- Pandemic World. Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also participated in the session. Elaborating on India's responses to the three key developments last year, Jaishankar said that in the case of the Covid-19 outbreak, the government went for an early lockdown, induced a degree of social discipline and set up truly impressive health infrastructure in a very short space of time. "I mean to create 16,000 dedicated centres and to go from zero to becoming an exporter of PPE masks, ventilators and testing kits, I think, frankly, was a very big deal," he said. On dealing with the economic impact of the Covid-19, he said that also involved a lot of debates but the government consciously decided that there was a timing element to what should be the response and did not get pressured into "front loaded stimulus measures". Talking about dealing with the border issue faced by India, Jaishankar, without naming any country or going into details, said, "You know again we did what we had to do. There was a very active debate which still continues to this day. It is natural for people to offer advice, often on matters which they may not have particular knowledge of, that is a human trait. But again if there was what came through it was that we were resolute, we were strong about protecting our interests." "And in each case I would suggest to you we thought through a very complicated issue. Listened to everybody but made up our mind and eventually fashioned a response which was effective," Jaishankar said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Last week, armies of the two countries concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. On resilience in the post-Covid world, Jaishankar said there are two things that India needs to do -- "manage home, in the most expansive sense of the word strongly and well, and to contribute more and more abroad". Jaishankar also explained the government's resolve to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, saying the first step in it is "thinking it through for yourself and not letting others push you and pressure you". Underlining that the government has undertaken "deep reforms", Jaishankar said the Covid period was not just a health response period, but was also a period which government used to fashion new policies and push through what were much-needed reforms which previous governments were reluctant to take whether in agriculture, labour or eduction. A lot of that mindset is reflected in the budget presented by the government earlier this month, he said. Looking ahead, Jaishankar said, "First of all going back to 1992 is not the answer. My sense is if you do not build more capabilities at home, openness by itself is not a solution for the society as it just means leaving oneself wide open to other people who may have far more predatory practices." "It is very important to be strong at home, to build capabilities at home," Jaishankar said. "We cannot be politically agnostic when we look at the world," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-were-resolute-strong-about-protecting-our-interests-jaishankar-on-border-issue-955596.html
26-02-2021||National||Covid-19: Less than 1000 active cases in 21 states, UT||Twenty states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, while 21 states and UTs have less than 1,000 active cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India's Covid-19 active caseload was recorded at 1,55,986 comprising 1.41 per cent of the total infections. This is largely attributable to the upsurge in daily new cases in some states and UTs, the ministry said.  "However, 21 states and UTs have less than 1,000 active cases," it underlined. These are Jammu and Kashmir (820), Andhra Pradesh (611), Odisha (609), Goa (531), Uttarakhand (491), Bihar (478), Jharkhand (467), Chandigarh (279), Himachal Pradesh (244), Puducherry (196), Lakshadweep (86), Ladakh (56), Sikkim (43), Manipur (40), Tripura (32), Mizoram (27), Meghalaya (20), Nagaland (13), Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (5), Arunachal Pradesh (3) and Andaman and Nicobar islands (2). Twenty states and UTs which have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours are Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Ladakh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. As far as the change in active cases in a span of 24 hours is concerned, Maharashtra reported maximum positive changes with an addition of 4,902 cases whereas Kerala has recorded maximum negative change with decrease of 989 cases, the ministry said. Meanwhile, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 1.34 crore. Till Friday 7 am, the vaccination coverage was 1,34,72,643 through 2,78,915 sessions, as per the provisional report.  This includes first dose for 66,21,418 Health Care Workers (HCWs), second dose for 20,32,994 healthcare workers and first dose for 48,18,231 frontline workers (FLWs). The 2nd dose of COVID19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. Vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. On Day-41 of the vaccination drive (25th February), 8,01,480 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 3,84,834 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 14,600 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,16,646 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. Out of total 1,34,72,643 vaccine doses, 1,14,39,649 (HCWs and FLWs) have received 1st dose of vaccine and total 20,32,994 HCWs have received the 2nd dose of vaccine. Nine states and UTs have vaccinated less than 60 per cent of the registered HCWs. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Punjab and Puducherry. Thirteen states and UTs have vaccinated less than 40 per cent of registered FLWs. These are Chandigarh, Nagaland, Telangana, Mizoram, Punjab, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Assam, A&N Islands, Meghalaya and Puducherry.   India's cumulative recoveries have surged to1,07,50,680. "The gap between total recovered cases and the active cases is constantly rising and stands at 10,594,694 as on date," the ministry said. A total of 12,179 recoveries were registered in a span pf 24 hours. The ministry said that 85.34 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,652 newly recovered cases. 3,744 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 947 in Tamil Nadu. A total of 16,577 new daily cases have been recorded in a day, the ministry said adding 86.18 per cent of the new cases are from 6 states. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,702. It is followed by Kerala with 3,677 while Punjab reported 563 new cases. A total of 120 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 85.83 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (56). Kerala reported 14 deaths and Punjab reported 13 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-less-than-1000-active-cases-in-21-states-ut-955597.html
26-02-2021||National||Irdai asks health, general insurers to bring standard accident cover from April||Insurance regulator Irdai has asked general and health insurance providers to provide standard personal accident cover products to their customers. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) said the insurance market has a wide variety of personal accident insurance products. Each product has unique features and the insuring public may find it a challenge to choose an appropriate product, Irdai said in its guidelines issued to the insurers for the standard accident cover. "Therefore, with the objective of having a standard product with common coverage and policy wordings across the industry, the authority has decided to mandate all general and health insurers to offer the standard personal accident insurance product," it said. The product, Irdai said, should be named as Saral Suraksha Bima, succeeded by the name of the insurance company, and no other name is allowed in any of the documents, said the regulator. General and health insurers shall offer this product from April 1, 2021, onwards, it added. Irdai said the product should have a minimum sum assured of Rs 2.5 lakh and the maximum sum assured can be Rs 1 crore. Sum insured offered shall be in multiples of Rs 50,000. However, beyond the range specified by Irdai, insurers are allowed to offer on their own and can use the same name for the product. Directing the insurers that the standard product should have the basic mandatory covers under the guidelines, Irdai said the insurers can offer optional covers along with the standard product. "The insurer may determine the price keeping in view the covers proposed to be offered subject to complying with the norms specified in the Irdai (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016, (HIR, 2016) and guidelines... The policy tenure of the standard product shall be for a period of one year," said the regulator. Among the base covers, insurers will have to provide a death benefit up to 100 per cent of the sum insured to the policyholder if the death occurs due to injury in an accident during the policy period, and that the person dies within 12 months from the date of accident. On permanent total disablement, the insurer will get benefit equal to 100 per cent of the sum insured and that the disablement occurs within 12 months from accident. It will include total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes; physical separation or loss of use of both hands or feet; physical separation or loss of use of one hand and one foot and few others. Likewise, for permanent partial disablement, the policyholders will get 1-50 per cent of the sum assured depending upon the types of losses. On the hopitalisation expenses, Irdai said it should cover room, boarding, nursing expenses, surgeon, anaesthetist, medical practitioner, consultants and specialist fees. It should also cover blood, oxygen and operation theatre charges and costs related to surgical appliances, medicines, diagnostics and diagnostic imaging modalities. It will also cover intensive care unit (ICU)/ intensive cardiac care unit (ICCU) expenses, cost of prosthetic and other devices or equipment, as well as expenses incurred on hospitalisation, under the AYUSH (as defined in IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016, systems of medicine. Dental treatment, plastic surgery, all-the-day care treatments and expenses on road ambulance subject to maximum cap of Rs 2,000 per hospitalisation can be covered under optional covers. The minimum entry age for the cover is fixed at 18 years and a maximum age of 70 years. Insurers are allowed to use the name of standard product for the group policy by adding the word 'group', said the regulator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irdai-asks-health-general-insurers-to-bring-standard-accident-cover-from-april-955603.html
26-02-2021||National||MHA extends Covid-19 surveillance, containment guidelines till March 31||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday extended the guidelines for surveillance, containment and caution on Covid-19 till March 31. The MHA has asked all states to strictly enforce Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on various activities and to exercise caution and strict surveillance. In a letter to states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the number of active and new cases has "substantially declined over the last few months" but "there is need for maintaining caution and strict surveillance so as to fully overcome the pandemic". States and Union Territories have also been advised to speed up the vaccination of the target population so as to break the chain of transmission and overcome the pandemic, an official statement said. Containment zones continue to be demarcated carefully, prescribed containment measures strictly followed within these zones, Covid-19-appropriate behaviour promoted and strictly enforced and the SOPs prescribed in respect of various permitted activities followed scrupulously, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-extends-covid-19-surveillance-containment-guidelines-till-march-31-955612.html
26-02-2021||National||National Medical Commission will bring great transparency, says PM Modi||The government is transforming the entire medical education and healthcare sector and the National Medical Commission would bring great transparency, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. "Friends we are transforming the entire medical education and healthcare sector," he said addressing the 33rd convocation of the state-run Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University through video conferencing. The National Medical Commission would bring great transparency and also rationalise norms to set up new medical colleges, he noted. "It will also improve the quality and availability of human resources in this sector." During the last six years, MBBS seats increased by more than 30,000, which is a rise of more than 50 per cent from 2014. The number of Post Graduate seats increased by 24,000 which is a rise of around 80 per cent from 2014. In 2014, there were six AIIMS in the country. "In the last six years, we have approved 15 more AIIMS across the country."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-medical-commission-will-bring-great-transparency-says-pm-modi-955622.html
26-02-2021||National||Here are poll dates for Tamil Nadu Assembly elections 2021||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced the polling dates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2021.  The term of the Assembly in Tamil Nadu expires on 24th May 2021  Here are the Phase-wise poll dates for 224 seats:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-poll-dates-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-2021-955627.html
26-02-2021||National||ISRO lining up launch of India's geo imaging satellite GISAT-1||The Indian Space Research Organisation is lining up the launch of its geo imaging satellite GISAT-1 close on the heels of the February 28 PSLV- C51 mission. The launch of GISAT-1 onboard GSLV-F10 rocket was originally planned for March five last year, but was postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan told PTI that the technical issues have been resolved and the delay in the launch was due to the Covid-19 lockdown which affected normal work. Sources in the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency said ISRO is now looking at March-end-early-April timeframe for the mission from Sriharikota spaceport, about 100 km from Chennai. According to ISRO, GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian sub-continent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals. Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV-F10) will launch GISAT-1 from the Second Launch Pad of Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota. Weighing about 2,268kg, GISAT-1 is the first state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite which will be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10, according to ISRO officials. "Subsequently, the satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system," ISRO had said a few days before the planned launch in March last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-lining-up-launch-of-indias-geo-imaging-satellite-gisat-1-955629.html
26-02-2021||National||Many market associations support 'Bharat Vyapar bandh' but keep shops open||Various markets in the national capital remained open on Friday during the 'Bharat Vyapar Bandh' called by traders' union with many saying that despite supporting the cause, they did not want to suffer another day of losses. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Thursday had said all commercial markets across the country will remain closed on February 26 in view of its 'Bharat Bandh' call demanding a review of the provisions of the goods and services tax (GST) regime. The CAIT said dharnas (protests) will be held nationwide at 1,500 places to urge the Centre, state governments and the GST Council to keep in abeyance the "draconian" provisions of GST. Brijesh Goyal, president of Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), said most of the markets in Delhi have opened but the associations have extended their support to the 'bandh'. "Around 98 per cent markets, hotels, restaurants and industrial areas were open except in some parts of Chawri Bazaar and Karol Bagh. However, they have extended their support. We also held a protest at Kashmiri Gate around 12.30 pm," Goyal said. Although various market bodies said they support the cause for which the 'bandh' was called, they however, could not shut down their shops or outlets due to multiple reasons. The bandh was not enforced at Connaught Place market. "We are completely in support of the cause. However, it was not practically feasible to enforce the 'bandh' in the market this time. The traders are already reeling under the losses they incurred during the lockdown and they have heavy burden of rents. We completely support the cause and feel the demands are right," said Atul Bhargava, president, New Delhi Traders Association. Echoing his views, Sanjeev Mehra, president, Khan Market Association, said, the issue is very genuine but the traders are already suffering and we did not want to add another day of losses so we did not participate in the 'bandh'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-market-associations-support-bharat-vyapar-bandh-but-keep-shops-open-955630.html
26-02-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for caste census in 2021||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to Union government, National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) and others, on a PIL for conducting a caste-wise census in 2021 for taking welfare measures and reservation as per their numbers. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Centre and others on a petition filed by G Mallesh Yadav, a social activist and chairman of Telangana State Backward Classes Front.  The court tagged the new petition with a similar petition already admitted for consideration by it earlier.  The petitioner represented by advocate G S Mani sought a direction to conduct caste-wise census for Backward Classes in 2021 census, saying in the absence of their real numbers, the state governments were facing difficulty in implementing welfare measures for them. Without caste numbers, adequate reservation could not be provided to backward classes in jobs,  legislature and local bodies, the plea claimed. The Mandal Commission set up in 1979-80 enumerated 3743 castes in backward classes and their number was raised to 5013 in central list of OBCs in 2006, it pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-caste-census-in-2021-955634.html
26-02-2021||National||Sexual harassment cases can't be swept under the carpet: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said it cannot allow sexual harassment cases to be swept under the carpet, as it declined to provide any relief to a former district district facing disciplinary proceedings for his demeanour. The retired judge from Madhya Pradesh challenged the proceedings against him initiated by the Madhya Pradesh High Court, though a junior judicial officer, who made the allegations, had preferred to withdraw it. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said: "We cannot allow sexual harassment cases to be swept under the carpet like this." The bench asked the judge to withdraw the petition challenging the disciplinary proceedings. "You are walking on a very thin line you can fall from at any time. You may have a chance in the inquiry you may get acquittal. But today as the matter stands you are already convicted," the bench told petitioner Shambhoo Singh Raghuvanshi's counsel, senior advocate R Balasubramanian. After a detailed hearing, court said it would pass a short order dealing with petitioner's contention and then dismiss the petition. However, the petitioner's counsel asked the court to allow him to withdraw the petition with the liberty to participate in the inquiry. On September 4, 2020 the court had stayed disciplinary enquiry. He had then contended that the petitioner had unblemished 32 years record of service. He was to be considered for elevation to the HC but unfortunately a 2018 complaint surfaced, leading to enquiry. He had to face this embarrassment on the verge of retirement, his plea claimed. On February 16, the court, however, took exception to the conduct of then district judge, who allegedly sent offensive and inappropriate messages to a junior officer and justified this conduct as mere "flirting". The Madhya Pradesh High Court's counsel pointed out to some of the WhatsApp messages, asking "What kind of judicial officer is he?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sexual-harassment-cases-cant-be-swept-under-the-carpet-supreme-court-955635.html
26-02-2021||National||Sedition case against Kangana Ranaut: Bombay HC seeks documents from Bandra court||The Bombay High Court on Friday sought documents from the Bandra magistrate court pertaining to the sedition case against Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale sought the papers after Ranaut and Chandel's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee told the court that the documents submitted by the complainant in the case before the magistrate and those given to the high court do not tally. Siddiquee told the court that the magistrate had ordered for FIR to be registered in "haste" and that there was "non-application of mind". "The procedure laid down in law before filing such a complaint before a magistrate was not followed in this case," he said. As per the law, a complaint has to be first sent to the senior inspector of the concerned police station. If no response is received for two weeks then a letter has to be sent to the zonal Deputy Commissioner of Police and then a complaint can be filed before the magistrate, Siddiquee argued. "In this case, the complainant wrote to the senior inspector, but then sent the same letter to the DCP and approached the magistrate's court even before the two week period got over," he told the court. Advocate Rizwan Merchant, appearing for the complainant Munawwar Ali Sayyad, a casting director and fitness trainer, told the court that the complaint was sent to the DCP, too, but there was some error in the date. The bench then said it would call for the documents from the magistrate's court for inspection. "The petitioner's advocate has raised dispute about certain documents submitted by the complainant and that it does not tally with the documents submitted before the magistrate," the court said. "Hence, we deem it appropriate to call for relevant documents from the Bandra magistrate's court in relation to this case," the court directed and posted the matter for further hearing on March 22. Till the next date, the interim protection from no coercive action granted to Ranaut and Chandel by the high court will continue. The bench was hearing the petition filed by Ranaut and her sister, seeking to quash the FIR registered against them by the suburban Bandra police. The FIR, under sedition charges and for allegedly "trying to create hatred and communal tension" through their posts on social media was registered pursuant to orders passed by the Bandra magistrate's court directing the police to carry out an inquiry against Ranaut and her sister following a complaint lodged against them. In his complaint to the magistrate court, Sayyed had alleged that Ranaut, through her tweets and television interviews, had continuously defamed Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers, etc. He said that they had also repeatedly promoted enmity between communities through their remarks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-case-against-kangana-ranaut-bombay-hc-seeks-documents-from-bandra-court-955645.html
26-02-2021||National||Here are poll dates for Assam Assembly elections 2021||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced the polling dates for the Assam Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2021. Assam Assembly term ends on May 31.  Here are the Phase-wise dates for 126 seats:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-poll-dates-for-assam-assembly-elections-2021-955652.html
26-02-2021||National||Here are poll dates for Kerala Assembly elections 2021||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced the polling dates for the Kerala Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2021. In Kerala, the term of the Assembly is going to end June 1.  Here are the Phase-wise dates for 140 seats:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-poll-dates-for-kerala-assembly-elections-2021-955653.html
26-02-2021||National||Here are poll dates for Puducherry Assembly elections 2021||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced the polling dates for the Puducherry Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2021. Here are the Phase-wise dates for 30 seats:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-poll-dates-for-puducherry-assembly-elections-2021-955654.html
26-02-2021||National||India to supply Covid-19 vaccines to 40 more countries: S Jaishankar||India will add 40 countries to the list of 70 nations where it is exporting Covid-19 vaccines, External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar said. “India has lived up to its talk on a collaborative future by exporting vaccines to more than 70 countries and will be adding over 40 countries to this list soon,” he said. Speaking at the 5th edition of the Asia Economic Dialogue 2021 jointly hosted by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Pune International Centre (PIC), Dr Jaishankar elaborated on how India handled the Covid-19 pandemic. “By early lockdown, social distancing and enforcing strict discipline, we have been able to withstand the disastrous consequences of Covid-19,” he said. “In the last one year, India has faced three major challenges - Covid-19, economic inequalities and border problems...the government had chalked out path-breaking measures to address all three challenges,” he said. Dr Jaishankar and Australia’s Foreign Minister, Senator Marise Payne participated  in a panel discussion titled ‘Resilient Global Growth in a post-pandemic world’. The session began with a pre-recorded message from the Minister of External Affairs of Japan, Motegi Toshimitsu. Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, President, PIC and eminent scientist and Ambassador Gautam Bambawale, convener AED 2021 made the opening remarks and welcomed the delegates. The theme of this year’s AED is ‘Post Covid-19 Global Trade and Finance Dynamics’. Dr Jaishankar emphasised that ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and collaboration with trusted partners such as Australia and Japan will co-exist and build synergies in rebuilding the global economy. “Trade between nations must be on a level-playing field,” he said. Payne also said her country has allocated 500 million dollars to support vaccination programmes in various south East Asian countries. She said the two challenges before her government have been openness in free trade, access to multilateral trade agenda and boosting the supply chain infrastructure. We want to use modern technology including artificial intelligence and quantum mechanics so that we ensure that our economy is not affected by any such calamity in future”. While aiming to achieve self-reliance, we also have to look for `trustworthy partnerships’ at the international level, she added. Dr Mashelkar said the world is now in a `reset mode’ after the pandemic and paid rich tributes to the city of Pune for emerging as the vaccine capital of the world in a short time. Pune International Centre had organised the first event last year successfully and that he is confident that Pune will emerge as the `Davos of the East’ soon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-supply-covid-19-vaccines-to-40-more-countries-s-jaishankar-955656.html
26-02-2021||National||Here are poll dates for West Bengal Assembly elections 2021||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced the polling dates for the West Bengal Assembly elections scheduled for the year 2021. In West Bengal, the term of the Assembly is going to end 30th May.  Here are the Phase-wise poll dates for 294 seats:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-poll-dates-for-west-bengal-assembly-elections-2021-955657.html
26-02-2021||National||Amit Shah to address public meetings in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry on February 28||Senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will address public meetings in poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Sunday. Party leaders said Shah will also take organisational meetings in both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Shah will leave for Tamil Nadu on Saturday and is scheduled to hold a public meeting in Karaikal in Puducherry on Sunday morning, followed by a 'Vijay Sankalp Rally' in Janakipuram in Villupuram district in Tamil Nadu, according to the schedule released by his office. Besides this, Shah will also hold organisational meetings of the party's units of the state and the Union Territory. The BJP is contesting assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in alliance with ruling AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-address-public-meetings-in-tamil-nadu-puducherry-on-february-28-955660.html
26-02-2021||National||Indians allowed to choose Covid vaccination sites as govt seeks faster roll-out||India said on Friday it will let people choose their coronavirus vaccination centres when the campaign expands next week, effectively letting beneficiaries pick either a home-grown shot or the AstraZeneca one, unlike now. The country will halt vaccinations this weekend to upgrade software used to coordinate its campaign, as it prepares to widen coverage beyond the 11.5 million health and front-line workers immunised since Jan. 16. But the inoculation campaign has progressed slower than expected due to a reluctance of health and front-line workers to take the home-grown COVAXIN shot that was approved without late-stage efficacy data. Only 11% of vaccinated people have opted for the product developed by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. With the world's highest tally of infections after the United States, India wants to vaccinate 300 million of its 1.35 billion people by August. The decision to give people a choice of vaccines could now speed up the roll-out, officials believe. "The fundamental shift in this phase is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare workers and frontline who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice," the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a statement. From Monday, India will start covering people aged 60 and those over 45 with medical conditions. They can register through the government's Co-Win 2.0 portal or walk into vaccination centres; states will also actively mobilise people. Bharat Biotech has said efficacy data from a late-stage trial on nearly 26,000 volunteers who took COVAXIN shot will be out soon. The company, along with India's drug regulator, says COVAXIN is safe and effective, based on early and intermediate studies. More vaccines are likely to be approved for use in the world's second most populous country in coming months, including Russia's Sputnik-V and Cadila Healthcare's ZyCov-D. Apart from vaccine hesitancy, initial glitches in Co-Win had also slowed India's immunisation drive, forcing many states offline. The software forms part of a government contact-tracing app "Aarogya Setu", or Health Bridge, downloaded so far by nearly 170 million people. India's infections rose 16,577 in the past 24 hours to stand at 11.06 million, health ministry data show, while the death toll rose 120 to reach 156,825.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-allowed-to-choose-covid-vaccination-sites-as-govt-seeks-faster-roll-out-955667.html
26-02-2021||National||Everyone on poll duty to get Covid-19 vaccine before Assembly elections: EC||Everyone on election duty for the upcoming polls for five assemblies will be vaccinated against Covid-19 before polling day, the Election Commission said on Friday. Voting will take place for 126 seats in Assam, 234 in Tamil Nadu, 294 in West Bengal, 140 in Kerala and 30 in Puducherry. Nearly 18.68 crore electors will be eligible to vote at 2.7 lakh polling stations for 824 seats in five assembly elections, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said at a press conference here. Arrangements will be put in place for candidates to file their nominations online for the five assembly polls. Voting will be allowed for an additional hour, keeping in mind COVID-19 safety guidelines, he said. Also, webcasting arrangements will be in place at polling stations in critical and vulnerable areas, while adequate CAPF (Central Armed Police Forces) deployment will be ensured for the assembly polls, Arora said. All critical and vulnerable areas have been identified and advance teams have been already deployed across all four states and one union territory Puducherry going to the polls, he added. He said door-to-door campaigning will be restricted to five persons, including the candidate, while roadshows will be allowed with a maximum of five vehicles. Arora said the nationwide vaccination drive has made the situation more conducive for conducting elections and the Health Ministry has declared everyone on poll duty as frontline workers for the vaccine purpose. All poll officials will be vaccinated before the elections, Arora said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/everyone-on-poll-duty-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-before-assembly-elections-ec-955672.html
26-02-2021||National||Want to contest in the Assembly elections? Here's how you can file a nomination||ECI chief Sunil Arora on Friday announced the election dates for four states and a union territory - Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, and Puducherry. While Tamil Nadu, Kerala. and Puducherry will vote on April 6, Assam will vote between March 27 and April 6, and West Bengal will vote between March 27 and April 29. For those that don't want to just vote, but also contest the elections, here's an explainer on how to file a nomination. Eligibility To contest in any election in India, one would have to be a citizen of India. For State Assembly elections, one would have to be aged 30 or above. One would also have to be enlisted in the electoral roll of a parliamentary, state assembly, or a ward-level constituency. Paperwork Filing an election nomination involves a lot of paperwork. The ECI has mandated that a candidate submit a handful of documents/forms having details of the individual's background, assets, and many more details as part of their nomination paperwork. For a State Assembly election, an aspiring candidate will have to fill in the respective forms: Form 2B, an electoral roll certified extract, caste certificate, Form A and B (if they are being fielded by a political party), and most notably, Form 26. Form 26 is an affidavit that contains information about the candidate's background - education, caste, and the like, and their assets and liabilities. Is that all? Not quite. A candidate will also need to submit a security deposit of Rs 10,000 as part of the nomination procedure. If they are from a scheduled caste or scheduled tribe (SC/ST) background, the security deposit is Rs 5,000. After submitting the nomination papers, the individual must also take an oath — whose format is prescribed in the 3rd schedule of the Indian Constitution — before a Returning Officer (RO) or an Assistant Returning Officer (ARO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-contest-in-the-assembly-elections-heres-how-you-can-file-a-nomination-955674.html
26-02-2021||National||Supreme Court grants 2-day interim bail to life term convict for wedding, but declines relief||A man undergoing life term in Tihar jail is ready to walk down the aisle as the Supreme Court has granted him two-day interim bail. His fiancée is also ready to tie the nuptial knot. However, he is unable to bear expenses of police escort of six personnel who had to accompany him during his ceremony. Thus, his whole marriage plan is all set to go awry. More than six months have gone by since the top court allowed him two-day relief. On Friday, convict Vishal asked a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah to reduce the number of police personnel. His counsel pleaded he could afford to pay for the duties of two police personnel who are sufficient to escort him. The court, however, declined to grant him any relief, in view of pendency of other criminal cases. The bench said he had to bear the expenses of Rs 2.5 lakh to be paid to the police department. The Delhi police led by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju said the convict had to remain under the police escort of at least six personnel in view of apprehension that he may abscond. A status report filed by jail authorities indicated that the appellant’s fiancee is living separately from her parents and that she stated that she wishes to marry him. He was convicted under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and his appeal was pending before the High Court. There were, however, four other cases against the appellant, and his jail conduct after 2016 was not reported to be unsatisfactory. The court had allowed him two-day of interim bail under the police escort in plain clothes at his cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-grants-2-day-interim-bail-to-life-term-convict-for-wedding-but-declines-relief-955675.html
26-02-2021||National||Constructive discussion and dialogue solution to all problems: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla||Constructive discussion and dialogue is the way to resolve all problems in a democracy, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Friday. He was speaking at the launch of the second leg of the 'Outreach and Familiarisation Programme' for the local bodies of Meghalaya and other north-eastern states. "In a democratic setup, solution to all problems can be achieved through constructive discussion and dialogue," Birla said. The Lok Sabha Speaker, who is on his maiden visit to the region, added that “strengthening the process of discussion and dialogue” was the purpose of his visit. “The speciality of our democracy is that there is dialogue and discussion, but our effort is to prevent that discussion from coming to a halt. Difference of opinion and disagreement is part of our democracy. And that is why as the Lok Sabha Speaker, I try to ensure that the discussion and dialogue continues without any obstruction," he told reporters. Birla said democratic discussion and dialogue would allow all institutions, be it panchayat raj institutions or autonomous district councils, to address the issues facing the masses, and suggested the formulation of a “nation-wide system of sharing knowledge, experience and best practices”. “There are a number of villages, village panchayats in our country which have chalked out ideal, social and economic models for all-round development as per their specific geographical and socio-economic conditions and established best practices to follow. “It should be our endeavour that all the panchayats and local bodies may formulate a nation-wide system to share their knowledge, experience and best practices among themselves,” Birla said. He added that there was a need to explore how successful models in the fields of education, health, organic farming and employment devised by different local bodies could “be utilised in a better way by customising them in line with different geographical conditions”. “Our goal is to evolve a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for all the panchayati raj institutions and other local bodies of the country after a comprehensive discussion. It is our responsibility to make a collective effort to make democracy strong, transparent and accountable,” the Speaker said. Talking to reporters, he said the Budget Session will reconvene on March 8, and continue till April 8. He said the first session of the 17th Lok Sabha saw 125 per cent productivity and 35 bills were passed, the second session saw 115 per cent productivity and 28 bills were passed, and in the third session, the productivity was 117 per cent. In the fourth session, which was held during the pandemic, he said all members participated in the proceedings of the House fulfilling their constitutional responsibilities. During his two-day visit to Meghalaya, Birla also addressed the members of the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/constructive-discussion-and-dialogue-solution-to-all-problems-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-955678.html
26-02-2021||National||SC refuses to entertain plea challenging decision to make FASTag mandatory||The Supreme Court Friday refused to entertain a plea challenging the Centre's decision to make FASTag mandatory for all the vehicles. The government has made FASTag mandatory from February 15 midnight and any vehicle not fitted with it will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has said. A three-judge Bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde, Justice Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian asked the petitioner to approach the Delhi High Court and granted the petitioner liberty to withdraw the plea. “Counsel appearing for the petitioner prays for withdrawal of this petition with liberty to approach the High Court of Delhi. Prayer is allowed. Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid,” the bench said. The bench did not accept the contention of the petitioner's advocate Dhruv Tamta that it's a pan India matter and asked him to approach Delhi High Court. The top court was hearing a plea filed by Rajesh Kumar seeking quashing of notifications issued by the Central government mandating FAStags as a condition for renewal of fitness certificate of vehicle and for getting third party insurance.  The petitioner also challenged the decision to impose fines for not fitting FASTags even when vehicles are not driven on highways. “Making FASTags mandatory for such vehicles being driven within state is unreasonable, arbitrary and violates Article 19 of the Constitution,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-challenging-decision-to-make-fastag-mandatory-955681.html
26-02-2021||National||Voting timing increased by one hour for upcoming assembly elections in 2021||Election Commission of India on Friday announced that the voting hours for the upcoming assembly elections in four states and a union territory will be increased by one hour.  The new guidelines are designed to deal with disruptions caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the EC chief said. The extra hour is expected to reduce crowding at the polling booths, EC added.  EC announced polling dates for assembly elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday. The elections for the states will begin on March 27. The counting of all the Assembly elections will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voting-timing-increased-by-one-hour-for-upcoming-assembly-elections-in-2021-955686.html
26-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Election Commission announces poll dates for TN, WB, Puducherry, Kerala, Assam||In your evening news brief, Election Commission announces poll schedule for 5 states, whose results will be out on 2nd May, Ministry of Home Affairs extends Covid-19 guidelines till March 31, 2021, and India tells China that disengagement at all friction points is necessary to contemplate any de-escalation of troops.  Here is the top news of February 26, 2021:   The election commission announced the poll schedule for 5 states:    Assam - 3 phases 1st phase: 27-03-2021 2nd phase: 1-04-2021 3rd phase: 6-04-2021   Kerala Single phase: 6-04-2021 - 140 Assembly constituencies Malappuram LS bypoll - same date   Tamil Nadu Single phase: 6-04-2021- 234 Assembly constituencies Kanyakumari LS bypoll: same date   Puducherry Single Phase: 6-04-2021- 30 Assembly constituencies   West Bengal 1: 27-03-2021 - 30 Assembly constituencies 2: 1- 04- 2021 - 30 Assembly constituencies 3: 6 -04-2021 - 31 Assembly constituencies 4: 10-04-2021 - 44 Assembly constituencies 5: 17-04-2021 - 45 Assembly constituencies 6: 22-04-2021 - 43 Assembly constituencies 7: 26-04-2021 - 36 Assembly constituencies 8: 29-04-2021  - 35 Assembly constituencies   Result: 2-05-2021   The Ministry of Home Affairs on Friday issued an order to extend the existing surveillance, containment and caution guidelines for Covid-19 till March 31, 2021. While there has been a substantial decline in the active and new Covid-19 cases, there is a need to maintain surveillance, containment and caution so as to fully overcome the pandemic, said a press release from the ministry.   Asserting that peace and tranquillity on the border is essential for development of bilateral relations, India has told China that disengagement at all friction points is necessary to contemplate any de-escalation of troops even as the two sides agreed to establish a hotline contact for timely exchange of views. Releasing details of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's 75-minute telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a statement on Friday that China was told that bilateral relations have been impacted severely over last year. Wang, also a State Councilor, noted that the two countries need to properly handle the border issue so as to prevent the bilateral ties from trapping into a "vicious cycle" because of it. Jaishankar told Wang that once disengagement is completed at all friction points, then the two sides could also look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity.   Source: DHNS/PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-election-commission-announces-poll-dates-for-tn-wb-puducherry-kerala-assam-955687.html
26-02-2021||National||China plays down reports of India beating it at vaccine diplomacy||China on Friday welcomed India supplying more Covid-19 vaccines to a number of countries, playing down reports that New Delhi has beaten Beijing in its vaccine diplomacy around the world. Responding to a question on a report that India has beaten China in its own game of vaccine diplomacy, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin during a media briefing said, “We welcome that and hope to see more countries taking actions to provide vaccines to the world, especially developing countries, to help with the global response." “China has been overcoming domestic difficulties to provide vaccines to other countries in concrete measure," he said, flagging China’s own vaccine requirement to inoculate its 1.4 billion population. He reiterated that China has been providing vaccines to 53 countries and exporting vaccines to 27 countries, amid reports that many of those countries are yet to receive Chinese vaccines or the promised quantities. For its part, China has promised 10 million vaccines to the United Nations-backed COVAX initiative COVAX, but the first supplies of COVAX vaccines went from the Serum Institute of India to Ghana. India on Wednesday dispatched the first batch of six lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to Ghana under the COVAX facility, an international cooperative programme formed to make sure low- and middle-income countries have fair access to Covid-19 vaccines. Besides neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh and Maldives where China competed with India in expanding its influence, New Delhi has delivered vaccines to numerous countries, a substantial amount of doses freely well ahead of Beijing’s offers to supply the jabs. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment for supporting vaccine equity and sharing Covid-19 vaccines with over 60 countries across the world, hoping that other nations will follow his example. India, the largest drug producer in the world, is currently manufacturing two Covid-19 vaccines- Covishield and Covaxin. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune, Covaxin is being produced by Bharat Biotech. India is expected to step up its vaccine diplomacy in a big way once the Covaxin of the Bharat Biotech gets the WHO nod in the coming weeks. Commenting on China’s vaccine diplomacy, Huang Yanzhong, a global health expert at US think tank, Council on Foreign Relations, said China’s success in largely controlling the Covid-19 outbreak within its borders had reduced its need for vaccinations until recently. “(China was) not initially paying too much attention to this, which was partly due to the limited vaccine production capacity in the country and the perceived low risk of infection. In a way it was a false sense of security,” Huang told Hong Kong's South China Morning Post. “On the other hand, China could use (its vaccines) to become the global leader in ensuring equitable access to vaccines, bridging the gap between the developed and developing world. Certainly, this would help improve China’s image and project soft power in those countries,” he said. A WHO regulatory evaluation of China’s vaccines Sinopharm and Sinovac is expected to be completed by March at the earliest, according to the UN body. The lower efficacy rate of Chinese-made vaccines, 50.4 per cent for Sinovac and 79 per cent for Sinopharm, compared to more than 90 per cent for Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines – could also slow China’s reaching of herd immunity, according to public health experts, the Post report said. According to Huang, if China falls behind Western countries in achieving herd immunity, it would lead to an unwelcome scenario for Beijing, with life returning to normal and international travel resuming between some countries. “China may still need to close its borders, that certainly would not improve China’s international image,” Huang said. This would also mean China could no longer claim a superior disease control model, Huang added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-plays-down-reports-of-india-beating-it-at-vaccine-diplomacy-955720.html
26-02-2021||National||Supreme Court declines to consider plea on killing of tigress Avni||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to consider a plea for initiation of contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Chief Secretary Vikas Kharge and others for announcing reward to the killers of 'Avni'. The tigress was hunted for allegedly killing and devouring 13 humans in the Pandharkawada- Ralegaon forests of Yavatmal district in Maharashtra, in 2018. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "We understand it is a serious issue but we cannot interfere." The court noted the state government had already submitted its report in the matter.  "We cannot review the decision. Celebration after death was done by villagers. They were happy and hence they celebrated. Officers have stated on oath that they did not celebrate," the bench said. The court asked wildlife researcher Sangeet Dongra to withdraw her contempt petition. The petitioner claimed that human remains were not found in the autopsy of the animal.  She questioned announcement of rewards for killers of the tigress in contravention of the Supreme Court's previous directions.  Avni, the tigress, was said to have killed 13 villagers. She was shot dead near Borati village in Yavatmal in November, 2018 by a team of Forest Department officials and civilian hunter Asgar Ali.  The incident triggered outrage among wildlife activists, who alleged that no efforts were made to tranquillise Avni and called it “murder in cold blood.” The top court had in 2018 allowed killing of Avni if attempts to tranquilise her failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-on-killing-of-tigress-avni-955728.html
26-02-2021||National||Centre's new guidelines diluting messaging apps' end-to-end encryption policy?||Following Centre's new guidelines for digital players, messaging apps like WhatsApp, Telegram and Signal are in soup over their flagship feature — end-to-end encryption.  The government on Thursday released new norms to tackle "mischievous" information which mandates that the tech companies, such as WhatsApp, reveal the originator of messages that threaten national security or sovereignty, or those related to crimes like rape. Experts have raised concerns about the possible impact on user's privacy and free expression.  WhatsApp, which claims all the messages are end-to-end encrypted, has over 400 million users in India, making the country a large and growing market for India. Meanwhile, its new privacy policy has received flak from critics thus opening space for comparatively newer players in the segment like Telegram and Signal. Signal also claims the conversations on its app are secure. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has said that the government does not intend to end platforms' end-to-end encryption."When we’re talking about the first originator, we’re not asking them to disclose the content. Simple question — who began this mischief? It will be only in relation to issues where the punishment is for more than five years, such as security, the sovereignty of India, rape etc," he said.  The Centre also claims that there are safeguards in place to prevent any misuse of the law. Under the new guidelines, the messaging platforms are only mandated to reveal the originator and Prasad says the content of the message or information about the users are not required. If the contentious information is originated overseas, whosoever shares the message in India will become, as the government calls it, "first originator." These regulations may require platforms like Whatsapp to dilute their privacy policy, end-to-end encryption being an important one.  Kazim Rizvi, the founder of tech policy think tank The Dialogue, told the publication that finding the originator would "not be possible without breaking end-to-end encryption" and that the new rules must be "reconsidered."  However, some welcomed the Centre's decisions saying the guidelines separate social media from other intermediaries.   The government says the rule will be mandated only when other less intrusive measures are considered. WhatsApp, however, has stayed firm that end-to-end encryption will not be dissolved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-new-guidelines-diluting-messaging-apps-end-to-end-encryption-policy-955732.html
26-02-2021||National||Assembly Elections 2021: Farmers to take fight against farm laws to poll-bound states||After spending three months on the borders of Delhi, farmers agitating against Modi government's agricultural reforms have decided to open a new front against the BJP in election-bound states of Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Leaders of farmer unions, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been drawing up plans to make the three farm laws an election issue, particularly in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, where they believe that their voice could resonate with the voters. “We will take our fight to the poll-bound states and ask voters to defeat those supporting the three farm laws,” Kulwant Singh Sandhu, leader of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha, told DH. He said of the five states going for polls, the farmers were expecting a good response to the demand for the repeal of farm laws in two states – Tamil Nadu and West Bengal which had witnessed farmers' movements in the past. “Elsewhere, the issue of unemployment and condition of tea garden workers will be a key issue in Assam,” Sandhu said adding that the farmers' unions were yet to plan to reach out to the north-eastern state. The farmers' agitation began on the borders of the national capital on November 26 with the primary demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and shelving of the amendments to the Electricity Act. The farmers have held 11 rounds of talks with the Modi government, which has rejected the demand for the repeal of the laws but offered to suspend their implementation for 18 months as they try to convince the protestors of the benefits of the reforms. BJP is seeking to make inroads in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu while retaining power in Assam. The farmers are also planning the next stage of their three-month-old agitation which has thinned out over the past couple of weeks with a large number of protestors going back to the villages to tend to their fields. A meeting of the farmers' unions is scheduled for Sunday to chalk out the future strategy with an eye on the resumption of Parliament's budget session on March 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-2021-farmers-to-take-fight-against-farm-laws-to-poll-bound-states-955738.html
26-02-2021||National||We need true Covid-19 vaccine internationalism: Indian Ambassador to WTO||There is a need for a true "vaccine internationalism" in the current scenario and waiver of certain intellectual property obligations is an effective and pragmatic way to achieve it, according to Brajendra Navnit, Indian Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the WTO. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organization) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. He said an outcome on this proposal will not only help in saving valuable human lives but will also give a comforting signal to bring back consumers' confidence, leading to acceleration in the recovery of global trade and world GDP (gross domestic product). "The proposal for a temporary waiver from the provisions of the TRIPS Agreement is first on our priority list. "We need true vaccine internationalism and the waiver is an effective and pragmatic way to achieve it," he said on February 25 during an informal TNC (trade negotiations committee) and HoDs (heads of delegations) meetings in Geneva. He added that all sectors of the economy are equally important for growth, and interest of few companies to the tune of tens of billions of dollars should not come in the way of restoring trillions of dollars of world output and saving hundreds of  thousands of human lives. "Imposition of lockdown does not mean that members have given up on the principle of right to life or right to freedom of movement. "In a similar manner, temporary waiver of certain provision of TRIPS agreement by following due process does not mean that the members have given up on the principle of intellectual property rights," he added. Many WTO members, including least developed countries and African nations, are supporting this proposal. Developed countries are opposing it. Further, the Ambassador said the coronavirus pandemic has highlighted the need for ensuring easier cross-border movement of health care professionals. "Members who could have been able to mobilise a greater number of such professionals to save lives were not able to do so due to restrictive trade practices in the services sector. "We must start working on having a multilateral initiative in this respect for an outcome in MC-12 (12th ministerial conference— highest decision making body of the WTO)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-need-true-covid-19-vaccine-internationalism-indian-ambassador-to-wto-955739.html
26-02-2021||National||Jaishankar, UAE foreign minister hold talks, review bilateral ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan held talks on Friday and reviewed the growing bilateral cooperation. "Reaffirming an extraordinary friendship. Always nice to welcome FM HH @ABZayed to India. Reviewed our growing cooperation. Discussions underscored our shared purpose and common interest," Jaishankar tweeted after the talks. The UAE foreign minister's visit comes just over two months after Jaishankar visited the United Arab Emirates in November last year. Jaishankar had paid a two-day visit to the UAE on November 25-26. During his talks with Nahyan in November, Jaishankar had discussed further opportunities to work together with the Gulf kingdom in a "changing world".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-uae-foreign-minister-hold-talks-review-bilateral-ties-955740.html
26-02-2021||National||Bharat Biotech signs pact to supply 20 million doses of Covaxin to Brazil||Bharat Biotech will supply 20 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to Brazil during the second and third quarters of current year, the city-based vaccine maker said on Friday. It has signed an agreement with the Brazilian government for the supply of the indigenously developed vaccine, a press release from the company said here. "The company is delighted to partner with Brazil in its battle against Covid-19 and aid its immunisation programme against the virus. It has signed an agreement for delivery of Covaxin during Q2 and Q3 2021," it said. Several countries around the world have expressed strong interest in Covaxin and the company was fully committed to ensuring supplies promptly and efficiently, the release added. Bharat Biotech had earlier saidit signed an agreement with Brazil-based Precisa Medicamentos for the supplies of Covaxin for the private markets inthe South American country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-signs-pact-to-supply-20-million-doses-of-covaxin-to-brazil-955742.html
26-02-2021||National||Co-Win gets update, set for public rollout of Covid vaccine from March 1||The Union Health Ministry on Friday disclosed that those willing to take the Covid-19 vaccine would have to follow one of the three routes to get the jab as India gears up to kick start the world’s biggest vaccination drive with the aim of giving the shot to 27 crore Indians. They can either register online in the upgraded Co-WIN 2.0 software or can walk into any of the 30,000 odd designated centres with requisite documents. There is also a third option in which the state governments can register bulk slots for inoculating a group of individuals and bring them to the vaccination centre. The details of the updated software and broad contours of the roll-out plan were shared with the states in a meeting that was chaired by the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and R S Sharma, chairman of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration and member, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19. Earlier this week, the Union Cabinet approved rolling out the vaccine for the general population from March 1 at 10,000 government and 20,000 private hospitals. The Centre has set aside a corpus of Rs 35,000 crore for the vaccination drive. While the vaccine would be offered free of cost at the government outlets, those availing the shots at private clinics will have to pay a government-determined price. The government, however, is yet to announce the price. All citizens above 60 years are eligible for the vaccine while those between 45-59 years will have to produce a certificate from a registered doctor specifying the comorbidities that he/she may be having. The cut-off date for calculating the age is January 1, 2021. The vaccination centers would be either government health clinics or hospitals or private set up empanelled under the CGHS, Ayushman Bharat and state health insurance schemes. For the vaccination, the beneficiaries would have to produce an identification like Aadhar or voter ID card or any other government ID card. The healthcare and frontline workers who had missed out on their vaccination schedule can also get the shots if they produce a letter from their employer or an ID card as proof of their profession. As the Co-WIN software is being upgraded, there would not be any vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. The upgraded software will also be rolled out on March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/co-win-gets-update-set-for-public-rollout-of-covid-vaccine-from-march-1-955743.html
26-02-2021||National||Serum Institute CEO Poonawalla apprises Home Minister Amit Shah about Covid-19 vaccine rollout||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Friday said he met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and apprised him about the ongoing Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the country. "It was my honour to brief you today, Shri Hon'ble @AmitShah Ji on the vaccine capabilities of our country and the ongoing rollout of vaccines in India," Poonawalla tweeted. In January, the country's drugs regulator had approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Apart from making efforts to meet the requirements of India, SII, the world's largest vaccine maker, is also trying its best to balance the needs of the rest of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-ceo-poonawalla-apprises-home-minister-amit-shah-about-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-955755.html
26-02-2021||National||India to supply four more mobile harbour cranes to Iran's Chabahar port||India will supply four more mobile harbour cranes to Iran's Chabahar port by the end of June this year, a government official said on Friday. In January, India supplied a consignment of two mobile harbour cranes to the Chabahar port having a total contract value of over $25 million. Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost trade ties. "For Chabahar, presently cranes which are available are sufficient for operation of that port. Two more cranes are standing for loading near the port near Venice, which will reach by March end to this port. Two more will reach by June end," Ministry of Ports, Waterways and Shipping (MoPWS) Additional Secretary Sanjay Bandopadhyaya said during a briefing on Maritime India Summit 2021 to be held from March 2 to March 4. Secretary, MoPWS, Sanjeev Ranjan, DG Shipping Amitabh Kumar and JNPT Chairman Sanjay Sethi were also present. Bandopadhyaya said after mobile harbour cranes are delivered, there are plans to procure rail-mounted cranes for which bidding is going on. "Till January 31, 2021, about 123 vessels have berthed at our terminal," he said, adding that approximately 13,752 TEUs and 18 lakh tonnes of bulk/ general cargo have been handled there and efforts are going on to improve the traffic at the Chabahar port. Since 2017, he said India had sent consignment of 1.1 lakh tonnes of wheat, pulses and other assistance in over 4,800 containers to Afghanistan through Chabahar port. The bilateral contract between Iran and India was signed on May 23, 2016 with a total value of $85 million ‎for equipping, mechanising and starting operations at the port under the first phase. In this regard, a special purpose vehicle -- India Ports Global Ltd (IPGL), Mumbai -- was incorporated under the shipping ministry. Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said Chabahar is a strategic port with great national importance. Development of the Chabahar port will help in expansion of economic and mutual relations between India and Iran as well as give a further boost to the maritime trade between both the countries. The location of the Chabahar port has strategic advantage and high potential to provide connectivity among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, specially Eastern CIS nations, and boost trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-supply-four-more-mobile-harbour-cranes-to-irans-chabahar-port-955756.html
26-02-2021||National||New social media rules could threaten free speech, critics say||Internet freedom advocates on Friday warned new Indian social media regulations could pose a threat to freedom of expression, after New Delhi announced plans for tough new rules that could force platforms to remove content it deems objectionable. Under the new regulations -- unveiled on Thursday and due to come into force in three months -- social media platforms, online streaming services and digital news services could be forced to remove content 36 hours after a complaint is made. Tech companies will also have to disclose the origin of a "mischievous tweet or message" if asked by an Indian court or the government. That could lead to encrypted messages -- a fundamental selling point for the Facebook-owned platform Whatsapp, which boasts hundreds of millions of users in India -- being exposed. Mozilla, developer of the Firefox internet browser used by hundreds of millions of people around the world, called for the regulations to be withdrawn. "In their current form, these rules will undeniably harm freedom of expression, privacy and security and could be subject to legal challenges," said Mozilla Corporation public policy advisor Udbhav Tiwari. "Provisions like traceability of encrypted content, harsh content take down timelines and automated content filtering are blunt and disproportionate to the intention behind these changes." Other Indian activists have also warned that the regulations could be challenged in court. "I think these new rules are extremely worrisome because they are imposing a regulation on free speech and privacy without any backing of law," Nikhil Pahwa, founder of a digital news portal and a cyber activist, told AFP. "In my opinion all these rules should be challenged in court and if they are, I doubt they would hold up." Facebook and Twitter, for whom India's 1.3 billion people are a key market, have said they are studying the guidelines. "We look forward to continued engagement with the government of India to strike a balance between transparency, freedom of expression, and privacy," said a Twitter spokesperson. The social media giant wants regulation "that protects the open internet, universal access, and promotes competition and innovation", they added. New Delhi accused the big tech firms of "double standards" as it announced the new regulations Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration has been in a protracted battle with Twitter over protests by tens of thousands of farmers protests over government market reforms, during which the social media giant refused a government order to delete hundreds of accounts and comments. Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said tech companies have to be "more responsible, more accountable", describing the rules as "soft-touch oversight". A government official said talks over the plans had already started with the tech companies. "They accept that there will have to be some kind of regulation," the official said on condition of anonymity. "There could be some changes to the rules".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-social-media-rules-could-threaten-free-speech-critics-say-955758.html
26-02-2021||National||Opposition parties in Bengal welcome eight-phase elections||The Opposition parties in West Bengal welcomed the eight-phase elections in the state announced by the Election Commission on Friday with the BJP saying that it was hopeful about the polls being free and fair. The state Congress said that it was looking forward to an election in 10 to 12 phases, while the CPI(M) maintained that the number of phases does not matter if the elections are held violence-free. "We are happy. We hope that the elections would be free and fair and the people of the state will be allowed to exercise their democratic right without any fear," BJP's state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said. State Congress leader Manoj Chakraborty said that the elections should have been held in at least 10-12 phases, alleging poor law and order situation in the state. "We have seen how the panchayat polls were held in Bengal. So many people were killed due to violence. We just hope that the Election Commission ensures that polls are held in a free and fair manner," he said. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty said that instead of increasing the number of phases, efforts should have been made to tighten the security during the elections.  "Just seven or eight phases are not enough. The electorate should be free from any sort of fear or intimidation," he said. Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress said that so many phases were unprecedented. "This is not fair at all. The state has never witnessed such a long-stretched election. Just because the BJP was complaining doesn't mean whatever they were saying was true. We are very unhappy with this eight-phase election," TMC MP and spokesperson Sougata Roy told PTI. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-parties-in-bengal-welcome-eight-phase-elections-955760.html
26-02-2021||National||Divorce can be granted on harming of reputation: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has held that an individual can seek divorce on the ground of mental cruelty if his or her reputation is harmed by the spouse among his or her colleagues, superiors and the society at large. The top court allowed a plea for divorce by an army officer whose wife wrote several complaints against him to his superiors and to the women rights bodies.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said such behaviour by a wife would certainly amount to inflicting cruelty on the man, and would be a ground of divorce.  “When the reputation of the spouse is sullied amongst his colleagues, his superiors and the society at large, it would be difficult to expect condonation of such conduct by the affected party," the bench said. "In circumstances like this, the wronged party cannot be expected to continue with the matrimonial relationship and there is enough justification for him to seek separation,” the bench added. The bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, said when the career and reputation of a spouse were severely damaged because of the conduct of the other partner, it could not be expected of the former to reconcile and agree to live together again.   The court emphasised that mental cruelty, as a ground for divorce, had to be understood keeping in mind the background, the level of education and the status of the couple in order to determine whether the conduct in question was such that it would justify dissolution of a marriage.   The man and the woman got married in September 2007 in Dehradun but they were soon separated after the wife left the matrimonial home and went to live with her parents after a few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/divorce-can-be-granted-on-harming-of-reputation-supreme-court-955764.html
26-02-2021||National||Scientists warn India's Covid-19 cases may rise again; 7 states worst hit as per recent data||India again stares at a big surge in Covid-19 numbers, going by scientists who modelled the epidemic’s growth from the very beginning. Alarm bells were sounded on the basis of results from the latest run of a disease prediction model that threw up the worst value for R - a parameter that denotes the virus’s ability to infect others – since September 17. “This past week’s trends were the worst I have seen since mid-September when R for the country as a whole went below 1 (and stayed below 1 for the entire period up to February 17). For the first time since September 17, the R value has gone above 1,” Sitabhra Sinha, a mathematician at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai told DH. R, or reproduction number, is a mark of the SARS-CoV-2’s ability to spread. An R value of 1.9 for example, would mean that 10 Covid-19 affected people would spread the infection to 19 others. For the epidemic to be contained, the value should be less than 1. “The worst is that seven of the top 16 states in terms of current active cases have an R value more than one at present. This includes Maharashtra which is now back at the top of the list of states having the highest number of active cases,” said Sinha, who was tracking the epidemic with his model for the past 12 months with a fair degree of accuracy. Besides Maharashtra, other states where the situation may turn serious in the coming weeks are Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. In addition, Assam, Telangana, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are the borderline cases whereas R is on the lower side in Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. “We have become more and more lackadaisical about physical distancing. The ‘first wave’ has never quite ‘receded’, which means that there has always been enough transmission going on in places, communities and neighbourhoods from which new local outbreaks of transmission can and will emerge,” explained biologist Satyajit Rath, who was formerly a senior scientist at the National Institute of Immunology, Delhi. India’s vaccination coverage, as experts point out, is still low. Till Friday, 1.37 crore people – healthcare workers and front line staff - received at least one dose of the vaccine while the plan is to vaccinate at least 30 crore Indians to break the virus’s chain of transmission. Only 22 lakh healthcare workers received two doses of the vaccine whereas 66 lakh health staff and 49 lakh front line staff got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-warn-indias-covid-19-cases-may-rise-again-7-states-worst-hit-as-per-recent-data-955771.html
26-02-2021||National||More than 1.37 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to healthcare and frontline workers has crossed 1.37 crore in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. As per the provisional report till Friday 6 pm, a total of 1,37,56,940 vaccine doses have been given through 2,89,320 sessions — 66,37,049 (76.6 per cent) healthcare workers (HCWs) who got their first dose, 22,04,083 (62.9 per cent) HCWs who received their second dose and 49,15,808 (47.7 per cent) frontline workers (FLWs) who were administered their first dose. While the countrywide inoculation drive was rolled out on January 16, vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2. "Total 2,84,297 vaccine doses were given till 6 pm on Friday, the 42nd day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which, 1,13,208 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,71,089 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said, adding that final reports for the day would be completed by late night. It said 10,405 sessions were held till 6 pm, and that all states and union territories conducted Covid-19 vaccinations during the day. On February 26, orientation of administrators and programme managers of all states and UTs for Co-WIN 2.0 and the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination for people aged 60 years and above and those aged 45 and above but with co-morbidities has been done, the ministry said. It said that six states and UTs have vaccinated more than 75 per cent of the registered HCWs and FLWs for the first dose. These are Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tripura. Seven states have vaccinated more than 80 per cent of the registered HCWs for the first dose. These are Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the ministry said. On the other hand, four states and UTs have reported less than 50 per cent coverage of registered HCWs for the first dose, it said. These are Nagaland, Punjab, Chandigarh and Puducherry. Further, seven states have registered more than 60 per cent coverage for the first dose among FLWs. These are Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, the ministry said. It stated that eight states and UTs have reported less than 30 per cent coverage of registered FLWs for the first dose. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Tamil Nadu, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Assam, Meghalaya, Kerala and Puducherry. Five states that recorded the highest number of vaccinations on Friday are UP (73,434), West Bengal (38,522), Gujarat (35,540), Karnataka (21,459) and Maharashtra (18,190). Fifty-one people have been hospitalised so far. The number makes up 0.0004 per cent of the total vaccinations, the ministry said. Of these 51 cases, 27 were discharged after treatment, while 23 persons died and one is under treatment. In the last 24 hours, no new event of hospitalisation has been reported, it added. Forty-six deaths have been recorded till date, which comprise 0.0004 per cent of the total COVID-19 vaccinations. Twenty-three persons died in hospitals while as many deaths are recorded outside hospitals. "No case of serious/severe AEFI/Death is attributable to vaccination, till date," the ministry said. In the last 24 hours, one new death has been reported. A 41-year-old man, who was a resident of Bhojpur, Bihar, died 15 days after his vaccination. The suspected reason for his death is Myocardial Infarction, the ministry said. The 1,37,56,940 beneficiaries who have been vaccinated include 6,38,345  from Bihar, 5,37,801 from Kerala, 8,10,667 from Karnataka, 7,80,465 from Madhya Pradesh, 11,60,480 from Maharashtra, 3,98,813 from Delhi, 9,93,634 from Gujarat, 14,44,173 from Uttar Pradesh and 10,31,628 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-137-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-govt-955803.html
26-02-2021||National||4 arrested after UP college student found lying with severe burns along highway records statement||Four people were arrested on Friday on the basis of a statement by a college student, who was found severely burnt and lying naked along a national highway here, police said. The woman, who is a BA second-year student of a college run by the Mumukshu Ashram of former Union minister Swami Chinmayanand, said in a statement before a magistrate that three people tried to rape her in a field near Rai Kheda village on Monday. When they did not succeed, they poured kerosene and set her on fire, she alleged. Police has added IPC sections 376D (gang-rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) besides others after statements of the victim were recorded. Earlier, the FIR was registered under IPC 307 (attempt to murder) and other sections, they said. On the basis of the statement recorded at a hospital in Lucknow where the woman is undergoing treatment, four people, including a female friend who had allegedly sent her to the field, were arrested from different places in the district on Friday morning, Superintendent of Police (SP) S Anand told news persons. All four persons have refused any involvement, the SP said, adding that investigations were underway. In her statement before the magistrate, the victim said that the woman friend of hers had sent her to meet the friend's cousin and a male classmate at an orchard near Rai Kheda village, saying she would be joining them soon, the SP said. She left the college through a broken boundary wall instead of going through the main gate, where her father was waiting for her. The victim's father used to bring her to the college once a week or a fortnight and wait outside till classes ended. The classmate she was supposed to meet and another student followed her to the orchard, the SP said, adding that they tried to rape her there but as she resisted, they doused her with kerosene and set her ablaze. The victim has alleged that her woman friend had on numerous occasions tried to get her to talk to other male students in the class and once to the cousin on a video call, which she refused, the police said. All four people named by the victim have been arrested, the SP said, adding that four teams are working the case. The Mumukshu Ashram was at the centre of a controversy in 2019 after a female student of a law college run by it accused Chinmayanand of sexual assault. However, the student later withdrew her charges, and Chinmayanand, who was arrested in the case in September 2019, was released on bail. The Mumukshu Ashram was at the centre of a controversy in 2019 after a female student of a law college run by it accused Chinmayanand of sexual assault. However, the student later withdrew her charges, and Chinmayanand, who was arrested in the case in September 2019, was released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-arrested-after-up-college-student-found-lying-with-severe-burns-along-highway-records-statement-955808.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi a 'yugpurush', nothing wrong in naming stadium after him: Ramdev||Yoga guru Ramdev on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a "yugpurush", saying there is nothing wrong in naming a stadium after him. "If buildings and memorials in the past could be named after important people of the time, why can't a stadium be named after Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is great man of the present times, a yugpurush," Ramdev said at a function here. A cricket stadium in Ahmedabad was recently named after Narendra Modi. On West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's sarcastic remark that the country itself should be named after Modi, Ramdev said it was no more than a politically motivated statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-a-yugpurush-nothing-wrong-in-naming-stadium-after-him-ramdev-955377.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Congress leaders deliberate upon preparing 'people's manifesto' for 2022 UP polls||Members of the Congress' manifesto committee for the Uttar Pradesh polls next year met in the presence of general secretary in-charge of the state Priyanka Gandhi Vadra here on Thursday to brainstorm on the way forward in formulating a "people's manifesto". Priyanka Gandhi, party's UP manifesto committee chief Salman Khurshid and Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate were among those present in the meeting. Sources said the leaders brainstormed during the meeting to come out with a "people's manifesto" and on strategies for the polls. On February 27-28, the manifesto committee will go to Bahraich to get people's feedback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leaders-deliberate-upon-preparing-peoples-manifesto-for-2022-up-polls-955421.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||People's mandate no licence to act irresponsibly: Shiv Sena on stadium renaming||The Shiv Sena on Friday targeted the Centre over the renaming of Ahmedabad's Sardar Patel cricket stadium after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that the massive mandate that his government got in the last election was not a licence to act irresponsibly. It also said that although allegations were made against the Congress and Gandhi-Nehru family in the last five years that they are trying to obliterate Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's name from history, the renaming of the stadium has shown who is actually trying to do so. "It seems the Modi-Shah government wants every big thing to be set up in Gujarat. There is nothing wrong in that. But they seem to have forgotten that they are leading the country...The name of Motera stadium in Ahmedabad was changed to Narendra Modi stadium. Till now, Melbourne stadium was the largest cricket stadium in the world. Now the one named after Modi is the biggest one," the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana'. "But why is the move drawing flak? Because earlier the Motera stadium was named after Sardar Patel, which has now been named after Modi. In the last five years, it was alleged that attempts were made by the Congress or Gandhi-Nehru family to obliterate the name of Sardar Patel. But the change in the name of Sardar Patel stadium shows who is trying to wipe out his name," it said. There is no doubt that Modi is a great leader, but if his blind followers feel that he is greater than Mahatma Gandhi, Pandit Nehru, Sardar Patel or Indira Gandhi,it should be considered the next level in blind faith, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. Those who thought of renaming Motera stadium after Narendra Modi have in fact reduced his stature, it added. "Modi is a very popular leader. People have given him massive mandate. But this mandate is not a licence to act irresponsibly. Patel and Nehrualso had mandate of the people to lay the foundation stone of the country's development," the Sena said. Nehru dedicated institutions like IITs, BARC, Bhakra Nagal project to the country. But what happened under the Modi's rule? A stadium named after Sardar Patel was renamed as Narendra Modi stadium, it said. Those who eulogised Patel till yesterday, are now against his name for a stadium, the party said. "It shows that Patel's importance in today's politics has ended and the same will happen to Netaji Bose after theWest Bengal polls. In Maharashtra, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's name was also used for elections," it added. Which policies of Sardar Patel are being followed by the current government? He led the Bardolisatyagraha for the rights of farmers. But what is the farmers situation now? the party asked. During the Congress meeting held in Karachi two years after the satyagraha, Patel, who was the party president then, declared that he was a farmer. "But what is the condition of farmers in the country now. They have been protesting at Delhi borders since the last four months...They are hailing Sardar Patel. Is that the reason, the name plate at Motera stadium bearing his name was wiped out?" it asked. But it is the people who want this. The citizens of Gujarat have accepted this change. If the people of Gujarat have no regards for Patel, then there is no need for the opposition to criticise the move, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/peoples-mandate-no-licence-to-act-irresponsibly-shiv-sena-on-stadium-renaming-955507.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||AAP sets eyes on 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls after strong show in Surat||Buyoed by the Aam Aadmi Party's good performance in the recently-held Surat civic polls, party chief Arvind Kejriwal has now set his eyes on the 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls. Kejriwal, who arrived in Surat on Friday, said that AAP would seek votes from the people of the state in the next Assembly polls based on the performance of the party's 27 newly-elected corporators in the city. Polls to six civic bodies in Gujarat, including in Surat, were held on Sunday. While the BJP retained power in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) by winning 93 seats, the AAP bagged the remaining 27 seats. The Congress failed to win even a single seat. During his address to the party corporators here, Kejriwal said, "The people of Gujarat are watching you with great hope. In our first attempt, AAP won 28 Assembly seats in Delhi and came to power. People trusted us because they knew that we are true patriots, as we were associated with Anna Hazare's agitation." "In the 49 days of our rule, we did a lot of pro- people work. As a result, the people of Delhi gave us 67 seats in the second election. Now, six crore people of Gujarat will observe the work of 27 AAP corporators. If you perform well, I am sure there will be a huge revolution in 2022," the Delhi chief minister added. Fearing a "poaching attempt", Kejriwal warned the elected representatives to inform the party leaders if "anyone from the BJP" contacts them over phone and gives an offer to switch sides. "I am sure that BJP people will call you. But remember, our true wealth is people's trust. If anyone of you switches side, it will break the trust of six crore people. Even if one person switches side, the BJP and others will get a chance to say that AAP is no different from others," he said. The AAP convenor urged the newly-elected corporators to be ready to help the people of their respective wards, and also asked them to share their phone numbers in their areas so that citizens can contact them easily. "Even if you are not able to do someone's work, never insult those who approach you for help. Always show respect to the people. We will seek votes from the people of Gujarat on the basis of your performance here," he added. Kejriwal is scheduled to conduct a road show in the city on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-sets-eyes-on-2022-gujarat-assembly-polls-after-strong-show-in-surat-955593.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Bengal, Assam Assembly elections to start from March 27, counting on May 2||As parties prepare the battleground for crucial assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory, the Election Commission formally sounded the bugle and announced the schedule for assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday. This year, keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic and the restrictions imposed because of that, the polling time has been increased by one hour. A total of 824 Assembly constituencies shall be going for polls during these elections. 18.68 crore electors will cast vote at 2.7 lakh polling stations in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry.  The term of Assam Assembly is up to May 31, that of Tamil Nadu is May 24. The term of the West Bengal Assembly ends on May 30 and that of the Kerala Assembly ends on June 1. "Adequate CAPFs deployment shall be ensured during elections. All critical, vulnerable polling stations identified and an adequate number of CAPFs will be deployed," said Sunil Arora, Chief Election Commissioner. The elections for the states will begin on March 27. The counting of all the Assembly elections will take place on May 2. The Assembly election for Assam will start on March 27 and end on April 6 and will be held in three phases. The Assembly elections for Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry will be held on April 6. The Assembly election for West Bengal will start on March 27 and end on April 29 and will be held in eight phases. The terms of the legislative Assemblies of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala are ending in the coming months. Following a political crisis in Puducherry, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday recommended the dissolution of the legislative Assembly there. The term of the Puducherry Assembly was to otherwise end in June. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised Bengal for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal 2019 General Elections, only four short of TMC's tally of 22. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, its leaders are upbeat that the party will be able to end Banerjee's 10-year rule in the state polls. Polls to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly will start on March 27 and end on April 29. The elections will be conducted in eight phases.  has had words and tempers flying between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP. While Mamata has left no stone unturned in her efforts to visit different parts of the state, the BJP sent its top brass including Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to woo voters. Kickstarting the BJP's election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday mounted a blistering attack on the Congress and DMK, saying their meetings are like "corruption hackathons" where their leaders sit and 'brainstorm' on how to loot. The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu has endorsed Chief Minister K Palaniswami as its CM candidate for this year's high-stakes Assembly polls. The 234-member assembly will go to polls on April 6. In the 140-seat bound Kerala Assembly, Sabarimala, corruption and high-profile cases surrounding the Chief Minister's top leadership have been key issues. The Assembly election for Kerala will be held on April 6. The UDF, targeting the CPI(M)-led LDF over the Sabarimala issue, has recently announced it would withdraw the cases if it came to power in the assembly polls. The LDF government's move, especially the decision to withdraw cases related to the Sabarimala issue, is generally viewed as an attempt by it to woo the devotees and Hindu community members while aiming for a second straight term in the polls. Most recently, during his Kerala visit, Rahul Gandhi said he was used to a "different type of politics" in north India and coming to the southern state was "very refreshing," a remark, which created a major row within the Congress. BJP-led NDA won an overwhelming majority in Assam in the last assembly elections (2016). While the Opposition has used the issue of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as a weapon against the state BJP, the saffron party is hoping to bank on its claims of development. The 126-member Assembly will go to polls starting from March 27 and will end on April 6. The polls will be held on three phases. Union Home Minister Amit Shah recently said that BJP will make Assam flood-free if voted to power again. Claiming that BJP and its ally Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) can only solve the infiltration problem in Assam, Shah asked, "Can Congress stop infiltration when they are sitting with Badruddin Ajmal? They are sitting with Ajmal and talking about stopping infiltration. Can they stop the killing of the rhinos in Assam?"  Senior Assam minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma has said that he is not willing to contest the 2021 assembly election. However, he said that if the party decides to field him to contest the poll likely to be held in March-April, he will honour the decision.  Rahul Gandhi emphatically declared that the Congress will not implement Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in Assam, and subsequently the state unit of the party urged cadres to collect 'Gamochas' (Assamese scarf) with messages against the Act. The spectre that has haunted the small states in the North-East and the bigger ones like Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh has visited Puducherry also, resulting in the fall of the Congress-DMK government. V Narayanaswamy resigned from the post of chief minister as he lost his majority in the Assembly after a series of resignations of Congress and DMK MLAs. The crisis began after five Congress and one DMK MLA resigned, bringing down the strength of the government. The 33-member Assembly will go to polls on April 6. With the fall of Puducherry, Congress has lost its last fortress in South India. The President's rule has been imposed in the union territory for the first time in 30 years after no party staked claim to form the government. While the Congress had the support of 12 MLAs, the Opposition side claimed the support of 14 MLAs, including three nominated members who are BJP leaders. Congress has squarely blamed the BJP for the fall of its only government with AICC in-charge of Puducherry alleging that Union Home Minister Amit Shah threatened Congress MLAs to resign.  The last time the UT came under Central rule was in 1991 for four months. This is the sixth time the UT will be under President's rule.  BJP's shadow looms over Congress Even as Congress pins hopes of gains in the upcoming Assembly polls, the goal appears too lofty to achieve. The BJP's aggressive push in all the above states coupled with the entry of AIMIM in Bengal will challenge Congress-Left's prospects in the eastern state, while Assam will remain a tough battlefield in the presence of the incumbent BJP which is banking on multiple development project launches by the PM there. Even in Kerala this time, Congress faces a tough road ahead despite the trends of alternate governments there. The entry of E Sreedharan on the BJP side has further queered the Kerala poll pitch. In Tamil Nadu, the late entry of Sasikala has changed all the previous calculations and increased the pressure on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam. PM Narendra Modi has launched a series of projects to woo the voters. Congress, on the other hand, will bank on DMK chief MK Stalin's leadership to dislodge the AIADMK-BJP alliance from power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-assam-assembly-elections-to-start-from-march-27-counting-on-may-2-955607.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Assembly Elections 2021: Model Code of Conduct comes into force||While announcing the dates for the election, outgoing Chief Electoral Officer Sunil Arora also announced that the Model Code of Conduct is in effect as of Friday. The MCC is a set of rules put in force by the Election Commission of India to guarantee free and fair elections. It is a set of norms that have evolved with political parties consenting to abide by the principles embodied in the said code. The elections for the states will begin on March 27. The counting of all the Assembly elections will take place on May 2.  A total of 824 Assembly constituencies shall be going for polls during these elections. 18.68 crore electors will cast vote at 2.7 lakh polling stations in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. The term of Assam Assembly is up to May 31, that of Tamil Nadu is May 24. The term of West Bengal Assembly ends on May 30 and that of Kerala Assembly ends on June 1. Puducherry is currently under President's Rule. During the enforcement period of the MCC, governments and political parties face the following restrictions: 1. Ministers cannot combine their official visit with electioneering work. They can also not make use of official machinery or personnel during electioneering.  2. No transport including official aircraft, vehicles, etc. can be used for the furtherance of the interest of any party or a candidate. 3. A total ban on transfer and posting of all officers/officials directly or indirectly connected with the conduct of the election is put in effect. If any transfer or posting of an officer is considered necessary, prior approval of the Commission must be obtained. 4. No Minister, whether of Union or State, can summon any election-related officer of the constituency or the State for any official discussions anywhere.  5. If a Union Minister is travelling out of Delhi on purely official business, which cannot be avoided in the public interest, then a letter certifying to this effect must be sent from the concerned Secretary of the Ministry/Department to the Chief Secretary of the concerned State, along with a copy to the Election Commission.   6. Advertisements regarding the achievements of the party at the cost of public exchequer in print and electronic media and the misuse of official mass media are prohibited.  7. If an order has been issued by the States or the Union government with respect to any scheme but no work has begun till the MCC is in force, then no work shall be started in that respect. However, if work has actually started in the field, that can be continued. 8. No fresh release of funds under MPs/MLAs/MLCs Local Area Development Fund of any scheme can be made in any area where the election is in progress, till the completion of the election. 9. Financial institutions funded, partially or wholly by the Governments shall not take recourse to write off loans advanced to any individual, company, firm, etc. Also, the financial limits of such institutions, while granting or extending loans, should not be enhanced by issuing of loans indiscriminately to beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-2021-model-code-of-conduct-comes-into-force-955665.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Counting for state Assembly elections to take place on May 2||The Election Commission of India on Friday announced that results for Assembly elections that are to be held in the states of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Assam will be counted on May 2. As parties prepare the battleground for crucial Assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory, the Election Commission formally sounded the bugle and announced the schedule for Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry on Friday. This year, keeping in mind the coronavirus pandemic and the restrictions imposed because of that, the polling time has been increased by one hour. A total of 824 Assembly constituencies shall be going for polls during these elections. 18.68 crore electors will cast vote at 2.7 lakh polling stations in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/counting-for-state-assembly-elections-to-take-place-on-may-2-955666.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Candidates can file nominations online ahead of state Assembly polls||The Election Commission of India (EC) headed by Sunil Arora, on Friday, announced the schedule for Assembly Elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the EC stated that this time candidates could file their nominations online too. “Arrangements will be put in place for candidates to file their nominations online for the five assembly polls. Voting will be allowed for an additional hour, keeping in mind Covid-19 safety guidelines,” said Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora. A total of 824 Assembly constituencies shall be going for polls during these elections. 18.68 crore electors will cast vote at 2.7 lakh polling stations in the four states and one union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/candidates-can-file-nominations-online-ahead-of-state-assembly-polls-955671.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||EC announces poll schedule for Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry||Over 18.68 crore people will cast votes between March 27 and April 29 to elect 824 members of the legislative assemblies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. The votes will be counted in all the four states as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry on May 2. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora along with other Election Commissioners, Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, announced the schedule of polling in a news-conference at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi on Friday. The polling in Assam will take place in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. All assembly constituencies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will go to polls on April 6. The polling in West Bengal will take place in eight phases on March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29. The Model Code of Conduct came into force in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry as soon as the poll-schedule was announced by the EC. The assembly polls in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry are going to be the second set of direct elections to be held after the Covid-19 pandemic swept the country. The assembly election in Bihar in October and November 2020 was the first. The Chief Election Commissioner said that the polling in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry would be held in accordance with the broad guidelines issued by the EC on August 21 last year for holding polls at the time of the pandemic. The commission, however, left it to the Chief Electoral Officers in the poll-bound states to frame specific plans for holding elections amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, based on the broad guidelines issued by it. The legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have 126, 294, 234 and 140 seats respectively. The legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Puducherry has 33 seats – 30 elected by people and three nominated by the Centre. The poll-panel will set up altogether 2.7 lakh polling stations in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry. The Chief Election Commissioner said that adequate central paramilitary forces would be deployed during the forthcoming assembly elections, particularly in the critical and vulnerable polling stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ec-announces-poll-schedule-for-kerala-west-bengal-tamil-nadu-assam-and-puducherry-955679.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu govt hurries legislation providing 10.5% internal reservation to Vanniyars||The reservation, which according to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is “temporary” and will undergo changes once the data from a caste-based census is available, is a clear attempt to mollify Paatali Makkal Katchi (PMK), an ally of the AIADMK. The PMK, which champions the cause of Vanniyars, has been playing hardball with the AIADMK on the issue. With the legislation being passed, the alliance between PMK and AIADMK is now certain. The PMK has been demanding internal reservation for members of the community, arguing that many of them still live in abject poverty.  The legislation was introduced and passed in the Assembly within minutes, as the government was running out of time due to announcement of poll schedule by the Election Commission of India (ECI). Not just the legislation, but Palaniswami made several announcements in the Assembly on Friday after it was announced that the ECI was holding a press conference at 4.30 pm. The last-minute announcements include waiving off gold loans availed by farmers in the state. After tabling the Bill, Palaniswami said providing of 10.5 per cent reservation is only a temporary arrangement. “Changes will be made (to this announcement) after a committee headed by Justice A Kulasekaran Commission to collect quantifiable data on castes, and communities submit its report in six months,” Palaniswami said. The development is significant as it comes just a few weeks before the state votes to elect its 16th assembly on April 6. However, the legislation might open a Pandora’s box with experts predicting that other communities would also join the bandwagon and seek separate reservation. PMK, which has been pushing for separate reservation for Vanniyars, welcomed the judgement. The party released a video in which its leader and former Union Minister Anbumani Ramadoss conveying the news to his father and PMK founder S Ramadoss with tears rolling down his cheeks. “It is a 40-year struggle,” Anbumani is seen telling his father. PMK is a very crucial ally for the AIADMK as the former commands a committed vote bank of 5 per cent, especially in the northern districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-govt-hurries-legislation-providing-105-internal-reservation-to-vanniyars-955707.html
26-02-2021||National Politics||Assembly Polls: Congress welcomes EC's decision, says people will give 'befitting' reply to BJP||The Congress on Friday welcomed the Election Commission's announcement of the schedule of assembly elections in four states and a Union territory and said people will give a "befitting reply" to the BJP for its "anti-people" policies. The Opposition party also hoped that the Election Commission, fulfilling its constitutional responsibilities, will conduct the elections impartially without any "fear or favour". Reacting to the announcement of the polls schedule by the Election Commission, senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal said, "We are confident that the people of the four states and a Union Territory will give a befitting reply to the BJP for its mis-governance and anti-people policies." "The BJP will be defeated and democracy will win again. Feelings will awaken for the bright future of the people," the AICC in-charge administration said. Bansal slammed the BJP over its policies such as demonetisation and GST and said the government is to be squarely blamed for rising fuel prices and inflation which has hurt the common man. Asked about its alliances and poll preparation, Bansal said, "We are presently in touch with all our allies and all our associations and electoral alliances will be worked out. We will be in a position to share something only when the final picture is clear." On a question about Opposition's scepticism of EVMs, Bansal said, "Our demand at this juncture is not going to matter. The Election Commission has announced this, I would with all the respect say -- today this question is conjecturer, because the dates have been announced." "They have worked out the schedule, they have moved on with the premise of EVMs, so whatever stands we had taken from time to time...we have to go by this," Bansal said. "We only expect the Election Commission to go by the rule book and conduct the elections in a fair manner without fear or favour," he said. Voting for the five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal conducting the maximum eight phases continuing till April 29, and votes for the polls in the four states and one union territory will be counted on May 2, the Election Commission said on Friday. As many as 18.68 crore voters will be eligible to cast their votes at 2.7 lakh polling stations for 824 assembly seats across Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The elections for the five assemblies are expected to witness a determined attempt by the BJP to put a strong show, including in Assam where it is already in power, as well as in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry where the saffron party has been pushing hard in recent years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-polls-congress-welcomes-ecs-decision-says-people-will-give-befitting-reply-to-bjp-955776.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Warm morning in Delhi as mercury settles at above-normal level||The national capital witnessed mist in the morning on Friday even as the minimum temperature settled at 15.2 degrees Celsius, three notches above the season's average, the meteorological department said. Humidity was recorded at 86 per cent at 8:30 am, a weather official said. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it will be mainly clear sky ahead with maximum temperature likely to hover around 34 degrees Celsius. On Thursday, the maximum temperature settled at 33.2 degrees Celsius and the minimum at 13.4 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season's average.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/warm-morning-in-delhi-as-mercury-settles-at-above-normal-level-955484.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Man who built temple for Godse joins Madhya Pradesh Congress, sparks controversy||Babulal Chaurasiya was inducted into the party in the presence of former Chief Minister and MP Congress President Kamal Nath. Even as the Congress claimed that Chaurasiya, who claims to be a former member of the party, was welcome because the party leaders believe in second chances, the BJP hit out at the party for its "double standards."   “Chaurasiya was an active member of the Congress. He decided to return to the party...we welcomed him because our party leaders are like Rahul Gandhi, who has even forgiven the murderers of his father to give them a chance...” Congress’s Gwalior MLA Praveen Pathak is quoted as saying in the report.  BJP leader Narottam Mishra slammed the party by saying, "Congress leaders use the name of Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi for votes only like they use the name of B R Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel during elections only.” BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal alleged that "the truth" was now revealed as to how "a Congressman hatched the conspiracy to malign the image of the saffron party." According to the report, Chaurasiya built a temple dedicated to Godse in 2017 when he was with the Hindu Mahasabha. After being inducted into the party, Chaurasiya blamed the Hindu Mahasabha for misguiding him. “The leaders of Hindu Mahasabha showed some fake books to me about Godse. But recently, I realized my mistake and left the organisation,” he said. The Hindu Mahasabha, however, claimed that Chaurasiya was expelled three days ago. “How was it possible to misguide a person for six years? He was associated with the Hindu Mahasabha for the past six years. We have videos of his speeches in which he was seen praising Godse. Recently, we came to know that Chaurasiya used to take money from a local Congress MLA for sending people from his ward to the Congress party political rallies. We removed him from the organisation three days ago after serving a show-cause notice to him,” Hindu Mahasabha national Vice President Jaiveer Bhardwaj told the publication. The move also seems to have created a split within the Congress state unit with many party leaders disapproving it, dubbing it "wrong". “It is wrong to welcome an admirer of Godse to the party. I don’t know the reason why he has been allowed to join the party but we will surely oppose this decision,” Senior party leader Manak Agrawal is quoted as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-who-built-temple-for-godse-joins-madhya-pradesh-congress-sparks-controversy-955519.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||HP Budget Session: Governor cuts short address to Assembly amid uproar by Cong members||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya could read only the last line of his address to the Assembly on the opening day of the Budget Session on Friday amid a ruckus by members of the opposition Congress. As soon as the House assembled at 11 am, the Congress members led by Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri rose from their seats and raised slogans. Following din in the House, the Governor read the last line of his address and stated that the entire speech should be deemed as read. The Congress members alleged that the contents of the address were "a bundle of lies". They stated that the issue of increase in cooking gas, petrol and diesel prices was not included in the address. Subsequently, the proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Monday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur condemned the behaviour of the Congress and said it was uncalled for. The session is scheduled to conclude on March 20. The chief minister will present the budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly on March 6, Speaker Vipin Parmar had said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hp-budget-session-governor-cuts-short-address-to-assembly-amid-uproar-by-cong-members-955527.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Soldier caught leaking information to Pakistani operatives, probe ordered||The Indian Army has started an investigation after a soldier hailing from Amritsar, Punjab and posted under the Northern Command was found to be passing data to Pakistani operatives. Sources said the soldier was caught red-handed by his seniors. After the incident came to light, a Court of Inquiry was ordered to probe how the soldier could get access to the data and the extent to which it was leaked to the operatives of Pakistani agencies. “The probe would also find out how deeply the soldier was engaged with the enemy operatives and how much vital data he may have passed on to the enemy operatives,” a source said and added the mobile phone of the accused soldier is also being checked. “The inquiry will also find out whether some other persons were involved with him or he has himself got and leaked the data,” a source said and added the source from where he got the data is also being traced. A local newspaper reported that the data breach took place when the Indian Army was engaged in a military stand-off with the People's Liberation Army of China in the Ladakh region. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is in charge of security on both China and Pakistan borders in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-caught-leaking-information-to-pakistani-operatives-probe-ordered-955567.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Cong MLAs manhandle Himachal Pradesh Governor when he was leaving Assembly||Some Congress MLAs allegedly manhandled Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya when he was leaving the Assembly after his address on the opening day of the Budget Session on Friday. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the governor was manhandled when he was going to his vehicle after the session, and moved a motion to suspend five Congress MLAs -- Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Sunder Singh Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar. The Assembly, which was adjourned till 2 pm on Monday earlier in the day, was reconvened at 1 pm on Friday to consider the motion moved by Bhardwaj. Earlier, the Governor could read only the last line of his address to the Assembly amid a ruckus by members of the opposition Congress. As soon as the House assembled at 11 am, the Congress members led by Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri rose from their seats and raised slogans. Following din in the House, the Governor read the last line of his address and stated that the entire speech should be deemed as read. The Congress members alleged that contents of the address were "a bundle of lies". They stated that the issue of increase in cooking gas, petrol and diesel prices was not included in the address. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur condemned the behaviour of the Congress members in the House and said it was uncalled for. The session is scheduled to conclude on March 20. The chief minister will present the budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly on March 6, Speaker Vipin Parmar had said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cong-mlas-manhandle-himachal-pradesh-governor-when-he-was-leaving-assembly-955569.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Protesting farmers stop wheat-laden train in Punjab's Moga||A group of farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws on Friday stopped a wheat-laden train in Punjab's Moga district. The train was stopped at the Dagru railway station after it came out of a privately-owned grain silo in Dagru village, the police said. The protesting farmers sat down on the tracks, saying they would not allow the train to go out of the state, they added. The move was part of the protesting farmers' agitation against big corporates, said Baldev Singh Zeera, state general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari). Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late last November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and the Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/protesting-farmers-stop-wheat-laden-train-in-punjabs-moga-955595.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||NIA charge sheets 11 suspected Al-Qaeda operatives||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a charge sheet against 11 people arrested from West Bengal and Kerala, who were accused of being motivated by the Al-Qaeda to carry out terror strikes to establish an Islamic State in India. They were also accused of planning to kill an India-based Bangladeshi blogger for his views expressed on social media. The charge sheet has been filed against Murshid Hasan, Mosaraf Hosse, Mainul Mandal, Lea Yean Ahmed, Najmus Sakib, Iyakub Biswas, Samim Ansari, Abu Sufian, Atiur Rahman, Al Mamun Karnal and Abdul Momin Mandal. They are charged with waging war against India and criminal conspiracy among other sections of the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Arms Act. Initially, nine suspected terrorists were arrested from West Bengal and Kerala on September 19 last year in a coordinated action. Two others were picked up from West Bengal on August 26 and November 1 last year. According to the NIA, Hasan was allegedly in touch with Al-Qaeda handlers based in Pakistan and Bangladesh and had received instructions along with radical propaganda material through encrypted social media platforms. Hasan along with his associates allegedly "conspired to radicalise and recruit more people into Al-Qaeda and disseminated radical material through social media and encrypted platforms with an intention to radicalise and recruit others to establish an Islamic State by waging violent jihad in India", the NIA claimed in the charge sheet. It also claimed that investigations had brought to light that the group had "planned to attack individuals they consider 'kafirs' (infidels)" and conducted a "series of conspiratorial meetings for raising funds for the purchase" of arms and ammunition, radicalisation and recruitment of more members and charting future court of action. The future course of action included setting up a centre for providing religious and weapons training to new recruits, the NIA claimed. "The accused persons were also in active communication with an arms dealer through their foreign-based handlers and were planning to receive a consignment of sophisticated arms and ammunition in New Delhi," it said in a statement. It also claimed that their "nefarious plans were obviated by their timely arrest" by the NIA. In September last year, the NIA had said that the module also allegedly had plans to go to Kashmir for weapons delivery. They were also attempting to organise an Al-Qaeda network in the country, including in Kashmir and the north-east on the instructions of the Pakistan-based handlers. A large number of materials including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices were seized from the arrests last year. The recoveries also included nuts, bolts to give splinter effect in the bomb, battery to provide power to detonator and firecrackers. The module was awaiting instructions from their online handler about who would receive the weapons. Crackers were being attempted to be converted into an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and the NIA recovered switches and batteries from Abu Sufian's house during the raids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-charge-sheets-11-suspected-al-qaeda-operatives-955620.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacial disaster death toll climbs to 71||One more body was recovered from the banks of Alaknanda river in Kaleshwar on Friday taking the toll in the recent avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district to 71, officials said. So far, 71 bodies and 30 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche hit areas out of which 40 bodies and one human body part have been identified, Chamoli district police said. DNA samples of bodies that have not been identified are being preserved. Missing reports of 205 persons have been registered at Joshimath police station so far, the district police said. DNA samples of 110 kin, 58 bodies and 28 human body parts have been sent to Forensic Science Laboratory in Dehradun for matching, it said. Meanwhile, former Union minister Uma Bharti visited Tapovan to review the search operations which have been underway at the NTPC's damaged hydel project site for 19 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacial-disaster-death-toll-climbs-to-71-955711.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 256 new Covid-19 cases, highest daily count in February||Delhi recorded 256 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest number of single-day incidences in February, while one fresh death pushed the death toll to 10,906, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the third successive day when daily cases count have stood at 200-mark or beyond. On Thursday, 220 Covid-19 cases were registered while on Wednesday the count stood at 200. On all preceding days, spanning February 1-23, the count of daily cases had been recorded below 200. Delhi had recorded 199 fresh Covid-19 cases on January 28. From January 15-26, the daily figures ranged from 148 on January 25 to 299 on January 16, according to official data. No Covid-19-related death was recorded in Delhi on February 17, the third time single-day fatality count had stood nil in this month. On February 9 too, no fatality from coronavirus infection was registered, the first time this month, and after a gap of nearly nine months. No death from Covid-19 was recorded on February 13 as well. On Friday, Delhi recorded 256 fresh Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate rose to 0.41 per cent, authorities said, adding that the infection tally in the city rose to 6,38,849, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the city government. These new cases came out of the 62,768 tests conducted the previous day, according to the health bulletin. Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on February 16, the lowest in over nine months. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27,  that time the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incidences count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. The active cases tally on Friday rose to 1,231 from 1,169 the previous day, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day included 41,775 RT-PCR tests and 20,993 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation on Friday rose to 574 from 536 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-256-new-covid-19-cases-highest-daily-count-in-february-955727.html
26-02-2021||North and Central||New book on RSS launched in presence of UP CM Adityanath in Lucknow||A book on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), written by the outfit's senior 'pracharak' and 'all-India sah prachar pramukh' Sunil Ambekar, was released here on Friday in the presence of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. The book, titled 'Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh - Swarnim Bharat ke Disha Sootra', was released by senior RSS leader Dattatreya Hosbole at the Indira Gandhi Pratisthan. Chief Minister Adityanath, in an address on the occasion, said that if one wanted to understand the RSS, its aspect of service would have to be understood. "In any calamity or disaster, RSS volunteers move ahead with the mission of service," he said. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the chief minister said, Uttar Pradesh witnessed the movement of over one crore migrant workers – 40 lakh were headed for home in the state itself and 60 lakh returned to other states. "RSS workers served them irrespective of their caste, creed, religion, langauge or anything," he added. To a question on the criticism of RSS, Adityanath said, "When there is no one speaking against you, it means you are not doing good. RSS, when appreciated, never takes pride, and it never shows anger when criticised." Earlier, Hosbole said the book could be a "disha sutra (guiding formula)" for knowing the RSS, but for understanding it, one would have to come into its fold. Sunil Ambekar had earlier written a book titled 'The RSS-Roadmaps for the 21st Century', which was released by the RSS chief in 2019. The latest book is the Hindi version of that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-book-on-rss-launched-in-presence-of-up-cm-adityanath-in-lucknow-955768.html
26-02-2021||Oasis||Keep the energy pure and positive||Energy is something all of us have learnt about in Science, as power. In spiritual terms, energy has a  different connotation. It is believed that there is Universal energy and everything in the Universe is made up of energy. Practitioners of techniques like Reiki and other allied healing techniques channelize the Universal energy and remove the blocks in one’s energy so that we operate at a higher level. They are highly sensitive and can instantly gauge the nature of energy around them by doing an aura scan. Then there are places and people with high energy and low energy. Those with a positive, well-meaning mindset are full of good energy as are those who deeply meditate. Negative thinking people who complain, carp and are envious cut into the energy around us. If you take places -- hospitals, courts, pubs and basements tend to be low energy. And it is the people in the space who vitiate the energies. Places of worship   are havens of high energy and if you can go in at a time when it is less crowded and comparatively more peaceful so much the better. So also, open spaces, woods and forests with lots of green cover and beaches. The less cluttered and cleaner, the better -even in a room in our homes. Open and well-organized spaces have efficient energy about them. Not so long ago a young designer complained to me that she was feeling drained and completely sapped of energy. She just couldn’t pinpoint the cause. She was eating right and had undergone tests to ensure she was medically alright. She was an energy worker herself. As we got talking, I asked her if she had visited some unused buildings or some such where she might have picked up some low energies. It turned out that there was a bereavement in a family that was close to her and she had spent a lot of time helping them out. With salt baths (our grandmothers used to remove the evil eye remember) and by spending more time in positive energy spaces she was soon back to her old self. Ringing bells in the four corners of a room. playing chants and lighting sage and incense are some of the other energy clearing methods that one can use. If the energy around us can be kept pure it can well and truly make a lot of difference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/keep-the-energy-pure-and-positive-955375.html
26-02-2021||Opinion||Can Clubhouse move fast without breaking things?||By Kevin Roose, A few nights ago, after my weekly trip to the grocery store, I sat in my car glued to Clubhouse, the invitation-only social audio app. While my ice cream thawed in the trunk, I dropped in on a room where Tom Green, the former MTV shock comedian and star of “Freddy Got Fingered,” was debating the ethics of artificial intelligence with a group of computer scientists and Deadmau5, the famous Canadian DJ. When that was over, I headed to a room called NYU Girls Roasting Tech Guys. There, I listened to college students playing a dating game in which contestants were given 30 seconds of stage time to try to seduce someone else in the audience. And after a few rounds of that, I joined a room called the Cotton Club, in which users changed their avatars to black-and-white portraits and pretended to be patrons of a 1920s-style speak-easy, complete with jazz soundtrack. Two hours later, my ice cream fully liquefied, I emerged from the car with the feeling that I had just experienced something special. It was all fascinating, surprising and a little surreal, like peeking into the windows of interesting strangers’ houses. And it gave me a flashback to a similar euphoria I felt years ago, when celebrities and creative weirdos started showing up on Facebook and Twitter. I’ve been spending a lot of time on Clubhouse recently, and the parallels to the early, hypergrowth days of those earlier-generation social networks are uncanny. The 11-month-old app’s popularity — it has more than 10 million users, and invitations are selling for up to $125 on eBay — has set off a mad dash among investors, who have valued the company at $1 billion. Celebrities including Elon Musk, Oprah Winfrey and Joe Rogan have shown up in Clubhouse rooms, adding to the buzz. And the app is spawning competition from Twitter and Facebook, which are experimenting with similar products. Every successful social network has a life cycle that goes something like: Wow, this app sure is addictive! Look at all the funny and exciting ways people are using it! Oh, look, I can get my news and political commentary here, too! This is going to empower dissidents, promote free speech and topple authoritarian regimes! Hmm, why are trolls and racists getting millions of followers? And where did all these conspiracy theories come from? This platform should really hire some moderators and fix its algorithms. Wow, this place is a cesspool. I’m deleting my account. What’s remarkable about Clubhouse is that it seems to be experiencing this entire cycle all at once, during its first year of existence. I started using Clubhouse in the fall. At the time, the app seemed to be dominated by typical early-adopter types — tech workers, venture capitalists, digital marketing gurus — along with a sizable contingent of Black influencers and a number of “heterodox” internet figures who mostly used the platform to complain about the mainstream media and go on tedious rants about cancel culture. From the start, there were signs that Clubhouse was speed-running the platform life cycle. Weeks after launching, it ran into claims that it was allowing harassment and hate speech to proliferate, including large rooms where speakers allegedly made anti-Semitic comments. The startup scrambled to update its community guidelines and add basic blocking and reporting features, and its founders did the requisite Zuckerbergian apology tour. (“We unequivocally condemn Anti-Blackness, Anti-Semitism, and all other forms of racism, hate speech and abuse on Clubhouse,” read one company blog post in October.) The company has also faced accusations of mishandling user data, including a Stanford report that found that the company may have routed some data through servers in China, possibly giving the Chinese government access to sensitive user information. (The company pledged to lock down user data and submit to an outside audit of its security practices.) And privacy advocates have baulked at the app’s aggressive growth practices, which include asking users to upload their entire contact lists in order to send invitations to others. “Major privacy & security concerns, lots of data extraction, use of dark patterns, growth without a clear business model. When will we learn?” Elizabeth Renieris, director of the Notre Dame-IBM Tech Ethics Lab, wrote in a tweet this week that compared Clubhouse at this moment to the early days of Facebook. To be fair, there are some important structural differences between Clubhouse and existing social networks. Unlike Facebook and Twitter, which revolve around central, algorithmically curated feeds, Clubhouse is organised more like Reddit — a cluster of topical rooms, moderated by users, with a central “hallway” where users can browse rooms in progress. Clubhouse rooms disappear after they’re over, and recording a room is against the rules (although it still happens), which means that “going viral,” in the traditional sense, isn’t really possible. Users have to be invited to a room’s “stage” to speak, and moderators can easily boot unruly or disruptive speakers, so there’s less risk of a civilised discussion’s being hijacked by trolls. And Clubhouse doesn’t have ads, which reduces the risk of profit-seeking mischief. But there are still plenty of similarities. Like other social networks, Clubhouse has a number of “discovery” features and aggressive growth-hacking tactics meant to draw new users deeper into the app, including algorithmic recommendations and personalised push alerts, and a list of suggested users to follow. Those features, combined with Clubhouse’s ability to form private and semiprivate rooms with thousands of people in them, create some of the same bad incentives and opportunities for abuse that have hurt other platforms. The app’s reputation for lax moderation has also attracted a number of people who have been barred by other social networks, including figures associated with QAnon, Stop the Steal and other extremist groups. Clubhouse has also become a home for people who are disillusioned with social media censorship and critical of various gatekeepers. Attacking The New York Times, in particular, has become something of an obsession among Clubhouse addicts for reasons that would take another full column to explain. (A room called, in part, How to Destroy the NYT ran for many hours, drawing thousands of listeners.) It has also drawn scrutiny from governments. Dissidents in Thailand and Russia have been using the app to discuss government corruption and document human rights abuses. And the Chinese government banned the app this month, presumably after discovering that residents of mainland China were using Clubhouse to have long and free-flowing conversations with people in Taiwan and Hong Kong outside the grasp of censors. But before I get tagged as a Clubhouse hater, let me sound a note of optimism. I actually like Clubhouse and think its core technological innovation — an easy way to create live, participatory audio experiences — is a genuinely useful one. Most rooms I’ve been in are civil and well-moderated, and if you scroll past the megapopular rooms filled with celebrities and clout-chasers, you can find some truly fascinating stuff. In the past few weeks, I’ve listened to a Clubhouse room of Black doctors and nurses discussing their experiences of racism in medicine, and a room where a prominent psychologist led a workshop on mourning and grief. I’ve lurked in Korean karaoke contests, heard energy experts debating nuclear power and hosted civilised conversations about the media. The other night, after sampling a few dozen Clubhouse rooms, I fell asleep to the sounds of the lullaby club, a nightly Clubhouse gathering of musicians who sing songs to help one another fall asleep. The ability to spontaneously drop in and out of rooms like these and toggle between passive listening and active speaking is part of what makes Clubhouse so compelling — and so different from listening to podcasts or attending a Zoom webinar. There’s also a refreshing randomness to Clubhouse that makes it more interesting than social networks where every piece of content is algorithmically tailored to your exact interests. (As Nicholas Quah wrote in Vulture, “There is something that feels alluringly new about being able to slide between various pop-up communities you didn’t intentionally seek out.”) Granted, a pandemic that traps people inside their homes and starves them of social connection is an ideal environment for introducing a new social app, and Clubhouse may lose some users once they’re vaccinated and go back to IRL socialising. In addition, Clubhouse, which is invitation-only and currently limited to iOS users, still has the benefit of being small enough to manage. As the app opens its gates wider, it will need to scale its moderation efforts or risk turning into the Parler of audio — a place so lawless that only hyperpartisans and professional grifters want to spend time there. There is also the looming threat of competition from the giants, which could cut into Clubhouse’s growth. Twitter’s group audio chat feature, Spaces, launched this month, and Facebook is reportedly working on its own Clubhouse-like product. But I hope Clubhouse survives, if only because it could create a more thoughtful, less outrage-driven alternative to the social networks we’ve been typing into for the last decade and a half. If the platform can fix its issues and learn from the mistakes made by bigger companies before it, I might be in for a lot more late nights in my car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/can-clubhouse-move-fast-without-breaking-things-955465.html
26-02-2021||Panorama||Karnataka’s polluted river stretches, a cause for concern||Rivers are the lifelines of human civilisations. They were deemed as sacred since time immemorial by majority of the human civilisations. It is a known fact that almost all the civilisations flourished on river banks which shows how vital water is for our survival.  Delhi on Yamuna, Bengaluru on Vrishabhavathi, Hyderabad on Musi, Chennai on Adyar, Lucknow on Gomati, Kolkata on Hooghly etc, are the notable few. In Karnataka too, several towns are established along the rivers - Mangaluru on Nethravathi, Shivamogga on Thunga, Karwar on Kali, Hosapete on Thungabhadra, and Honnavara on Sharavathi etc. It is an irony that the rivers that we respect and pray are in a bad state of affairs due to various anthropogenic activities, though the magnitude of damage varies along the length of different rivers. Rapid industrialisation, urbanisation have led to discharge of untreated domestic sewage, industrial effluents, agriculture runoff, mining waste, construction waste, municipal solid waste etc, in to rivers. Urbanisation adversely affects physical, chemical and biological aspects and life support system of river ecosystem. Landscape changes such as open vegetative spaces into impervious surface cover influence hydrology of a river basin leading into water quality deterioration and occurrence of frequent floods in the region. Urbanisation increases water temperature by directly discharging heated water from furnaces of industries into the rivers or by adding surface water runoff during summers increasing the microbial activity in river water. Changes in the natural habitat of native flora and fauna of river basins, bio-diversity loss and impairment of ecosystem functions are the biological effects of urbanisation on river basins. Changes in land use patterns reduce species richness and decrease eco-system stability. Chemical properties of the urban rivers get altered due to municipal and industrial discharges. Direct dumping of sewage and municipal solid waste into the river and addition of harmful chemicals from agricultural runoff contributes to river pollution. Urban rivers are characterised by the presence of organic pollutants, high salinity, high Total Suspended Solid (TSS), heavy metals, nitrate, acidification and eutrophication, and high Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). Based on the BOD value at the water quality monitoring locations along the river stretches, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified 351 Polluted River Stretches (PRS) throughout India wherein BOD exceeds 03 mg/L.17 PRS of them are in Karnataka under the catchment of 42 Urban Local Bodies (ULB). Seventeen highly polluted river stretches in Karnataka are: Hunsur to Kattemalalvadi of Lakshmanatheertha, Thippagondanahalli Reservoir to Kanakapura of Arkavathi, Khanapur to Ramdurg of Malaprabha, Harihara to Haralahalli of Thungabhadra, Muller to Sattegala Bridge of Cauvery, Nanjangud to Hejjige village of Kabini, West Coast Paper Mill to Bommanahalli of Kali, Shahabad to Hongunta of Kagina, Yadurwadi to Junjarwadi of Krishna, Yalagur village to Narayanapura Bridge of Krishna, Bhadravathi to Holehonnur of Bhadra, Belur to Halavagilu of Yagachi, Yediyur to Halagur of Shimsha, Nethravathi and Kumaradhara,   Ghanagapur to Yadgir of Bhima and Shivamogga to Kudli of Thunga.  Among the 17 PRS in Karnataka, 4 PRS are classified as Priority III in Lakshman Theertha, Arkavathi, Malaprabha and Thungabhadra (BOD in the range of 10 to 20 mg/L), six PRS are classified as Priority-IV in Cauvery, Kabini, Kali, Kagina, Krishna and Bhadra (BOD in the range of 6 to 10 mg/L) and 7 PRS in Yagachi, Shimsha, Nethravathi, Kumardhara, Bhima and Thunga classified as Priority-V (BOD in the range of 3 to 6 mg/L). A basic inventory to identify the pollution source reveals that the 42 ULBs cumulatively generate 885 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage. Available total sewage treatment plant (STP) capacity in these ULBs is only 646.5 MLD.  A total of 335.6 MLD of sewage is untreated which eventually enters the rivers making them highly polluted. In addition to sewage, these 42 ULBs cumulatively generate 1860.7 tonnes per day of MSW. Of this, only 1672.5 TPD is collected and only 844.4 TPD is processed. Some 1016.3 TPD of MSW is accumulated in these river catchments threatening and damaging quality of river water. Special interest The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has taken special interest in the rejuvenation of the 17 PRS and facilitating the preparation of River Rejuvenation Action Plans for individual PRS along with complying timelines. The water quality is monitored on a regular basis by analysing the parameters such as pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), BOD, faecal coliform (FC) and total coliform (TC). Under the River Rejuvenation Programme, 44 STPs with additional capacity of 341.116 MLD have been proposed. Among them, one STP of 5.5 MLD capacity in T. Narsipura ULB is under trial run, one STP of 35.58 MLD capacity in Shivamogga ULB is commissioned, nine STPs in Bengaluru (150 MLD), Dandeli (0.5 MLD and 8 MLD), Ramdurga (3.3 MLD and 1 MLD), Shivamogga (5.13 MLD), Bhadravathi (7.2 MLD, 5.3 MLD, 1 MLD) ULBs are under construction. The detailed project reports (DPR) have been approved for two STPs in ULB Bantwal (4.14 MLD and 0.22 MLD), DPR has been submitted for approval for eight STPs in Srirangapatna (1.4 MLD), Nanjangud (technology upgradation for the existing seven MLD plant), Hunasur (eight MLD), subramanya (2.6 MLD), Beltangadi (0.006 MLD), Belur (five MLD, one MLD) ULBs. A total of 23 STP DPRs are under preparation in Maddur, Hassan (five STPs), Ainapur, Khanapur, Soundatti (two STPs), MK Kanakapura (two STPs) and Honnali. For cities with less than 10 lakh population, faecal sludge and septage management facilities have been proposed in seven ULBs. It is high time that sewage and SWM issues become top most priority of ULBs action. The pollution load should not cross the carrying capacity of rivers. The river rejuvenation programme of 17 polluted river stretches in Karnataka is aimed at improving river water quality so that benefit of life support system of sacred rivers is continuously available for future. (The writer, who belongs to Indian Forests Service, is Member-Secretary, KSPCB)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/karnataka-s-polluted-river-stretches-a-cause-for-concern-955373.html
26-02-2021||Panorama||Genetic cancer testing for kids||Everyone knows about how the Hollywood star, Angelina Jolie's underwent a preventive double mastectomy after testing positive for a BRCA1 gene mutation. This celeb story spurred demand for genetic testing, especially to identify the risk of chronic illnesses such as cancer. Even before this story could fuel momentum for genetic testing worldwide, the success of the human genome project had completely changed the way humans could dissect the DNA, giving rise to many scientific breakthroughs.  Genetic cancer testing is one such breakthrough that has played a very crucial role in estimating a person’s chance of developing cancer in their lifetime. It does this by observing specific changes in genes, chromosomes, or proteins - these changes are called ‘genetic mutations’. For instance, in a family that is predisposed to developing a certain kind of Colon Cancer or any other factors that can cause cancer, genetic screening can help identify this risk. Therefore, genetic screening is said to be effective in understanding causes and risks of childhood Cancers. Genetic testing is a process that looks for alterations in genes, either in normal tissue or cancerous tissue. Alterations in normal tissue may identify children who would benefit from cancer screening and may inform individually tailored treatment. Alterations, or mutations, in tumour tissues may provide clues to the cancer’s behaviour and help physicians design a treatment program with the greatest chance of success. What are the benefits of genetic cancer testing in kids?  There are two types of genetic testing that are done--Germline and Somatic. Germline testing can indicate whether an individual has a heightened risk for developing certain types of cancers. Somatic testing may reveal some of the mutations that are driving the growth of the cancer and may be targeted by advanced therapies. Both can help in the following:  Parents can start cancer screening tests earlier Can guide screening for certain kind of cancers Helps in keeping a close watch for signs or symptoms of cancer Learn about options to help reduce the risk of certain types of cancer When is the best time to conduct genetic testing for kids? While pre-natal screening is still controversial in India and is strongly governed by law. Your doctor might recommend genetic testing if you have a family history of a genetic disease such as cancer, or if your child has symptoms of a condition that has been associated with a genetic disorder. It is always best to consult your doctor before deciding to go in for genetic screening. Are there any risks? Generally, genetic tests have little to no physical risk. All it takes is blood and cheek swabs. However, prenatal testing such as Amniocentesis or Chorionic Villus sampling has a small risk of pregnancy loss (miscarriage). Therefore, it is also advisable to check with your doctor for the same. Apart from this, genetic testing can have emotional, social and financial risks as well. Once people know that their kids may hold some risk of developing cancer, it may lead to constant fear and anxiety. Moreover, these tests are quite expensive and so only when there is a history of ailments or certain risk factor only then should parents opt for genetic testing. (The writer is the HOD-Surgical Oncology at a hospital in Kalyan, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/genetic-cancer-testing-for-kids-955374.html
26-02-2021||Right in the Middle||In those days...||In the pre-television era, we indulged in various activities, which the present generation may find unusual. We made uncomplicated aeroplane toys by folding paper and launched them into space by thrusting them with our hands. The aircraft had no runway, fuel tanks or wheels and harder the thrust the farther they soared. The initial thrust came from the pilot’s muscles, and depending on the aerodynamic design, paper aeroplanes could fly relatively far and glide through the air with ease. We put our flying prowess to the test and cheered lustily when the ‘paper bird’ flew long and landed safely on its belly. But unlike the Wright brothers who used paper to build models of their first actual aeroplanes, I could never reach those dizzy heights! We also made boats with nothing but a piece of paper and a few folding tricks. The monsoons were the best time to sail them, and it was fun as we watched them navigate the swirling waters filled with twigs, coconut shells and other refuse. We would follow their course with interest and clear any obstacles from their path to enable a smooth sail. At the voyage’s end, the boats filled with water and grime would disappear to the bottom of the stream, and a new craft would take their place. Unfortunately, I never got to voyage on the high seas. Chatting on the matchbox telephone, flattening coins on railway tracks, bringing down fruits with a catapult, riding piggyback, playing cricket with nothing but an exam board and paper ball, building sandcastles were life’s little pleasures and provided many hours of undiluted joy. When searchlights were used extensively after the war years to herald a circus’ arrival in town, we would follow the brilliant beams in the night sky, gasping with delight. On weekends we got on the saddle of our bicycles - rented out for a steal - and explored the wilderness beyond the town. With activities a dime a dozen, there was never a dull moment. Girls dabbled in hopscotch and indulged in throwing and catching projectiles such as discs, rings and balls and building sandcastles; they got their creative juices flowing by making dolls out of coconut leaves, hay and straws. The male figures draped in white cloth with a turban adorning their heads reminded me of voodoo dolls, while the women had colourful fabric wrapped around them. They would spread their miniature stoves, pots and pans on the floor and pretend to cook a meal. They also possessed various indigenously made wooden baby dolls and spent hours decking them up or pretending to feed them. Today’s mass-produced mechanical playthings are poor cousins to the simple toys of yesteryears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/in-those-days-955372.html
26-02-2021||Second Edit||Policy on migrant workers welcome||The draft national policy on migrant labour, prepared by the Niti Aayog, may be the first important step taken by the government for recognition of the rights of migrant workers and formulation of specific measures for their welfare. Though migrant workers are everywhere and are an important part of the economy, they are neglected as workers and even as members of society. But they are important in the places where they work, and more important in the places where they come from, as whole families depend on them for livelihood. Last year’s march across the country of lakhs of migrant workers brought into national focus the human, social and economic aspects of the migrant workers’ situation like never before. The lockdown exposed the fact that migrant workers did not have the minimum social and economic security, and the policy aims to take some steps to ensure this. A key proposal is to evolve mechanisms to “enable voting” so that political inclusion will “enhance accountability of political leadership towards welfare of migrant workers of their respective states.” Since migrant workers are a disaggregated and dispersed population, they don’t have the agency and opportunity to attract political attention. The draft considers that political inclusion is essential for their access to health services, basic entitlements, food security, education and other needs. There are also administrative suggestions like the setting up of a special migration unit in the ministry of labour at the Centre and in the states, inter-state migration management bodies in important migration corridors, portability of social security programmes across states, introduction of skill mapping schemes and the setting up of a national helpline for psycho-social assistance.    The draft notes that a fragmented labour market obscures supply chains and relationships between business owners and workers. It also says that “the existing gap in the unionisation of migrant workers is also an important reason for the precarious nature of their employment.”  Trade unions in the conventional sense many not be possible among migrant workers. But their conditions are worse than those of even unorganised workers. The ultimate aim should be to make them part of the formal workforce and to recognise and reward them for their contributions to the economy. The draft policy is welcome as an attempt to formulate some initial and essential ideas to achieve that objective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/policy-on-migrant-workers-welcome-955367.html
26-02-2021||Second Edit||The Name Game: Name stadiums after sportspersons||The Congress definitely cannot take the moral high ground over the re-labelling of Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera, Ahmedabad, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi considering that hundreds of national assets are named after members of the Nehru-Gandhi family, but the BJP has nothing to say in its defence either. Going by the backlash on social media, even diehard Modi-fans seem to be aghast that the BJP which claims to be a party with a difference is fast adopting the “Congress culture”, something that it vehemently opposed all along. The powers-that-be were obviously aware that renaming would stoke a major controversy, which is why it was kept an absolute secret till the last moment. Apparently, even the owner of the property, Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) was unaware of the move, until the words ‘Narendra Modi Stadium’ flashed on the screen during the inaugural ceremony. The BJP’s feeble argument that the entire sports arena will still bear Patel’s name while only the stadium is named after Modi, has not cut much ice with his followers. It is obvious that the stadium was named after obtaining Modi’s consent because the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, prohibits a private entity like GCA from using the prime minister’s name without prior permission, especially for professional and commercial purposes.  Sometime ago, Reliance was fined for using the photograph of the prime minister in an advertisement without government approval. At a time when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is taunting the prime minister with his ‘Hum do, hamaare do’ jibe, the naming of two pavilion ends after Adani and Reliance has only caused further embarrassment to Modi. The fact that Home Minister Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah is secretary with the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) was also not lost on anybody either. The prime minister lending his name to the stadium has surprised many as it is a practice in India not to christen monuments or erect statues during the lifetime of a person, though there may be some exceptions.  This is a needless controversy that Modi who often portrays a holier-than-thou image could have avoided. A similar storm was witnessed recently when the Feroz Shah Kotla stadium in Delhi was renamed after the former minister, the late Arun Jaitley, who had never in his life played professional cricket. If at all stadiums should be named after somebody, it should be after eminent sportspersons who have immensely contributed to their respective field. This will not only be a befitting tribute to them, but will also serve as an inspiration to the younger generation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-name-game-name-stadiums-after-sportspersons-955811.html
26-02-2021||South||'Metro Man' E Sreedharan formally joins BJP||Technocrat E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metro Man', formally joined the BJP on Thursday. BJP leaders welcomed Sreedharan to the party at a public function held at Malappuram in Kerala in connection with the ongoing statewide march, 'Vijay Yatra', by party state president K Surendran. Senior leaders, including union minister R K Singh, were present. Speaking on the occasion, Sreedharan said that he served the nation for the last 67 years by working with the government and now he wished to work for the state. Hence he opted to join the BJP. Stating the reason for joining BJP, he said that he would be able to work sincerely and faithfully fo the state only by working with the BJP. He also thanked the party leaders for giving him the opportunity. The 88-year-old's decision to join the BJP was announced by the BJP state president. In subsequent interactions with the media, the technocrat-turned-politician said that he would like to be the Chief Minister of Kerala. He was highly hopeful of the BJP improving its position in Kerala from just one seat that it holds right now. He is likely to contest in the coming Assembly polls either from his native district Palakkad or Malappuram district where he now lives. A statement of Sreedharan that he would be happy to see Congress leader Oommen Chandy becoming the next Chief Minister rather than Pinarayi Vijayan getting a second term had also triggered a controversy. He had been closely associated with the Kerala government over the last several years for projects like the Kochi Metro. The current Left-front government had also given due credits to Sreedharan's technical opinion on reconstructing a new flyover at Palarivattom in Kochi and even entrusted him with the task of reconstructing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-man-e-sreedharan-formally-joins-bjp-955423.html
26-02-2021||South||Over 100 gelatin sticks, 350 detonators seized from train passenger in Kerala||A woman was held with huge quantity of gelatin sticks and detonators from a train at Kozhikode Railway Station in Kerala. The Tamil Nadu native woman travelling in a Chennai-Mangaluru superfast train reportedly told the Railway Protection Force (RPF) authorities that she was travelling to Thalasserry in Kannur district where she was engaged in well digging work and the explosives were meant for the purpose. The woman, identified as Tiruvannamalai native Remani, was also having a travel ticket up to Thalasserry. According to RPF officials, 117 gelatin sticks and 350 detonators were seized from her. It was hidden in a bag beneath the seat of the accused. The RPF spotted the bag during a routine check. A case was registered against her and detailed investigation is underway. According to sources, since the Assembly elections are approaching, security agencies have stepped up vigil against smuggling of explosives, money and liquor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-100-gelatin-sticks-350-detonators-seized-from-train-passenger-in-kerala-955476.html
26-02-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi, Yogi Adityanath the same when it comes to sentiment against Left, Kerala CM Vijayan says||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a press conference on Thursday slammed Wayanad MP and senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath, saying that while they may have "different perspectives" about Kerala, their "feelings" towards the Left government was the same. "Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath may have different perspectives about Kerala but have the same feelings against the Left. They are united in that," NDTV quoted Vijayan as saying. Vijayan further took separate jibes at the Congress and BJP. He highlighted Congress's "anti-farmer" policies during the 1990s, which he alleged, "pushed farmers to suicide in India." "The blood of lakhs of farmers who died is on Congress," the Kerala CM added. On Yogi Adityanath and the BJP, Vijayan rebutted the UP CM's claims of increasing communal violence and lack of job opportunities for localities pushing them abroad. "15 per cent of migrant workers in Kerala are from Uttar Pradesh and they are given insurance and other benefits." He said that there was no instance of communal violence in the past five years and that Uttar Pradesh had the highest number of crimes against women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-yogi-adityanath-the-same-when-it-comes-to-sentiment-against-left-kerala-cm-vijayan-says-955610.html
26-02-2021||South||Former Tamil Nadu CPI state secretary D Pandian passes away at 88||Veteran Communist leader D Pandian, who was grievously injured in the blast that killed former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991, passed away here on Friday. He was 88 and is survived by two daughters and a son. A fiery orator who had an impeccable command over Tamil, Pandian took his last breath at 10.05 am at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) where he was admitted on February 24 in an unconscious state. He was suffering from a kidney ailment. Fondly known as 'Tha Pa' by friends and colleagues, Pandian fiercely fought for the poor during his lifetime and remained rooted to Communist principles till his last breath. Pandian, who was born in Vellaimalaipatti in Usilampatti near Madurai in 1932, joined the Communist Party of India in 1953 when he was studying at the Alagappa College in Karaikudi. After being associated with the CPI for many decades, Pandian quit the party to join the United Communist Party of India (UCPI) launched by Mohit Sen. He won the 1989 and 1991 Lok Sabha election in an alliance with Congress from North Chennai constituency when he was with the UCPI. In 2000, he rejoined the parent organisation CPI and functioned as its state secretary for six years. Pandian was seriously injured in the blast that killed Rajiv Gandhi in Sriperumbudur on May 21, 1991 as he accompanied the former Prime Minister to translate his speech from English into Tamil. Pandian, was then with the UCPI and won the subsequent election from North Chennai, was a witness in the sensational case. After surviving the blast, Pandian supported the release of seven convicts who have been blamed for the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi. In a letter to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit in October 2018, Pandian asked him to release the seven persons on humanitarian grounds. “I was shattered psychologically due to the assassination of Thiru Rajiv Gandhi and it took several years for me to recoup from the excruciating trauma,” he wrote in 2018. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, DMK President M K Stalin, former AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, and other leaders paid rich tributes to Pandian. CPI general secretary D Raja described Pandian as an “eloquent orator” and “prolific writer.” “He was a multi-dimensional personality. His death is a great loss for the CPI and to Tamil Nadu,” Raja said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-tamil-nadu-cpi-state-secretary-d-pandian-passes-away-at-88-955615.html
26-02-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls crucial for political future of all fronts||Kerala is the lone state where the CPM is now in power and hence the party needs to retain it to remain politically significant in the country. The Pinarayi Vijayan government, which came to power with a thumping majority of 91 out of the 140 seats, is pinning high hopes of creating history with a continuation of power in the state. Welfare and development initiatives of the government are being highlighted by the LDF and the upper hand in the recent local body elections and a couple of pre-poll surveys in its favour had enhanced their confidence. But the ongoing row over deal with an US firm for deep sea trawler manufacturing and the stir by job aspirants may have its adverse impacts.  For the Congress, this election is crucial in plugging its eroding base in the country. Even as the Congress was pinning hopes on the trend of CPM and Congress coming to power successively, the local body election results had upset the hope. Shift in the Christian vote banks in favour of LDF was considered as a key reason. Bringing former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy back to the forefront was a crucial corrective measure by the party. Congress triggered the Sabarimala women entry issue again and the BJP also joined it to corner the LDF. The LDF's concern over the move was reflected as the Vijayan government now decided to withdraw cases against thousands of devotees who staged protests against the entry of women in the 10-50 age group to the Ayyappa temple. The BJP seems to be pumping in the maximum effort to improve its position in the southern state where it could win only one seat, that too for the first time, in the last Assembly election. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself launched a series of major infrastructure projects in the state last week and considerable allocations were made for Kerala in the union budget. Sabarimala women entry issue and development agenda are BJP's mantra. The saffron party is also roping in eminent personalities like 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan and trying to shed its Hindutva tag by initiating talks with church leaders to address issues of the Christian community and inducting leaders from the Muslim community to the party leadership. Political undercurrents will be crucial this time as there is a general speculation that the BJP's focus would be its national agenda of 'Congress-mukt Bharat'. If the Congress loses in the Assembly polls, it may result in many Congress leaders jumping over to the BJP. A recent statement of BJP Kerala president K Surendran that the NDA will be able to form government in Kerala even if it wins only 35 to 40 seats and BJP state vice president Shobha Surendran’s statement that even Indian Union Muslim League was welcome to the NDA could be indications of the political under currents in the offing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-crucial-for-political-future-of-all-fronts-955690.html
26-02-2021||South||Covid-19: Travellers to get free RT-PCR test at Kerala airports||Kerala government has decided to offer RT-PCR test free of cost at all the airports in the state as RT-PCR tests are made mandatory for all coming down to the state. In order to enhance the number of RT-PCR tests, the state government is also rolling out mobile laboratories that conduct Covid-19 RT-PCR tests at Rs. 448. Various bodies of NRIs had protested against the decision to make RTPCR test mandatory. Hence the government decided to offer the test free of cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-travellers-to-get-free-rt-pcr-test-at-kerala-airports-955731.html
26-02-2021||State||HC notice to Sudhakar on cancellation of ambulance tender process||The High Court on Thursday ordered notice to Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar regarding cancellation of the tender process pertaining to Rs 1,800 crore ‘Command Control Room’ project for ambulance service. The tender process was being monitored by the High Court. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka allowed the interlocutory application (IA) filed by the petitioners -- Bharat Punarutthana Trust -- seeking to implead the minister. Health Minister Sudhakar had passed an order on January 17, 2021, cancelling the tender process. The government advocate claimed that the Chief Secretary may be impleaded, instead of the minister. The bench pointed out that the order cancelling the tender process contained the signature of the minister. The petition had prayed for directions to set up an ambulance control room in the state and also monitoring of ambulance services through GPS. The state government had submitted that the tender process had been initiated. When the petitioners raised an apprehension that there were attempts to delay the tender process, the court had said it would monitor the process. In the subsequent hearing, the state government informed the court that due to discussions on many public forums and also based on the opinion of the experts, the tender process has been cancelled. In the last hearing, the court perused the order cancelling the tender process and pointed out that the order was signed by the minister. The court observed that some of the important aspects, including the fact that the court was monitoring the process, are not brought to the notice of the minister.  On Thursday, the court granted permission to the petitioners to amend the petition to challenge the cancellation of the tender process and also to include the minister as an added respondent. The bench has posted the next hearing to March 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-notice-to-sudhakar-on-cancellation-of-ambulance-tender-process-955397.html
26-02-2021||State||Sharath Bachegowda now associate member of Congress Legislature Party||Hoskote legislator Sharath Bachegowda, an Independent, on Thursday formally extended support to the Congress.  Since he cannot join the Congress as per law, Sharath became an associate member of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP).  Sharath, 37, is the son of BJP’s Chikkaballapur MP B N Bachegowda. The BJP expelled Sharath last year after he rebelled and contested the December 2019 bypolls, which he won as an Independent by defeating the party’s candidate M T B Nagaraj.  “I’m also announcing outside support to the CLP,” Sharath said during an event to mark his entry into the Congress fold. “This (move) isn’t for my personal growth, but the development of my taluk,” he said.   For the Congress, onboarding Sharath will give it a face to bank on in the Hoskote constituency. For long, Hoskote was seen as the pocketborough of Sharath’s father Bachegowda who represented the segment ever since he was with the Janata Dal from 1994 onwards. Congress’ Nagaraj (now with BJP) managed to win the constituency for the first time in 2004. The sizeable Muslim population of Hoskote could work in Sharath’s favour. “Since Sharath is an Independent, he can’t join our party as the anti-defection law comes in the way,” CLP Leader Siddaramaiah said. “He can’t join any party during his term till 2023.”  Siddaramaiah, however, vowed to support Sharath. “This BJP government is the worst that I’ve seen,” he said. “It must be removed and Sharath will be a part of that.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sharath-bachegowda-now-associate-member-of-congress-legislature-party-955408.html
26-02-2021||State||Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami to continue stir; prominent leaders give meet a miss||Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peeth seer Basava Jaya Mruthyunjaya Swami and other leaders of the community decided to continue their agitation seeking a 2A reservation on Thursday. The decision was taken during a meeting held to discuss measures to press for their demands, for which ministers from the community C C Patil and Murugesh Nirani besides firebrand BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal were absent. The seer, along with former Congress MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar, held the meeting at a private hotel, where a decision to continue the demonstrations was taken. Protests will be held at taluk and district centres on March 1, following which memorandums will be submitted to the government seeking reservation under the 2A category for the community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/basava-jaya-mruthyunjaya-swami-to-continue-stir-prominent-leaders-give-meet-a-miss-955413.html
26-02-2021||State||Western Ghats MLAs seek end to man-animal conflict||MLAs from the constituencies falling under the Western Ghats and other forest areas on Thursday poured out their woes to Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali at a meeting held here. The legislators blamed the forest officials for creating hurdles in the implementation of development projects in forest areas. They also sought urgent intervention to end the man-animal conflict. The meeting was called by Limbavali on the suggestion of Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri in the aftermath of a stormy session over man-animal conflict and crop loss caused by wild animals. Sources told DH that Thirthahalli MLA Araga Jnanendra and Virajpet MLA K G Bopaiah were angry with the forest officials for “impeding road development works in forest areas” and over delay in the release of compensation for the crop loss. Ministers S Angara (Sullia) and A Shivaram Hebbar (Yellapur), MLAs Appachu Ranjan (Madikeri), H K Kumaraswamy (Sakleshpur), V Sunil Kumar (Karkala), R V Deshpande (Haliyal) and N Mahesh (Kollegal) among others took part in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/western-ghats-mlas-seek-end-to-man-animal-conflict-955414.html
26-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ringing mobile phone may have triggered quarry blast in Chikaballapur: Forensic experts||The tragic blast that killed six people near a stone crusher unit at Hirenagaveli in Chikkaballapur district could have been triggered by a ringing mobile phone, officials investigating the case suspect. As both gelatin sticks and detonators were kept together in the same bag during the desperate bid by employees of the crusher to hide them, any small force was enough to cause the blast. Police sources told DH that forensic experts who visited the spot have raised suspicion that a call received by one of the labourers during the bid to hide the explosives could have caused the tragedy. “Two victims were already at the spot, before explosives were brought to the spot in the Tata Ace vehicle. The duo had arrived early to ensure a safe hiding place forexplosives. After they reached the spot, the explosion was either triggered accidentally - when one detonator slipped from the rice bag or due to the ringing of the mobile phone,” a source said, adding that there were cases in the past when gelatin and detonators kept together had exploded all ofa sudden. Sources also ruled out ‘partying’ by labourers before the explosion, noting that no evidence of a campfire was found so far.  There are indications that revenue officials turned a blind eye to alleged illegal quarrying beyond the limits of the crusher. “The accident occurred adjacent to gomala land. In that land too, quarrying was seen,” a source said. According to Section 192(A) of the Land Revenue Act, any official who fails to report unlawful occupation of government land and take action can be imprisoned for three years along witha fine.  Prima facie, it is clear that local revenue authorities failed to report the alleged violation occurring right beside the quarry, the sourceadded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ringing-mobile-phone-may-have-triggered-quarry-blast-in-chikaballapur-forensic-experts-955379.html
26-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Another key accused in Hirenagaveli blast case held||The number of persons arrested in connection with the blast at a crusher at Hirenagaveli, Chikkaballapur district, is now eight after the police nabbed G S Nagaraj, one of the four partners of the quarry and a local BJP leader. Known as Gudibande Nagaraj, he was one of the main accused in the quarry explosion case. He was on the run since the explosion claimed the lives of six labourers of the crusher during the late hours of February 22. The tragedy occurred when they were attempting to hide the cache of explosives in the forest land behind the crusher, after raids by authorities earlier in the day. Another person identified as Ganesh, hailing from Tamil Nadu, was also arrested by the police for questioning, as he is learnt to have to conducted blasting at the crusher a few months ago. Nagaraj was among the four partners running the quarry. Three others, Venkatashiva Reddy, Raghavendra Reddy and Madhusudan Reddy were arrested on Thursday. According to Chikkaballapur police, eight accused in the blast case are now arrested. A total of 15 people were named in the FIR, which was initially filed against the crusher on February 7 and updated post the explosion.  Apart from the six people who perished in the incident, one more dead person - Imthiyaz, one of the partners of the quarry, who passed away two months ago - was also named in the FIR filed by the police. CID officials, who took over the case, launched their investigation into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/another-key-accused-in-hirenagaveli-blast-case-held-955391.html
26-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tamil Nadu acting as if surplus Cauvery water belongs to them: Karnataka||Karnataka has decided to “strongly oppose” Tamil Nadu’s Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar river-linking project, with the state government announcing its readiness to wage a legal battle against its neighbour. “Tamil Nadu’s project is against the interests of Karnataka,” Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said after a high-level meeting with Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and senior officials. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the first phase of the Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar project, which will be built at a cost of Rs 6,900 crore. “Tamil Nadu wants to use the surplus Cauvery river water of about 45 tmcft. Surplus water should also be shared between states. But officially or legally, there is no decision on sharing the surplus water. That being the case, it’s not right to come up with a project that seeks to use surplus water,” Bommai said. “That surplus water should be shared between the states is a fundamental principle. But going against this, Tamil Nadu is acting as if even the surplus water is theirs. We have decided to strongly oppose this and wage a legal fight,” he said. Out of the 740 tmcft estimated by the Supreme Court in the entire Cauvery basin, 483 tmcft is generated up to the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border at Biligundlu. “As per the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, even surplus water needs adjudication. The matter is still pending before the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. So, Tamil Nadu’s project goes against the Act also,” Bommai stressed. When Karnataka proposed to build a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu to utilise surplus water to provide drinking water to Ramanagara and Kanakapura towns, Tamil Nadu filed a petition in the Supreme Court opposing the project. Tamil Nadu, according to Bommai, has “consistently” opposed Karnataka’s projects. “When we wanted to modernize anicuts that are 300-400 years old, they opposed. They opposed when we sought an allocation for drinking water to Bengaluru,” he said. “In the Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri region, Tamil Nadu took up the Hogenakkal project to provide drinking water to four districts. We filed our objections and then we got 9 tmcft allocation for Bengaluru,” he added. “Like this, they’ve been consistently creating conflicts. They have started a new project just like how they started the Hogenakkal project without any permission,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tamil-nadu-acting-as-if-surplus-cauvery-water-belongs-to-them-karnataka-955641.html
26-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||4 weeks for quarry owners to return explosives kept illegally: Nirani||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Friday asked the owners of stone quarries to return explosive items hoarded illegally within four weeks or else have their licences cancelled. "Officials have been instructed to conduct inspection and retrieve explosives hoarded illegally in mining areas. Licences of those who fail to report and return the explosives will be cancelled, Nirani was quoted as saying in an official press release. The move by the Minister comes following the recent blast at a quarry in Chikkaballapura, which killed six people. The incident allegedly happened when the gelatin sticks the victims were trying to hide exploded accidentally. Further warning the errant officials, the Minister said those who fail to discharge their duties would face the music. We have been receiving repeated complaints against some officials on their involvement in illegal mining activities. The government will initiate strict disciplinary action against such officials, he added. According to the release, Nirani on Friday inspected the Hatti Gold Mines at Lingasgur taluk in Raichur district, and met with the officials there and reviewed the mining activities. Noting that Hatti Gold Mines would be modernised and a blueprint was already prepared, he said, "The gold production here was reduced due to Covid-19 pandemic but now it is rebounding. This was possible owing to the efforts of officials and peoples representatives."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-weeks-for-quarry-owners-to-return-explosives-kept-illegally-nirani-955779.html
26-02-2021||West||FIR registered after vehicle with explosives found near Mukesh Ambani's house||Hours after an SUV with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a letter was found near the residence of Reliance Industries (RIL) Chairman Mukesh Ambani, the Mumbai Police has registered an FIR. Meanwhile, a massive manhunt has been launched by the Mumbai Police to track down the two persons who had parked the Scorpio off Antilia, the ultra-luxury building at Carmichael Road. A suspicious vehicle was found on Carmichael Rd this evening under limits of Gamdevi Pstn. BDDS & other Police teams reached the spot immediately, examined & found some explosive material Gelatin inside. It’s not an assembled explosive device. Further investigation is going on. The FIR was registered at the Gamdevi police station against unidentified persons. The police have registered a case under IPC Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy). Besides, Section 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, (punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) has also been included in the FIR. The SUV bears a number similar to that of a vehicle that is part of the security detail of the Ambani family. Twenty gelatin explosives sticks were found in a Scorpio car in the vicinity of industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in Mumbai. The Mumbai Crime Branch police is investigating the matter and the findings will be out soon. The incident has rattled the security establishment in India's financial capital as it comes just days ahead of the commencement of the Budget Session of the Maharashtra Legislature in Mumbai. Security at important buildings and establishment has been beefed up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-registered-after-vehicle-with-explosives-found-near-mukesh-ambanis-house-955424.html
26-02-2021||West||Covid-19 active cases cross 60,000 mark in Maharashtra||As Covid-19 cases surge across Maharashtra, the total number of active cases have crossed the 60,000 mark with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and urban conglomerates accounting for the majority of the cases. On Friday morning, the total progressive cases and deaths stood at 21,29,821 and 51,993, respectively, while the total number of active cases in the state were 64,290. So far, 1,60,26,587 tests have been done of which nearly 13.39 per cent or 21,29,821 have tested positive. The case fatality rate was 2.44 per cent. According to officials of the Maharashtra government’s Public Health Department and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, in the past four to five days, the number of tests has increased as more cases have been reported. The total active cases in the urban conglomerates of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati was 45,698. “Majority of the cases are in urban centres. We have been witnessing a surge in Amravati but cases have shot up even in Nashik,” points out Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra. If one takes into account the golden triangle of Mumbai-Pune-Nashik, the total active cases were 29,098. The Pune district has the highest number of active cases 11,570, followed by Nagpur (8,312), Amravati (6,646), Nashik (2,127) and Aurangabad (1,852). The MMR that accounts for the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and large parts of neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts – account for the lion’s share of 15,391 active cases of the state’s tally. If one compares the position one month ago, on January 26, the state had a total of 43,811 active cases, as against 64,260 on February 26. “In a month’s time, active cases have gone by 20,000-plus. One of the main reasons is people’s attitude towards the masks, public gatherings, marriage events, political events,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-active-cases-cross-60000-mark-in-maharashtra-955455.html
26-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Budget Session to be stormy||With the alarming Covid-19 situation, the Maha Vikas Aghadi may have curtailed the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature but the Opposition BJP has trained its guns with plenty of issues in hand. It’s not going to be easy sailing for Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The March 1 to 10 Session, which was earlier slated to be held for the entire month, will also discuss the current surge in the Covid-19 cases and the vaccination programme. “The session has been curtailed to avoid discussions,” leader of the Opposition and ex-chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said. Two ministers – forests minister Sanjay Rathod of the Shiv Sena and social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde of the NCP – are at the receiving end. Rathod, a leader from the Banjara community, is facing allegations vis-a-vis the death of TikTok star Pooja Chavan. After remaining incommunicado for a fortnight, Rathod staged a show of strength when he visited the Pohradevi temple in Washim district, where hundreds of his supporters thronged, flouting the Covid-19 pandemic norms and protocols. On the other hand, Munde, the nephew of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde, was accused of rape by a Mumbai-based singer Renu Sharma, with whose sister Karuna Sharma he had a long relationship and sired two children.  Later, however, Renu withdrew the complaint. Karuna later alleged that Munde had confined their two children in Chitrakoot, the official bungalow of the minister. The BJP leadership has been demanding dismissals of the two ministers.  The January 9 fire at the Special Newborn Care Unit of District General Hospital in Bhandara in which 10 infants were killed, is also one of the issues that would be raised by the opposition. On March 1, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will address the joint session of the Maharashtra legislature, while on March 8, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance and planning portfolios, would table the state budget for the year 2021-22. In fact, Koshyari and the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government are at loggerheads. Recently, the Governor sent a letter to Thackeray to conduct the election of the Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly as Nana Patole resigned to become the state Congress president. “I had resigned and handed over the charge to deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal. The post of the deputy speaker is a Constitutional post,” said Patole. In November last year, after Cabinet meetings, the MVA government had forwarded 12 names to be nominated as members in the Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. However, the Governor has not cleared the names. Among those whose names were recommended include Urmila Matondkar, who had joined the Shiv Sena and Eknath Khadse, who left the BJP to join the NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-budget-session-to-be-stormy-955502.html
26-02-2021||West||Arvind Kejriwal thanks Surat voters after AAP’s first electoral win||Buoyed by its first electoral victory in Gujarat, Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal landed in Surat city on Friday to “thank” voters for making the party’s 27 candidates’ win in the municipal corporation polls, the first-ever electoral victory of the party in the state. Kejriwal, who has refrained from campaigning for the party in local body polls, received a rousing welcome at the city airport. A large number of people turned up during his roadshow which culminated in a massive public meet.   In the recently held municipal corporations elections, AAP made significant inroads in Surat, famous as diamond city and considered a citadel of ruling BJP, by winning 27 seats, most of which was held by the Congress, out of 120 seats. The Congress suffered a humiliating defeat after it failed to open an account, placing the AAP to sit in the corporation as the chief opposition party. On the day of the result, the BJP state president C R Patil described AAP’s victory as “painful” to deal with. BJP has bettered its record by winning 93 seats. After landing at the airport, the Delhi chief minister met his 27 elected councillors and gave them a pep talk. “You have done a great job. Now, you will receive calls from the BJP (to switch over). But none of you should do that. We don’t have resources or money but it is the integrity that is our biggest power. We will lose the trust of 6 crore Gujaratis if even one of you leaves,” he said. Attacking BJP, Kejriwal said in BJP’s rule Gujarat has the highest “electricity tariff in the country, the farmers hardly get eight hours of electricity, that too only in the night.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arvind-kejriwal-thanks-surat-voters-after-aap-s-first-electoral-win-955538.html
26-02-2021||West||Maharashtra social worker Prakash Amte tests Covid-19 positive||Noted social worker and Ramon Magsaysay award recipient Prakash Amte has tested positive for coronavirus and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Maharashtra's Nagpur city. Amte (73) had been experiencing symptoms of coronavirus for the last seven days, but his test in Gadchiroli had come out negative for the infection, the Padma Shri recipient's son Aniket told PTI. Amte suffered from fever and was taken to Chandrapur, before being admitted to a private hospital in Nagpur after he tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday evening, he said. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wished Amte a speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-social-worker-prakash-amte-tests-covid-19-positive-955553.html
26-02-2021||West||Covid-19: No on-the-spot nod for darshan at Siddhivinayak temple from March||Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra, the city's famous Siddhivinayak temple has decided not to give on-the-spot permission to devotees for taking darshan of Lord Ganesh from March 1, its office-bearers said on Friday. Only those who have registered themselves online, will get a chance to take darshan, and only 100 such devotees will be allowed inside the temple per hour from next month, they said. Talking to PTI, Priyanka Chhapwale, chief executive officer of the Shri Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust said that at present, devotees who have not registered themselves for darshan, are given QR code on the spot, which allows them to go inside the temple. "But we have decided to stop this system completely from March 1. The devotees without pre-booked appointment won't be allowed till further orders," she said. "Evey hour, only 100 devotees with pre-booked QR codes will be allowed to have darshan of the deity between 7 am and 9 pm," she added. Chhapwale said that on the auspicious day of Angarki Chaturthi (on March 2), darshan will be allowed between 8 am and 9 pm. The Siddhivinayak temple located in the Prabhadevi area of the city is very popular. It was shut for devotees for several months last year due to the coronavirus outbreak. It was reopened in November 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-no-on-the-spot-nod-for-darshan-at-siddhivinayak-temple-from-march-955566.html
26-02-2021||West||Certificate must for people with comorbidity during coronavirus vaccination: Expert||People aged 45 and 60 having comorbidities need not waste time and get certificates from a registered medical practitioner, said Mumbai-based health and wellness expert Dr Ashish Tiwari. The vaccination drive in India started on January 16 when health workers and frontline workers were given vaccines and the second phase will start on 1 March when People above 60 and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities will be vaccinated. “The Co-Win App would go live on 1 March, we must start preparing for that,” said Dr Tiwari, Director, ACS Health, Mumbai. The certificate has to be issued by a registered medical practitioner who is registered in different medical councils. “Vaccination will be done at 10,000 government and more than 20,000 private centres from March 1. The vaccine will be administered free of cost at government centres, while in private centres it would be at cost. The beneficiaries will be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN App,” said Dr Tiwari. According to him, the process of registration is very important. “We must prepare for that,” he said, adding that the certificate would describe the comorbidity that the person has.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/certificate-must-for-people-with-comorbidity-during-coronavirus-vaccination-expert-955588.html
26-02-2021||West||Covid testing tripled in Nagpur amid rise in cases, Maharashtra Health Minister Nitin Raut says||Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut on Friday said coronavirus testing in Nagpur has tripled to over 10,000 tests per day, amid rise in infections. Addressing the media after a review meeting with district officials, Raut said there are 1,769 oxygen beds, 684 ICU and 263 ventilator beds available for Covid-19 patients in the district. Although the cases of coronavirus are increasing in Maharashtra, the administration has been able to control the situation in Nagpur, the district's guardian minister said. Coronavirus testing has tripled, as more than 10,000 swab samples are tested in the district in a day, he said. Apart from this, stamping of people placed under home quarantine and recording data of patients visiting government hospitals are also underway, he said. Nagpur had on Thursday recorded 1,116 fresh cases of coronavirus and 13 more casualties. The district's Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,46,831, of which 4,314 patients have died of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-testing-tripled-in-nagpur-amid-rise-in-cases-maharashtra-health-minister-nitin-raut-says-955614.html
26-02-2021||West||Won't allow smooth Budget session till Rathod quits, says Maharashtra BJP MLA||BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar on Friday said the party will not allow the Budget session of the Maharashtra legislature to run smoothly unless Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod stepped down. The opposition party has been demanding the resignation of Rathod, a Shiv Sena leader from Yavatmal, since his name was linked to the death of a 23-year-old woman in Pune. Rathod has denied that he had anything to do with the case. In a video message, Bhatkhalkar alleged that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was "planting" stories of Rathod likely to resign before the session begins on March 1. "It is a shameless attempt to maintain image. Unless Rathod steps down or is removed from his post, the BJP will not allow the budget session to run smoothly," the MLA said. "The chief minister can remove Rathod from the cabinet any time, but he is trying to protect the minister by delaying it," Bhatkhalkar further said. Earlier, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said whoever was guilty in the matter would not be spared. State BJP vice president Chitra Wagh, meanwhile, claimed that there were 45 missed calls on the woman's phone the day she died, and the police needed to probe who this caller was. "This government is sending the very wrong message that if you are in power, you can get away with a murder," Wagh said. The woman, who was staying in Pune's Hadapsar area, died after allegedly falling from the balcony of her flat on February 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-allow-smooth-budget-session-till-rathod-quits-says-maharashtra-bjp-mla-955691.html
26-02-2021||West||Abandoned SUV near Ambani residence was 'stolen', explosives traced to Nagpur, say cops||The SUV that was parked off the ultra-luxury Mumbai home of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani was stolen a few days ago while the gelatine sticks were manufactured in a Nagpur facility. Meanwhile, a massive manhunt has been launched to track down the suspects who had parked the Scorpio near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of the Ambani family. The Gamdevi police station has formally lodged an FIR while the Crime Branch-CID has activated its network to track down the culprits. “An FIR has been registered and investigations were in progress,” said deputy commissioner of police (operations) S Chaitanya, the Mumbai Police spokesperson said. On the letter or message that the police have recovered, he said, “I cannot comment....that is part of the investigations.” The letter was written in  English with several grammatical and spelling mistakes and was addressed to Mukesh and Neeta Ambani threatening the richest couple of India. The 20-odd gelatin sticks were manufactured by Nagpur-based Solar Industries. The Mumbai Police has already contacted the company and have sought details from them, however, individual sticks are not barcoded but the packets – so it is a gigantic task for the cops to find out where they came from. The Mumbai Police are also securing CCTV footage of the possible route of the car. A team of police personnel also visited the car parking owned by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation in that area. Meanwhile, the Crime Intelligence Unit spoke to the owner of the Scorpio, who informed that his car was stolen a few days ago and he had lodged a police complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abandoned-suv-near-ambani-residence-was-stolen-explosives-traced-to-nagpur-say-cops-955692.html
26-02-2021||West||Gujarat Assembly session from March 1 to April 1; budget on March 3||The month-long budget session of the Gujarat Assembly would begin on March 1 and the budget for the financial year 2021-22 will be presented on March 3, officials said on Friday. It will begin with Governor Acharya Devvrat's address to the House on March 1, while Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who holds the Finance portfolio, will table the budget on March 3, and the session will continue till April 1, an official release said. Earlier during the day, Patel launched the "Gujarat Budget" mobile application to enable government officials, legislators and other citizens to access budgetary provisions on their mobile phones. The mobile app will have five different sections, comprising budgetary allocations for 27 departments, budget highlights, finance minister's speech, important aspects of the budget and news coverage of it, said Patel. "Since budget publications will be available online, the government will print only 20 per cent material, which would save 55 lakh pages," Patel informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-assembly-session-from-march-1-to-april-1-budget-on-march-3-955706.html
26-02-2021||West||Goa students banned from riding two-wheelers to school campus||Faced with complaints of reckless driving by young students, the Goa Education Department on Friday banned students from riding two-wheelers to the school campus. An order to that effect issued by Education Director Santosh Amonkar also urges heads of educational institutions to address the issue at meetings of Parents Teachers Associations and ensure that students do not ride two-wheelers to schools henceforth. "It is informed that many students are seen using two-wheelers and riding in a reckless manner violating traffic rules," the order issued by the state Education Director said.  "It is once again enjoined upon all heads of institutions to address this issue in PTA meetings and ensure that no students will drive two-wheelers to the schools," Amonkar also said in his order. Schools in Goa are still not fully functional on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, with only Class X and Class XII students allowed to attend classes in person.ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-students-banned-from-riding-two-wheelers-to-school-campus-955747.html
26-02-2021||West||Goa Speaker hears petition to disqualify 12 ruling MLAs, order reserved ||In a development that could have a bearing on the fate of the Dr. Pramod Sawant-led coalition government, Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday has reserved his order on two separate petitions filed by leaders of the Congress and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), seeking disqualification of 12 ruling legislators. Ten Congress party MLAs, led by then Leader of Opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar had quit the party and joined the BJP in July 2019, while two MGP MLAs had quit the regional outfit to join the ruling BJP in March the same year. Emerging from the state assembly complex where the two hearings were being conducted by the Speaker, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said that the Speaker should dispose the petitions as soon as possible, in view of the Supreme Court's directive earlier this month. "Getting the order, in our favour or not, does not matter. Disposal of the petition before the Speaker was very important for us. Speaker has heard us and our opponents, we will hope to have an order very soon," the state Congress president told reporters outside the assembly complex. "Today, the hearing has been completed and the matter has been posted for final order. If the SC had not intervened, this hearing would not have happened today and (hearings) would have continued till elections are declared," Chodankar also said. Earlier this month, the apex court, which was hearing a petition filed by Chodankar, seeking timely disposal of the matter, had directed the Speaker to issue his order on the petition on February 26. Chodankar in his petition has argued that the split in the party caused by the 10 MLAs and their subsequent claim to have merged the Congress party in Goa into the BJP, was illegal and violative of the provisions of Schedule 10 of the Indian Constitution. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday also heard another petition filed by MGP MLA and former Deputy Chief Minister Sudin Dhavalikar, seeking disqualification of two former MGP MLAs Manohar Ajgaonkar and Deepak Prabhu Pauskar, who also split the party and merged it with the BJP in March 2019. "The Speaker has been kind enough to hear us on the merits of the matter. Now it is reserved for orders," Dhavalikar's counsel Dhaval Zaveri, told reporters. Currently, The ruling government in Goa has the support of 27 BJP MLAs and one independent MLA. Theoretically, the legislative support to the BJP-led coalition government would shrink considerably in the 40-member state assembly, if the 12 ruling MLAs stand to be disqualified. ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speaker-hears-petition-to-disqualify-12-ruling-mlas-order-reserved-955753.html
26-02-2021||West||8,333 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, 48 fatalities||Maharashtra reported more than 8,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the third day in a row on Friday besides 48 fatalities, a health department official said. The caseload in the state thus rose to 21,38,154, while the death toll reached 52,041, he said. Four cities - Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Amaravati -- together accounted for 3,401 or 40 per cent of the new cases. On the other hand, 4,936 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 20,17,303. The number of active cases stood at 67,608. Mumbai city reported 1,035 new cases, taking its tally to 3,23,879; with three deaths its death toll increased to 11,466. Mumbai division -- Mumbai and surrounding region -- reported 1,879 cases, pushing its caseload to 7,22,172. The region's death toll now stands at 19,808, the official said. With 1,690 new cases, Pune division's case count rose to 5,22,995. Its death toll is 11,736. Pune city alone reported 765 new COVID-19 cases. Akola division in Vidarbha which has been reporting a steep rise in COVID-19 cases since February 14 reported 1,601 new cases. Its caseload is 93,436 while 1,738 people in the region have succumbed to the viral infection so far. Amaravati municipal corporation alone reported 720 new cases. The Nagpur division reported 1,512 new cases, of which 881 are from Nagpur city alone. Of 48 deaths reported on Friday, 25 had occurred in the last 48 hours, 17 in the last week while remaining six were from the period before that, the official said. As many as 85,932 tests were conducted during the day, taking the tally of samples tested for coronavirus to 1,61,12,519. As many as 2,688 persons are in institutional quarantine in the state. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 21,38,154, new cases: 8,333, death toll: 52,041, discharged: 20,17,303, active cases: 67,608, people tested so far: 1,61,12,519.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8333-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-48-fatalities-955757.html
26-02-2021||West||Mumbai Airport T1 to resume domestic flight operations from March 10||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume domestic flight operations from Terminal-1 from the second week of March, the private airport operator said on Friday. The Mumbai Airport has two terminals T1 and T2. Terminal-1 caters to domestic passengers and Terminal-2 has international services besides domestic operations of some of the Indian airlines. Prior to the pandemic, some airlines were carrying out their domestic operations from T1. However, after the resumption of domestic commercial passenger services in late last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown in the wake of the pandemic, the flight services were being operated only from T2. The CSMIA is re-opening its Terminal 1 for domestic flight operations with effect from March 10, a release said. From midnight, March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will resume all its domestic operations from Terminal 1, the airport operator said. In case of IndiGo, while most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1, it added. Since the advent of the nationwide lockdown in March 2020, operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and was consolidated through Terminal 2 for the convenience of the passengers and stakeholders, it said. Upholding the safety of the passengers, the resumption of services via T1 is a step further in ensuring that social distancing is strictly followed, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-airport-t1-to-resume-domestic-flight-operations-from-march-10-955763.html
26-02-2021||West||Bombay HC rejects Gadkari's application to dismiss poll plea||The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday rejected an application filed by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari seeking dismissal of an election petition filed against him for submitting false information in his poll affidavit in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A single bench of Justice A S Chandurkar refused to dismiss the election petition filed by Nagpur resident Mohammed Nafis Khan noting that it discloses material facts and gives the necessary cause of action to challenge the election of Gadkari. The court, however, struck down a slew of submissions and allegations made in the election petition pertaining to income earned by Gadkari's family members and land owned by them as well as other points regarding expenditure made during the election process. Justice Chandurkar, in the order, noted that two points of the election petition, one pertaining to land owned solely by Gadkari in Nagpur and the second related to Gadkari declaring his source of income like that from agriculture, were not liable to be struck down and hence the election petition should be heard and decided. As per Khan's election petition, Gadkari was the sole owner of the land and hence his claim in the poll affidavit that the land is owned by his family as a whole was false. Khan, in his petition, also claimed Gadkari had stated he does not own any agricultural land and, hence, it is false to say his source of income is from agriculture. Gadkari had filed an application seeking dismissal of Khan's petition, which sought the former's election to the Lok Sabha from Nagpur be declared null and void. Gadkari's application also sought the striking out of several submissions in the petition which were "unnecessary, vexatious, scandalous and frivolous". Gadkari's advocates Sunil Manohar and D V Chauhan argued an election petition should only indicate a violation of provisions of the Representation of the People Act and not allegations against family members of the candidate. "Only on the basis of surmises and conjectures it was alleged by the petitioner (Khan) that the affidavit filed by the returned candidate (Gadkari) was false," they argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-rejects-gadkaris-application-to-dismiss-poll-plea-955765.html
