27-02-2021||First Edit||Patanjali endorsement: Union ministers misleading people over Coronil as 'medicine for Covid-19'||The endorsement by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan of a "medicine for Covid-19’’ produced by yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s company Patanjali is not just a case of impropriety but an act of complicity in fraud. The minister said he was pleased to be present at the function where a "scientific research paper’’ was released which claimed that Patanjali had produced Coronil, the "first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19’’. The Minister for Road Transport Nitin Gadkari was also present. The presence of two senior ministers at the event and their support has given Patanjali’s claim an official sanction and this amounts to misleading the people on a product that has not been tested scientifically and found effective in treating Covid-19. It may even turn out to be injurious to the health of those who take it.   The minister should not have taken part in a commercial event for advertisement of the product of a private enterprise. He was not only present but said that the government had a longstanding relationship with Ramdev and shared his commitment to Ayurveda. As a medical doctor also, he erred. As the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which has taken a serious view of the entire matter and objected to his conduct, pointed out that he violated professional ethics by endorsing a medicine and taking part in its advertisement campaign. But the bigger issue is the fraud that is committed on the people with the claim that the product is a medicine for Covid. It was even claimed that the medicine had the approval of the World Health Organisation (WHO). This was denied later as WHO clarified that it had not certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine.  The IMA has said that it was totally unjustified on the part of the minister to release "such a falsely fabricated unscientific’’ product. It also said it is unethical to promote it in ’’wrong and false’’ ways and termed the projection of an unscientific medicine as a "slap and insult to the people’’. Last year also Patanjali had offered its product as a cure for Covid but in the face of criticism described it as an immunity booster. Political and other considerations should not override the government’s and the minister’s responsibility to ensure that the people get the best treatment and are guided rightly in dealing with the pandemic. It is not known what research has gone into the making of Patanjali’s product. As long as its benefits are not proved scientifically, its promotion can only be considered a fraud on the people, and those who endorse it are complicit in it. The claimed ancient knowledge of plastic surgery and genetics would not help to make claims about the medicine come true.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/patanjali-endorsement-union-ministers-misleading-people-over-coronil-as-medicine-for-covid-19-955812.html
27-02-2021||In Perspective||Is Urdu losing its charm in Bollywood films?||Language is the essence and identity of culture and is a major tool for communication. To know your language is the best way to keep and preserve your culture. In recent times, the idea of linguistic and cultural awareness has increased, thus allowing, for example, regional languages to be more culturally accepted.  Language is very powerful and has the ability to change someone’s perspective. At a time when Bollywood movies are rapidly making their way into Western theatres, a cross-cultural experience is being defined.  Urdu, up until recently, enjoyed tremendous cultural prestige among educated Muslims and Hindus, as well as among other communities. It was among the very few literary languages for many of those who also wrote in Hindi. For instance, Upendranath Ashk and Munshi Premchand were famous Urdu authors before they even began to write in Hindi.  Film is an effective art form to create social change and awareness among the masses. In terms of viewership and number of films produced, India is the hub of the largest film market in the world. It started about 100 years ago, and has since been extremely popular in India.  The language identified in the most Bollywood films is “Hindustani”, considered to be one label for the language of much of north and central South Asia. The actual spoken language of Hindi (occasionally referred to as “Hindustani”) is usually written in two scripts: Devanagari (an angular script associated with its Sanskrit heritage) and Nastaliq (cursive script based on the Arabic alphabet). In fact, the language of Mumbai films tend to contain a large number of Persian and Arabic words and thus considered to be “Urdu” in a sense.  If a movie uses only Hindi or only Urdu, they would lose a large audience, so by utilising Hindustani as the language of the films, Bollywood can capture a wider audience. However, this trend has been changing as the use of Urdu language in Hindi films is starting to decrease, despite its poetic appeal.  In the olden days, the song lyrics in classic Bollywood films such as Mahabharat and Ramayan used to contain lots of Urdu in them, but now, that is clearly starting to decline. Back in the late ‘90s or early 2000s, Hindi language films’ titles were typically shown in three languages: English, Hindi and Urdu.  However, nowadays, it appears that Urdu has become unfavorable with people in Bollywood as titles are now never shown in Urdu. Until recently, Hindi and Urdu were perceived as the sister languages by the media, but now, there’s a growing distinction between them.  When Amitabh Bachchan, for example, hosted India’s version of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?” (Kaun Banega Crorepati), he spoke a relatively standardised version of Hindi with a solid mix of English which was gradually replaced by Sanskrit terms. The growing disparity between Hindi and Urdu is a result of national politics, first discussed back in 19th century British-controlled India. Even Mahatma Gandhi wrote in both Hindi and Urdu yet called them by the same name of Hindustani. Lasting impact Despite its usage decline, it is impossible to deny the lasting impact Urdu has had on Hindi cinema. For example, in the Bollywood court proceedings, Urdu is quite prevalent in the legal representation within Hindi films. Terms such as ‘chasmdeed gawah’, ‘mujrim’, ‘quaidi’, ‘tazeerat-e-hindi ke tahat’, ‘ba-izzat bari’, etc are all instances of Urdu terms in the courtroom.  Urdu is also the language of choice for love, which is particularly important as this is the main theme in most Hindi movies. Lastly, Urdu also has a strong association with sophisticated poetry, which has significantly enhanced the vocabulary of countless Hindi films’ soundtrack.  With all this in mind, it’s a bit sad to realise gradual eradication of Urdu from Hindi cinema. Considering English (and occasionally Hindi) are the major players in business and governmental language, there’s no true incentive to make a concerted effort to learn Urdu script. This is most likely the reason why Bollywood has dropped the Urdu title.  One of the great scholars when it comes to Urdu language and literature, Gopi Chand Narang, was quoted as saying that, “Urdu is not the language of Muslims. If at all there is any language of Muslims, it should be Arabic. Urdu belongs to the composite culture of India. Hindi and Urdu are supplementary and complementary. They are like sisters strengthening each other.”  Movies are a great way to represent language, societal norms, and customs and traditions. While some languages (like English) will continue to remain dynamic, for others (like Urdu), fate seems blinking. Although Urdu had such a lasting impact on the Hindi language in the Bollywood film industry, its future does not seem to be bright.  (The writer is Chairperson, Department of Linguistics, Aligarh Muslim University, Uttar Pradesh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-urdu-losing-its-charm-in-bollywood-films-955816.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Advocate murdered in court premises over family dispute||A 48-year-old advocate who was also a Congress leader has been murdered in the premises of Civil and JMFC Court here on Saturday over a family dispute. The man has been identified as Tarihalli Venkatesh. His relative Manoj hit with him machete in the neck while Venkatesh was working in the court premises and died instantaneously. Fear gripped the court premises due to the incident. The accused has been taken into police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/advocate-murdered-in-court-premises-over-family-dispute-955996.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bairadi Kere lake to be developed to attract tourists||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwar said the government is committed to the integrated development of tourism in Mangaluru, and that there are ample opportunities to promote tourism here as it is connected via sea, railway and airway. Speaking after laying foundations for development works at Bairadi Kere in Mangaluru, which is being developed by Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and Green Tigers in Mangaluru, he said an action plan will be prepared to tap tourism potentials in Dakshina Kannada in the coming days. The minister announced Rs 25 lakh from the Tourism department for the rejuvenation of the lake. "There is a need to safeguard culture of the land while promoting tourism in the region. The existence of a lake brings in life to the surrounding areas," he said. Rejuvenation work MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath said the rejuvenation work of 12 lakes is in progress in Mangaluru. In the next two-and-a-half years, MUDA will develop 30 lakes in Mangaluru. There is a need to develop ‘kudru’ (islands) in Mangaluru, he said. About 150-acre land in Bengre needs to be developed for tourism. The tourism minister will discuss developing ‘kudrus’ in Mangaluru with the deputy commissioner as well. The MUDA, in association with Green Tigers, will initiate the planting of fruit-bearing saplings around the lake. Bairadi Kere is a lake in the city spread across 1.29 acres with a surrounding area of 1.2 acres. The proposal is for developing the park in a pond-park concept and make it a recreation space citizens of all age groups. Children’s play area and a walking track will be developed in the area. The works will be completed in the next four to five months, sources said. The works to be taken up in Bairadi Kere comprise desilting (Rs 7,93,496), construction of boulder apron (Rs 3,01,598), granite size stone masonry wall (Rs 45,41,146), interlock pavement (Rs 7,65,875), compound wall, drain and steel railing. (Rs 21,56,841).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bairadi-kere-lake-to-be-developed-to-attract-tourists-956015.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth misuses police jeep for joyride on KRS Dam||A youth taking out a joyride on Krishna Raja Sagara Dam, in the taluk, has gone viral. Vehicle movement on the dam is banned owing to safety measures, but in the video, a youth is seen misusing a police jeep for a joyride. However, details about the youth and when the incident happened are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-misuses-police-jeep-for-joyride-on-krs-dam-956026.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman, her child drown in an irrigation tank||A woman and her four-year-old son drowned in an irrigation tank, at Koravangala village in the taluk, on Saturday. Shruthi and her son Nishanth are deceased. The mother and the son drowned when they took the cattle to the tank. According to the sources, Nishanth drowned first and Shruthi drowned in an attempt to rescue her son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-her-child-drown-in-an-irrigation-tank-956085.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Youth drives police jeep on KRS Dam, video goes viral||A youth, taking out a jolly drive in a police jeep on Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam in the taluk, has gone viral. Surya of Belagola village in the taluk drove the jeep and a police inspector Swamy attached to Industrial Security Force, who accompanied Surya, captured video on his mobile phone. The vehicle movement on the dam is banned owing to safety measures, but the youth and the police misused the department vehicle for jolly drive. According to the officials, the incident took place two-weeks back. Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited Engineer Vasudev said that a detailed investigation will be conducted on Monday. In another incident, the police officials attached to Karnataka Police Academy (KPA), Mysuru, has allegedly misused their power and enjoyed the day at KRS Backwaters on Saturday. More than 20 members gathered on the spot and prepared food. They also enjoyed their day singing and dancing. A few persons were also seen swimming in the backwaters. A video of police officials, their family members and others enjoying, has also gone viral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-drives-police-jeep-on-krs-dam-video-goes-viral-956183.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah, DKS enough to finish Cong: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa on Saturday said, “Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah was enough to finish Congress, but now, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar joined Siddaramaiah to finish the party.” In a press conference here, Eshwarappa said, “Siddaramaiah has been claiming that he is the next chief minister and now, Shivakumar has joined him. Both the leaders are taking the party in opposite direction. I don’t know when the party will breakdown.” Eshwarappa also slammed JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and commented that let him protect his party first. “No MLAs would have joined the BJP if Kumaraswamy had given good administration. Neither the Congress nor the JD(S) will come to power in 2023.” Eshwarappa said, “BJP MLAs M P Renukacharya and Basangouda Patil Yatnal should have resolved their issues after discussing with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa rather than speaking in public.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-dks-enough-to-finish-cong-kse-956186.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boredom induced him to writing||It is a good example of making good use of one's circumstances. Debutant author Aditya R Belur said that boredom induced him into writing. Aditya, who was born in Hyderabad, but brought up in Mysuru, studied at Manasarovar Pushkarini Vidyashram, SBRR Mahajana PU College, SBRR Mahajana First Grade College and Bhavan's Priyamvada Birla Institute of Management. He was diagnosed of multiple sclerosis at the age of 18 (2006) and is confined to his wheelchair since 2013. Since childhood, he was interested in reading books, his limitation in movement since 2013, reinforced this habit. He tried his hand at writing, but he himself was not satisfied with it. His consultant editor Pamela Sanath suggested him to read Indian authors at this juncture. Later, he started writing, which evolved into a novel 'You’ll All See...' Speaking to DH, Aditya reveals the path to his discovery as a writer. Q: How was the journey from a reader to a writer? A: I never intended to be a writer. I did not have any plan to get a book published. I used to read books. I just started to write out of boredom since 2013. Because those days, entertainment was not like it is now, with platforms such as over-the-top (OTT) media service. I had nothing else to do. So, it was mainly for time-pass. I penned a few short stories and also a bigger story. However, I myself did not like them. The influence of foreign authors, I used to read, was obvious. Then, I decided to try something different. At this juncture, I met Pamela Sanath, one of my consulting editor. My another consulting editor was her late husband Niranjan Nikam. Pamela Sanath advised me to read a few Indian authors to get a feel of Indian English literature. I had read Indian authors like Chetan Bhagat. But, I read authors like S Hussain Zaidi and Madhulika Liddle. Then, I started penning down my thoughts and imagination, which evolved into a novel. Q: What is the mood of the novel? A: It is a story of a boy. The turn of events, from childhood to adulthood. It is mostly positive. How, the circumstances change in one’s life and how the protagonist Surya adapts to them. Q: Why is Surya the name of the protagonist? A: The name just happened. I did not ponder over it for long. It may be because my name Aditya also means Surya or Sun. I like the name. Q: Is Mysuru described in the novel? A: The fiction that I have penned could have happened anywhere. But, because I know Mysuru well, I have used some of its locations, including some tourist attractions. Besides, I was brought up in Mysuru, even though I was born in Hyderabad. This is the only city that I know well and I love it. Q: Did your pastime like watching movies and TV shows on OTT help you to sketch characters and narrate a story, in a creative way? A: Besides television, I also read a lot of books, which helped me in penning down my imagination. In fact, the title 'You’ll All See...’ is from a TV show ‘Friends’. Phoebe Buffay, a character in Friends, says this in one of the episodes. I was attracted towards this phrase and wanted to use it somewhere. Somehow, it fit into the title. My consulting editors also approved it. Q: How is the feedback for the novel? Q: I am yet to get a proper feedback. Even the media has highlighted my disability. They have not delved on the content. As it is a self-published book, we have our limitations in promoting it. If we get a professional publisher, we can reach out to more readers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boredom-induced-him-to-writing-956189.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rift between Sait & Cong leaders continue over mayoral poll||The rift between Congress leaders, following the Mayor’s election on Wednesday, continued on Saturday. While MLA Tanveer Sait defended his move of backing JD(S) candidate Rukmini Madegowda as Mayor, former minister H C Mahadevappa and others opposed it. Though the Congress fielded a candidate, the Congress corporators supported JD(S) candidate as per the directions of Tanveer Sait. As there was no alliance between the JD(S) and the Congress until the last moment, both JD(S) and Congress fielded candidates. But, Sait decided to support JD(S) after the election process commenced. Thus, Congress candidate Shantakumari had to withdraw her papers. Sait said, “I am ready to face any punishment. I am not for sale. There is no question of fear. No one is above the party. No one should be involved in personality worship. I have fulfilled the party’s basic demand of keeping the BJP away from power, by supporting a JD(S) corporator as Mayor.” Sait said that the supporters of Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah claim that Sait joined hands with JD(S) and thus, he did not receive phone calls of Siddaramaiah. Sait, rubbishing the allegation, said, “Siddaramaiah called me 16 times between 12.26 pm and 12.42 pm and I could not answer the call as I was in the council. Ask Siddaramaiah how many times I called him between 9 am and 12.03 pm.”  Sait said that he spoke with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar in connection with the issue. “I will meet him again on Monday,” he said. Defending Siddaramaiah, former minister H C Mahadevappa said, those who raise voice are silenced inside and outside the party. “A few people have not understood it. Siddaramaiah is fighting for the people. He need not project himself before JD(S) leaders or any others,” Mahadevappa said. Former Mayor Ayub Khan and Deputy Mayor Anwar Baig took severe exception to Sait, demanding action against him. Baig said that he had no idea of becoming deputy mayor. KPCC working president R Dhruvanarayan said, “Siddaramaiah had clearly directed not to give away the Mayor post. But, the decision was changed only after the election process commenced. I will give a detailed report to KPCC on Monday.” Dhruvanarayan said, “Both, protest against Siddaramaiah and press conference against Sait, was wrong. We have to resolve the matters internally on a party platform.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rift-between-sait-cong-leaders-continue-over-mayoral-poll-956193.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) leaders irked over GTD, Sandesh Nagaraj’s absence in MCC election||After a rift among the Congress leaders, following the Mayor election in Mysuru, JD(S) leaders are opposing their own party MLA and MLC for not participating in the election, held on February 24. Though JD(S) corporator Rukmini Madegowda is elected as Mayor with the support of Congress corporators, JD(S) leaders have expressed displeasure against party MLA G T Devegowda and MLC Sandesh Nagaraj for their non-participation in the election. In a press conference here, on Saturday, JD(S) city president K T Cheluvegowda and Zilla Panchayat members Beerihundi Basavanna and Madegowda and JD(S) leader Belakavadi Shivamurthy demanded the party leaders to expel Devegowda and Nagaraj for their anti-party activities.   The leaders also threatened of resigning from primary membership, if no action is taken against Devegowda and Nagaraj. "MLA Devegowda was involved in anti-party activities and he had joined hands with the BJP. He should resign as an MLA. Let Devegowda, who was elected on JD(S) ticket from Chamundeshwari segment, face an election to show his strength," Cheluvegowda challenged. It has to be noted that Devegowda, who defeated former chief minister Siddaramaiah with a huge margin of 35,000 votes in the 2018 Assembly election, has maintained a distance from JD(S) and its leaders since the JD(S)-Congress government was formed in 2018. He maintained a distance as he was not allocated a preferred portfolio, in chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s Cabinet. Sandesh Nagaraj's younger brother Sathish (Swamy) was a BJP candidate in the 2018 Assembly poll from Narasimharaja constituency in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-leaders-irked-over-gtd-sandesh-nagaraj-s-absence-in-mcc-election-956194.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||H D Kumaraswamy suffering from political insecurity: C P Yogeeshwara||Continuing his tirade against former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara said that he will urge the BJP senior leaders and party high command not to have any alliance with Kumaraswamy and JD(S). “The JD(S) took our help to elect Basavaraj Horatti as the Legislative Council Chairperson. On the other hand, JD(S) joined hands with the Congress in the Mayoral election in Mysuru. “We should not believe Kumaraswamy. Already, BJP in the past had experienced bitter experiences by entering into an alliance with Kumaraswamy and JD(S). Any alliance with the JD(S) will affect the growth of the BJP in the future. There is ample of opportunity for the BJP to grow in Old Mysuru region,” he added. “Kumaraswamy does not have any political stand and commitment. He and his party adjusts according to the situation that benefits them,” he alleged. Stating that Kumaraswamy is suffering from political insecurity, Yogeeshwara said as a chief minister, he failed to nominate for the Boards/Corporations. “He was selfish while being in power. Now fearing losing the ground, he is engaged in attending all the small programmes which is organised by gram panchayat members,” said Yogeeshwara. To a query on H D Kumaraswamy’s statement that those involved in gambling and illegal business led to the toppling of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government in Karnataka, Yogeeshwara said “I do not play cards or engage in gambling. I have photographs of Kumaraswamy playing cards and engaging in gambling,” he said. “Their number was less. When their number was less how could they withhold the weight,” he said while referring to the JD(S)- Congress coalition. “We (BJP) had majority and came to power in Karnataka,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-d-kumaraswamy-suffering-from-political-insecurity-c-p-yogeeshwara-956003.html
27-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Baig, Ibrahim and now Sait: Why are Karnataka Congress' Muslim leaders upset?||Chamarajpet legislator BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan’s rise as the Congress’ Muslim face is causing ‘heartburn’ among leaders from the community, with former minister Tanveer Sait being the latest example of this, according to discussions taking place within the party. Sait, whose decisions during the recent Mysuru mayoral election caused ripples within the Congress, has hit out at the growing “personality-centric” politics in the party in what was perceived to be a veiled attack on Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah. In the Mysuru mayoral election earlier this week, Congress was to get the top post as per its understanding with the JD(S). In a plot twist, the JD(S) won the mayor’s seat, which irked Siddaramaiah who is a native of Mysuru. Sait, a former minister who was in charge of the polls, has defended this saying he had to do whatever it took to keep the BJP out of power. But if one is to go deeper, Sait has joined a growing list of Congress’ Muslim leaders who feel sidelined because of the attention Khan is receiving from Siddaramaiah. In June 2018, Sait had publicly chided Khan, questioning his acceptance within the Muslim community. According to a senior Muslim leader, Khan’s rise was the reason behind former minister R Roshan Baig’s exit from the party. “Even CM Ibrahim is going away from the party because of Khan. Other senior Muslim leaders such as K Rahman Khan (former MP) and K Abdul Jabbar (former MLC) are also unhappy,” the leader said. Speculation is rife that the JD(S) is looking to milk this disgruntlement by trying to lure both Ibrahim and Sait.   Zameer, who was with the JD(S), switched to the Congress just before the 2018 elections in a move engineered by Siddaramaiah. Since then, Zameer has become Siddaramaiah’s blue-eyed boy, it is said. “Siddaramaiah chose Khan over Baig for a ministerial berth during the Congress-JD(S) coalition. Also, he pitched for Zameer’s name for the post of Congress working president, which eventually went to Saleem Ahmed,” a source said. Zameer accompanied Siddaramaiah during his recent visit to New Delhi to meet former AICC president Rahul Gandhi.  Such is Zameer’s loyalty to Siddaramaiah that he is said to have offered to vacate his Chamarajpet seat to the former chief minister in the next election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/baig-ibrahim-and-now-sait-why-are-karnataka-congress-muslim-leaders-upset-956119.html
27-02-2021||Main Article||Farmers' protest: Holding key to India’s future||From all accounts, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his team have been unable thus far to meet the challenge posed by the clean and clear opposition to the farm laws from ordinary farmers and their quickly emerging and evolving leadership. Unlike the establishment, the farmers do not have access to the unlimited resources, superior organisation skills or the communications reach of officialdom.   Yet, they have been able to present their case in a language and with stories that hit back hard at the makers of these laws, ridiculing in particular the Prime Minister and his party, but also raising serious issues that have got many rethinking the merits of not only these laws but a lot else about the Modi style and manner of working.   Why is the powerful administration of the day, put in place by an overwhelming majority that was won only two years ago, unable to respond to the demolition exercise that the farmers have got on to? So much has been written about the so-called legendary communication skills of the Prime Minister, yet he pales in front of the roaring rhetoric and upbeat imagery emerging from protest camps that are alive with ideas and imagination.  Irrespective of the merits or demerits of the case, or the eventual outcome of the protests, the triumph of the protestors in setting the agenda and pushing their point at least in the immediate is evident. It can be seen in the way the story of an allegedly sold-out establishment and party has travelled and caught wind, in the way the police have been used to try and tame the protests and the way charges of sedition are being thrown around in attempts to use administrative guile and power to secure political process.  As analyst Yogendra Yadav put it: “The government is adopting all the repressive measures, mischief and manipulation including arrests, detentions and registration of cases against the protesters. Delhi’s Singhu border  has been fortified and appears to be an international border.” Yet, the farmers' agitation has grown and sustained over a long enough period of time to become the most potent and powerful challenge to the leadership of Modi and his brute majority in Parliament. Protests have now continued for over 100 days, have led to the loss of several lives from among the protestors and this has only increased the resolve of the farmers and got more people and groups over to their side as newer alliances are tested and built.  This celebrates the idea of active resistance against an overbearing authority, particularly in these times when the brute majority is prone to excesses and does not hesitate to push any and every button to make its point and get its way. At another level, we can despair at the ease with which this force is being used and the lack of any pushback from among our institutions or even within the BJP that is known to talk so much about inner party democracy. The BJP is now and has been for some time almost a one-man party, or one-and-a-half man party that has no dissent in its ranks. They all speak in one voice.  The latest was over last weekend, which offered dramatic contrasts at play in an India that is increasingly being divided at multiple levels. Barnala in Punjab witnessed the biggest rally yet against the farm laws with some dramatic pictures indicating the size of the protest. In New Delhi, a meeting of the newly-appointed national office bearers of the BJP thanked Modi for the farm reforms and also for steering the nation successfully in the midst of a pandemic. The farmers cheered and agreed to intensify their protests. The BJP behind closed doors apparently clapped and patted itself. It was a picture of the Orwellian classic ‘Animal Farm’ at work.  Power centres The power centres of New Delhi are today occupied by a new Lutyens’ class that appears wedded to the idea of rebuilding India in a mould that is steeped in a convoluted ideology, a misunderstood sense of India’s past and its glory and a vision that excels in bulk buying of prejudice.   These shape today’s idea of performance and governance, and its one big idea is showmanship for the sake of showmanship. Modi shaped this idea of India even before 2014 when he said at a meeting in Mumbai that India must have the bullet train not because people will travel in it but because we can show the world what a great power we are. To boot, he added, China does it, too. They show us their Shanghai and not the rest of China, don’t they?  A world view arising from these ways of thinking was always going to be disastrous. We are seeing only bits and parts of this at work. When blind ideology of the extremes, be it Left or Right, socialism or capitalism, license Raj or free markets, becomes an end in itself, disconnected from the needs and mood of our times and the reality on the ground, policy gets reduced to pushing propaganda. Views are turned to extreme. Positions get rigid. Divisions are created. Breakdowns will follow. Complex issues are now sought to be solved with simplistic readings and actions. When further peppered with narrow thinking, fueled by an abundance of prejudice and guided by a moral compass that was always wonky, what can strike but the unmitigated disaster that is unfolding before us right now? We don’t know where the farmers’ agitation will take us. The government is unlikely to give in. The farmers are standing their ground. In this confrontation, a lot else that will have a longer-term impact on the future of India is at stake and will be decided.    (The writer is a journalist and faculty member, Bhavan’s SPJIMR) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/farmers-protest-holding-key-to-india-s-future-955815.html
27-02-2021||National||After live streaming, Gujarat High Court opens account on Telegram for daily updates||After starting live streaming proceeding from the court of Chief Justice on YouTube on experiment basis, the Gujarat High Court on Friday said that it is launching its own channel on messaging app Telegram to give daily updates from March 1. A press note issued late on Friday night from the office of high court Registrar General stated, "Based on the vision, guidance and directions of Chief Justice of High Court of Gujarat, Justice Vikram Nath, with the objective of furthering the ease and convenience for the advocates, litigants and all the stakeholders, an additional platform for information dissemination i.e. an official Telegram Channel of the High Court, is being started." It said that all daily updates such as notices, circulars, complete causelists, YouTube live streaming, among others, which are updated on its website, will be uploaded on this channel from next month. "By way of this additional mode of providing updates, the channel subscribers will be able to keep themselves updated with latest information without having to frequently check the website for the same. This would also take care of the situations when for any reasons, the the aforesaid updates on the website are inaccessible," the note stated. It said that in future, "more services through Telegram platform may be initiated like advocate wise causelists, case status, orders, judgments and other case related information." Earlier in October, the high court started on trial basis live streaming of its first court, a division bench, headed by Chief Justice Vikram Nath on YouTube which is accessible to all. The Telegram account as well as live streaming on YouTube are said to be one-of-its-kind decisions. "In order to ascertain the feasibility and workability of the available options for the same, this is to direct that, court proceedings of the Division Bench No. 1 (First Court) of the High Court will be telecast live, purely on experimental basis, from today the 26th October, 2020 on Youtube, link of which would be available from the homepage of the website of the High Court," the court had announced back then. "With a view to effectuating and broadening the implementation of Open Court concept even during the virtual hearings of the Court, this High Court has already taken up on administrative side, to work out the modalities that can be adopted for giving access to anyone who wishes to watch the Court proceedings in live. Aspect of ensuring smooth functioning of the Benches and distraction free virtual hearing while making open such access, are being deliberated upon," the press release issued by the court had stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-live-streaming-gujarat-high-court-opens-account-on-telegram-for-daily-updates-955829.html
27-02-2021||National||DGCA extends suspension of international commercial passenger flights till March 31||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday extended the suspension of international commercial passenger flight services till March 31. Scheduled international flight operations were suspended from March 23 last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. "In partial modification of circular dated June 26, 2020, the competent authority has further extended the validity... regarding scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India till 23.59 pm IST of March 31, 2021," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular. However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on select routes by the competent authority on case-to-case basis, it said. The restriction will not apply to cargo flights and flights specifically approved by DGCA, the circular added. Amid the suspension, special international flights have been allowed under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with select countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with several countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France, among others. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-extends-suspension-of-international-commercial-passenger-flights-till-march-31-955834.html
27-02-2021||National||No postal ballot facility for overseas Indian voters in five assembly polls||Eligible overseas Indian voters will not get the facility of postal ballots in the five assembly elections to be held in March and April as the government wants the Election Commission to consult various stakeholders before the facility is rolled out. Responding to a question on whether the facility of Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) would be extended to overseas voters in the assembly elections to West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora replied in a negative. "As far as NRI voters are concerned, the commission (EC) has sent a very empathetic and very positive note to the Law Ministry over a month-and-a-half back over finding a way out for that. The law ministry referred it to the Ministry of External Affairs. I spoke to the foreign secretary also. They have responded in detail and they have said we should have a broad spectrum meeting of the stakeholders," Arora said. He said the meeting could take place within a month. Asked if the facility would be available in the five assembly polls, Arora said, "No." Arora was addressing a press conference to announce the dates of elections to the five assemblies. As of now, overseas Indians are free to cast their votes in constituencies they are registered. Unofficial data with the Election Commission (EC) shows that only 10,000-12,000 overseas voters have exercised their franchise. The EC has proposed to the government to extend the ETPBS facility, so far available only to service voters, to eligible overseas Indian voters as well. In a letter to the legislative secretary in the Law Ministry on November 27 last year, the commission said that with the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, it is now "confident" that the facility can also be extended to the overseas electors. "The commission is technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry," the poll panel had said. The EC said it has been receiving several representations from the Indian diaspora residing abroad to facilitate voting through postal ballots since such overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling area as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair, and otherwise also, they cannot leave the country of their residence owing to specific compulsions of employment, education or other engagements. "Due to protocols associated with COVID-19, the problem further gets compounded," the letter to the Law Ministry said. Voting for the five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal having eight phases continuing till April 29, while counting of votes will be done on May 2, the Election Commission said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-postal-ballot-facility-for-overseas-indian-voters-in-five-assembly-polls-955844.html
27-02-2021||National||Sitharaman highlights India's policy response to Covid at G20 meet||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday highlighted India's policy response to Covid-19 pandemic and the world's largest inoculation drive during a meeting with her G-20 counterparts. Speaking at the virtual meeting of the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors, she said India's domestic policies have been based broadly on supporting citizens through measures such as credit guarantees, direct transfers, food guarantees, economic stimulus packages and accelerating structural reforms. Sitharaman also spoke about India's vaccination programme, which is the world's largest and the most ambitious vaccination drive. The Finance Minister also mentioned that India has extended vaccine support to several countries, an official statement said. This was the first such meeting under Italian Presidency and it discussed policy actions for transformative and equitable recovery along with other issues on the agenda, including global economic outlook, financial sector issues, financial inclusion and sustainable finance. During the meeting, G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors also discussed the implications of climate change on global growth and financial stability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-highlights-indias-policy-response-to-covid-at-g20-meet-955885.html
27-02-2021||National||WHO DG thanks PM for support to COVAX, Modi says India committed to sharing resources||India is committed to sharing resources, experiences and knowledge for global good, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday after WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus thanked him for supporting the COVAX scheme that distributes Covid-19 vaccines to developing countries. "Thanks India & Prime Minister @narendramodi for supporting Vaccine Equity. Your commitment to COVAX and sharing Covid-19 vaccine doses is helping 60+ countries start vaccinating their health workers and other priority groups. I hope other countries will follow your example," the World Health Organisation Director-General said in a tweet late Thursday. Responding to the tweet, Modi said, "Thank you @DrTedros. We are all together in the fight against this pandemic. India is committed to sharing resources, experiences, and knowledge for global good." Earlier this week, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had said India's vaccine capacity will generate another 1.1 billion doses for the WHO-led COVAX scheme that distributes them to developing countries. The aim of COVAX is to accelerate the development and manufacture of Covid-19 vaccines, and to guarantee fair and equitable access for every country in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-dg-thanks-pm-for-support-to-covax-modi-says-india-committed-to-sharing-resources-955888.html
27-02-2021||National||Sedition charges against scibes, activists in India departure from human rights principle: UN||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi on Friday drew flak from United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, who said that the charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the protests by farmers were “disturbing departures from essential human rights principles” The protests by the farmers against the new agricultural laws introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government emphasized that new legislation and policies should be brought into effect after discussion with the stakeholders, Bachelet said in her statement at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on Friday. She also expressed concern over “restrictions on communications and clampdowns on civil society activists” in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. “In India, continued protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers highlight the importance of ensuring laws and policies are based on meaningful consultations with those concerned,” she said, adding: “I trust that ongoing dialogue efforts by both sides (the government and agitating farmers) will lead to an equitable solution to this crisis that respects the rights of all.” She said that the Office of High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) continued to monitor the situation in J&K, where restrictions imposed by the Government of India on communications, and clampdowns on civil society activists, remained a matter of concern. “Despite recent restoration of 4G access for mobile phones, the communications blockade has seriously hampered civic participation, as well as business, livelihoods, education, and access to health-care and medical information,” she noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-charges-against-scibes-activists-in-india-departure-from-human-rights-principle-un-955892.html
27-02-2021||National||EC announces dates for bypoll elections in Malappuram and Kanniyakumari||The Election Commission on Friday announced the schedule of the bypolls in Malappuram and Kanniyakumari parliamentary constituencies in Kerala and Tamil Nadu respectively. The schedule of the bye-election in Belgaum parliamentary constituency in Karnataka is also likely to be announced soon – in order to fill the Lok Sabha vacancy created that was created when Suresh Angadi, Minister of State for Railways, died of Covid-19 in September 2020. The polling for the bye-elections in both the Lok Sabha constituencies would be held on April 6 along with the assembly elections in the two States. The votes will be counted on on May 2. The bypoll in Kanniyakumari in Tamil Nadu was necessitated after the death of the Congress MP H Vasanthakumar due to Covid-19 in August 2020. The bye-election in Malappuram in Kerala will be held to fill the vacancy created following resignation of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader K Kunhalikutty.  Arora, who will complete his tenure as the Chief Election Commissioner on April 13, said that the EC would appoint two special police observers for West Bengal and could also send another if required. He justified the decision to hold polling in the state in eight phases. “After all the elections to West Bengal (assembly) in 2016 was in seven phases. The Lok Sabha was in seven phases. So, seven to eight (phases) is not such a big deal, because we also have to see the movement of forces, we also have to see the current charges and counter-charges (by political parties),” he said. The commission will also deploy two special expenditure observers in Tamil Nadu to ensure that polling in the “expenditure sensitive” state could take place without any misuse of money power by the politicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-announces-dates-for-bypoll-elections-in-malappuram-and-kanniyakumari-955893.html
27-02-2021||National||DH Toon | New social media rules 'Catch-22' for BJP IT cell!||The government on Thursday announced new rules to regulate digital content to create a 'level playing field' for all stakeholders, with a Code of Ethics and a three-tier grievance redressal framework for news websites and OTT platforms. Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said these rules will empower social media users while bringing in a first-of-its-kind code, which prescribes how digital platforms will regulate themselves to fall in line with Indian laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-new-social-media-rules-catch-22-for-bjp-it-cell-955895.html
27-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 27||Petrol and diesel prices remained more or less the same as the previous day on Saturday. Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 27:   Rs 87.33/L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-27-955898.html
27-02-2021||National||Farmers observe 'Yuva Kisan Diwas' at protest sites against farm laws||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions agitating against three new agriculture laws of the Centre, observed "Yuva Kisan Diwas" at the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border protest sites on Friday. In a statement, the SKM said the stages put up at the protest sites were managed by youngsters as they vowed to make the movement a success and that they will not let the sacrifice of many of them "go waste". The protesting farmers also paid tributes to 18-year-old Navjot Singh, who passed away at the Singhu border on Friday. The statement said youngsters are stressed about the "increasing unemployment and privatisation of education" and accused the government of orchestrating policies to displace them from agriculture and villages. Welcoming the Punjab and Haryana High Court order to release Nodeep Kaur on bail, the SKM said she fought for "kisan-mazdoor" unity and lent strength to the movement. Kaur was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Haryana's Sonipat on January 12. The SKM also demanded the immediate release of Shiv Kumar and condemned the alleged custodial torture on him. Kumar, president of the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, was held a few days after the arrest of labour rights activist Kaur. Kumar is co-accused with Kaur in a criminal case registered by the Sonipat police. The SKM said the day also witnessed the participation of farmers from Muzaffarpur in Bihar and activists of the Sangharsh Vahini set up by Jai Prakash Narayan. A large delegation of protesters from south India reached the Singhu border on Friday, after being in Shahjahanpur and Ghazipur over the past two days, the SKM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-observe-yuva-kisan-diwas-at-protest-sites-against-farm-laws-955899.html
27-02-2021||National||Odisha CM urges banks to increase credit flow to farmers, SHGs, MSMEs||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday urged banks to expedite the process of credit disbursement to farmers, self-help groups and MSMEs to help them overcome financial constraint arising out of the Covid-19 crisis. During a virtual meeting with bankers, district collectors and top officers of the state government on the credit linkage issues, he hailed a section of lenders for making progress in providing loans to the priority sector. The chief minister said farmers, 'Mission Shakti' groups and MSMEs need credit to run and expand their businesses. "We need to support them," Patnaik said. From the last meeting in December last year, an additional amount of around Rs 1,600 crore was given to "Mission Shakti" groups, which is Rs 500 crore more than the annual target, the chief minister said. He said the state government has substantially increased the budget allocation for these sectors in the 2021-22 fiscal. The state is also providing interest subvention under various schemes to reduce the burden on people and enhance credit linkages, Patnaik said. The annual credit target for self-help groups was Rs 3,240 crore and the actual disbursement to them was at Rs 3,745 crore by January, he said. The average loan size in the SHG sector is Rs 1.49 lakh, which needs to be improved to at least Rs 2 lakh, the chief minister said. Mentioning that farmers are the backbone of the state, Patnaik said crop loan advances now stand at Rs 20,606 crore, exceeding the last year's disbursement of Rs 20,000 crore. Patnaik said the overall credit flow to MSMEs during the last two months has been satisfactory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-cm-urges-banks-to-increase-credit-flow-to-farmers-shgs-msmes-955905.html
27-02-2021||National||India hit by 'double whammy' of low growth, high inflation: Congress slams Modi govt||Attacking the government over the state of the economy, the Congress on Friday said the people have been hit by the double whammy of low growth and high inflation for which the Modi government's "gross mismanagement" is responsible. The attack came after the Indian economy, which had been contracting for two quarters in a row, recorded a positive growth of 0.4 per cent in the October-December quarter, mainly due to good performance by farm, services and construction sectors, official data showed on Friday. Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the third-quarter GDP data proves yet again that fault lines in the Indian economy are more visible than ever before. The economy has grown by a mere 0.4 per cent in the third quarter of the financial year 2020-21, which is far below estimation, he said. "What continues to be an area of concern, however, is the advance estimates for the entire financial year. Central Statistics Office (CSO) has lowered GDP growth rate for FY2020-21 from its previous estimated minus 7.7 per cent to now minus 8 per cent," Surjewala said. It is also important to point out that Q1 GDP has now been revised lower to minus 24.4 per cent from the previously reported contraction of minus 23.9 per cent, he said in a statement. "Clearly, the ill-planned and poorly executed lockdown took a huge toll on the economy, which was already suffering from the twin body-blows of demonetisation and the ill-conceived GST," the Congress spokesperson alleged. A detailed analysis of the GDP numbers also proves the misplaced and irrational exuberance in India's stock markets, he said. Pointing out that private consumption expenditure at Rs 21.2 lakh crore is down by 2.4 per cent on a year-on-year basis, Surjewala claimed that it is clear that while demand for goods is picking up, the demand for services, which is the biggest contributor to the GDP, is trailing and is unlikely to revive for a few quarters in the future. "Contrary to claims, the Modi government has spent a lot less than what is needed to revive the Indian economy. Public administration in Q3 has contracted by minus 1.5 per cent," he said. "Q3 GDP growth numbers carry a big lesson for the insensitive Modi government. Agriculture, which has grown at 3.9 per cent in Q3, has continued to hold steady and which is why the government should stop treating the farmers so cruelly and insensitively," the Congress leader said. It should listen to the woes of millions of farmers agitating for justice and resolve their plight by rolling back the three "anti-agriculture black laws", Surjewala said.     "We have truly been hit by the double whammy of low growth and high inflation for which gross mismanagement and the unpardonable failure of leadership of the Modi government is solely responsible. Let us hope that an ignorant PM and FM finally realise the truth," he added. Earlier, in a tweet in Hindi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said, "No employment, rising prices, government enjoying, eyes closed, therefore — Bharat Bandh."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hit-by-double-whammy-of-low-growth-high-inflation-congress-slams-modi-govt-955909.html
27-02-2021||National||Election FAQs: How to report MCC violations on cVIGIL app||With the Assembly poll dates for Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry being announced, the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) laid down by the Election Commission of India (ECI) has now come into effect.  The MCC is a set of rules put in force by the Election Commission of India to guarantee free and fair elections. It is a set of norms that have evolved with political parties consenting to abide by the principles embodied in the said code. It also binds them to respect and observe it in its letter and spirit. It is generally expected that candidates will not engage in violation of any rules the ECI has put in place. However, to ensure that politicians toe the line, the poll body has an app to help citizens report any violation they see.  Here's how you can use the app to report a violation: Launched in 2018, the app, called cVIGIL, is available on the Play Store. Once you download the app, you can log into it, or even go anonymous, to register your complaint. Once you have logged in, the app will show a list of these probable MCC violations: Money Distribution, Gifts/Coupons Distribution, Liquor Distribution, Posters/Banners without permission, Display of Firearms, Intimidation, Vehicles or Convoys without permission, Paid News, Property Defacement, Transportation of voters on polling day, Campaigning within 200 meters of the polling booth., Campaigning during the ban period, Religious or communal speeches/messages, Use of speakers beyond the permitted time, Putting posters without a declaration, Transportation of public for rallies, Others.   After determining which category the violation comes under, you can record a video of under two minutes or take photographs and upload it through the app. Once uploaded, you should fill in the relevant details and submit the complaint. The ECI has pointed out that through the cVIGIL mobile app, the "common man has been given a power similar to that of an election observer, as they can lodge complaints of violation of the MCC, which will serve as an important link between the citizens and the Commission and can also help in making the by-elections fair, clean and transparent."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-how-to-report-mcc-violations-on-cvigil-app-955916.html
27-02-2021||National||India monitoring developments in Myanmar, urges leadership to resolve differences: Tirumurti||India will continue to closely monitor the recent developments in Myanmar and remains “concerned” that gains made by Nay Pyi Taw over the last decades on the path towards democracy should not get undermined, as New Delhi called on the Myanmar leadership to work together to resolve their differences in a “peaceful and constructive manner.” “India shares a land and maritime border with Myanmar and has direct stakes in the maintenance of peace and stability. The recent developments in Myanmar, are therefore being closely monitored by India. We remain concerned that the gains made by Myanmar over the last decades on the path towards democracy, should not get undermined,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said at the UN General Assembly briefing on Myanmar. The UN General Assembly held an informal meeting of the plenary to hear a briefing by the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General on Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener. India called on the Myanmar leadership to work together to resolve their differences in a peaceful and constructive manner. “India as a close friend and neighbour of Myanmar and its people, will continue to closely monitor the situation and will remain in discussion with like-minded countries so that the hopes and aspirations of the people are respected,” Tirumurti said. India underlined that restoring democratic order should be the priority of all stakeholders in Myanmar and the international community must lend its constructive support to the people of Myanmar at this critical juncture. Tirumurti told the UNGA meeting that as the largest democracy, India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar for it to emerge as a stable democratic federal union. “A significant area of our focus has been capacity building, including in the areas of constitution and federalism for political leaders and elected representatives. We believe that the rule of law and democratic process must be upheld, those detained be released and that calm prevails,” he said. Earlier this month, the military in Myanmar seized power and detained State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, President U Win Myint and other top political leaders in the bloodless coup. In a video message to the 46th Regular Session of the Human Rights Council this week, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres asserted that “coups have no place in our modern world” and reiterated his call to the Myanmar military to stop the repression immediately. “Release the prisoners. End the violence. Respect human rights, and the will of the people expressed in recent elections.” On the issue of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, India said it has the “highest stake” in resolving the issue of repatriation of the displaced persons as it is the only country that shares a long border with both Bangladesh and Myanmar. “We have continued to counsel our partners on the need for a balanced and constructive approach to this issue. For this, mobilisation of support for the developmental needs of the local people is crucial. India has been consistently encouraging stakeholders to find practical and pragmatic solutions,” Tirumurti said. Tirumurti called for an “early resolution” of the issue of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar. “We need to ensure that the recent developments in Myanmar do not impede the progress made so far. The international community must encourage and support positive steps,” he said. Underscoring that a “collaborative and consensus-based approach” is key to arrive at a meaningful and practical outcome, Tirumurti said the international community must work to address the challenges that the concerned stakeholders continue to face so that this humanitarian problem is resolved in a timely manner. “India will continue to work with both the Governments of Bangladesh and Myanmar to enable the earliest return of displaced persons to their homes in the Rakhine State in a manner that is safe, speedy and sustainable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-monitoring-developments-in-myanmar-urges-leadership-to-resolve-differences-tirumurti-955917.html
27-02-2021||National||With 16,000 new cases, Covid-19 surge in India continues||India registered a single-day spike of over 16,000 Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 1,10,79,979, while the recoveries surged to 1,07,63,451, according to Union Health Ministry data. A total of 16,488 novel coronavirus cases were reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 1,56,938 with 113 new fatalities, showed the data updated at 8 am on Saturday. The active case count has further increased to 1,59,590, which comprises 1.44 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of recoveries reached 1,07,63,451, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.14 per cent and the case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. A total of 16,577 new Covid-19 cases were reported in India on Friday, while 16,738 fresh infections were registered in the country on Thursday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. The 113 new fatalities include 48 from Maharashtra , 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 52,041 in Maharashtra, 12,488 in Tamil Nadu, 12,320 in Karnataka, 10,906 in Delhi, 10,263 in West Bengal, 8,725 in Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 in Andhra Pradesh. For the first time, a coronavirus-linked death has been reported in Lakshadweep. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-16000-new-cases-covid-19-surge-in-india-continues-955922.html
27-02-2021||National||Here's how you can register for the Covid-19 vaccine||As the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India kicks off, people over the age of 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities will be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1. On February 26, 2021, the Union Health Ministry disclosed that those willing to take the Covid-19 vaccine would have to follow one of the three routes to get the jab. Here is all you need to know about registering for the Covid-19 vaccine:  1. The process of registration shall be through three routes — Advance Self-Registration, On-site Registration, and Facilitated Cohort Registration. 2. The beneficiaries will be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal. This can also be done through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu etc.  3. After self-registration, the government and private hospitals serving as CVCs will show up with availbale dates and time slots. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. 4. Those who cannot self-register in advance, have the option to register on-site, allowing them to walk into the identified CVC and get vaccinated. 5. There is also a third option wherein the state governments can register bulk slots for inoculating a group of individuals and bring them to the vaccination centre. A specific date for Covid-19 vaccination will be decided where target groups of potential beneficiates will be vaccinated. State and health authorities will ensure that the target groups are brought to the vaccination centres. ASHAs, ANMs, Panchayati Raj representatives and Women's Self Help Groups (SHGs) will help in mobilising the groups. 6.  Citizens above 60 years are eligible for the vaccine while those between 45-59 years will have to produce a certificate from a registered doctor specifying the comorbidities that they may have. The cut-off date for calculating the age is January 1, 2021. 7. The healthcare and frontline workers who had missed out on their vaccination schedule can also get the shots if they produce a letter from their employer or an ID card as proof of their profession. 8. All beneficiaries would be captured on Co-WIN 2.0 platform and issued a digital QR Code based provisional (on receiving the first dose) and final (on receiving the second dose) certificates. 9. The vaccination certificates can be downloaded from the link shown in the SMS the beneficiary shall receive after the vaccination. Print outs of these certificates can also be taken from the vaccination centres. 10. As the Co-WIN software is being upgraded, there would not be any vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. The upgraded software will also be rolled out on March 1. How much will the vaccines cost? Vaccination will be free of charge at government vaccination centres. Those taking the Covid-19 vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge, the Union Health Ministry said. However, the amount charged at private hospitals will be decided by the Health Ministry within the next three-four days as they are holding talks with manufacturers as well as hospitals. Which documents are required? All beneficiaries, regardless of the mode of access, will have to carry any one of the following photo ID document — Aadhar Card, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhar or EPIC), certificate of co-morbidity for citizens in the age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner), employment certificate/ Official Identity Card – (either but with photo and date of birth) for HCWs and FLWs. Since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive which was rolled out on January 16, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to healthcare and frontline workers has crossed 1.23 crore in the country. Earlier this week, the Union Cabinet approved rolling out the vaccine for the general population from March 1 at 10,000 government and 20,000 private hospitals. The Centre has set aside a corpus of Rs 35,000 crore for the vaccination drive. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-register-for-the-covid-19-vaccine-955930.html
27-02-2021||National||Vice President, Prime Minister pay tributes to saint-poet Ravidas on his birth anniversary||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid tributes to saint-poet Ravidas on his birth anniversary. "My humble tributes to great poet-saint Guru Ravidas Ji on his Jayanti today. Ravidas Ji believed in universal brotherhood and spread the message of unity through his writings & teachings. As we remember him, let us emulate his teachings & resolve to follow the path shown by him," Naidu said on Twitter. Prime Minister Modi said the messages given by Saint Ravidas centuries ago on equality, goodwill and compassion will inspire the people of the country for ages. "My humble tributes to him (Saint Ravidas) on his birth anniversary)," the prime minister tweeted. The prime minister also greeted people on the occasion of 'Magh Purnima'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-prime-minister-pay-tributes-to-saint-poet-ravidas-on-his-birth-anniversary-955941.html
27-02-2021||National||Gold loan waivers to wage hike: Politicians rush to woo voters in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala||As the Assembly polls in Kerala, West Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu are around the corner, political parties are pulling out all stops to attract voters and win their confidence. From offering gold loan waivers to launching various welfare schemes, political parties are upping their game in the race to garner more votes. Here is a look at some of the latest sops announced by political parties in poll-bound states: Gold loan waiver A short while before the Election Commission announced the dates for the Assembly polls in the state, Chief Minister E Palaniswami declared that gold loans against up to six sovereigns given by cooperative banks to farmers and the poor will be waived. The chief minister said this move would help the poor reclaim their gold which they had pledged during the Covid-19 lockdown. The Tamil Nadu Assembly also passed a Bill to provide 10.5 per cent reservation for the Vanniyar community, minutes before the EC announced the dates. Leader of the Opposition M K Stalin of the DMK has also vowed to visit every constituency and collect grievances in a box. He has promised to address each grievance he receives within the first 100 days of forming his government. In a rebuttal, the ruling AIADMK government has set up a helpline number for the same.  Daily wage hike  As the political battle is heating up in the eastern state, TMC chief and CM Mamata Banerjee announced yesterday a hike in the wages of daily-wage labourers under the West Bengal Urban Employment Scheme. The CM tweeted that up to 56,600 workers in the state will benefit from this move. I am pleased to announce a HIKE in the wages of daily wage workers under WB Urban Employment Scheme: > To ₹202 per day from ₹144 earlier for unskilled labour > To ₹303 from ₹172 earlier for semi-skilled > ₹404 for skilled labour (new category introduced) (1/2) The BJP, which is working hard to shed its ‘outsider’ tag and wrest power from the Mamata government, has promised 33 per cent reservation for women in government jobs if it comes to power.  In the party’s Poriborton Yatra in the poll-bound state, Union Minister Amit Shah also said the BJP will work towards the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission. Shah also promised to set up an integrated fishery zone in the state and a seafood processing hub.  Withdrawal of cases The Left Democratic Front government led by CM Pinarayi Vijayan announced last week its decision to withdraw cases registered in the Sabrimala agitation and the anti-CAA protests that have plagued the state in the past years. Close to 2,000 cases were registered during 2018-19. The ruling party has been contemplating how best to address the issue of Sabrimala as polls approach while Opposition parties in the state including the Congress have taken a stand on the issue. The UDF had announced recently that it would withdraw the cases if it came to power. The BJP, on the other hand, has promised to bring legislation like the UP ‘Love Jihad’ law in the state, looking to win over the Hindu and Christian communities of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gold-loan-waivers-to-wage-hike-politicians-rush-to-woo-voters-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-kerala-955946.html
27-02-2021||National||PM Modi to receive global energy and environment leadership award||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will receive the CERAWeek global energy and environment leadership award during an annual international energy conference next week. The prime minister will also deliver the keynote address at the CERAWeek Conference-2021, which will be held virtually from March 1 to 5, its organiser, IHS Markit, said on Friday. Prominent speakers at the conference include US special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry, Co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and founder of Breakthrough Energy Bill Gates and president and CEO, Saudi Aramco, Amin Nasser. "We look forward to Prime Minister Modi's perspectives on the role of the world's largest democracy and are pleased to honour him with the CERAWeek Global Energy and Environment Leadership Award for his commitment to expanding India's leadership in sustainable development to meet the country's, and the world's, future energy needs," IHS Markit vice chairman and the conference's chair, Daniel Yergin, said. In charting its path towards economic growth, poverty reduction and a new energy future, India has emerged at the centre of global energy and the environment, and its leadership is crucial to meet climate objectives for a sustainable future while ensuring universal energy access, he said. The annual international conference is a gathering of energy industry leaders, experts, government officials and policy makers, leaders from the technology, financial and industrial communities, and energy technology innovators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-receive-global-energy-and-environment-leadership-award-955955.html
27-02-2021||National||Countdown begins for PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission||The countdown for the launch of the PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission commenced on Saturday from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. PSLV-C51 rocket, which is the 53rd mission of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle), will launch Amazonia-1 of Brazil as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger satellites from Sriharikota, about 100 kms from Chennai, Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said in a statement. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1024 hours on February 28, subject to weather conditions. The countdown began at 0854 hours. PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm. NSIL is undertaking this mission under a commercial arrangement with Seattle, US-based satellite rideshare and mission management provider, Spaceflight Inc. Amazonia-1 is the optical earth observation satellite of the National Institute for Space Research (INPE). "This satellite would further strengthen the existing structure by providing remote sensing data to users for monitoring deforestation in the Amazon region and analysis of diversified agriculture across the Brazilian territory", the statement said. The 18 co-passenger satellites are -- four from the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (three UNITYsats from the consortium of three Indian academic institutes and one Satish Dhawan Sat from Space Kidz India) and 14 from NSIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/countdown-begins-for-pslv-c51/amazonia-1-mission-955959.html
27-02-2021||National||Assembly Election FAQ: How to register as an NRI voter||The ECI, as it turns out, allows overseas Indians to register as an NRI voter. As long as a prospective voter is a citizen of India, absent from the country owing to employment, education etc, has not acquired citizenship of any other country, and is otherwise eligible to be registered as a voter in the address mentioned in their passport, they can vote in the election.  Here's how to register yourself as an NRI voter:  Documents Required: 1. One recent passport size coloured photograph affixed in Form 6A. 2. Self attested photocopies of the relevant pages of the passport containing photograph, address in India and all other. 3. The page of the passport containing the valid visa endorsement. Step 3: Submit the form | The form can be submitted in person or by post. A) If the application is sent by post, the photocopy of each of the documents referred to above should be duly self-attested. B) Alternatively you can fill the form in person at the Electoral Registration Officer / Assistant ERO of the constituency. If the application submitted in person before the ERO, the original passport should be produced for verification. The verification process: 1. Booth Level Officer will visit the home address mentioned in your passport and enquire to verify the copies of documents. 2. In cases where no relative is available or willing to give declaration for verification of documents, the documents will be sent for verification to the concerned Indian Mission. 3. Decision of the ERO will be communicated to you by post on the address and SMS on the mobile number given in Form 6A. Electoral rolls are also on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer. 4. Names of overseas electors are included in a separate section for "Overseas Electors" which is the last section of the roll of each polling station area. 5. You can use Form-8 for making any correction in the electoral roll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-election-faq-how-to-register-as-an-nri-voter-955971.html
27-02-2021||National||'Hunar Haat' playing key role in making 'Vocal for Local' campaign a mass movement: Naqvi||'Hunar Haat', the Minority Affairs Ministry's flagship initiative to encourage master artisans, is playing a "phenomenal" role in making "Vocal for Local" campaign a mass movement, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Saturday. Addressing media persons at the 'Hunar Haat' being held at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here, the Minority Affairs Minister said more than 12 lakh people have visited the 'Hunar Haat' which opened on February 20. The number of visitors is likely to go over 16 lakh in the next two days. The 'Hunar Haat' will be concluding on March 1, 2021. The 10-day 'Hunar Haat' was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Several ministers, MPs, senior government officials, various diplomats, industrialists have come here to encourage the artisans and craftsmen, Naqvi said. He said the ministry's flagship initiative has become a "proud promoter" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Vocal for Local" campaign with people purchasing handmade products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen worth crores of rupees. More than 600 artisans and craftsmen from more than 31 states and UTs are participating in the 'Hunar Haat' in New Delhi. Artisans and craftsmen from states and UTs such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, are participating in the 'Hunar Haat' here for the display and sale of their products. Naqvi said exquisite indigenous handmade products such as Applique work, jute-cane, brass products, wooden and clay toys, Ajrakh block print, blue art pottery, pashmina shawl, Khadi products, Banarasi Silk, Lac bangles, Rajasthani jewellery, Phulkari, Khurja pottery are available for sale and display at the 'Haat'. The visitors also enjoyed traditional delicacies from every region of the country at 'Bawarchikhana' section, Naqvi said. Different cultural and musical programmes were performed at he 'Haat' here by renowned artists of the country such as Shri Vinod Rathore, Nizami Brothers and Sudesh Bhonsle. The 'Hunar Haat' has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 5,30,000 artisans, craftsmen and artists, Naqvi said. The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will provide employment and employment opportunities to 7,50,000 artisans and craftsmen through 75 'Hunar Haat' which will be organised by completion of 75 years of the country's independence in 2022. The next 'Hunar Haat' will be organised in Bhopal (March 12-21); Goa (March 25-April 4); Kota (April 9-18). 'Hunar Haat' will also be organised in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Jaipur, Patna, Prayagraj, Ranchi, Jammu and Kashmir, among other places, this year. Naqvi said 'Hunar Haat' is available on virtual and online platform http://hunarhaat.org and on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) Portal where the people can buy products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hunar-haat-playing-key-role-in-making-vocal-for-local-campaign-a-mass-movement-naqvi-955981.html
27-02-2021||National||MP CM predicts 'spectacular' win for BJP in WB polls||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday expressed confidence that the BJP would clinch a "spectacular" victory in the upcoming West Bengal Assembly polls and come to power in that state as people there have now risen against the "misgovernance" of the Mamata Banerjee-led dispensation. He also said that he will take part in the Parivartan Yatra in West Bengal on Sunday. Talking to reporters here, Chouhan said, "I will reach Kolkata tonight to take part in the Parivartan rally tomorrow. I will address three public meetings there as part of it." The Election Commission on Friday announced eight-phased polling in West Bengal from March 27 to April 29. "The assembly poll bugle has been sounded in West Bengal. A BJP wave is prevailing there. Mamata didi is frightened and furious too," he said. "That is why Parivartan rallies are being attacked and BJP workers have been killed. But their sacrifice won't go in vain. West Bengal has risen against Mamata didi's misgovernance, and also against goodaism, corruption and loot," Chouhan said. The BJP is going to get spectacular success in West Bengal and form a government there, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-cm-predicts-spectacular-win-for-bjp-in-wb-polls-955983.html
27-02-2021||National||Mayawati pays tributes to Ravidas on his birth anniversary||BSP president Mayawati on Saturday paid tributes to saint-poet Ravidas on his birth anniversary and asked the BJP-led central and state governments to follow the path shown by him in serving the society and country. In tweets in Hindi, the BSP president recalled the works done by the governments led by her to realise the dreams of Ravidas. 1. ’मन चंगा तो कठौती में गंगा’ का अमर मानवतावादी संदेश देने वाले महान संतगुरु रविदास जी की जयन्ती पर उन्हें शत्-शत् नमन व देश व दुनिया में रहने वाले उनके करोड़ों अनुयाईयों को हार्दिक बधाई व शुभकामनाएं। संतगुरु ने अपना सारा जीवन आदमी को इन्सान बनाने के प्रयास में गुज़ारा। 1/2 "Under the BSP governments formed in the state four times, a lot of effort was made to realise the dreams of Santguru Ravidasji, and the work done in public interest and public welfare in his honour is not hidden from anyone. It will be appropriate if the central and state governments do good for the society and country by following the path shown by him," she said. "On the birth anniversary of the great saint Guru Ravidasji, who gave the immortal message of 'mann changa to kathauti mein Ganga', best wishes to the millions of followers in the country and world. Satguru spent his entire life in an attempt to turn man into a human being," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-pays-tributes-to-ravidas-on-his-birth-anniversary-955986.html
27-02-2021||National||AG declines consent to initiate contempt proceedings against ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||Attorney General K K Venugopal has declined to give his consent for initiation of contempt proceedings against former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi for his remark against the problems plaguing the Indian judiciary. Justice Gogoi, now a nominated Rajya Sabha member, has termed the country's judiciary as "ramshackled", making things difficult for a common man to get justice. In a request, activist Saket Gokhale has sought consent from the Attorney General to initiate contempt proceedings against Justice Gogoi. In his response, Venugopal said that Justice Gogoi made "very strong statements against the judiciary and the Supreme Court", which apparently "reflect his deep frustration with ills that undoubtedly beset the justice delivery system". He also said, "All that has been said was for the good of the institution and will not in any manner scandalise the court or lower its authority in the eyes of the public." A consent by the Attorney General or Solicitor General is a statutory requirement under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiation of such proceedings in the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ag-declines-consent-to-initiate-contempt-proceedings-against-ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-955987.html
27-02-2021||National||US owes India $216 billion as American debt soars to $29 trillion: Lawmaker||The US, the world's largest economy, owes India $216 billion in loan as the country's debt grows to a record $29 trillion, an American lawmaker has said, cautioning the leadership against galloping foreign debt, the largest of which comes from China and Japan. In 2020, the US national debt was $23.4 trillion, which was $72,309 in debt per person. “We are going to grow our debt to $29 trillion. That is even more debt owed per citizen. There is a lot of misinformation about where the debt is going. The top two countries we owe the debt to are China and Japan, not actually our friends,” Congressman Alex Mooney said. “We are at global competition with China all the time. They are holding a lot of the debt. We owe China over $1 trillion and we owe Japan over $1 trillion,” the Republican Senator from West Virginia said on the floor of the US House of Representatives as he and others opposed the latest stimulus package of $2 trillion. In January, US President Joe Biden announced a $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package to tackle the economic fallout from the pandemic, including direct financial aid to average Americans, support to businesses and to provide a boost to the national vaccination programme. “The people who are loaning us the money we have to pay back are not necessarily people who have our best interest at heart. Brazil, we owe $258 billion. India, we owe $216 billion. And the list goes on the debt that is owed to foreign countries,” Congressman Mooney said. America’s national debt was $5.6 trillion in 2000. During the Obama administration, it actually doubled. “Since the eight years Obama was President, we doubled our national debt. And we are adding another—projected here—a completely out of control debt-to-GDP ratio,” he said urging his Congressional colleagues to consider this national debt issue before approving the stimulus package. “So I urge my colleagues to consider the future. Don’t buy into the—the government has no money it doesn’t take from you that you are going to have to pay back. We need to be judicious with these dollars, and most of this is not going to coronavirus relief anyway,” he said. Congressmen Mooney said that things have gone completely out of control. The Congressional Budget Office estimates an additional $104 trillion will be added by 2050. The Congressional Budget Office forecasted debt would rise 200 per cent. “Today, as I stand here right now, we have $27.9 trillion in national debt...That is actually a little more than $84,000 of debt to every American citizen right here today,” Mooney said. “We have actually borrowed $10,000 per person in one year. I mean, that is out of control,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-owes-india-216-billion-as-american-debt-soars-to-29-trillion-lawmaker-955988.html
27-02-2021||National||Intervene in row between animal lovers, local residents over feeding stray dogs: Delhi HC to AWBI||The Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to intervene in the row between some animal lovers and residents of a sector in Vasant Kunj in the national capital overfeeding of stray dogs. The court also asked the AWBI to identify a spot where the canines can be fed so that "peace and harmony" can be maintained in the locality. Justice Prathiba M Singh issued the direction on a plea moved by the animal lovers against the "hindrances", being created by the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of E-2 Block of Vasant Kunj, in the feeding of stray dogs and in taking care of the canines. The petitioner-animal lovers, represented by advocate Abhik Chimni, told the court whenever they try to feed the street dogs, "enormous resistance is caused by the local residents". Justice Singh said there was a 2009 order of the high court directing the AWBI to identify suitable spots or sites in colonies for feeding stray dogs. "It, however, appears that there has been no consensus in identifying the suitable spot. The RWA appears to have been having apprehensions in view of the fact that children and senior residents also roam around in the open area of the block, for their own recreation," the court noted. The court also noted that the residents of the area were also concerned about the safety of the children and others living there. "The residents and the members of the RWA as also the petitioners have to act in harmony with each other and not in a manner which shall lead to unpleasant circumstances in the colony. "Accordingly, in order to maintain peace and harmony in the locality,...AWBI shall send two representatives on March 8 to hold a meeting with the RWA and the petitioners," the court directed. It further directed that during the meeting, the AWBI and the RWA shall interact with residents and the petitioners and identify a spot, not used by children, senior citizens or others, for feeding and taking care of the stray dogs. "Once the said spot is identified, the petitioners would feed and take care of the street dogs at that particular spot, and no hindrance, whatsoever, shall be caused to the petitioners in carrying out any activities in respect of the street dogs at the said spot," the court said. It said the SHO of the area shall also be present at the time of the meeting and the officer shall ensure that peace and harmony is maintained. With the direction, the court disposed of the plea moved by the animal lovers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intervene-in-row-between-animal-lovers-local-residents-over-feeding-stray-dogs-delhi-hc-to-awbi-955990.html
27-02-2021||National||India stresses on need for return of displaced Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar at UNGA||India has emphasised the need for an early return of displaced Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar, saying that it has the highest stake in resolving the issue since it is the only nation that shares a long border with both countries. Speaking at the informal UN General Assembly meeting on Friday on the situation in Myanmar after the military staged a coup this month, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said that it must be ensured that the recent developments in the country do not impede the progress made so far and the international community must encourage and support positive steps. Bangladesh is hosting over 1.1 million Rohingya refugees in Cox's Bazar, who fled Myanmar facing military crackdown, often considered as "ethnic cleansing" by many rights groups. Myanmar doesn’t recognise Rohingya as an ethnic group and insists that they are Bangladeshi migrants living illegally in the country. Myanmar military seized the power on February 1, detaining the country's de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The military coup took place at a time when Bangladesh was spearheading a desperate campaign for safe return of some 1.1 million Rohingyas. Tirumurti, addressing the issue of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, said India has the highest stake in resolving the issue of repatriation of the displaced persons since it is the only country that shares a long border with both Bangladesh and Myanmar. “We have continued to counsel our partners on the need for a balanced and constructive approach to this issue. For this, mobilisation of support for the developmental needs of the local people is crucial. India has been consistently encouraging stakeholders to find practical and pragmatic solutions,” he said. He emphasised the need for an early resolution of the issue of Rohingyas. Underscoring that a “collaborative and consensus-based approach” is key to arriving at a meaningful and practical outcome, Tirumurti said the international community must work to address the challenges that the concerned stakeholders continue to face so that this humanitarian problem is resolved in a timely manner. “India will continue to work with both the governments of Bangladesh and Myanmar to enable the earliest return of displaced persons to their homes in the Rakhine State in a manner that is safe, speedy and sustainable," he said. Commending Bangladesh for hosting over a million displaced persons in its territory, India said it is important for the international community to recognise and understand the humanitarian burden that Bangladesh continues to face and the efforts it has undertaken to ensure the well-being of the displaced persons. “The international community must further support, financially and otherwise, efforts of the government of Bangladesh and also assist in ensuring that issues relating to radicalisation in the camps and other security challenges are addressed in an expeditious manner,” Tirumurti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stresses-on-need-for-return-of-displaced-rohingyas-from-bangladesh-to-myanmar-at-unga-955993.html
27-02-2021||National||Catapult, 'lattu' teach children about gravity, kinetic energy, says PM Modi at India Toy Fair||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged toy manufacturers to make toys that would help children learn about science.  The prime minister gave various examples of how toys, for instance, a puzzle can help children think about finding possible solutions. He also said that catapult and 'lattu' (top) teach children about gravity and kinetic energy.  Speaking at the India Top Fair 2021, he asked the toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly material, in addition, to focus on innovation. "I would like to appeal to the toy manufacturers of the country to build such toys that are better both for ecology and psychology. Can we make an effort to make minimal use of plastic in toys and use such material that can be recycled?" he asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, "We have to become Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also cater to the global market". He regretted that India's share in the $100 billion global toy market is very less, and about 85 per cent of the toys sold in the country are imported. "We need to promote hand-made in India," he said. The Prime Minister also interacted with traditional toymakers from Chennapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and exhorted them to innovate and make traditional toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. The Prime Minister said the government has prepared a National Toy Action Plan by involving 15 ministries with a view to make the domestic toy industry competitive. The initiative, he added, is aimed at making India Aatmanirbhar in the toy sector and also increasing the presence of domestic toys in the global market. The Indian toy industry has tradition, technology, concepts and competence, Modi said, stressing that "we can give to the world eco-friendly toys". (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/catapult-lattu-teach-children-about-gravity-kinetic-energy-says-pm-modi-at-india-toy-fair-955995.html
27-02-2021||National||Govt defines 'significant social media intermediary'||The government has fixed fifty lakh registered users as the threshold for defining 'significant social media intermediary', which will have to adhere to additional obligations and compliance under the new IT rules that seek to crack down on misuse of social media platforms. The new rules, announced earlier this week, require 'significant social media intermediaries' to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. All three officials will have to reside in India. They will have to publish a monthly compliance report and details of the contents removed proactively. At present, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. "...the Central Government hereby specifies fifty lakh registered users in India as the threshold for a social media intermediary to be considered a significant social media intermediary," the notification said. Earlier on Thursday, the government announced the tightening of the rules governing social media and streaming companies, requiring them to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist investigations. The move aims to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram - which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India - more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to remove contentious content flagged by the government or court orders within 36 hours and take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint, as per the latest intermediary rules. Also, social media platforms on being asked by the court or government will be required to disclose the first originator of the mischievous information that undermines the sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. The new guidelines followed the government's spat with Twitter over allegedly inflammatory tweets and hashtags supporting farmer protests, with the microblogging service initially refusing to comply with orders to take down about 1,500 such posts and accounts. Twitter complied after it was threatened with penal action. IT industry body Nasscom on Friday said the new rules for social media, OTT and digital media players aim to address concerns like grievance redressal, fake news and online safety but will require the right implementation to ensure they don't become onerous for the platforms. There are, however, sections of the industry, including tech firm Mozilla which felt that certain provisions could "harm" freedom of expression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-defines-significant-social-media-intermediary-956002.html
27-02-2021||National||India, Bangladesh to expand cooperation on security, border issues||India and Bangladesh on Saturday resolved to further expand and strengthen mutual cooperation in the security and border related issues and not allow its territory to be used for any activity inimical to each other's interests. Both the countries, which "attach highest importance to their bilateral relations", also decided to further enhance the level of cooperation to prevent the smuggling of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) and contraband during the 19th Home Secretary Level Talks (HSLT) held online. The meeting came against the backdrop of ‘Mujib Barsho’ and 50 years of Bangladesh Liberation War and establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries. The Indian delegation was led by Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla while Bangladesh Senior Secretary (Public Security Division in Bangladesh's Ministry of Home Affairs led the officials from Dhaka. An official statement said both the Secretaries reiterated their commitment to further expand and strengthen mutual cooperation in the security and border related issues. Both sides also reaffirmed not to allow the territory of either country to be used for any activity inimical to each other’s interests. The two countries also reviewed the entire gamut of security and border related cooperation and agreed to work closely to fulfill the shared vision of the leadership of the two countries. "Both sides discussed early completion of pending fencing along the Indo Bangladesh Border (IBB) as agreed by the Prime Ministers of the two countries. Both sides appreciated the cooperation between the two countries and the action taken to address the menace of terrorism and extremism in an effective manner," it said. Another issue that came up for discussion was the functioning of the Coordinated Border Management Plan (CBMP) to control the illegal cross border activities. Both sides appreciated the effective functioning of CBMP. Bangladesh was appreciative of the assistance provided by India in the field of training and capacity building for various security agencies in their country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-to-expand-cooperation-on-security-border-issues-956005.html
27-02-2021||National||India rebuffs UN criticism of UK arms dealer's detention||India on Saturday hit back at UN rights experts who accused the country of jailing a British arms dealer extradited from the United Arab Emirates in a suspected swap for a runaway princess. Christian Michel has been imprisoned in India since December 2018 after he was extradited from Dubai on charges of bribing and conspiring with Delhi officials over a major helicopter deal. On Friday the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD) raised concerns that his extradition represented "a de facto swap" for India's capture and return of a high-profile detainee to the UAE, without providing more details. Michel's detention was politically motivated and without a legal basis, WGAD said, demanding his immediate release and compensation from both nations. But India's foreign ministry Saturday rejected the assessment and accused the expert group of bias, accusing them of having an "inaccurate understanding of the country's criminal justice system". They said that Michel's removal was permitted under an extradition treaty between the states. "The arrest and subsequent custody were done as per the due process of law and cannot be considered arbitrary on any grounds," it said. The ministry added that Michel has been given all legal rights. New Delhi did not directly comment, however, on allegations his extradition were part of a "de facto exchange" for princess Sheikha Latifa, daughter of Dubai's ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum. Latifa attempted to flee her homeland in December 2018 on a boat that was intercepted by commandos off India's coast, according to the UK-based group Detained in Dubai. The UN group of independent experts also did not name Sheikha Latifa, who media reports say has been in detention since the interception. The swap was reportedly authorised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bolster his image as being tough on corruption. New Delhi cancelled the AgustaWestland deal -- agreed under a previous government in 2010 -- in January 2014 amid allegations the firm paid bribes to win the $677 million contract for 12 helicopters. Indian investigators charged Michel in 2017, when he was working in the UAE, with arranging $52 million as kickbacks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rebuffs-un-criticism-of-uk-arms-dealers-detention-956017.html
27-02-2021||National||Pakistan ready to resolve all outstanding issues with India through dialogue, PM Imran Khan says||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday welcomed the ceasefire agreement with India and remains ready to move forward to resolve "all outstanding issues" through dialogue. In his first comments since the militaries of India and Pakistan jointly announced on Thursday that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) and other sectors, Khan said, "The onus of creating an enabling environment for further progress rests with India." "I welcome restoration of the ceasefire along the LOC. The onus of creating an enabling environment for further progress rests with India. India must take necessary steps to meet the long-standing demand & right of the Kashmiri people to self determination according to UNSC resolutions," Khan tweeted. I welcome restoration of the ceasefire along the LOC. The onus of creating an enabling environment for further progress rests with India. India must take necessary steps to meet the long-standing demand & right of the Kashmiri people to self determination acc to UNSC resolutions. "We have always stood for peace & remain ready to move forward to resolve all outstanding issues through dialogue," Khan said in a series of tweets. India and Pakistan issued a joint statement on Thursday to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the LoC and other sectors after hotline discussions by their Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMO). The decision by the two countries came into effect from the midnight of February 24/25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-ready-to-resolve-all-outstanding-issues-with-india-through-dialogue-pm-imran-khan-says-956018.html
27-02-2021||National||Election FAQs: How to apply for a voter ID online||Many among the 18 crore voters to exercise their franchise are likely to be new voters. For them, the ECI has provided a facility to apply for a voter ID online, allowing them to bypass the hassle of going to offices. Here's how to apply for a voter ID online: Documents required: 1. Passport-sized photograph 2. Identity proof: Birth certificate/Passport/driving licence/PAN card 3. Address proof: Ration card/Passport/DL/utility bill  The process of application: 1. Go to the website of the Election Commission of India. 2. Choose Form 6 for Application for inclusion of name in Electoral Roll. 3. In the NSVP, choose the option to register for a new elector. 4. Choose the appropriate state and Assembly constituency. 5. Fill in personal details as required in the form. 6. Provide a scanned copy of a photograph, identity proof and address proof. 7. Provide declaration details and hit 'submit. Upon submitting the application, the applicant will receive an email with a link that allows them to track the progress of their voter ID application.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-how-to-apply-for-a-voter-id-online-956030.html
27-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination Phase 2: Will you have to pay for shots?||India is presently conducting the largest coronavirus vaccination drive in the world. From March 1, the country will start the second phase of the vaccination drive. In the first phase, only the healthcare and frontline workers were vaccinated. In the second phase, those above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with existing illness that can result in co-morbidity if infected by Covid-19 will be given the vaccine. Private hospitals will also take part in the process. How much will it cost? Government hospitals will administer the vaccine free of cost. Those taking the Covid-19 vaccine at any designated/empanelled private health facility will have to pay a pre-fixed charge, the Union Health Ministry said. But it is yet to be known how much will the private hospitals charge for the vaccination. It will be decided by the Health Ministry within the next three-four days as they are holding talks with manufacturers as well as hospitals. According to Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, the coronavirus vaccine will cost Rs 250 in the private hospitals that state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-phase-2-will-you-have-to-pay-for-shots-956033.html
27-02-2021||National||Comments against judges a disturbing new trend: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday expressed strong disapproval of legal activists making objectionable comments about judges who do not pass favourable orders on their petitions, calling it a "disturbing new trend". Prasad was addressing a function here organised to mark the inauguration of a new building of the Patna High Court by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, in presence of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, among others. "We can surely criticise the reasoning of a judgement. But, I foresee a new trend which I need to flag today", Prasad said referring to "grossly unfair" comments on social media against judges by those who file PILs and feel aggrieved when the judgement is not favourable. Asserting that the judges of India, be they of the Supreme Court, the High Courts or the district courts must be given the freedom to decide a case as per their knowledge of the law and that though people were free to come up with their own analyses that was critical of a verdict, "trolling" and "agenda setting" were not acceptable. "I had been thinking of making my concerns public. I chose to do so here", said Prasad who also made a mention of having practiced, as a lawyer, at the Patna High Court and his current tenure as the local MP. The Union minister, who also holds the portfolios of Electronics and Telecommunications, also referred to the recently issued guidelines for using social media which was "long overdue". "We are supportive of freedom. We are supportive of criticism. We are supportive of dissent, too. But, the issue is the misuse and abuse of social media. There should be a grievance redressal mechanism for someone who is abused on the social media", he added. The Union Law Minister also spoke of the proposed establishment of All India Judicial Services, "a work in progress", as part of which "the best minds" would be appointed as judges after cracking competitive exams held by the UPSC "under the direction of the Supreme Court. He also said that the government "wished to give proper reservation to SCs, STs and OBCs" which would make the judiciary more "inclusive". Prasad also expressed satisfaction over the judiciary having risen to the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic last year. The total number of cases digitally heard across the country, till January 31, was a staggering 76.38 lakh. Of these 24.55 lakhs were heard at the various High Courts, another 51.83 lakhs at the district courts and 22,353 at the Apex Court. "It is a matter of some assurance and appreciation", he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comments-against-judges-a-disturbing-new-trend-ravi-shankar-prasad-956047.html
27-02-2021||National||Want alliance with BJP for upcoming polls, as well for 2022 UP elections: RPI chief Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale Saturday said his Republican Party of India (RPI) wants an alliance with the BJP for the upcoming polls in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, as also for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections. He said talks will be held with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath this evening over an alliance in the state, and also with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah in due course. "If the BJP leaves 8-10 seats, the RPI can be used to give a jolt to the BSP," he said talking about Uttar Pradesh, claiming that people in the state are getting disenchanted with the Mayawati's party and are shifting towards the RPI. On alliance in the poll-bound Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, the RPI president said his party wants to contest these elections together with the BJP. However, if it was not given seats by the BJP, the RPI would field its candidates on some seats and extend support to saffron party on the others, he said. He pointed out the Dalit constitutes 36 per cent population of West Bengal, and the BJP would benefit if RPI fights the election with it. Athawale, whose RPI is a BJP allay at the Centre, said also praised the works done by Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Adityanath. Asked about any political understanding with Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, Athawale said Azad is an "independent person, but if he joins my party he will be given an important post". The Dalit leader extended Azad and BSP president Mayawati invitations to join his party. "If Mayawati comes, she would be given the post of the president of RPI and I will myself opt for the post of vice president as this is the party of Babasaheb (Bhimrao Ambedkar)," Athawale said. When pointed out that the BJP was not inclined to give his party any seat, he said, "As of now, our organisation is not very strong but we are strengthening it at the district-level." He also claimed that the BJP would be getting more than 200 seats in West Bengal. "There is a resentment against the government in the state." The NDA will form its government in four states and in Kerala too, it can succeed since people there are intending to hand over power to the BJP, he said. On the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre's three agricultural reforms laws, he said, "Our government is not against farmers but if one law is repealed, there would be pressure to withdraw all laws. The government is ready for amendment in the farm law." On the issue of Maharashtra Congress unit President Nana Patole's announcement to oppose film actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar on the issue of inflation, the RPI president said that his party has decided to support the Bollywood stars. When questioned about his silence over inflation and why he does not criticise the BJP over the issue, Athawale said, "I do not raise my voice against the BJP as our two voices are the same." To a question on Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Varanasi on the occasion of Sant Ravidas Jayanti, Athawale said she can visit whichever temple she wants but there is no future for the Congress till there is Rahul Gandhi. The RPI president demanded the landless people of Uttar Pradesh be given 5 acre land by the Adityanath government. The union minister also said that Marathas in Maharashtra, Jaats in Haryana and Rajputs in Uttar Pradesh are demanding reservation and so they should also get 10-12% quota. He also said that the 2021 census be caste-based so as to find out the actual caste data on the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-alliance-with-bjp-for-upcoming-polls-as-well-for-2022-up-elections-rpi-chief-athawale-956049.html
27-02-2021||National||We must continue to trade with China, says Rajiv Bajaj||Favouring continuation of trade with China, Bajaj Auto Managing Director Rajiv Bajaj on Saturday said goods should be procured from wherever they are most competitively available. He was speaking at a session on 'Building Reliable Supply Chain' at the second day of the three-day virtual Asia Economic Dialogue 2021, jointly convened by the Ministry of External Affairs and Pune International Centre. Bajaj also said that in terms of ease of doing business, operating something in one of the ASEAN countries is certainly easier than "what we encounter here in India." "We like to believe that we are a global company, and therefore, this to my mind, from a cultural point of view, and an operational point of view, demands completeness or inclusiveness not just of employee gender, but also of having dealers, distributors and equally suppliers from all over the world. "And that is why I believe that we must continue to trade with China. Because if we conduct our business at the exclusion of such a large country, such a large market, we will find ourselves incomplete over time, and we will be poorer for the loss of that experience," Bajaj said. Stating that in supply chain, commitment is important, he said that a sense of mutuality and reciprocity is indispensable to building, at least, the kind of very intricate supply chain that the auto industry needs to deliver the final product to the customer. Emphasising on the continuity in the supply chain, Bajaj said, "I say this in the context of what happened in around June or July, when our government for whatever reasons, suddenly came down hard on imports, especially from China." "Now, to my mind, doing something like that is to cut your nose to spite your face. Because overnight, how can one source components that are simply not made in the domestic market, that you need to deliver product to domestic or export customers?" he said. So, maintaining continuity is the second important aspect of the holistic view of supply chain, he added. Noting that if it is cheaper to make something out of China or procure something from Thailand, Bajaj said, "we must always procure stuff from wherever it is most competitively available." He said that since the company hopes to venture into Asia in a significant way in the future, it did an elaborate comparison of certain metrics. Based on the five metrics - the land, labour, electricity, logistics and the legal system , " we did an exhaustive comparison of India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, and Malaysia " Bajaj said. "And to be honest, we were not very pleased with the conclusion we drew for India, basis this analysis, and I think we can put it all together and call it the ease of doing business. So, our experience so far has been that, however limited, operating something in one of the ASEAN countries is certainly easier than what we encounter here in India, "Bajaj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-must-continue-to-trade-with-china-says-rajiv-bajaj-956059.html
27-02-2021||National||Centre, states discuss fresh spurt in cases; focus on strict enforcement of Covid-19 norms||Eight states with rising Covid-19 numbers on Saturday have been asked not to lower their guard lest they squander away the gains of the last year. “The states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hard work of the last year,” Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba told senior officials from Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and West Bengal at a review meeting. These states and the Union Territory of J&K have either been reporting a high active caseload or witnessing a rising trend in the number of new cases since last week. Gauba asked the officials not to lower their guard, enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations. Also, it was strongly underlined that they need to follow effective surveillance strategies in respect of potential super spreading events. The review happens after reporting more than 16,000 deaths and 100 plus Covid-19 deaths for three consecutive days. On Saturday morning, the Union Health Ministry reported the registration of 16,488 new cases and 113 deaths in the last 24 hours. Even though it still reports 3,000 plus fresh cases daily, Kerala is the only state with a clear declining Covid-19 trend. The epidemic curve is clearly on a rise in Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. The States have been told to emphasise effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts. The level of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in the districts also need to be enhanced. Gauba also advised the states to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment in the districts that are reporting a reduced number of tests and districts with high positivity and increased caseload. They are also to watch out for mutant strains and clustering of cases for early hotspot identification and control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-discuss-fresh-spurt-in-cases-focus-on-strict-enforcement-of-covid-19-norms-956063.html
27-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Rahul Gandhi says Modi 'scared' of China||In your evening news brief, Rahul Gandhi says Modi 'scared' of China; the countdown for the launch of the PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission starts and the UAE supports Saudi Arabia's position on the US report on Khashoggi.  Here is the top news of February 27, 2021: The countdown for the launch of the PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 mission commenced on Saturday from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh. PSLV-C51 rocket, which is the 53rd mission of PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle), will launch Amazonia-1 of Brazil as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger satellites from Sriharikota, about 100 km from Chennai, Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation said in a statement. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1024 hours on February 28, subject to weather conditions. The countdown began at 0854 hours. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Sino-India border standoff, charging him with being 'scared' of the eastern neighbour. Before the stand-off at eastern Ladakh, where the disengagement process has been completed with the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong ake areas, the Chinese "tested the idea in Dokhlam (in 2017)," he said. The United Arab Emirates supports Saudi Arabia's position on the United States intelligence report about the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, the UAE's state news agency WAM reported on Saturday. The UAE's foreign ministry "expressed its confidence in and support for the Saudi judiciary rulings, which affirm the kingdom's commitment to implementing the law in a transparent and impartial manner, and holding all those involved in this case accountable," WAM said. Source: PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rahul-gandhi-says-modi-scared-of-china-956070.html
27-02-2021||National||TMC, BJP working to set their caste equations ahead of West Bengal Assembly polls||With the Assembly elections around the corner, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP are wooing the prominent caste groups in West Bengal. Although caste was not considered a key political factor in the state during the 34 years of Left Front rule, it started to make its presence felt, albeit as a vote bank, when TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee started to woo the Matua community before the 2011 Assembly elections. Belonging to the SC community, Matuas settled in West Bengal after arriving from the then East Pakistan (modern day Bangladesh in large number following Partition. With a population of 3 crore they are a significant factor in about 20 Assembly constituencies in the state. Mamata recognised their electoral clout, and her strategy paid off when the Matuas voted for the TMC in large numbers which contributed significantly to the ouster of the Left Front in 2011. She is seeking to counter the saffron party by addressing the aspirations of different caste groups through welfare measures. Her key focus seems to be the SC, ST and OBC communities as the BJP managed to win 18 seats in Bengal in the last Lok Sabha elections by winning in the SC, ST dominated areas in the state such as the districts of Alipurduar, Bankura, Jhargram and North 24 Paraganas.  Last November, she allotted Rs 10 crore for the Matua Development Board and Rs 5 crore for the Namasudra Development Board. The fund allotments by naming the specific caste groups is clear indication of her strategy. “She wants to take away BJP’s key vote base in the state to stop the party in its tracks in the Assembly elections,” a senior TMC leader said. It has been BJP’s strategy since the 1990s to woo the tribals and OBC communities to make inroads into the state. BJP has successfully eaten into the TMC’s Matua vote base by fielding Shantanu Thakur, the grandson of the late Matua matriarch Binpani Devi from Bongaon Lok Sabha constituency and wining the seat. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is trying to woo them by having lunch at their home during his visits to the state. BJP also tried to woo the communities such as Matuas with the promise of citizenship under the CAA. “Shah wants to ensure that Mamata cannot lure these communities from the BJP,” a state BJP leader said. “Mamata is trying to address specific community aspirations. The move is in reaction to BJP’s success in getting significant numbers of SC, ST votes in the last Lok Sabha elections. Both parties are trying to highlight the aspirations of specific communities.” political observer and author Snigdhendu Bhattacharya told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-bjp-working-to-set-their-caste-equations-ahead-of-west-bengal-assembly-polls-956075.html
27-02-2021||National||Rooster kills owner with cockfight blade||A rooster fitted with a knife for an illegal cockfight in southern India has killed its owner, sparking a manhunt for the organisers of the event, police said Saturday. The bird had a knife attached to its leg ready to take on an opponent when it inflicted serious injuries to the man's groin as it tried to escape, officers said. The victim died from loss of blood before he could reach a hospital in the Karimnagar district of Telangana state earlier this week, local police officer B. Jeevan told AFP. The man was among 16 people organising the cockfight in the village of Lothunur when the freak accident took place, Jeevan said. The rooster was briefly held at the local police station before it was sent to a poultry farm. "We are searching for the other 15 people involved in organising the illegal fight," Jeevan said. They could face charges of manslaughter, illegal betting and hosting a cockfight. Cockfights are banned but still common in rural areas of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Odisha states -- particularly around the Hindu festival of Sankranti. Specially-bred roosters have 7.5-centimetre (three-inch) knives or blades tethered to their legs and punters bet on who will win the gruesome fight. Thousands of roosters die each year in battles which, despite the efforts of animal rights groups, attract large crowds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rooster-kills-owner-with-cockfight-blade-956076.html
27-02-2021||National||Single-phase poll in Bengal if BJP voted to power: Dilip Ghosh||Slamming West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for raising questions over eight-phase assembly elections, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh Saturday said that it was required because of the "political violence unleashed by the ruling TMC", and asserted that his party will ensure a single-phase poll if voted to power. He also vowed to make the state free from violence and terror if the BJP comes to power. "The eight-phase poll in the state is to ensure a free and fair election. Political violence unleashed by the TMC is rampant in the state," Ghosh said during a 'chai pe charcha' (discussion over tea) session. The BJP MP said that it will be a matter of pride if the polls are conducted in a single-phase. Banerjee on Friday questioned the decision of the Election Commission of India to conduct the assembly polls in Bengal in eight phases and suspected that the dates were announced as per the suggestions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for better management of the BJP's poll campaign. She said the poll panel should not look at the state "through the eyes of the saffron camp" -- a reference to the BJP. Elections for the state will be held in eight phases, up from seven last time, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Friday while announcing the poll schedule. The second phase of the assembly elections is scheduled for April 1 and will cover 30 constituencies, followed by the third phase on April 6 for 31 seats, fourth phase on April 10 for 44 seats. The fifth phase will be held on April 17 for 45 constituencies, the sixth phase for 43 seats on April 22, the seventh phase on April 26 for 36 seats and the last and eighth phase on April 29 for 35 seats, Arora said. Reacting to Ghosh's assertion, Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy wondered if a political party can make a decision on holding an election.  Alleging that the saffron party has its influence on the decision of independent bodies like the ECI, CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty asked, "Don't know how he made such comments. Can a political party decide on the phases of an election?" Meanwhile, a section of BJP supporters alleged that the party'sParivartan Yatra' was stopped by police at the Baguihati area in Kolkata Saturday morning. The saffron party activists blocked VIP road, a major thoroughfare in the north-eastern part of the city, for a few hours, protesting against the police action. A senior officer of the Baguihati police station claimed that there was no permission for the programme. The 'Parivartan Yatra' was launched as part of the saffron party's outreach programme ahead of the assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/single-phase-poll-in-bengal-if-bjp-voted-to-power-dilip-ghosh-956079.html
27-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine may cost up to Rs 250 per dose in private hospitals||Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday as India prepares to vaccinate people aged above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities from March 1. The ministry also specified 20 comorbidities among people aged between 45 and 59 years who will get the vaccine -- heart failure with hospital admission in past year, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, CT/ MRI-documented stroke, diabetes of over 10 years or with complications, hypertension, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 2000 or currently on any cancer therapy. The Covid-19 vaccine will be given free of cost at government hospitals, while people will need to pay for it at private facilities. To ramp up the vaccination capacity manifold, a significantly large number of private facilities are being involved, the ministry said. "Rs 250 will be the ceiling -- Rs 150 per dose of vaccine plus Rs 100 service charge. This arrangement will remain effective till further orders," an official source said. All these information was shared by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan during an interaction with health secretaries and mission directors (National Health Mission) of states and union territories on the vaccination of age-appropriate groups through a video conference. "Around 10,000 private hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat-PMJAY, more than 600 hospitals empanelled under CGHS and other private hospitals empanelled under State Governments Health Insurance Schemes can participate as COVID vaccination centres (CVCs)," it said. "Health Departments of state governments have already initiated dialogue with these private hospitals so that they can be encouraged to participate in this drive as CVCs," the ministry said. States and UTs have been further informed that when the vaccines are handed over to the private empanelled hospitals under AB-PMJAY, CGHS or under the state health insurance schemes, the cost of the vaccines at the rate of Rs 150 per dose is to be electronically deposited immediately by these hospitals in the bank account of National Health Authority created in this regard. A list of all these private hospitals has been uploaded on the website of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Authority. In addition, there will be government health facilities which will be used as CVCs such as medical college hospitals, district hospitals, sub divisional hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres, health sub-centres and health and wellness centres. Geo reference maps with GPS coordinates of all these health facilities have been prepared that will serve as CVCs and these Geo referenced maps are being shared with the states, the ministry said in a statement. "States have been explained that the private hospitals functioning as CVCs can charge subject to a ceiling of Rs 250 per person per dose along with the electronic and financial management mechanism in this regard. The simplified system of certifying people with 20 co-morbidities within the 45-59 years age group was also explained to the states. The ministry has shared the format of the simplified one-page certificate to be signed by any registered medical practitioner. The certificate can either be uploaded on Co-WIN2.0 by the beneficiary while self registering or a hard copy can be carried by the beneficiary to the CVC, the ministry said. The ministry on Friday had said beneficiaries would be able to self-register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu, which will show the government and private hospitals serving as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs) with date and time of the available schedules. The beneficiary would be able to choose the CVC of his/her choice and book an appointment for vaccination. However, people will not have the option of choosing between the two currently approved vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- but having the option of choosing the site of inoculation may lead to beneficiaries opting for a particular vaccine. There is, however, no official words on which vaccine is being supplied to which hospital. "Eligible beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from March 1 itself," R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on COVID-19 Vaccine Administration, had said. All the private health facilities which will serve as government COVID vaccination centres must follow strict norms of due process, quality and safety, including integration with the National Co-Win technology platform. All private health facilities must also have adequate space, adequate cold chain arrangements, adequate number of vaccinators and support staff and adequate arrangements for addressing Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI). States were explained the three methods of registration -- advance self-registration, on-site registration and facilitated cohort registration. Under the first route, beneficiaries will be able to self register in advance by downloading the Co-WIN 2.0 portal and through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu. The facility of on-site registration allows those who cannot self register in advance to walk into the identified CVCs and get themselves registered on-site and then vaccinated. Under the facilitated cohort registration mechanism, the state and UT government will take proactive lead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-may-cost-up-to-rs-250-per-dose-in-private-hospitals-956084.html
27-02-2021||National||At Toy Fair inauguration, PM Modi urges manufacturers to bring Indian stories to the world through toys||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for self-reliance in toy making, urging manufacturers to bring Indian stories to the world. Inaugurating the first India Toy Fair, Modi noted that 85% of the toys sold in the India were from abroad which also brought along foreign ideas into the homes across the country. “Indian kids talk more about stars from other countries, instead of Indian heroes and leaders,” the prime minister said underlining the need for imbibe Indian values, culture and teachings through toys manufactured locally. He said India has now graded the toy industry in 24 major sectors and National Toy Action Plan has also been prepared to encourage domestic manufacturing. He said 15 ministries and departments that aim to make the industry competitive and self-reliant have been roped in the action plan. “India has tradition and technology. We can take the world back towards eco-friendly toys. Our software engineers can through computer games take the stories of India to the world,” he said. The Prime Minister also interacted with traditional toymakers from Channapatnam, Varanasi and Jaipur and impress upon them the need to innovate and make toys more relevant keeping in view the changing taste of children. Modi also exhorted toy manufacturers to use less plastic and more eco-friendly and recyclable material in a bid to increase the share of the domestic industry in the global market. More than 1,000 exhibitors were participating in the Toy Fair 2021, which will continue till March 2. The first toy fair is not just a business or economic event, the prime minister said, adding that it sought to strengthen the country's age-old culture of sports and cheer. “This toy fair is one such platform where one can discuss toy design, innovation, technology, marketing and packaging and also share their experiences,” he said, adding the world has done research on toys from the era of Indus Valley civilisation, Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-toy-fair-inauguration-pm-modi-urges-manufacturers-to-bring-indian-stories-to-the-world-through-toys-956095.html
27-02-2021||National||Centre finalises products for ODOFP to increase farmer's income, exports||The government on Saturday said it has finalised a list of products from agriculture and allied sectors that will be promoted in a cluster approach in 728 districts across the country as part of its effort to boost farm exports and enhance farmers income. The agriculture ministry, in consultation with food processing industries ministry, has finalised the products for 'One District One Focus Product' (ODOFP), an official statement said. Inputs from the States/UTs and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) have also been taken to prepare the list. "The products have been identified from agricultural, horticultural, animal, poultry, milk, fisheries and aquaculture, marine sectors for 728 districts across the country," the statement said. The agriculture ministry said that these products will be promoted in a cluster approach through convergence of the central schemes, aiming to increase the value of the products and enhance farmers' income. Paddy will be promoted in 40 districts, wheat-5 districts, coarse cum nutri cereals- 25 districts, pulses 16 districts, commercial crops 22 districts, oilseeds 41 districts, vegetables 107 districts, spices 105 districts, plantation 28 districts, fruits 226 districts, floriculture 2 districts, honey 9 districts, animal husbandry/dairy 40 districts, aquaculture/marine fisheries 29 districts and processed products 33 districts. These identified products will be supported under the food processing ministry's PM-FME scheme, which provides incentives to promoter and micro-enterprises. Many products include convergence of resources and approach from the other departments. The agriculture ministry will support ODOFP from its ongoing centrally sponsored schemes such as National Food Security Mission. "The implementation of ODOFP by State governments will benefit farmers and provide support for realizing the expectations of value addition and subsequently enhancing agricultural exports," it said. The list includes 25 districts of Arunachal Pradesh; 38 districts of Bihar; 28 districts of Chhattisgarh; 2 districts in Goa; 22 districts of Haryana; 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh, 24 districts of Jharkhand, 20 districts of Jammu & Kashmir; 31 districts of Karnataka; 14 districts of Kerala; 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh; 36 districts of Maharashtra; 16 districts of Manipur; 30 districts of Odisha, 23 districts of Punjab, 4 districts of Sikkim, 36 districts of Tamil Nadu; 8 districts of Tripura, 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh, and 18 districts of West Bengal. As many as 13 districts each of Uttarakhand and Andhra Pradesh, 11 districts each of Delhi, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland; and 33 districts each of Assam, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Telangana have been included. That apart, three districts of Andaman & Nicobar Islands; total three districts of 'Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu'; two districts each of Ladakh and Puducherry; one district each of Chandigarh and Lakshadweep are part of this exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-finalises-products-for-odofp-to-increase-farmers-income-exports-956098.html
27-02-2021||National||Rare coin goes under the hammer at starting price of Rs 45 lakh||A rare 10.9 gram gold coin of Kam Bakhsh, the fifth son of Mughal emperor Aurangazeb, is going under the hammer here. Marudhar Arts, a leading numismatic auction house here, is holding the auction at a price ranging between Rs 45 lakh and Rs 50 lakh. According to Rajendra Maru, the CEO of Marudhar Arts, the gold 'Mohur' of Bijapur Dar-uz-Zafar mint has a Persian legend. "The coin, weighing 10.90 gram, is almost uncirculated. So it's unique," Maru, who is organising the auction, said. According to a statement on Marudhar Arts' portal, Kam Bakhsh took active part in the wars. In 1707, he seized the control of the Bijapur fort and declared himself the king. Gradually, Kam Bakhsh sway extended across much of Deccan winning control over Hyderabad, erstwhile Gulbarga (now Kalaburagi), Shahpur and Wakinkhera. His inefficiency in handling administration led to the collapse of his kingdom, they said. The older son of Aurangzeb, Shah Alam Bahadur after taking reins of the Mughal empire took a serious note of Kam Bakhsh striking coins in his name. In a pitched battle that ensued between the two armies on 13 January 1709, Kam Bakhsh was captured and the next day he died of wounds. This coin is unusual and important, Marudhar Arts said explaining that coins of Kam Bakhsh are known from a number of mints Bijapur, Ahsanabad, Nusratabad, Haidarabad, Torgal, Gokak, Imtiyazgarh but this combination is not yet recorded for any of these issues. "We do not know when Kam Bakhsh declared himself the emperor but it must have been sometime in March 1707, soon after the fort of Bijapur came under his control, but we dont know the exact date for this event," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rare-coin-goes-under-the-hammer-at-starting-price-of-rs-45-lakh-956105.html
27-02-2021||National||PM Modi pays tribute to Assam's Koch Dynasty general Bir Chilarai||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday paid rich tributes to Bir Chilarai, a general of the Koch Royal Dynasty of Assam, on his birth anniversary and said his bravery will continue to motivate the coming generations. Bir Chilarai (1510-1571 AD) was a great general of the Koch Royal Dynasty of Assam. He played a crucial role in expanding the empire of his elder brother, Nara Narayan. "The great Bir Chilarai is synonymous with valour and patriotism. He was an outstanding warrior, who fought for people and the principles he held sacred," Modi tweeted. "His bravery will continue to motivate the coming generations. Remembering him on his Jayanti," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-assams-koch-dynasty-general-bir-chilarai-956112.html
27-02-2021||National||Foreign countries want to implement India's NEP: Education Minister Pokhriyal||Topmost institutes as well as various countries have hailed India's National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 as the world's "biggest reform" and shown interest in implementing it, said Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" on Saturday. The minister, who was addressing the 97th annual convocation of Delhi University, said the new education policy that has been brought into place after "much deliberation" will see India "reform, perform and transform". He also praised the policy calling it "impactful, interactive, innovative and inclusive" built on the cornerstone of "equity, quality and access". "Cambridge, the UAE, Australia, Mauritius, Indonesia, .. and many others have said India's NEP is the world's biggest reform and that they want to implement in their countries as well. It is both national and international, supports 'vocal for local' and also local for global. This will bring a new set of opportunities for students," said Nishank, encouraging Delhi University to be the "flag-bearer" of the policy and implement it in "mission-mode". The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet, replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. The 61-year-old leader here also counted on the various achievements of India's education system during the pandemic year. Like how it worked tirelessly in implementing "digital education", transformed homes into schools and didn't let the year go waste for India's 33 crore students -- more than the total population of the USA. To give an idea of how herculean the task was, the minister even shared the data on the size of Indian education system: "1,000 universities", "50,000 degree colleges", "15 lakh schools" and "1.10 crore teachers". "We conducted the exams on time, the results were out on time, and also JEE or NEET -- world's biggest examination in the corona era -- were conducted successfully.  Also, we provided online education to 33 crore students. This was huge, something that you don't even think of in your dreams, but we did it and did it successfully," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-countries-want-to-implement-indias-nep-education-minister-pokhriyal-956124.html
27-02-2021||National||Devise plan to control pollution in river stretches: NGT to Centre||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Centre to devise proper mechanism for effective  monitoring for control of pollution and rejuvenation of all polluted river stretches in the country. The NGT Principal Bench headed by Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that the Ministry of Jal Shakti should set up a mechanism and all states have to extend co-coperation for its implementation. “The said mechanism may be called “National River Rejuvenation Mechanism” (NRRM) or given any other suitable name. NRRM may also consider the observations with regard to setting up of National/State/District Environment Data Grid at appropriate levels as an effective monitoring strategy." Observing that there has been continuous failure of statutory mechanism for preventing pollution of water and hardly any accountability has been fixed for such serious failures, the Bench directed the chief secretaries of all the States and Union Territories that they must work in mission mode for strict compliance of timeliness for commencing new projects and completing ongoing projects. “The process of rejuvenation of rivers need not be confined to only 351 stretches but may be applicable to all small, medium and big polluted rivers, including those dried up,” the tribunal said. The green bench had earlier formed a Central Monitoring Committee to prepare and enforce a national plan to make over 351 highly polluted river stretches in different states pollution free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/devise-plan-to-control-pollution-in-river-stretches-ngt-to-centre-956126.html
27-02-2021||National||Chirag Paswan donates Rs 1.11 lakh for Ram temple construction||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Saturday donated Rs 1.11 lakh for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, and said it is the duty of everyone belonging to the deprived section of society to pitch in this regard. Paswan, who is no longer part of the ruling NDA in Bihar but remains a vocal supporter of the BJP, described himself as a descendent of Shabri, believed to an ardent devotee of Lord Ram.  She came from a deprived section of the society, Paswan said in tweets, adding that as her "descendants" it is our duty to pitch in the temple's construction.  Dalits need affection and respect so that social harmony like the relation between Lord Ram and Shabri is maintained, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chirag-paswan-donates-rs-111-lakh-for-ram-temple-construction-956128.html
27-02-2021||National||People above 45 years with these co-morbidities to get priority Covid-19 vaccine||Union Health Ministry on Saturday issued a list of comorbidities that will elevate a person, who is above 45, on the priority list of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The government is set to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine for people aged above 45 with co-morbidities, or preexisting conditions, and for those 60-years-old and above from March 1.  The ministry specified 20 co-morbidities within the 45-59 years age group including heart failure with hospital admission in past one year, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, CT/ MRI documented stroke, diabetes ( >10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 2000 or currently on any cancer therapy for which one will have to submit a medical certificate. The ministry has shared the format of the simplified one page certificate to be signed by any registered medical practitioner.  The list includes heart failure with hospital admission in the past year, lymphoma, end-stage kidney disease and others.  Here is a full list:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-above-45-years-with-these-co-morbidities-to-get-priority-covid-19-vaccine-956151.html
27-02-2021||National||Rule on blocking content not new, been around since 2009: Centre defends digital media guidelines||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Saturday clarified that the provision in the new digital media guidelines to block internet content in a case of emergency nature has been around as a rule since 2009 and was not recently introduced. Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the guidelines which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a ministry statement said. "It is hereby clarified that this is not a new provision. For the past eleven years, since 2009, this provision has been exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and IT under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009," it said. Under the rules issued on February 25, this provision has only been replaced with Secretary, Ministry of I&B because Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the I&B Ministry, the statement said. "It is reiterated -- no change in provision has been made nor any new provision has been added on blocking of content under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021," the I&B ministry said. The government on Thursday had said a 'code of ethics' and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and digital media. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced at a joint press conference here by I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rule-on-blocking-content-not-new-been-around-since-2009-centre-defends-digital-media-guidelines-956152.html
27-02-2021||National||Punjab CM announces Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia for kin of soldier killed in Leh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh along with a government job to a family member of Naib Subedar Parwinder Singh, who laid down his life in the high altitude area of Batalik sector (Leh) along the Line of Control. The junior commissioned officer is survived by his father, wife and two sons aged 11 and 13 years. Parwinder Singh laid down his life in the high altitude area of Batalik sector (Leh) along the Line of Control, an official statement said. Extending his sympathies to the family of the soldier, the chief minister said the state government would provide all possible help and support to them. The mortal remains of the soldier will reach his native place in Jagraon in Ludhiana on Sunday and the cremation will be held the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-announces-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-soldier-killed-in-leh-956158.html
27-02-2021||National||India slams Michelle Bachelet's remark on farmers' protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government hit out at the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet after she cited the protest by the farmers in India to drive home the point that all stakeholders should be consulted before the introduction of new laws and policies. “The unprovoked violence on our Republic Day in the name of farmers’ rights, apparently, left her (Bachelet) unmoved,” Indra Mani Pandey, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations in Geneva, said. He was making a statement on behalf of the Government of India at the 46th session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) late on Friday. Bachelet earlier criticised the Modi government in New Delhi, stating that the charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the protests by farmers were “disturbing departures from essential human rights principles”. She made the comment while presenting her statement at the UNHRC. “In India, continued protests by hundreds of thousands of farmers highlight the importance of ensuring laws and policies are based on meaningful consultations with those concerned,” she said, adding, “I trust that ongoing dialogue efforts by both sides (the government and the agitating farmers) will lead to an equitable solution to this crisis that respects the rights of all.” Pandey countered the statement by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, referring to the violent incidents, which took place during the protests by the farmers in the national capital on Republic Day on January 26 last. “The Government of India has set a goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2024. The purpose of enacting three Farm Acts is to enable farmers to realise better price for their produce and enhance their income,” said New Delhi’s envoy to the UN offices in Geneva. “It (the set of new laws) will particularly benefit small farmers and offer more choices to those farmers who opt for them. The Government has shown the utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns.” Bachelet on Friday also said that the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) continued to monitor the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, where restrictions imposed by the Government of India on communications, and clampdowns on civil society activists, remained a matter of concern. Pandey defended the Modi government’s August 5, 2019 move to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories. He called it a “historic decision”, which was welcomed by the people of India, including people of Jammu and Kashmir. “It has given impetus to socio-economic development, end decades of discrimination and combat cross border terrorism, which has been the key hindrance in full enjoyment of human rights by the people. We have restored grass-root democracy, through District Development Council (DDC) elections, and provided good governance through the ‘Back to Village’ initiative,” he told the UNHRC. “There has been a significant decline in terrorist attacks and progressive national laws have been extended to Jammu and Kashmir to enable the people there to enjoy the same rights as the people in rest of India.” He said that the Government of India was perplexed to note some of the comments by the High Commissioner (for Human Rights). “She appeared as oblivious of the enormous efforts made by my Government to address the challenges, as indeed of many of the factors driving these challenges.” “Her indifference to terrorism is, of course, not new. Objectivity and impartiality have to be the hallmarks of any Human Rights assessment. We are sorry to see that the High Commissioner’s oral update is lacking in both,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-michelle-bachelets-remark-on-farmers-protest-956160.html
27-02-2021||National||TTD board wants to construct Venkateshwara temple in Ayodhya||The trustee board of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has approved a proposal to construct Lord Venkateshwara temple at Ayodhya "if the Ram mandir trust comes forward to allot land to the TTD for the purpose." If not a temple, TTD said it is willing to construct a Bhajana Mandiram with pilgrim amenities complex there. The TTD, at present, is preparing to perform Bhumi Pujas for the construction of Srivari temples in Mumbai and Jammu. On Saturday, the TTD board, which manages the Lord Venkateshwara temple in Tirumala, met under the chairmanship of Y V Subba Reddy and made several important resolutions. The board approved Rs 2,937.82 crore as the budget for the financial year 2021-22, which is about Rs 373 crore less than the previous year's estimate. While the TTD had last year expected revenue of Rs 1,351 crore in the form of Hundi donations and other capital receipts, the revised estimate is only Rs 731 crore. The temple was shut for about three months last summer because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The temple is yet to resume the usual flow of pilgrims which is about 75,000 daily. The board has however decided to resume the Arjitha Sevas inside the temple from April 14 with devotees' physical presence for the advance booked Sevas. Such devotees should observe all the Covid-19 guidelines and produce a negative report of a Covid-19 test done three days ahead of their Tirumala visit. The trustee board has approved a plan to provide Covid-19 vaccination for all TTD employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ttd-board-wants-to-construct-venkateshwara-temple-in-ayodhya-956167.html
27-02-2021||National||BJP looks to achieve 'Mission East' in Bengal, makes inroads in south||The upcoming assembly polls assume great significance for the BJP as it looks for an ideological victory in West Bengal by achieving "Mission East" and expand its footprint in the south beyond Karnataka. BJP leaders feel that a better performance in these polls will be a big boost for the party in pushing its reform agenda set in the recently presented Union Budget. West Bengal is a high-stakes battle for the BJP and its master strategist and Union Home Minister Amit Shah is himself handling the affairs and has set a target of more than 200 seats out of the total 294 assembly constituencies. Talking about BJP's prospects in Bengal, where it is running a high-octane campaign, its co-in charge Sunil Menon said the party registered victory in almost 125 assembly segments in the 2019 general elections when it won 18 Lok Sabha seats out of the total 42 and lost narrowly in two. "The BJP got 41 per cent votes in the 2019 general elections and with every passing day it is improving its position in the state and will emerge victorious in the assembly polls," he said, adding that it will not only be an electoral success but an ideological victory for the party. The BJP has its own government or of its allies in all seven northeastern states and is confident of again coming to power in Assam as the Congress will hugely miss the services of Tarun Gogoi who ruled the state for 15 years. Post the massive victory in the 2019 general elections when the BJP swept north-western parts of the country, the party eyes on eastern and southern states to emerge as a force to reckon with and in this context, these elections are of much importance to the saffron party. With the Congress decimated in Puducherry, the BJP with the help of its ally All India NR Congress and AIADMK is confident of opening another front in the south after Karnataka.  "People of Puducherry are fed up with the corruption and misgovernance of the Congress. They want good governance of the Modi government and therefore will want to give BJP a chance this time to serve them," senior party leader and Union minister Arjun Meghwal said. He is BJP's poll-in-charge for Puducherry. Barring Assam and West Bengal, the BJP has nothing much to lose especially in Tamil Nadu and Kerala where it is looking to make inroads and its presence felt. BJP's in-charge for Kerala and Union minister Pralhad Joshi said the party will definitely improve its performance in Kerala and emerge as a third front in the state. Kerala has been choosing between Congress-led UDF and the CPI(M)-led LDF. The Election Commission on Friday announced poll dates in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. The elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal witnessing the maximum of eight phases of polling continuing till April 29. Counting of votes for the four states and Puducherry will be taken up on May 2. West Bengal polls will be held in eight phases and Assam three while polling for Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry assemblies will take place in a single phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-looks-to-achieve-mission-east-in-bengal-makes-inroads-in-south-956177.html
27-02-2021||National||Global growth to be hit if IP norms not waived to deal with Covid-19: India to WTO||India on Saturday said if members of the WTO would fail to deliver on a proposal on waiving certain intellectual property obligations to deal with Covid-19 pandemic, it would impact global growth and livelihood. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organization) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "If we fail in the next one or two quarters or not delivering on that, let me tell you that it is not the question of equity, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihood. It is not that we are coming in the way of life. "It is a very simple economics that for a commercial interest of let us say $30 to $40 billion of annual vaccine output of few companies, we are coming in the way of $6-7 trillion of global GDP output in one year," Indian Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the WTO, Brajendra Navnit, said at the Asia Economic Dialogue. Developed and rich nations are opposing the proposal. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had recently stated that on one hand, the developed countries talk about supporting each other and multilateral fight against Covid-19 pandemic, but on the other hand, they are looking at protecting the interests of a few companies. The minister has added that the world is fighting the pandemic which could potentially cost $9 trillion to the world economy. Further, Navnit said that it does not make any sense that on one side countries are providing $1 trillion or $1.5 trillion worth of fiscal stimulus, but on the other hand they are not willing to compensate for design a remuneration for IP rights' holder and expand the manufacturing by just putting $30-40 billion in bucket. Speaking at the event, Xolelwa Mlumbi-peter, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of South Africa to the WTO, said that IP should not become a barrier to access affordable medicines. Suggesting for holding frequent meetings of political leadership at WTO, the Ambassador said: "I strongly feel that diplomats and bureaucrats have taken over the system and they want to keep the political leadership slightly away". He added that the general council of the WTO has totally taken over the mandate of MC (ministerial conference), which is the highest decision making body of the WTO. He also added that members can go ahead and start having more frequent interactions with political leadership "because most of the calls have to be taken by them and it can not be settled by diplomats sitting in Geneva". The Geneva-based WTO deals with global trade and adjudicates trade disputes among member countries. Further, he added that the members should moderate their expectations from the 12th MC, expected later this year. On special and differential treatment, João Aguiar Machado, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of EU to WTO, said that there is need to have a frank and open debate on the issue. "We cannot pretend that developing countries want to be integrated into the multilateral trading system while at the same time sitting at the margins of that system," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-growth-to-be-hit-if-ip-norms-not-waived-to-deal-with-covid-19-india-to-wto-956180.html
27-02-2021||National||Rajnath attends wedding of doctor nearly 20 yrs after taking over responsibility of his education||After Brijendra, a bright young Dalit boy, lost his father, Rajnath Singh as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh took over the responsibility of his education in early 2000s and now nearly 20 years later, the Union minister was beside him again, this time to attend his wedding in his village in Uttar Pradesh's Ghazipur district. It was in 2002 when Brijendra topped the Class 8 exams and Singh, then chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, took over the responsibility of his education after getting to know that his father had passed away. Sharing his joy on attending the marriage of Brijendra, Singh in a tweet on Saturday said, "When I was the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, I had taken up the responsibility of education of a child. That child became a doctor and today, I attended the wedding ceremony of the same child -- Dr Brijendra at his home and gave him my best wishes." Singh said it was a moment of great satisfaction and joy for him. The minister's office said in the last two decades Singh took care of the boy like his own son and helped him in all ways in his education and other requirements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-attends-wedding-of-doctor-nearly-20-yrs-after-taking-over-responsibility-of-his-education-956212.html
27-02-2021||National||No bigger irony than questioning valour of country's Army: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said there can be no bigger irony than questioning the valour of the country's Army. The defence minister said this while talking to reporters at Madaripur of the Saidpur area while attending the wedding of his adopted son Dr Vijendra. “We are proud of the might of the Indian Army. It is meaningless to doubt our Army. There can be nothing more ironic than questioning the Army. No one should doubt the valour and might of the Army of the country,” the defence minister said. Terming the Indian Army as highly valiant, Singh said it is unfortunate that questions are being asked by the Opposition despite China retreating from border points. The defence minister said it is a moment of great happiness that a poor child adopted by him has turned out a successful human through education. Every capable person should do such noble work, he said. Singh said when he was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, he had adopted two children and Vijendra is one of them who is now a doctor in a government hospital. He blessed the couple on the occasion. Union Minister Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey was also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bigger-irony-than-questioning-valour-of-countrys-army-rajnath-956213.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Assembly Elections 2021: How to check your name on the electoral roll||Have a voter ID card? Check. But is your name present on the electoral roll? You need to check that also. The electoral roll or the voter list is a document that has a list of names of registered voters in a particular constituency. Since you cannot vote if your name is not included in the voter list, it is advisable to confirm if your name is on it. The Election Commission of India has released the schedule for the upcoming Assembly elections. Over 18.68 crore people will cast votes between March 27 and April 29 to elect 824 members of the legislative assemblies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. The votes will be counted in all the four states as well as the Union Territory of Puducherry on May 2. Here is how you can check your name on the voter list: You have to visit the website National Voters’ Service Portal. On this website you can search your name through two methods. 1. You can enter all the details asked on the website - it includes your name, gender, age, date of birth, father’s name, state, assembly constituency and district. After entering the details enter the captcha and click on the search button. If you are enrolled in the electoral list, then the result will be displayed on screen. 2. You can also search your name through EPIC no. All you have to do is enter your EPIC no., your state and the captcha. Then click on search. The result will be displayed on screen accordingly. Another way is to download the voter list and then search your name in it. Step 1: For downloading the voter list, go to the website of Election Commission of India and then click on menu on the left side of the page. Step 2: After clicking the menu, you get a dropdown. Click on the electoral roll on that drop down. Step 3: Click on Link to PDF E-roll. Step 4: On PDF E-roll page click on your state. Step 5: Select your Assembly Constituency. Step 6: Enter the captcha and click next, you will be directed to the PDF of your electoral list. You can search your name there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-2021-how-to-check-your-name-on-the-electoral-roll-955982.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Indo-Pak ceasefire along LoC will have no bearing on counter-terrorism operations in J&K: Army||The Army's northern commander Lt Gen Y K Joshi on Saturday said that the agreement between India and Pakistan to strictly adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control (LoC) would have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. He said that the northern command, which looks after the security of the twin union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, remained on the highest alert and made possible what was believed impossible by the bravery, grit and determination of its personnel in the face of challenging situations along the border. "Recently, the Director-General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan have announced an agreement to uphold ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 and 25 midnight. I want to assure you that this ceasefire will have no bearing on the counter-terrorist operations and we will maintain our alertness," Lt Gen Joshi said at the northern command investiture ceremony here. During the ceremony, the Army commander presented two Bar to Sena medals (gallantry) and 50 Sena medals (gallantry) to the brave soldiers. He also presented three Sena medals (distinguished) and six Vishisht Seva medals for selfless service to the nation. Lt Gen Joshi also awarded unit appreciation to 26 units for their overall outstanding performance in the command theatre. "The northern command has always stood like a shield against the attempts by our neighbouring countries to spread disturbance and it will continue to remain so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, the Indian Army has replied strongly," Lt Gen Joshi said. Without naming China and Pakistan, he said that the Indian Army has maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and helped in maintaining peace in the hinterland. Referring to the eastern Ladakh standoff with the Chinese army, he said Indian Army stood up to the challenge on the snow-capped mountains of the Line of Actual Control during the challenging situation in 2020 and maintained the highest alert. "Our action is a glaring example of our training, bravery and pledge (to safeguard the borders) and it will be written in history with golden words. The northern command made possible what seemed impossible. The success of the operation (in Ladakh) is the glaring example of the bravery of the Indian Army,” he said. He said 2020 was historic in many ways for the Army which demonstrated its mettle in eastern Ladakh by its "grit, determination, self-confidence, bravery and steadfastness". He said there has been a tremendous improvement in the basic deployment and preparedness and the efforts in this direction will continue. “The measures we have put in to strengthen our defences, the same efforts were made to maintain peace,” he said. In Kashmir, he said, the overall security situation saw a great improvement in the previous year as there has been a considerable reduction in terrorist-initiated incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of Jammu and Kashmir. He said the Army also played a key role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. "Under 'Seva Paramo Dharma', Army doctors, nursing staff, ambulance and medical corps staff without caring for their lives worked round-the-clock and are continuously doing so," he said. He congratulated those who were decorated for their bravery and conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice on the borders, including at Galwan Valley, and in the battle against internal security challenges. Lt Col Joshi urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to rededicate themselves to the cause of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indo-pak-ceasefire-along-loc-will-have-no-bearing-on-counter-terrorism-operations-in-jk-army-956031.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||BJP steps up demand for Sanjay Rathod’s resignation||Ahead of the crucial Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature, the opposition BJP on Saturday mounted pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government demanding resignation of state forest minister Sanjay Rathod. The name of 49-year-old Rathod, a Shiv Sena leader and four-time MLA from the Banjara community hailing from the Vidarbha region, has cropped up after the death of social media star Pooja Chavan in Pune. Pooja (22), also from Banjara community, hailed Parli Vaijanath from Beed district of Marathwada region, was active in social and community work. Pooja died after falling from the balcony of an apartment in Pune’s Hadapsar area. The police has registered an accidental death report (ADR) and is carrying out investigations. On Saturday, the women’s wing of state BJP held protests in 100-odd places across Maharashtra demanding resignation and arrest of Rathod. “We will not allow a smooth session unless Rathod is removed from the Cabinet,” state BJP president and former revenue minister Chandrakant Patil said. It may be recalled that days after the death of Pooja, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had shot off a letter to state’s director general of police Hemant Nagrale and submitted 12 audio clips vis-a-vis the incident and called for a probe. Thackeray on his part had assured a probe. However, Rathod continued as a minister and a few days ago staged a massive show of strength at Poharadevi Temple in Washim district – an incident that saw all norms and protocols related to Covid-19 going for a toss. “If the probe is complete, let the government say that Rathod is innocent,” Patil said. The campaign against Rathod is being spearheaded by state BJP’s women’s wing vice president Chitra Wagh. Meanwhile, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered a case against Wagh’s husband Kishore Wagh in a case of assets disproportionate to known sources of income. Earlier in 2016, the Mumbai Unit of ACB had arrested Kishor Wagh. During that time, Chitra Wagh was the state women’s wing chief of NCP. She switched over to BJP ahead of 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls. Patil, however, said: “It is not proper to join the two cases....the two cases are different...here she is seeking justice for Pooja Chavan’s family and you are trying to put pressure by the old case....let that case be investigated (by ACB) irrespective of the outcome.” Patil also said that the National Commission for Women has sought a report in the Pooja Chavan case and wanted to know whether the state has sent its report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-steps-up-demand-for-sanjay-rathod-s-resignation-956036.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Fuel price hike: Youth Congress stages protest outside residence of Smriti Irani||Indian Youth Congress activists staged a protest outside the residence of Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday against rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and demanded that the government roll back the hike with immediate effect. Irani, when in the opposition, would take to the streets even if prices of petrol and diesel rose by Rs 5 per litre, but today she is "completely silent" as the country faces an "all-round inflation", said Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Srinivas B V. "Today, the Youth Congress has tried to awaken her from sleep. Petrol price has crossed Rs 100 a litre, diesel has crossed Rs 90 in many parts of the country, and the price of cooking gas cylinders are increasing day by day," he said. "What is shameful is that despite this kind of open loot, the BJP government" is trying to shift the blame, he added. He said Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan's statement that fuel prices will go down once the winter ends was "stupid" and demanded his resignation. The leader asked the central government to reduce the prices of petrol, diesel and gas with immediate effect. "People of the country had chosen PM Modi and his ministers on the promise of 'aache din', now the trust of PM Modi and his government has been broken. Farmers, youth, labourers, businessmen, women are badly suffering from inflation. The anti-people and anti-national face of RSS and BJP has come out," he alleged. IYC National General Secretary Bhaiya Pawar and its Delhi co-incharge Khushboo Sharma also participated in the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fuel-price-hike-youth-congress-stages-protest-outside-residence-of-smriti-irani-956060.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||TMC will return to power, WB people want its daughter back: Prashant Kishor||With the stage set for high- octane assembly elections, poll strategist Prashant Kishor Saturday exuded confidence of TMC returning to power as the people of West Bengal are ready to bring back their rightful leader. Kishor, whose team I-PAC is working in planning TMC's election campaign, in his latest tweet said that one of the key battles for democracy in the country will be fought in the West Bengal. The people of the state want its daughter back and the public could hold him to this tweet on May 2, the day the results of the elections will be declared. "One of the key battles FOR DEMOCRACY in India will be fought in West Bengal, and the people of Bengal are ready with their MESSAGE and determined to show the RIGHT CARD - #BanglaNijerMeyekeiChay (Bengal Only Wants its Daughter) PS: On 2nd May, hold me to my last tweet," he tweeted.  Planned and conceptualised by I-PAC, TMC last week had unveiled a poll slogan- "Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chaye", portraying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee mascot with a focus on women voters and Bengali sub-nationalism. The BJP, however, mocked Kishor and said he has no idea about the ground reality in Bengal. Earlier, in a tweet in December, Kishor had vowed to quit Twitter if the BJP crossed double digits in the 2021 West Bengal Assembly elections. Kishor then wrote that BJP would struggle to secure even double digits in the West Bengal assembly election. His tweet was in response to Home Minister Amit Shah setting a target of winning more than 200 out of 294 seats in West Bengal assembly polls in 2021. The Election Commission has announced eight-phase elections in West Bengal from March 27 to April 29. Results will be declared on May 2 along with the three other poll- bound states and the union territory of Puducherry. West Bengal has a 294-member assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-will-return-to-power-wb-people-want-its-daughter-back-prashant-kishor-956064.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Police officers adopting unfair means to prevent free and fair Bengal assembly polls: BJP||The BJP on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal against some police officers for allegedly resorting to unfair means to prevent free and fair assembly polls in the state. Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta said it had come to the notice of the party that the police officers have been demanding submission of Aadhaar cards and other documents from officials designated for election duty. "We smell a rat in the whole exercise and have been seeking an appointment with the commissioner of Kolkata Police for the last four days, but in vain. So, we came to the CEO's office to apprise him of the matter," Dasgupta told reporters here. This a conspiracy to prevent free and fair elections in the state, he claimed.  Another BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta alleged that despite the model code of conduct coming into force, few administrators of municipal bodies were issuing project orders. The Election Commission of India had on Friday announced an eight-phase poll in West Bengal, which will commence on March 27 and conclude on April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/police-officers-adopting-unfair-means-to-prevent-free-and-fair-bengal-assembly-polls-bjp-956096.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||PM-Kisan scheme proved to be 'election stunt' of BJP: BSP's Danish Ali||BSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali on Saturday alleged that the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi' has proven to be the BJP's election "stunt" to win the 2019 polls, citing the declining number of beneficiaries in his native Hapur district in Uttar Pradesh. Ali, a Lok Sabha MP from Amroha, said official figures show the difference between claims and the actions of the Modi government. Tweeting what he said were official figures of beneficiaries of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi in Hapur district, he pointed out that the number of registered farmers in Hapur district is 1,27,292. The first installment of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi was received by 1,16,104 farmers, the second by 1,12,832, the third by 1,10,882, the fourth by 1,00,614, the fifth by 96,959, the sixth by 80,026 and the seventh by 64,643, he claimed. This plan also turned out to be a "mere stunt" to win the 2019 general election, Ali alleged. This turned out to be like the promise of providing 2 crore jobs every year, he said in his tweet in Hindi. The PM-Kisan scheme was launched over two years ago to provide a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-kisan-scheme-proved-to-be-election-stunt-of-bjp-bsps-danish-ali-956101.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Centre committed to strengthen connectivity, bring development in north-east region: Harsh Vardhan||Union Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said that the Centre is committed to strengthening connectivity in the northeastern states and will ensure that the region has as much development as the rest of the country. The Union Health Minister also said several development projects have been executed in the region in the last 5-7 years and more central initiatives will be taken up in the coming days. "...an emphasis has been given to ensure that the north-east region has as much development as the rest of the country," Vardhan said while interacting with reporters during his visit to an under-construction medical college at Phriebagei in Nagaland's Kohima district. The foundation stone for the facility, which is supposed to be the first medical college of Nagaland, was laid in 2014 by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, but the completion of the project was getting delayed due to various reasons, he said, adding that the construction work is now gaining pace. The project is expected to be completed by mid-2022. Vardhan also said the allocation for the health sector has been increased in this year's Union Budget and the Centre has given impetus to allied infrastructure such as availability of potable water and sanitation. The budget outlay for health and wellbeing was estimated at Rs 2,23,846 crore for 2021-22 fiscal, up by 137 per cent from Rs 94,452 crore in the current financial year. "There is a huge focus from all the central departments. It is not only about health and family welfare but issues related to connectivity in the region are being addressed," he said. Vardhan on Friday laid the foundation stone for Nagaland's second medical college, which will be set up in Mon district with an estimated investment of Rs 325 crore. Construction of the facility is likely to be completed by 2023-24. "The construction activities should be taken up at the earliest so that there is no delay," the minister said. He recollected that the second medical college of the state was approved in the current term of the Narendra Modi government. The Centre has given priority to develop health facilities in areas where people did not have medical establishments even after the 75 years of Independence, he said. Vardhan urged the Neiphiu Rio government in Nagaland to take the initiatives to complete the two health projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-committed-to-strengthen-connectivity-bring-development-in-north-east-region-harsh-vardhan-956136.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Retired from Rajya Sabha not politics, will continue my fight for J&K statehood: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Asserting that he had retired only from Rajya Sabha and not politics, Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad Saturday expressed a resolve to continue his fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood and its residents' special rights over jobs and land. The former chief minister also stressed the importance of unity among the residents of the Union Territory to fight the threats from China and Pakistan and said "we need to stand with our forces against the enemies". Ghulam Nabi Azad retired from the Upper House on February 15. "I have retired from Rajya Sabha but not from politics. This is not for the first time that I retired from parliament. Till my last breath, I will continue my services for the nation and will continue my fight for the rights of people," Azad told a 'Shanti Sammelan' organised by the Gandhi Global family here. He was joined by senior party leaders including Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma. In an apparent reference to the August 5, 2019 development when the Centre revoked J&K's special status and split it into two Union Territories, he said, "We have lost our identity but we will not give up and continue our fight for the restoration of the statehood within and outside parliament." "We want representatives of the people of all the three regions of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir - Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh - to form the government. Leh supported the UT status but Kargil is against it. Every party in Jammu - from BJP to RSS and National Conference to PDP and Panthers Party wants statehood back," he said. "It is the voice of the people and I challenge anyone to come out with a statement that they do not want the restoration of statehood to J&K," he said. He also said he will continue his fight for the locals’ rights over land and jobs. "Jammu and Leh face the immediate threat if outsiders start settling in J&K and Ladakh. We are not against the people coming from outside to get jobs here, but in Jammu and Kashmir, resources are limited as we do not have any big industry here," Azad said. In politics, he said the fight continues to ensure that the people get their rights. "Jammu and Kashmir shares its border with China and Pakistan and the enemy is very active unlike any other part of the country. We had many wars in the past but the rift has not ended till date. It is our responsibility that we maintain harmony, peace, love and fight the enemy together," he said, adding it is possible when "we are united and did not fall prey to those who are doing the politics of division". He said every party has a right to come to the power but doing the politics of religion is not good for the country. "You need to take everyone along as was done by Congress in the past. The Congress could not have achieved freedom for the country, had it not welcomed everyone from every region, religion and every community including educated people, farmers, traders and labourers, irrespective of their caste and creed," he said. He said the Congress learnt from former prime minister Indira Gandhi that border residents are brave people who fight the enemy alongside the forces and need to be given a special attention. "We salute our forces for their bravery in the face of challenges from Pakistan and China. We support them and stand with them against the enemy," he said. "World leaders like US president Joe Biden makes a reference to Kashmir soon after taking over. They do not talk about any other place of the country but we have now lost our identity and have to fight for its restoration," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/retired-from-rajya-sabha-not-politics-will-continue-my-fight-for-jk-statehood-ghulam-nabi-azad-956161.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Trinamool Congress may retain power in Bengal, Stalin likely to dethrone AIADMK in Tamil Nadu: Opinion poll||The opinion poll by ABP-C Voter gives Bengal to Trinamool Congress, Kerala to CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and Assam to BJP. In Tamil Nadu, the DMK-led front is likely to oust AIADMK, which has allied with the BJP, while in Puducherry where Congress lost the government a couple of days ago, BJP-AIADMK may romp home comfortably. If the opinion polls come true, it will be bad news for Congress as it will have no governments in South India while the CPI(M) will manage to hold on to its last bastion for one more time. Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress still has an edge over the BJP, which is attempting to overthrow the ruling regime and expand its footprint in eastern India. According to the opinion poll, Trinamool is likely to win 148-164 seats in the 294-member Assembly where the half-way mark is 147. Compared to the January 18 opinion poll by the same team, the numbers for Trinamool were 154-162. The BJP, the latest poll said, could win 92-108 as against 98-106 in the polls one and a half months ago. Congress and the Left combine are likely to win only 31-39 seats and in case of a hung assembly would favour the Trinamool. Trinamool had won 211 seats in the 2016 polls while BJP had won three. Congress won 44 while the CPI(M) had won 26. It is good news for the Left in Kerala, the only state where it is in power, as it is predicted to win 83-91 seats in a House of 140 MLAs. The Congress-led United Democratic Front could win 47-55, BJP 0-2 and Others 0-2. In the 2016 polls, LDF had won 91, UDF 47, BJP 1 and Independent 1. The Congress has been counting on Kerala with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi focussing more on the state where it has a chance of returning to power. However, the local polls were not in its favour and it had added to the confidence of the LDF. Tamil Nadu could see the return of the DMK-led alliance, which has Congress and the Left as its allies among others, trouncing the AIADMK-BJP coalition. The DMK coalition is likely to win 154-162 seats in an Assembly of 234 while AIADMK-BJP will have to settle for 58-55. Others, including Kamal Hasan's Makkal Neethi Maiam, may win 8-20 seats. BJP-AIADMK may open its account in Puducherry this time with the opinion poll predicting 17-21 seats while Congress may settle at 8-12 seats and others 1-3. Earlier this week, Congress lost the government after around half-a-dozen of its MLAs resigned from the party. Just before facing the confidence vote, it resigned as Chief Minister V Narayanasamy walked out of the House. The January opinion poll had shown a neck-and-neck race in Puducherry but the changed political scenario gives BJP and its allies a better prospect. In the 125-member Assam, BJP is predicted to return to power with 68-76 seats while Congress and its allies will have to settle for the Opposition slot for another term with 43-51 seats. Others may win 5-10 seats. Opinion Polls: West BengalTMC 148-164BJP 92-108Cong+Left+ 31-39 Tamil Nadu - 234 seatsAIADMK-BJP: 58-66DMK+Cong+Left: 154-162Others: 8-20 Kerala - 140 seatsLDF: 83-91UDF: 47-55BJP: 0-2OTH: 0-2 Assam - 126 seatsBJP 68-76Congress 43-51Others 5-10 Puducherry - 30 seatsBJP+AIADMK: 17-21Congress+: 8-12Others: 1-3||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-congress-may-retain-power-in-bengal-stalin-likely-to-dethrone-aiadmk-in-tamil-nadu-opinion-poll-956170.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Ahead of Assembly polls, dissenters say Congress is weak||Ahead of elections to four states and a Union Territory, dissenters within the Congress, led by Ghulam Nabi Azad, on Saturday fired a salvo at the leadership, claiming that the party was “getting weaker” across the country. Seven Congress leaders, who gathered in Jammu for ‘Shanti Sammelan' — an event organised by Azad’s NGO Global Gandhi Family — also had an advice to the next generation led by Rahul Gandhi, to connect to the party. Besides Azad, senior leaders Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Vivek Tankha, Raj Babbar and Manish Tewari attended the meeting. The seven were part of the Group of 23, who had written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi in August last year demanding a “fulltime and “more visible” leadership. “The Congress party has weakened. We need to strengthen it. Let us accept this. I don't know why the party is not utilising the services of Azad. We have to strengthen the party with his guidance,” said Sibal, a former union minister and Rajya Sabha member. The Congress frowned at the gathering of dissenters, saying they would have served the party better had they toured election-bound states. “When elections are happening in five states (West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and the Union Territory of Puducherry), these leaders could have been there to strengthen the party,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi told reporters. At the same time, Singhvi added that the party was “proud of them” but reminded that Azad had a long career in Parliament as a seven-term member and enjoyed key positions in the Congress. “Sonia Gandhi had even nominated him as J&K chief minister… but nobody had used the word ‘istemal’ (use) in relation to Azad,” Singhvi said in an apparent reference to Sibal’s remarks. Singhvi refused to comment on whether the party would take disciplinary action against the leaders. However, the younger leadership obliquely commented on the developments, saying that “pus should be removed before it turns into an ulcer”. “For those who don’t get the context,” Saral Patel, national convenor of the AICC Social Media Department, tweeted, posting a photograph of empty bullet shells.   Anand Sharma, deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, echoed Sibal and asked the next generation, which has been targeting them at internal party meetings, to connect well with the organisation. “All of us have covered a long distance to reach where we are today. Nobody has parachuted or come through the window. We have all walked through the doors, through students’ movements and youth movements,” Sharma said. “We have given our blood and sweat for the party. Nobody has the right to tell us whether we are Congressmen or not. We will remake the Congress. The Congress is our identity and we are Congress' identity. Unity of Congress is important,” Sharma said, hitting out at detractors within the party.   Azad told the gathering that he was not retiring from politics yet and that the leaders who had come with him for the felicitation ceremony to Jammu had raised the issue of J&K strongly in Parliament for years. “I have retired from Parliament several times, I have bounced back several times,” the former J&K chief minister told the gathering and added that more leaders wanted to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-assembly-polls-dissenters-say-congress-is-weak-956172.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul launches tirade against Modi, talks about 'connect' with Tamil Nadu ahead of Assembly polls||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over issues including the Sino-India standoff and sought to establish an emotional connect with the people of poll-bound Tamil Nadu, saying he wants to have a relationship with them marked only by respect and affection. Launching his three-day Tamil Nadu tour ahead of the April 6 assembly elections, he attacked Modi, BJP and the RSS on a number of issues and charged the Prime Minister with seeking to "remote control" Tamil Nadu through Chief Minister K Palaniswami. He also billed himself as a 'honest' man and therefore Modi "cannot control me" but was being targeted by him. At public interactions and meetings at different locations in Tuticorin and Tirunelvei districts, during some of which he mingled with the public, Gandhi missed no chance to take a swipe at Modi and also hit out at the 'corrupt' ruling AIADMK. Training his guns against Modi over the Sino-India border standoff, he charged the PM with being 'scared' of the eastern neighbour and took a swipe at him for being only "useful to two people." "Essentially the Chinese occupied certain strategic areas in our country. They first tested the idea in Doklam." "They tested the idea to see how would India react and they noticed India did not react. And then they carried out the idea again in Ladakh and also I believe in Arunachal Pradesh," he said. Gandhi said Modi's first reaction to the Chinese incursions was "that nobody has come into India." "That indicated to the Chinese that the Prime Minister of India is scared of them.. they understood it. And since then the Chinese have negotiated on that principle," he said. "They know that the Prime Minister of India cannot stand up to them. Mark my words, our land in Depsang, which is the most important land, is not going to come back to under this government." Giving such a message to the Chinese was "very dangerous to the future because the Chinese are not going to stop with Ladakh," he alleged. Later, at a well-attended public rally at Nanguneri in Tirunelveli, Gandhi was all praise for the love and affection of the Tamil people, saying they will repay them in larger quantity when shown. The only way to deal with Tamil people is through love, respect and affection, he added. "As somebody who does not come from Tamil Nadu, I noticed something immediately. I might meet the poorest person, the weakest person, the person in maximum distress but they never lose their dignity. They never lose their self-respect," he said. Their situation might be terrible but they maintain their self-respect and dignity "which I admire," he said, adding, Tamil Nadu, with its small and medium businesses, is going to show India the future direction. "The only relationship I want to have with the people of Tamil Nadu is one of respect and affection because I understand that is the only relationship that is possible. I understand the graciousness and the large heartedness of the Tamil people and that is the relationship we must share," he added. Hitting out at Modi, he said the Prime Minister was 'delusional' and thought he could "remote control" Tamil Nadu through the chief minister but said the people will "remove the battery and throw away." Palaniswami was not standing up to Modi because he was 'corrupt' and 'not honest,' Gandhi alleged. "The only one reason Narendra Modi can't frighten me, is I am not corrupt. And because I am not corrupt I can stand up against him and tell him the truth," he said and claimed he was attacked consistently by the PM for this reason. Lashing out at Modi on demonetisation and GST, he said it had severely impacted small and medium businesses, saying "these are taxes on poor people." The "two-three" biggest corporates can get any amount of money from banks as loan "but the small and medium businesses in Tamil Nadu cannot get a rupee," he claimed. "Narendra Modi is useful to two people. He is extremely useful because those two people are using the Prime Minister of India to increase their wealth dramatically," he said, repeating his "hum do, hamare do," jibe against him. On the the fall of Congress-led governments in Madhya Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh, among others, he alleged that they were 'bought' by the saffron party. Democracy was 'dead' in the country, he said and blamed the RSS. Misuse of sedition laws, threatening and killing of people were the symptoms of the problem, he alleged. There was also a "full-scale assault" on secularism. Such issues could be addressed only with "mass action" involving people. It was happening outside Delhi, he said, referring to the farmers' agitation against the new Central farm laws. He reiterated his opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act and the farm laws. The agriculture system need to be reformed, but not by destroying it, he said. Later, interacting with salt pan workers, he recalled his party's poll-time promise of providing Rs 72,000 under the NYAY scheme and assured them that it would be implemented if the Congress was voted to power. He said it was strange that people who consume salt hardly realise how it is made or the difficulties of salt pan workers. "People don't even realise there is salt in the vaccine shots they get as you have mentioned..." he added. The Congress leader paid a visit to a salt pan. He also visited the St.John's Cathedral at Nazareth, Tuticorin, the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-launches-tirade-against-modi-talks-about-connect-with-tamil-nadu-ahead-of-assembly-polls-956176.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Congress again on brink of split; 'leftover' leaders misleading people, says BJP leader Kavinder Gupta||Claiming that political experts have started sensing another division in the Congress, senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta on Saturday said it would start from Jammu and Kashmir this time around. He was apparently referring to the gathering of senior Congress leaders, including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma, at a function in Jammu. "Political mahapandits across the nation have started sensing another division in the Congress since the era of sycophancy towards the Nehru-Gandhi clan seems to be dying down. The latest developments in the Congress have indications of an intrinsic uprising, with voices of dissent resonating in the political circles, signalling another dent to this already tumbling political bloc," the former Jammu and Kashmir deputy chief minister said in a statement here. Recalling similar instances in the late 1960s, when Morarji Desai left the Congress and later, N D Tiwari parted ways with the grand old party, the BJP leader said this time, it seems that Jammu and Kashmir will turn out to be the place of happening as far as further "degrading of this party, which is presently bereft of principles and ideology", is concerned. He vociferously decried the "leftover" Congress leadership for misleading the people of the country on the rising fuel prices and the skyrocketing inflation. Blaming the Congress for its "blunders" in the last over 70 years that resulted in a slow growth rate and poverty, Gupta said since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took over the reins of the country, there has been a drastic change as giving and taking bribes have become things of the past. "The BJP government faced certain setbacks due to the misdoings of the Congress in the past," he said, adding, "Now things have been sorted out and the current status, despite the losses incurred due to Covid-19 in 2020, is not bad at all." Gupta said people should not believe in the rumours spread by the Congress and its ilk with regard to petty issues as the Modi government is doing enough to ensure that the country gets its desired place in the world with its economy, health, employment, infrastructure, education, defence and culture getting the much-required boost, fulfilling the aspirations of its people. Without naming anyone, he said the presence of the "senior Congress leadership" in Jammu in itself is a terse message to the party's high-command that all is not well within. The Congress needs no external force for its decimation as its leaders sitting at the helm are doing it "with full efficacy and soon, the country will become free of this good-for-nothing party," the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-again-on-brink-of-split-leftover-leaders-misleading-people-says-bjp-leader-kavinder-gupta-956208.html
27-02-2021||National Politics||Congress looking for much-needed wins in upcoming assembly polls with the help of allies||After a series of reverses, the Congress is now going on an overdrive to regain power in Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry with the help of its allies. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has already started a high-pitched campaign in the southern states and has also toured Assam, though the party is yet to finalise seat-sharing with allies. In Tamil Nadu, it is still working with its major partner DMK on a seat-sharing arrangement. The party is optimistic about its chances in the state as also in Kerala as power switches side there every five years. The Congress has again joined hands with AIUDF in Assam to wrest back power from the BJP, though it does not have a stalwart like former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who passed away in November last year. In West Bengal, the Congress and Left parties are yet to have a formal agreement with the Indian Secular Front, a move intended to help win back some of the minority voters who are being wooed by the AIMIM as well the ruling TMC in the fight against a buoyed BJP. With the Congress now left in power only in the states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh of its own and in Maharashtra and Jharkhand along with its allies, the grand old party faces the challenge of performing well at the hustings in these polls or run the risk losing its relevance as the principal opposition party. The fall of its governments in Karnataka in 2019, Madhya Pradesh in 2020 and recently in Puducherry as well as the electoral reverses in Bihar and Delhi have led to growing internal discord in the Congress, especially in the absence of a full-time party chief, and is putting it at a disadvantage in the seat-sharing negotiations with allies, according to observers. Though the civic poll results in Punjab were encouraging, the defeat in the Gujarat civic polls has come as a dampener. Assembly polls in five states of Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will begin from March 27. The group of 23 dissenters within the Congress also went public against the party on Saturday saying it has "weakened" and there is an urgent need to strengthen it. Party leaders feel that for the grand old party, winning these elections is very crucial as it would give it the much-needed confidence to emerge as a stronger opposition force against the Narendra Modi-led BJP. It will also boost the Congress' prospects as it enters the next phase of electoral battles in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-looking-for-much-needed-wins-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-with-the-help-of-allies-956209.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Body of a nine-year-old girl allegedly killed with iron rod recovered in fields near Delhi, four held||A man and his three associates were arrested on Friday for allegedly abducting and killing a nine-year-old girl with an iron rod, police said. Johnny alias Shiva, who is a driver by profession, and his associates Naresh, Kailash and Tarun were arrested from Modinagar in Uttar Pradesh and the minor's body was recovered from a field in Tibra village, they said. On February 23, the girl's parents had lodged a complaint at Kalyanpuri police station stating that their daughter had gone missing, according to the police. Police said Johnny and his associates kidnapped the girl, who lived in east Delhi's Kalyanpuri, to extort money from her parents. Johnny and Naresh abducted the girl in their car. Later, they were joined by Tarun and other associates, a senior police officer said. Soon after the girl went missing, neighbours started searching for her and suspected Johnny as he was also missing from the area around the same time. When Johnny got a hint about this development, he panicked and planned to kill the minor. The four accused took the girl to Tibra village near Modinagar in Uttar Pradesh and killed her inside the car using an iron rod. After killing the girl, they dumped her body in a field in Tibra village near Modinagar. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said all the four accused in the case -- Johnny, Naresh, Kailash and Tarun -- have been arrested and the weapon of offence has been recovered. The body of the girl was recovered by the police on Friday morning, the police said. Meanwhile, locals staged a protest in the area and attacked a police vehicle alleging delay in registering the complaint, but police denied the claims and said the complaint was registered on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-a-nine-year-old-girl-allegedly-killed-with-iron-rod-recovered-in-fields-near-delhi-four-held-955835.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||7-year-old girl raped by her relative in an an agricultural field in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur Dehat||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her relative in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur Dehat, according to police. The accused, identified as Pawan Raidas, alias Guddu (30), had taken the girl to an agricultural field on Thursday evening and raped her, said Superintendent of Police Keshav Kumar Chowdhary. The girl was found unconscious by her family members and later she narrated her ordeal to them, police said. The girl was taken to a district hospital where she is under treatment. An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC and police are searching for the accused, who is on the run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-year-old-girl-raped-by-her-relative-in-an-an-agricultural-field-in-uttar-pradeshs-kanpur-dehat-955890.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||1 dead after fire breaks out at factory in Delhi's Pratap Nagar area||The charred body of a 22-year-old labourer was recovered after a fire broke out at a warehouse in north Delhi's Pratap Nagar area in the early hours of Saturday, police said. A 37-year-old man has been detained in connection with the incident, they said. The deceased has been identified as Upchand, a native of Bihar. Another labourer, named Sushil Kumar (22), a resident of the state's Kishanganj sustained minor injuries, they said. One of the firemen also suffered minor injury on his finger during the fire-fighting operation and was given first aid at the spot, a fire official said.       A call about the blaze was received around 3.47 am and 18 fire tenders were pressed into service, he said. Later, 10 more fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the flames were doused and the cooling process was carried out, he added. The fire broke out on the first floor of the warehouse and spread to the second floor. Plastic and nail polish materials stored in the warehouse caught fire and a charred body was recovered from the first floor, said Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Service. The cause of the blaze is being ascertained, he said. According to the police, nail polish, lipsticks, gift packing and several other materials were stored in small rooms of the warehouse. A senior police officer said a case has been registered under sections of Indian Penal Code -- 435 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage), 436 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), and 308 (Attempt to commit culpable homicide). He said a man named Sanjay, a resident of Gautam Buddh Nagar in Uttar Pradesh, has been detained in connection with the incident as both the labourers worked for him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-dead-after-fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-delhis-pratap-nagar-area-955914.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Two dead, 36 injured as bus overturns in Madhya Pradesh||Two persons were killed and 36 others injured after a bus overturned in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district in the wee hours of Saturday, a police official said. The incident occurred at Sirolya village, located approximately 15 km from Dewas district headquarters, around 1 am, he said. "The driver of the bus, which was returning from a marriage ceremony, lost control over the vehicle due to which it overturned," Superintendent of Police (SP) Dr Shiv Dayal said. On being alerted, a police team rushed to the spot and took the injured to Dewas district hospital, he said. One of the injured, identified as Narayan Singh, died on way to the hospital, while another one identified as Rakesh Malviya succumbed to his injuries during treatment at a hospital in Indore, the SP said. Of the 36 persons who were injured in the incident, six are in a serious condition. They have been admitted to Indore hospital, Dayal said, adding that others were discharged after primary treatment. A case was registered against the bus driver at Barotha police Station and further investigation is underway, he said. The bodies were handed over to the family members of the deceased after post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-dead-36-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-madhya-pradesh-955974.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Woman, son stabbed for objecting to noise in Delhi||A woman and her 19-year-old son were stabbed allegedly by four boys in their neighbourhood in west Delhi's Punjabi Bagh area on Saturday when they told them not to make noise, police said. Both the injured, Moin and his mother who is in her late 40s, were taken to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, they said. In his statement, Moin told police that four boys, all residents of his locality in DDU camp area of Punjabi Bagh, were making noise. When his parents tried to stop them, they started fighting and one of the boys stabbed his mother in the chest. Moin suffered a thigh injury in the knife attack, a senior police officer said. The injured are stated to be stable, he said. A case has been registered. The accused are below 18 years of age and have gone absconding, the police officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-son-stabbed-for-objecting-to-noise-in-delhi-956009.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||SC stays HC's order quashing CBI FIR against Telangana minister, wife in DA case||In a trouble to Telangana Education Minister Audimulapu Suresh and his civil servant wife, T N Vijayalakshmi, the Supreme Court has stayed the  High Court's order which quashed a 2017 FIR lodged by the CBI against them in a case of possessing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah issued notice to the couple on CBI's petition contending that the HC in its order of February 11, 2020, impermissibly went into details of the matter more akin to a trial. Acting on the couple's plea, the High Court had held that the probe in the matter was unsustainable.  The court's order, passed on Friday, would mean that the Minister and his wife would continue to face the investigation in the matter. The CBI claimed the couple was found in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 1,10,81,692/- which is 22.86% more than the known sources of income. Appearing for the CBI, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain submitted that the single-judge bench of the High Court, in breach of the well-settled principles laid down by this court, quashed an FIR in the case involving allegations of the possession of disproportionate assets, under Section 109 of the Indian Penal Code 1860 read with Section 13(2) and Section 13(1)(e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988.  The CBI's ACB Chennai registered an FIR on September 20, 2017, against 1992-batch IRS officer Vijayalakshmi and her former civil servant-turned-politician YSRCP MLA Suresh, alleging they have acquired assets to the tune of Rs 5,95,58,322 against the income of Rs 4,84,76,630 during the check period of April 1, 2010, to February 29, 2016. Therefore, it was alleged they had acquired disproportionate assets to a tune of Rs, 1,10,81,692 which is 22.86 % of their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-hcs-order-quashing-cbi-fir-against-telangana-minister-wife-in-da-case-956024.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Priyanka Gandhi offers prayers at Sant Ravidas temple in Varanasi||Sant Ravidas taught people a true religion which is easy and has no politics or discrimination, said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday after offering prayers at a temple dedicated to the seer in Varanasi. The Congress leader arrived at the Varanasi airport in the morning and was extended a warm welcome by party workers before she went to Seer Govardhan, the birth place of the seer, to offer prayers on his birth anniversary. She also took part in a "satsang". This is the second time in the past two years when the Congress leader has visited the birth place of Sant Shiromani Guru Ravidasji, a Congress release issued in Lucknow said. The Congress leader also took blessings of Sant Niranjan Das, the “mahant” of the temple. Speaking on the occasion, the Congress leader said Ravidas taught people a true religion. "It is an easy religion as the true religion is always easy which has no politics or discrimination. The sect or caste of a person is not seen, it is only humanity that is seen. When you imbibe such a religion, it brings compassion and truth to the heart.” Priyanka said a true religion never divides people. "The nature of such a religion is that it soothes the heart and brings compassion and people together as brothers and sisters," she said. Thanking all those present on the occasion, she said they all have kept the true religion alive and there is no politics behind it. Sant Ravidasji Maharaj has taught that all should be served, get food and lodging and you all are doing that, serving those who have nothing, Priyanka said. Referring to the coronavirus crisis, she said it was her wish that Congress workers in the state should also serve people, especially when the lockdown started and people started moving out, walking towards their homes. When our people started community kitchens to serve such people, your people helped and I want to thank you all for it, the Congress release quoting Priyanka said. Priyanka said she hoped that the aspiration of Sant Ravidasji that people should be served and there should be harmony is maintained in politics. Congress workers in large numbers, including senior state party leaders, were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/priyanka-gandhi-offers-prayers-at-sant-ravidas-temple-in-varanasi-956062.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi's law and order situation in 'serious turmoil': Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi's law and order situation is in "serious turmoil" citing the recent murder of an eight-year-old girl and stabbing of a teenaged boy, and requested the Union home minister under whom the city police function for appropriate action. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia met the family of the deceased girl in Khichripur. He assured the family the case would be tried in a fast-track court and that best lawyers would be engaged to ensure death penalty to the guilty. "Deeply concerned by the murder of a 8-yr-old girl in Khichdipur & attack on a 17-yr-old boy in Kalkaji. Delhi's law and order situation is in a serious turmoil, I appeal to Hon'ble Home Minister & Lt. Gov (Lieutenant Governor) to take appropriate action to address the situation," Kejriwal said in a tweet. The minor girl was abducted from Khichripur and a complaint was lodged by her parents at Kalyanpuri police station. The body of the girl was recovered from Modinagar in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, police said. The four accused who kidnapped the girl for ransom and killed her were arrested, they said. "Hurt by murder of the girl from Delhi's Khichripur. Met the family and assured trial of the case in a fast track court. The best lawyers will be engaged to attempt for death penalty to the murderers," Sisodia tweeted. In another incident, a 17-year-old boy was beaten up and stabbed for allegedly opposing three boys who were stalking his sister and passing "indecent remarks" on her in southeast Delhi's Kalkaji area, police said on Saturday. The incident took place near a school on Friday, they said. The injured boy, a resident of Kalkaji, was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre, the police said. AAP MLA from Kalkaji Atishi met the family members of the boy who she said was stable and recovering. "Met the family of the boy who was stabbed in Kalkaji yesterday. Have assured them of full support. Also spoke to the doctors at the AIIMS Trauma Centre, who said that the boy is stable and recovering," she tweeted. The MLA also spoke to the deputy commissioner of police of southeast Delhi and sought swift arrest of the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-law-and-order-situation-in-serious-turmoil-arvind-kejriwal-956127.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||People with up to Rs 1.8 Lakh annual income to be included in BPL category in Haryana: CM||Haryana households with a total annual income of Rs 1.8 lakh will be included in the below-poverty-line category families from April 2021, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday. Khattar made the announcement about raising households’ income limit for their inclusion in the BPL category from the existing Rs 1.2 lakh to Rs 1.8 lakh from the next fiscal while addressing a state-level function on the occasion of the 644th birth anniversary of Guru Ravidas. From April 1, 2021, the annual income slab of BPL families will be increased from Rs 1.2 lakh to Rs 1.8 lakh, he said. The chief minister also announced amendments in three other state welfare schemes including the one for financial assistance of Rs 50,000 being given to the scheduled caste category BPL families under Dr B R Ambedkar Awas Navinikarn Yojna. The chief minister said the BPL families of all category, including the general category, would be benefitted from the scheme from now onwards. He also announced a raise of Rs 30,00 under this scheme, saying the BPL families of all categories will be given a financial help of Rs 80,000 now under this house renovation scheme. Chief Minister Khattar also announced a raise in the legal aid given to the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe victims of offences under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act to (Prevention of Atrocities) Act from Rs 11, 000 to Rs 21,000. The chief minister made these announcements while reiterating his government's commitment to uplift the condition of the poorest of the poor in the spirit of 'Antyodaya'. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar also urged people to take inspiration from the lives and teachings of saints like Guru Ravidas. The teaching of Guru Ravidas are still relevant, the chief minister said. “Everyone should take inspiration from the life and teachings of such great personalities for ensuring brotherhood and social harmony in society,” he said. “I bow to the great Saint Guru Ravidas Ji on this auspicious day,” he said, adding “I urge everyone to come forward and strengthen the bonds of society by following the path of reverence, devotion, equality and compassion shown by him”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-with-up-to-rs-18-lakh-annual-income-to-be-included-in-bpl-category-in-haryana-cm-956171.html
27-02-2021||North and Central||Achievement despite odds: How a poor J&K girl living in tin-shed tasted success in Class 10 exam||Studying in a single-room tin shed in a village in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, a girl from an extremely poor family passed the Class 10 examination with flying colours, raising hopes of her parents of a better future. Parveena Ayoub, 14, a resident of Latiwaza village in the Kurhama area in the central Kashmir district, passed her Class 10 examination with Grade A1, securing 489 marks out of 500 despite hardships and struggles. Parveena's father Mohammad Ayoub works as a labourer and has to support a family of six, including four daughters and wife. The family, living in a single-room tin shed, often struggles to make the ends meet. “The family is very happy and proud of her achievement and it is only because of her zest for knowledge and her hard work with the support of the teachers that she has achieved this feat,” Ayoub said. Parveena studied at Government Higher Secondary School Kurhama and could not afford private tuitions or coaching. “I could not afford to go for private tuitions. I worked hard and studied myself,” she said. Parveena said she used to prepare for the exams mostly during the nights when the rest of her family members were asleep. “I want to study medical subjects and aspire to become a doctor and I hope to fulfill my dreams and wishes of my parents,” she said. Ayoub said Parveena has raised the hopes of a better future for the family. “She is a very talented girl and I pray she works harder to achieve more success in the future,” he said. Learning about the financial condition of the family and the achievement of the girl, a leading private school has announced a fully-funded two-year scholarship for her. Delhi Public School Srinagar has also awarded Satya Devi Amla cash prize of Rs 50,000 to Parveena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/achievement-despite-odds-how-a-poor-jk-girl-living-in-tin-shed-tasted-success-in-class-10-exam-956214.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||An accident||It happened in the year 1992. The road was dark, there were no street lights and we were driving through a steady rain. My husband was a good driver, but when the dazzling headlights of an approaching car blinded him, he swerved suddenly and our crumbling Herald stopped with a thud to the sound of splintering glass. There was blood everywhere. We had hit the cement concrete island at the junction of four roads.  I wriggled out of the jammed door and waved desperately at passing vehicles which sped past us, unconcerned. I saw my husband slumped on the steering wheel. Cold fear gripped me when this auto driver surfaced from nowhere. He saw the shattered windscreen, the blood. Without a word, he dragged my husband out of the car, hauled him into his autorickshaw and told me also to get in. He drove us straight to the CSI hospital nearby and headed for the casualty section where doctors and nurses took charge immediately. He was a picture of composure throughout. A perfect contrast to my agitation.  “Do you need to contact anyone?” he asked.  He accompanied me to the nurses’ station and requested the use of a private phone. He left me sitting there while he went to check on the patient. He seemed at home in this hospital.  “The bleeding has stopped and they have sutured his wound. He will be okay,” he said and added with a grin: “I know all the doctors in this place. Brought many patients in a worse condition.”  I told him I needed someone with me in the hospital. If I called my neighbour, could he fetch him? “No problem” he answered. “Give me the address.”  “It is an apartment near Coles Park in Fraser Town,” I said, and gave him directions to reach our flat.  He was back in half an hour with our good friend Suby and asked me if he could take leave now. It was past midnight. He had spent nearly three hours with us. I opened my purse to pay him when he shook his head and said, “I don’t take money from injured customers.” I was taken aback and insisted that I had to compensate him for his time at least. But he was adamant. My money seemed a shallow recompense for his incredible services.  “Then please give me your name and address,” I pleaded. “We will come and meet you to thank you in person.”   After a moment’s hesitation, he scribbled on a piece of paper the single word “Bismillah.” There was no address. Later I found that it was the first word in the Qur’an. It meant “In the name of God.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-accident-955817.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Making State Finance Commissions work||State Finance Commissions (SFC), constitutional bodies that recommend allocating resources between state and local governments, have had a chequered history in India. In yet another attempt to revive these institutions, the Fifteenth Union Finance Commission (15th UFC) recommended that the submission of SFC reports be a precondition for local governments to receive additional grants. The intention here is to nudge state governments to take SFCs seriously. In this article, we look at how this attempt might play out. The past A general principle underpinning good fiscal decentralisation is "finance should follow functions". It means local governments should mobilise adequate revenue sources as they get tasked with additional responsibilities. However, the Constitutional framing ignored this principle, and local governments were not given any Constitutional right to the money. It instead left it to state governments to decide how local governments should be financed. While state governments opposed the Union government's encroachment in their domain, they were disinclined to devolve finance and the local governments' functions. SFCs, one of the central pillars of devolution, are a testimony of this neglect.  SFCs have the critical task of deciding the principles for assigning taxes, fees etc., to local governments. They review local governments' financial position and determine the principles that govern the distribution (between state and local bodies) of proceeds levied by states. They can also suggest measures to improve the financial position of local governments.  But these institutions have not been given due importance by the states. As per Constitutional provisions, each state should have had the 5th SFC by 2014-15 (one every five years starting 1993). But only 15 states had constituted their 5th or 6th SFC as of 2019-20. There are states where even the second and third SFCs haven't submitted recommendations. A NIPFP paper points out that the average delay by SFCs in submitting their reports is 16 months. Moreover, state governments' average time to submit an action taken report on SFC recommendations is 11 months. This is in sharp contrast to Finance Commissions at the Union level (UFCs), which are regularly constituted every five years and have quicker turnaround times. The present A long-standing demand has been that the Union government or UFCs must do something to rescue the SFCs from their sorry state. The 14th UFC recommended strengthening of SFCs and stressed on timely constitution and provisioning of administrative support. It chose not to force the state governments' hand beyond this recommendation. The 15th UFC has gone one step further. It has made the release of local grants, amounting to a total of Rs. 4,36,361 crore for the period 2021-26 conditional on states forming the SFCs. The 15th FC report says, "After March 2024, no grants should be released to a State that has not complied with the Constitutional provisions in respect of the SFC and these conditions".  Implications of the 15th UFC recommendations The 15th UFC's recommendation put the onus on the states to form the SFCs, but it doesn't penalise them for non-compliance. Instead, the local bodies can get punished and might be denied local grants for non-compliance by the states. This skewed incentive structure might be a bottleneck to achieve the intended outcomes. A lot might depend on the bargaining power of the existing local bodies. Even if this recommendation leads to the setting up of SFCs in all states, it might not imply higher devolution of funds and powers to local bodies. SFCs are likely to remain handicapped by state governments. State governments have truncated the pool of resources that the SFC is allowed to consider for distribution between state and local governments. The NIPFP study points out that for the period 2015-16 to 2019-20, the average per capita recommended devolution for Odisha was Rs 147, while for Karnataka, it was Rs 6,101. Most states are just devolving meagre amounts to local governments even with SFCs in place. Thus, the mere formation of SFCs does not imply better governance outcomes.  Neither can these recommendations guarantee the expertise or independence of SFCs. They need, among other things, the right mix of skills and knowledge related to economics and administration, given the formidable task they are entrusted with. For example, UFC only has 28 states and one union government to consider in its distribution formula. Compare that with the thousands of local bodies every state has. Analysing the demands of each local body is no easy task. Moreover, existing and past SFCs are typically composed of state-level bureaucrats and politicians, who might not have the expertise or need to favour local governments.  The way forward It is unlikely that the 15th UFC recommendations will lead to higher money at the discretion of the local governments. But these recommendations have shone light on the dysfunctional nature of SFCs. Where do we go from here?   First, local governments need to organise themselves and have platforms for deliberations. They need to collectively bargain for more devolution of finance and functions from their state governments. For strengthening local bodies' voice, the Second Administrative Reforms commission suggested setting up legislative councils with one-third of its members comprising representatives from local bodies. If not legislative councils, some mechanisms on inter-state councils or zonal councils should be formed among local bodies.   Second, engaged citizens need to scrutinise SFC reports and hold state governments accountable for their actions concerning SFCs. This requires citizen energy to be channelled towards the root problem of poor governance — the anaemic local government finances.  Third, academics need to capture lessons from states that have done relatively well with SFCs, such as Karnataka and Kerala. While the average of all states per capita SFC recommended devolution for 2015-16 to 2019-20 was just Rs 1,136, the per capita devolution for Karnataka, Kerala was Rs 6,101 and Rs 3,004, respectively. In sum, the 15th UFC’s recommendation to incentivise the formation of SFCs seems well-intentioned. But good intentions alone are no guarantee for sound policies. How things change on the ground depends on a host of factors outside the ambit of present recommendations.  (Sarthak Pradhan and Pranay Kotasthane conduct research on public finance at the Takshashila Institution, an independent centre for research and education in public policy) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/making-state-finance-commissions-work-955933.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Window Seat | It’s time men had a March 8 for themselves||Oh god, it is that time of the year when we, the women, will be sought after, invited, our very existence celebrated, our virtues extolled! Words like ‘empowerment’ will creep out of the woodwork again into office functions; HR departments will scramble to put together programmes that pamper women employees, shower them with gift coupons and lunches (replaced by couriered cakes in a pandemic year?). The colour pink will take over. Feel the March 8 blues? Those who think this date is the annual bonus time for the chocolates and flowers industry cannot be entirely faulted. But if you care for history, the marking of March 8 started a century back; amongst the many events when women began to raise a voice for equality in pay, opportunities and suffrage (the legal right to vote in elections that was denied in many countries until then). The uprising by Russian women stands out. In 1917 that day, women in St. Petersburg went on strike for ‘Bread and Peace’ – demanding an end to World War I, an end to food shortage and, some say, signalled the start of the Russian revolution. But all that fight for rights has not exactly created an Indian social revolution, has it? It is like there is a parallel universe – a woman leader who comes home with the bouquet the office gave after her stellar speech on breaking the glass ceiling, will likely get started on the cooking-cleaning right away, set the washing machine, call out to the kids to show her what homework the teacher has given, while she sips coffee she made for herself and her partner who, too, came home after a long day at office, but now has to relax. A washing machine company ran an ad campaign some time back gently coaxing men to “share the load”, but reality is loaded. A pre-lockdown survey by the National Sample Survey Office in 2019 said only 26% of Indian men do any kind of housework. In Haryana, men reported 15 minutes a day against women’s 269 minutes each day of unpaid housework (men in Nagaland and Goa reported way better, but still less than 47 minutes each day). Yet, the men aren’t always to be blamed. Three years ago, I was invited by a renowned IT major in Bengaluru to give a March 8 talk at their campus. “Our women employees will love to hear you,” the HR head said, to which I asked, why only women have to hear a woman on women’s day? I then told him what I would speak on: The need for men’s liberation. Sure enough, I saw men, including some in the top leadership, in the audience and I shared with them insights, and incidents. Like the time when I was in a central school in Uttar Pradesh, the choice for electives was a no-choice: Boys had to take ‘electrical gadgets’, and women ‘tailoring’, also called SUPW (Socially Useful Productive Work). I couldn’t sew a button to save my life, just as Gaurav the hulk hated having to change the bulb. Society (and NCERT) had cast us in gender moulds we could not escape. I have male friends and uncles who have shown great flair at drawing rangoli, cleaning babies, plaiting their daughter’s hair or, like my husband, who can wash clothes better than I. But making such ‘talents’ public may draw a mock at their masculinity. Hollywood actor Johnny Depp once said he loves doing embroidery while waiting at the sets. Which Indian celeb would dare own up to a similar side of his? Back at the IT campus, after my talk, a few women and men came up to share their stories. “My husband helps me a lot...when my mother-in-law is not around.” “My man is a different animal when his parents are at home.” A senior techie said, “I actually love cooking, but my wife will raise hell if I enter her zone.” There was a time when it made sense for our fathers to stick to earning money while our mothers cooked and raised kids. But in this age, we need to raise our sons to “share the load”. During the lockdown, with domestic helps gone, many men actually loved doing just that. The Virat Kohli dad of today may take paternity leave with pride, but would society let him take a career break if he wanted to be a house-husband and enjoy fatherhood full-time? This Women’s Day, let’s try a change in mindset. Then we, too, can change the bulb.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/window-seat-it-s-time-men-had-a-march-8-for-themselves-956215.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Inscrutable China | A clash of nationalisms||The detailed written agreement for “phased, coordinated and verifiable” disengagement and “synchronised de-escalation” of troops on the western sector of the border with China is a work in progress as it is a complex and complicated process. While the process is said to have been completed in the Pangong Tso region, with China demolishing the military infrastructure it had put up and going back to east of Finger 8 at Sirijap, other areas in the western sector, Sikkim and other areas also need to be addressed. Meanwhile, Beijing is shooting nationalist rhetoric as a new variable in bilateral relations which could have a far-reaching impact. When China’s objectives may not have been met in the last one year, due to stout resistance from India, fanning Chinese nationalism directed at India is an option for Beijing to put up a brave face. Coinciding with the announcement of the disengagement of troops in the Aksai Chin-Ladakh region on February 10, China had for the first time released details of the casualties it had suffered at Galwan on the night of June 15 in skirmishes with Indian troops. It claimed it had suffered four casualties, although other estimates suggest 45 (Russian reports) to 120 (Western sources). The release of information on the number of casualties led to the arrest of three Chinese journalists for questioning the official figure. Also, the Indian embassy in Beijing received hate messages, suggesting that eight months after the Galwan incident, pent-up nationalism is being whipped up against India. In the past, China’s Communist Party has whipped up demonstrations across the country against Japan and its businesses, in protest against historical events such as the establishment of Manchukuo in the 1930s or the issue of ‘comfort women’ and the visits of Japanese leaders to the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo that reveres Japan’s war-dead. China also organised such protests against the US embassy in Beijing in protest against the 1999 bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. While China’s nationalism is still primarily directed against Japan and the US, the recent online tirade against the Indian embassy in Beijing brings to the fore a new factor of clashing nationalisms in its bilateral relations with India. Historically and traditionally, the Chinese considered India as “western heaven” (tianzhu) while reserving the label of “barbarian” for the rest of the world. However, an official nationalist tabloid in China termed India “barbarian” in the current stand-off at the borders. A number of recent developments suggest that the current leadership is triggering an epistemological break in this traditional format -- with long-term consequences for its India policy. First is the vehemently negative portrayal, bordering on racism, of India’s Sikh community in Chinese official media, which has shaped China’s discourse towards India since the Doklam crisis in 2017. Negative images of the Sikh regiments participating in the Opium Wars of 1842 and 1856 were revived, though in a selective manner as China now wants to recruit Gorkhas. The role of Sikh soldiers in the Indian armed forces, specifically in Doklam and Galwan incidents, were mentioned negatively in the official Chinese media, partly to pursue psychological warfare but mostly with rabid nationalist motivations. Second, since 2005, official documents in China have been depicting Arunachal Pradesh as a part of “southern Tibet” and, by implication, as one of the core interests to be defended against India. China’s depiction last year of the western sector border as part of its “sovereignty”, instead of the previous “disputed area”, was aimed at fanning nationalism against India. Thirdly, China elevated its Belt and Road Initiative and alliances-in-the-making concept of “community of common destiny” as its twin forward policies. India’s distancing from these two has incensed Beijing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meetings on not neglecting the sovereignty concerns of countries that the Belt and Road Initiative passes through. India also criticised the lack of transparency, debt financing and environmental fall-out of such projects. Beijing sees the Indian position as a challenge to its strategic policies, which requires it to whip up nationalism at home. Raising nationalist rhetoric is an easy way out in the short term to address Chinese worries over India, but in the long term, it would be playing with fire. The Communist Party-controlled nationalism could be rolled back when it suited Beijing to pursue business interests with Japan or strategic equations with the US. But in relation to India, raking up the nationalism card is bound to pitch the two most populous countries in the world on a path of ever-lasting hostility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/inscrutable-china-a-clash-of-nationalisms-956216.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Shouldn’t Delhi Police be punished?||This writer has long maintained that if Delhi is the capital and Uttar Pradesh the largest state, India will not progress as both these ideas represent its worst qualities. Both are federal disasters, and despite their best efforts to paper over them, they display their true selves. Their strategic importance and size mean they amass outsized political and economic resources. One institution in Delhi demonstrates why we need to move on from Delhi as our capital. In the light of Disha Ravi’s arrest, we saw Delhi Police trample over norms of federalism, principles of jurisdiction and autonomy over policing, while the Constitution places policing in the State List. In one blow, it arrested her without adhering to established protocol. It acted with such alacrity on flimsy reasons, making a fool of itself. All this took away attention from fuel price rise and even farm agitation itself. After the rap it got from the Delhi High Court over the arrest, several questions arise over Delhi Police’s spotty recent past. If this police force was so agile, how come it was standing by the side of one leader, allowing him to incite a mob, thus starting the riots in north-east Delhi last year? Where are the invaders and perpetrators who vandalised property and assaulted students at Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Milia Islamia? What of its role during the recent Republic Day incidents? Public memory today has never been so short or made so selective. When every criticism of the government is read only as partisan support for a non-existent political opposition at the Centre, you know that democratic public discourse has plummeted. After Disha Ravi’s arrest, votaries of the government and elected representatives from the governing party labelled the climate activist in pathetic ways. Those who differed with them got branded as well. Will they apologise now? Was what they said not incitement? What was law enforcement doing? Why did it look away? Isn’t the damage done? Should such people not be treated the way Disha Ravi was? Scholarship in the field of media studies has shown that when maligning and malicious news take root and are made to go viral, it’s very tough to undo its damage, even if the news or perception has been checked and proven as false or misleading. In the minds of many Indians today, there exists a tukde-tukde gang. But responding to an RTI query from activist Saket Gokhale in January 2020, the Home ministry officially said it had no information on any such group. The claim is hot air. But students from one university, or people with differing viewpoints, have been smeared forever. Again, where is the police action on all those who fuelled such falsehoods? So many of those who spread these lies are in Delhi. At a very violent phase of the Black Lives Matter agitations in June 2020, Donald Trump fanned the flames, instead of dousing them. In a phone call with state governors, he blamed them for being “weak”. He tried to wrench American federalism. Appearing on CNN’s Amanpour show, Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo said: “Let me just say this to the President of the United States, on behalf of the police chiefs of this country: Please, if you don’t have something constructive to say, keep your mouth shut.” The First Amendment of the American Constitution protects freedom of speech. And here was a cop who chose to exercise it to put no less than the President of the United States in his place. What police chief in India could say that when our political class shouts “goli maro gaddaron ko…” and other incitements? Delhi Police has had many occasions to express such thoughts. Delhi Police’s behaviour makes it very hard to not see it as putty in the hands of the government. There hasn’t been a whiff of criticism from former officers of repute against what it did. Common citizens don’t have a good opinion of the police. Institutions such as Delhi Police show that that reputation is deserved. Shouldn’t Delhi Police be punished for what it did? Should that punishment not be exemplary?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/shouldn-t-delhi-police-be-punished-956217.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Sarkari Secrets | Govt knows. We should, too||Last week, the Andhra government suspended six officials in East Godavari district over irregularities in NREGA wage payments. Nearly 500 residents of Chirutapudi village were owed more than Rs 20 lakh. NREGA is supported by one of the best internet-based information portals for a government scheme. Yet, it was proactive disclosure of worker and payment-related details from government files at the gram panchayat office, coupled with a door-to-door verification exercise conducted by a 50-member social audit team -- assisted by two local NGOs -- that blew the lid on this scam. It also ensured the release of more than Rs 1.6 lakh in back-wages owed to some of the workers. Many more have waited for more than 20 months, despite the law guaranteeing wage payments within seven days. Several advocates of transparency say that if governments can be persuaded to put up more information about their working in the public domain, there would be few RTI applications to deal with. This hypothesis is not backed by sound empirical research. If anything, the reverse is true. Transparency is often demand-driven -- the more people seek information formally, the greater will be the pressure be on the administration to put it all out, especially that which is critical to ensuring accountability. The correctives applied in Chirutapudi were preceded by multiple RTI applications filed by activists seeking information about the irregularities. Instead of getting the data, they received demands for exorbitant fees for it. The social audit team discovered bundles of muster-rolls lying in the houses of local officials without being handed over to the Block Office for updating the portal. Ultimately, it is the paper-based disclosure of payment details that did the trick. Worker after worker challenged the official data. The success of a transparency regime depends less on the disclosure of information that babus deem harmless and more on that which is critical for calling out the administration for its actions and omissions. The expansion of publicly accessible information on the PM-KISAN scheme through RTI interventions is an example. Since June 2020, this author has submitted RTI applications to the Union Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmer’s Welfare seeking more detailed information than what the scheme website displayed. The first RTI request sought gender and caste-wise statistics of beneficiaries of this Rs 6,000 per year pay-out scheme for farmers. Information was also sought about payments made to those who were excluded from the scheme under the ineligibility criteria. The second sought state-wise data of cases in which pay-outs to farmers had failed during bank transactions. In both instances, this author sought proactive disclosure of all information as per Section 4 of the RTI Act. When the initial RTI application failed to get any response, a first appeal was submitted challenging this silence. The Appellate Authority agreed with the contention that all the information sought should have been disclosed voluntarily. He directed the National Informatics Centre and the National Farmers’ Welfare Programme Implementation Society to publish it without delay. Now, the PM-KISAN website is displaying gender and caste-wise details of pay-outs to beneficiaries as well as information about money transfer failures. A sarkari secret has become information that is publicly accessible to anybody. Additionally, data supplied to this author by the ministry showed that the government had doled out Rs 1,364 crore to two million-plus persons who did not satisfy the PM-KISAN eligibility criteria. Recently, the government told Parliament that such pay-outs to ineligible persons actually amounted to nearly Rs 1,000 crore more at Rs 2,327 crore. Those responsible for taxpayer funds going into the pockets of undeserving persons must be identified and held accountable. The first step in this direction is to expand the PM-KISAN portal’s contents to include data about such goof-ups in real time. Will MPs insist on such disclosures? That remains to be seen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sarkari-secrets-govt-knows-we-should-too-956219.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||Jobless growth: Wrong questions beget wrong answers||A popular narrative, often heard, is that the Indian post-liberalisation growth story has been flawed due to jobless growth. Most media columnists blame this on a lack of adequate policy reform or policy focus for promoting manufacturing, and in particular labour-intensive manufacturing, thereby creating an impression amongst policymakers that it is only a lack of ‘policies’ that is keeping manufacturing/labour-intensive manufacturing away from our shores. This advisory chorus is, however, somewhat silent on the precise types of such labour-intensive manufacturing or its probable numbers or the specific potential benefit to a country of our size or even the specific nature of reform that is necessary. This dexterous ambiguity results in even more intricate policymaking attempts of the authorities which, in turn, ends up further confusing our entrepreneurs. As a result, Indian private sector capital formation is not picking up despite several governmental exhortations. I submit that this advisory chorus is not only misconceived but also, by simplistically equating manufacturing with employment, has also been damaging India’s growth prospects. The logic underlying this chorus is allegedly based on the Chinese model of growth witnessed following Deng Xiaoping’s reforms of the 1980s and 90s. It was undoubtedly successful. By 2005, China had become a $2 trillion economy and the manufacturing centre of the world, with a manufacturing sector employment base of 146 million people. India, in the backdrop of this and pushed by the near-unanimous advisory chorus, has ever since been trying to catch up. What has been forgotten by all concerned is that rapid growth of computing power, driven by Moore’s law (computing power doubles every 18 months) and associated technological change, has been making manual interventions redundant in a large number of manufacturing sectors. The logistics revolution, which eliminated historical correlation between distance and cost and further incentivised scale, has also happened. As a consequence, Chinese manufacturing employment, post-2005, virtually stagnated though the economy quintupled itself to $11 trillion-plus. It is currently reported at $14.9 trillion. There was nothing unusual happening — most developed countries witnessed an absolute decline in employment in the period. The global manufacturing employment count itself went up by only 41 million in this 15-year period, as per UN (ILO) databases. Looked at from this limited employment perspective, the Indian manufacturing story, despite what the analysts say, does not look dismal. Our GDP had crossed $1 trillion in 2005 and had almost tripled to about $2.9 trillion on the eve of the Covid-19 outbreak. Manufacturing employment went up by seven million, post-2005, to 57 million. In a sense, Indian manufacturing employment growth has exceeded that shown by China. Expecting it to further accelerate its rate of growth, when world over the sector is experiencing job erosion due to continued automation, is somewhat unrealistic. How then, it may be asked, can we ameliorate the sense of angst amongst youngsters about jobs? The challenge is that youngsters are not usually asked about their views. When they are asked, it is usually expressed in terms of dissatisfaction regarding campus placements or the lack of adequate government jobs or inadequate opportunities in health/education but rarely about the non-availability of labour-intensive manufacturing jobs. Such issues and the macroeconomic implications of the low volume availability of the type of jobs valued by youngsters are never discussed in the Indian context. The ILO database indicates that the global average for the shares of Manufacturing versus Education, Health and ‘Public administration, defence and compulsory social security’ (EHP) jobs, are roughly equal at about 13.5%. China reports them at 19.5% and 12.8% respectively. The developed economies report a lower share of 12-18% for manufacturing but a higher 25-30% share for EHP. In India, the figures are 12% for manufacturing but only 6.8% for EHP. We are at half the world average. This low share of EHP jobs in the employment basket is the real cause of the Indian angst, but no one is addressing this issue. Also forgotten are the policy handicaps placed on the manufacturing sector in the misplaced drive to promote labour-intensive manufacturing. While the apparent size of the sector looks large — over half a million factories are in operation, a policy squeeze operates on mid-sized corporates. More than 90% of all factories are MSME, and the major bulk of the MSME factories are so tiny that they are counted in the unorganised sector by the authorities. The share of value-added is thus low, and wage rates are much lower and work more demanding, being labour-intensive, but undoubtedly employment per unit of output is much higher. The challenge is that no one likes to work at lower wages. The societal benefits associated with manufacturing elsewhere in the world also are therefore not getting generated in India. Competitive efficiency is not there. Quality focus and environmental concern are inconsistent. Severe financial stress is rampant. The growth impact is thus unsatisfactory. What should be the way out? The simplest answer is that policy focus should shift. Mis-signals cause accidents even outside of rail and road tracks. Manufacturing should be valued for itself and not by its jobs numbers, and judged solely by yardsticks of quality and competitive efficiency. Job creation should be attempted by promoting the labour-intensive sectors of education/health/urban development, etc., through a suitable mix of incentives and State effort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/jobless-growth-wrong-questions-beget-wrong-answers-956220.html
27-02-2021||Opinion||High on their own supply||I’ve been waiting for this moment. The moment when some on the left would react indignantly to journalists doing their job. It was so enthralling and gratifying to assail Donald Trump as a liar and misogynist that it was bound to be jarring when the beast slouched out of town and liberals had to relearn the lesson that reporters don’t — or shouldn’t — suit up for the blue team. The moment came Wednesday in the Capitol basement when Seung Min Kim, a respected Washington Post reporter, asked Lisa Murkowski, a Republican senator from Alaska, if she had seen a 2017 Neera Tanden tweet about her. She hadn’t. So Kim showed it to her. Tanden was responding to a Murkowski tweet about lowering the corporate tax rate, calling the senator high on her own supply and dismissing her argument as “garbage.” “High on my own supply?” Murkowski said, reading the tweet on Kim’s phone. “That’s interesting.” Murkowski’s reaction to the tweet was relevant because her vote on the Tanden nomination to be President Joe Biden’s budget director could sink or save Tanden. And Tanden’s tetchy Twitter fingers counted among the reasons that Joe Manchin and Susan Collins had announced their intention to vote against her, given Biden’s preaching that it was time to leave Trump’s toxic atmosphere behind. After HuffPost’s Igor Bobic posted a picture and summary of the exchange between Kim and Murkowski, Kim’s email and social media feeds were inundated with racist and sexist comments. (Liberals had also been quick to make the ugly leap to call moderate senators who opposed Tanden’s nomination racist and sexist. It shouldn’t be so reflexive to reach for that button.) One person labeled Kim a “snitch” for supposedly messing up “another POC nomination on behalf of whites.” Another wrote, “That is not her job and that’s extremely inappropriate.” Actually, yes, that is her job. The truth is, many on the left don’t understand what a reporter <em>is</em>. They loathe Fox News but assume that the mainstream media are basically on their side, the same way Fox commentators are on Trump’s, laying the groundwork for him to start his second coming at CPAC this weekend. For the left, over the past four years, a reporter has been an ally and a superhero comrade in the epic mission of destroying Donald Trump. Liberals lionized any cable hosts and runaway Republicans who blasted Trump, even if they had previously been on the GOP payroll, selling the Iraq War and Sarah Palin. Let’s be honest. It’s a lot more pleasant to be hailed by the left than demonized, as you are during periods when you’re holding a Democratic president to account, because the left can be just as nasty as the right. When I went to the Vanity Fair Oscar party with A.G. Sulzberger in 2017, movie stars rushed up to thank him for fighting Trump. Over and over again, he explained that it was not the mission of The New York Times to be part of the resistance. Rather, he said, the paper would be straight and combat lies with the truth. As the Trump years went on and the outrages piled up, with the renegade president making it clear that he would not be bound by decency or legality, the left declared it a national emergency and acted as though all journalistic objectivity should be suspended. Some thought that the media should ignore Trump’s news conferences and tweets and that the only legitimate interview with Trump was one where you stabbed him in the eye with a salad fork. Many reporters offered sharp opinions, the kind not seen before in covering a president. The tango between Trump and the media — his most passionate relationship — was as poisonous as it was profitable. For reporters, who hadn’t been this chic since Ben Bradlee battled Richard Nixon, fat cable, book and movie contracts flooded in. CNN was on “Breaking News” for four years straight, thanks to Trump’s dark genius at topping himself with outlandish narratives. Lines were blurred that would inevitably need to snap back when normality was restored. Some of the new assertiveness was good and should continue. After many years when I had to comb the thesaurus to find a synonym for “liar” to use about Dick Cheney, The Times finally allowed us to call high-ranking politicians who lied, liars. Thank you, Donald Trump! But the press, bathed in constant adulation and better remuneration, will have a tough adjustment. A whole generation of journalists was reared in the caldera that was Trump’s briefing room. Some Washington reporters have been worried about this for some time, that the left would “work the refs,” as one put it, and turn on the media and attack if they dared to report something that could endanger the Republic (aka hurt a Democrat). But the role of the press in a functioning democracy is as watchdog, not partisan attack dog. Politicians have plenty of people spinning for them. They don’t need the press doing that, too. Believe me, you want us on that wall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/high-on-their-own-supply-956224.html
27-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: AIADMK bets on performance to sail through, DMK on graft charges to dislodge rival||The coming assembly elections will witness a show-down between arch-rivals AIADMK and the DMK with the ruling party eyeing a record third straight term betting on its 'positive performance' and the latter keen to wrest power in the state after a ten year hiatus. The single-phase elections to the 234-member assembly on April 6 would be the first state polls without the presence of icons of the two Dravidian parties -- late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, who died in 2016 and 2018 respectively. Besides the two major Dravidian parties, actor Kamal Hassan's Makkal Needhi Maiam is also in the fray, hoping to make a mark in the polls. While Palaniswami began his campaign in December last, the DMK kick-started its drive to reach out to the voters even before with programmes like the "Stalin's voice towards dawn," featuring tours by party chief M K Stalin. Youth wing leader and Stalin's son Udhayanidhi Stalin, party MP Kanimozhi were in the forefront besides the DMK president who spearheaded several poll initiatives like the 'We reject AIADMK.' AIADMK has taken the lead in announcing that its alliance with the BJP forged for the Lok Sabha polls would continue for the assembly elections also. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched several projects in Tamil Nadu in recent days and kick-started his party's campaign with a sharp attack on DMK-Congress over corruption. The AIADMK had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in alliance with BJP, the DMDK, the PMK and others but came a cropper with the combine winning only one seat as the DMK- Congress front swept the other 38 constituencies. The AIADMK's campaign this time, steered by Palaniswami, has so far focused on its slew of welfare measures, infrastructure projects besides initiatives including a recent amendment that enhanced punishment for crimes against women and children. The party has taken pride in its government effectively tackling the coronavirus pandemic and at the same time ensuring that the poor and ordinary people were not affected by extending sops to them. Financial assistance of Rs 1,000 to ration card holders and distribution of essential commodities free of cost through Public distribution system outlets were among the measures the ruling party's top leader has not missed to list out. The Rs 1,000 cash assistance was extended to beneficiaries for the second time in Chennai and Madurai that witnessed intensive lockdown last year. A Pongal gift hamper of Rs 2,500 per family at a cost of Rs 5,604.84 crore, setting up of an unprecedented 11 medical colleges in the government sector to give a push to public health infra have also been given prominence by the ruling party in its propaganda. In the run-up to the polls, the government has announced various welfare measures, including waiver of farm loans and an accident cum life insurance scheme for 55.67 lakh Below Poverty Line families who would be eligible for a Rs two lakh to Rs four lakh insurance cover. The Chief Minister recently announced Rs 12,110.74 crore crop loan waiver for farmers and on Friday declared waiver of jewel loans, and also loans availed by women members of Self Help Groups. Measures like a bill envisaging 10.50 per cent sub- quota for Vanniyars, a most backward community in Tamil Nadu which was passed in the assembly, is expected by the AIADMK to shore up its poll prospects. Palaniswami has also time and again underscored that he is a farmer, of humble origin while alleging that only the family of late Karunanidhi dominated the DMK. On the other hand, DMK is focusing on corruption allegations against Palaniswami and his Cabinet colleagues and days ago it submitted one more petition to Governor Banwarilal Purohit seeking action. 'Collection, Corruption and Commission' were among the catchphrases it has been using against the AIADMK. The DMK has also come up with slogans like "Stalin thaan vararu, vidiyal thara poraru,' (Stalin is coming and he is set to provide dawn to the people). Stalin has dismissed claims of dynasty politics of AIADMK saying he slogged for several decades for DMK and even went to jail during the infamous emergency (1975-77). Also, the DMK had all along accused the AIADMK of being servile to the Centre and bartering away Tamil Nadu's interests. Stalin has accused the government of trying to hoodwink people by not making financial allocations for the key schemes it announced. The Election Commission on Friday announced the schedule of assembly polls for Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Assam, West Bengal, and Kerala on Friday. The AIADMK snatched the reins of power from rival DMK in 2011 and retained it in 2016 with Jayalalithaa leading the party then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-aiadmk-bets-on-performance-to-sail-through-dmk-on-graft-charges-to-dislodge-rival-955882.html
27-02-2021||South||Litmus test awaits Congress in Puducherry Assembly polls||The Congress which lost its government here at the fag end of its term will be keen to prove a point by winning the assembly elections scheduled for April 6 but would face a stiff challenge from the opposition bloc which includes the BJP. The 30 assembly constituencies spread across the union territory's four regions -- Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam -- would go for polls in single phase with 10,02,414 voters eligible to cast their ballots. The total number of polling booths has been increased to 1,559 from 952 with a cap of 1,000 voters each to ensure safe election in view of the Covid-19 situation, Chief Electoral officer Shurbir Singh told reporters in Puducherry, soon after the election scheduled was announced by the Election Commission. The Model Code of Conduct came into force on Friday, he said, adding the electorate in Puducherry comprised 5,30,438 women, 4,71,863 men and 113 third gender. The UT will go to polls under the President's Rule, imposed after the V Narayanasamy government fell on February 22 after being reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations of MLAs of the Congress and its ally DMK in the last two months. Political observers see the polls as a litmus test for the performance of the Congress government in the last nearly five years during which it enjoyed outside support of the DMK and lone independent MLA after contesting the polls as part of the "Secular Democratic Alliance" that also comprised the VCK and Left parties. Former chief minister V Narayanasamy was locked in a power tussle with then Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, eased out of the post earlier this month, for most part of his term and had accused her of impeding implementation of his government's decisions, including welfare schemes. The principal opposition All India NR Congress led by former chief minister N Rangasamy is in alliance with the AIADMK and the BJP and the combine is eyeing to capture power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi have already visited the union territory and launched their respective parties' campaign since last week. The seat sharing exercise in the AINRC-led alliance would be finalised soon, according to indications available from the party, floated by Rangasamy in 2011 after he quit the Congress. On the other hand, alliance talks between the Congress, DMK and other partners of the combine is yet to begin. Senior DMK leader and former union minister S Jagathrakshakan has recently dropped hints that the party was keen to contest all 30 seats in the UT. This would be the second time the assembly polls would be held under Central rule in Puducherry in the last three decades. In 1991, President's rule was imposed after the then DMK-Janata dal government fell following rift in the alliance. With the polls to be held on April 6, the political parties would have to race against time to finalise the alliances and respective candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/litmus-test-awaits-congress-in-puducherry-assembly-polls-955891.html
27-02-2021||South||BJP set to play crucial role in Tamil Nadu Assembly election||Not just the first Assembly polls without two political giants — M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa — the April 6 elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly will be a watershed moment for another reason — the results will usher in a new generation of leaders for the politically-crucial state.  Unlike in the past, the BJP, which hardly has any base in Tamil Nadu, is set to play a crucial role this election as it has taken up the task of “uniting” all “like-minded” parties to take on a resurgent DMK, which is out of power for a decade. It now calls the shots within the alliance led by the AIADMK though the saffron party is likely to contest in just around 25 to 30 seats.  The elections to 234 Assembly constituencies are being held two years after the DMK-led alliance romped home by winning 38 of 39 Lok Sabha seats at stake. The term of the 15th Assembly ends on May 24, 2021, and over 6 crore people are eligible to vote. Much like the 2019 election, the 2021 contest will be multi-cornered and intense though the main fight is likely to narrow between the alliances led by the two Dravidian majors — DMK and AIADMK. AMMK, a splinter group of AIADMK, MNM of actor Kamal Haasan, and Tamil nationalist Seeman’s NTK are the other players who will be noticed this election. While the DMK alliance consists of Congress, CPI (M), CPI, VCK, IUML, and MNMK, the AIADMK rainbow alliance includes BJP, PMK, DMDK, TMC, and New Justice Party. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and DMK President M K Stalin face their acid test – stakes are quite high for Stalin as he shoulders the responsibility of bringing the party back to power after 10 years. For Palaniswami, the challenge is not just to convince people to give another chance for his government but also overcome problems within the AIADMK and from his former boss – V K Sasikala, who has staked claim to Jayalalithaa’s legacy. Not to forgot the anti-incumbency as the party has been in power since 2011. As for the issues, the DMK has made AIADMK’s “decade-long corruption” and the party being “subservient” to the BJP as its major plank. The DMK has also been attacking the BJP “imposing” Hindi on the people of Tamil Nadu denying Tamil Nadu its rights under the Constitution. However, the AIADMK not just rejects these allegations but launched a massive media blitzkrieg as part of its “Tamil Nadu On A Progressive Path” campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-set-to-play-crucial-role-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-election-955925.html
27-02-2021||South||Covid-19: Kerala celebrates 'Attukal Pongala' without mass gathering of women||For the first time in its recent history, the Kerala capital on Saturday witnessed the famous Attukal Pongala, one of the world's largest all-women congregation, without the mass gathering of women devotees in public places and long lines of wayside make-shift hearths. As authorities have issued strict instructions in view of Covid-19 spread, the annual pongala ritual was confined to homes this time unlike lakhs of women devotees gathering in and around the city roads and bylanes and preparing the offering for the deity as part of the ritual. As per the instructions, none were allowed to offer 'pongala' (sweet offering) in public places or on roads. Instead, they could make the offering from their homes. No priests would visit home to sanctify the 'pongala' but devotees can do themselves, it said. The ritual at the Attuakal Devi temple here was limited to the offering prepared at the 'pandara adupu', the main hearth. Temple tantri (head priest) handed over the flame from the sanctum sanctorum to the meshanti (chief priest) to light up the main heart by 11 am. Following this, women devotees lit their brick stoves at homes and prepared the offering in earthen pots with prayers. Many ardent devotees, who had been offering pongala at the temple compound or its premises for years, were disappointed due to the present instructions. Gomathi Amma, a 65-year-old woman, said she was waiting eagerly for the pongala day and it was painful that she could not offer the ritual at the temple premises. "I have been offering pongala since my teenage days without any fail. We used to walk many kilometres to reach the shrine with articles including bricks to prepare the pongala. As far as I remember, it is for the first time that no one was allowed to prepare pongala in front of the Goddess," she said. Though there was coronavirus scare last year also, the ritual was held as usual and lakhs of women devotees had taken part in it. Preparing 'pongala' is considered an auspicious ritual of the annual festival of the Attukal Bhagavathy temple. Braving scorching heat and humid climate, women from all over Kerala and outside the state used to converge in grounds and both sides of the highways, roads and bylanes across the capital city and prepare 'pongala', a mix of rice, jaggery and scraped coconut in fresh earthen or metal pots to appease the Goddess. The offering was usually made in makeshift brick stoves, placed on both sides of the roads. As per local legend, the Pongala festival commemorates the hospitality accorded by women in the locality to Kannagi, the divine incarnation of the heroine of the Tamil epic 'Silappadhikaram', while she was on her way after destroying Madurai city to avenge the injustice to her husband Kovalan. The temple is called the 'Women's Sabarimala' as only women perform rituals, while it is predominantly men who undertake the pilgrimage to the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-kerala-celebrates-attukal-pongala-without-mass-gathering-of-women-955984.html
27-02-2021||South||Fishing 'hartal' hits coastal belt in Kerala||A day long hartal called by various outfits over the ongoing controversy regarding an alleged deep-sea fishing contract between the CPI(M)-led government and a US-based company, hit life in coastal areas of Kerala on Saturday. Various pro-Congress outfits, under the banner of Matsya Mekhala Samrakshana Samithi, called for the hartal in the coastal belt. Boats did not venture into sea in a majority of the places and hundreds of fishermen kept themselves away from their job, expressing solidarity with the agitation. Harbours and shops in coastal areas remained shut in various districts. Both boat owners and traditional fishermen were cooperating with the hartal, the Samithi sources said. As the government had already cancelled the MoUs in this regard with the EMCC International, the US-based firm, three outfits were staying away from the stir. However, leaders of other outfits claimed that the government's assurance lacks clarity. The Left government had decided to cancel a Rs 5,000 crore memorandum of understanding (MoU) between KSIDC and the EMCC International, against which the Opposition Congress has been raising serious allegations. They had also cancelled another controversial MoU worth Rs 2,950 crore between the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) and the same company to build 400 deep-sea fishing trawlers and new harbours and for the port development activities. The MoUs were signed by the KSINC and KSIDC with EMCC International at a state government-sponsored global investors meet, ASCEND, in Kochi last year. The opposition Congress on Thursday had organised a day- long 'satyagraha' protest at Poonthura, a fishing hamlet near here, demanding removal of Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma in connection with the controversial deal. They alleged that the deals, if implemented, would have adverselyimpacted the lives oflakhs of fishermen in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fishing-hartal-hits-coastal-belt-in-kerala-956004.html
27-02-2021||South||PM Narendra Modi is scared of China: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday launched a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Sino-India border standoff, charging him with being 'scared' of the eastern neighbour. Before the stand-off at eastern Ladakh, where the disengagement process has been completed with the withdrawal of troops, weapons and other military hardware from the North and South banks of Pangong lake areas, the Chinese "tested the idea in Dokhlam (in 2017)," he said. "Essentially the Chinese occupied certain strategic areas in our country. They first tested the idea in Dokhlam. They tested the idea to see how would India react and they noticed India did not react. And then they carried out the idea again in Ladakh and also I believe in Arunachal Pradesh," he said.  Launching his three-day tour of Tamil Nadu ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, the Congress leader, while interacting with advocates here, reiterated his "hum do hamare do" jibe at the ruling dispensation at the Centre. Speaking in detail over the border standoff, Gandhi said Modi's first reaction to the Chinese incursions was "that nobody has come into India." "That indicated to the Chinese that the Prime Minister of India is scared of them. That is the message he indicated to the Chinese, that he is scared of them and the Chinese understood it. And since then the Chinese have negotiated on that principle," he said. "They know that the Prime Minister of India cannot stand up to them. Mark my words, our land in Depsang, which is the most important land, is not going to come back to under this government. The Prime Minister will not get that land back. He will pretend everything is sorted out, but India is going to lose that territory," he charged. Giving such a message to the Chinese was "very dangerous to the future because the Chinese are not going to stop with Ladakh," he alleged. He said the government under the Congress "always dealt with the Chinese without any hesitation." "The Chinese understood very well that India cannot be pushed around. Even in 2013 when the Chinese entered into India, we took action that forced them, forced them to compromise...we went and occupied other spaces," he said. "They have now understood the Prime Minister doesn't have the courage...the Chinese know the Prime Minister is going to compromise," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-narendra-modi-is-scared-of-china-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-956007.html
27-02-2021||South||BJP will take care of family of RSS worker killed in clash in Kerala: Pralhad Joshi||The BJP would take care of the family of the RSS worker killed following a clash between two groups in the district, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Saturday as he flayed the ruling LDF, asking them to hand over the case to the CBI if they lacked 'will power' to probe it. The RSS worker was hacked to death at Nagamkulangara near Cherthala late Wednesday, the BJP to accuse the LDF government of siding with the culprits. "The state BJP will take care of his family... At presentI can only urge the state government (for a proper probe)... if you do not have the proper machinery or rather I can say political will, hand over the case to CBI. We will enquire...give us a free hand and we will bring this violence to an end," the Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs told reporters after visiting the family of the deceased worker. Senior BJP leader and Union Minister V Muraleedharan also accompanied him. Joshi charged the state government with not being serious in probing the matter and urged them to at least learn a lesson from the incident and put a stop to such kinds of violence. "India as a whole and Keralites in particular will never tolerate violence.They will give a befitting reply for all these things," he said. Eight workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), a political offshoot of Popular Front of India, were arrested on February 25 in connection with the killing of 23- year old Nandu. He was allegedly hacked to death by SDPI workers following a clash between the two groups, which left six injured. The BJP had observed a dawn-to-dusk hartal in the district on Thursday in protest against the killing. Tension had reportedly been brewing in the area after SDPI recently organised a march in the area in protest against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's Kerala visit to inaugurate BJPs 'Vijay Yatra' from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram. The area had witnessed back-to-back protest marches by the two sides following the SDPI programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-will-take-care-of-family-of-rss-worker-killed-in-clash-in-kerala-pralhad-joshi-956045.html
27-02-2021||South||Nearly Rs 103 crore needed to conduct Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, Deputy CM O Panneerselvam says||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday told the Assembly that Rs 102.93 crore is needed for holding the April 6 assembly elections. "I would like to highlight that Rs 102.93 crore is required for the conduct of the Assembly election, of which a sum of Rs 102.38 crore has been provided in the Supplementary Estimates," he told the House presenting the Final Supplementary Estimates for 2020-21. The provision has been made under the Public department and the remaining amount would be met by re-appropriation within the grant, he said. Placing the Final Supplementary Estimates for Rs 21,172.82 crore, Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio said it includes various items of additional expenditure necessitated on government account in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and other urgent requirements. "I strongly believe that democratic norms need to be observed. As the Election Commission has announced the general election for TN Legislative Assembly yesterday, it would not be appropriate for me to specifically mention some of the important items of expenditure which is the normal practice," he noted. He said for all items of expenditure, necessary Government Orders and sanctions have already been issued or these are ongoing schemes. "None of these, which is being included in the Final Supplementary Estimates is a new announcement or a new item of expenditure." Later, after Pannerselvam's reply to the general discussion on the interim budget for 2021-22, and passage of Appropriation Bill and Vote on Account, Speaker P Dhanapal adjourned the House sine die.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nearly-rs-103-crore-needed-to-conduct-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-deputy-cm-o-panneerselvam-says-956053.html
27-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh couple sells minor daughter for Rs 10,000 to fund her sibling's treatment||The incident occurred in the state's Nellore district on Wednesday and came to light after locals alerted the Integrated Child Development Services, who rescued the girl from one Chinna Subbaiah, who alleged he had married the minor, the report said. According to officials, the girl's elder sister was suffering from a respiratory illness, and her parents, who are daily wage workers, could not afford treatment, leading them to sell their younger daughter to Subbaiah. According to the police, Subbaiah bought the girl from her parents, married her and brought her to his relatives' house in Dampur village on Wednesday night. When the girl was heard screaming and crying by her neighbours, they went to confront Subbaiah, who admitted to the entire episode as if there was nothing wrong with it, an ICDS official said according to the report. The girl was shifted to a district child care centre for counselling. Meanwhile, the police has registered a case against Subbaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-couple-sells-minor-daughter-for-rs-10000-to-fund-her-siblings-treatment-956057.html
27-02-2021||South||Voters in Kerala's naxal-hit areas to get one hour lesser polling time||Polling for the assembly election in Kerala will be held from 7 am to 7 pm on April 6, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena said on Saturday. However, in the naxal-hit areas of the state, voting will begin at 7 am and conclude by 6 pm. Meena said the Election Commission has identified 298 polling booths in the state which are situated in the naxal-affected areas of Palakkad, Malappuram, Kannur, Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. "Central forces will be deployed at naxal-affected booths, the critical and vulnerable booths in the state. There are 549 critical location booths and 433 vulnerable polling booths in the state. The ECI has sought 150 company central forces for the election. Thirty company forces have are already reached the state," Meena said in a press meet here. There will be 40,771 polling stations in the state. The Chief Electoral Officer noted that there are a total of 2.67 crore voters in the state, including 2.99 lakh in the 18-19 age group, who would be participating in the election process. "Of the total number of voters 1.37 crore are women. There are 221 transgenders in the list. Webcasting will be done in 50 per cent of polling booths. The Covid-19 patients will be allowed to vote during the last hour in the polling station," he said. Malappuram accounts for the maximum number of total voters-- 32,14,943, including 16,7000 women voters. The least number of voters are in Wayanad 67,068. While there are 90,709 NRI voters, as many as 6.21 lakh are over 80 years of age, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/voters-in-keralas-naxal-hit-areas-to-get-one-hour-lesser-polling-time-956068.html
27-02-2021||South||Woman injured in crude bomb blast in Puducherry, hospitalised||A 41-year-old woman sustained injuries to her face when a country bomb exploded in neighbouring Odianmpet village on Saturday, police said. The woman picked up a paper parcel lying near her house and when she opened it, the crude bomb concealed in it, exploded,they said. The woman was rushed to the government general hospital. Police registered a case and were investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-injured-in-crude-bomb-blast-in-puducherry-hospitalised-956074.html
27-02-2021||South||Will bring in law to prevent 'Love Jihad' in Kerala if voted to power in Assembly elections: BJP||The BJP-led NDA in Kerala would bring in a law to prevent prevent 'Love Jihad' in the state, if voted to power in the April 6 Assembly elections, as such cases are 'more prevalent' here than in Uttar Pradesh, BJP state chief K Surendran said on Saturday 'Love Jihad' is a term used by right wing activists to refer to an alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love. Surendran said that the Christian community is now more worried about the practice as they are reportedly being targetted, and had sought stringent action against it. "Love Jihad is more prevalent in Kerala than in Uttar Pradesh and a law is required to prevent it. The christian community in the state is worried and have sought stringent action against love jihad.. This is of serious concern for them," Surendran told reporters. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had earlier brought in religious freedom laws to stop conversions through marriage or by any other fraudulent means.  Asked about senior BJP leader Shobha Surendran's recent statement that IUML was welcome to the NDA if they leave behind their 'communal agenda' and accept the leadership and policies of the Narendra Modi led government, the state chief said the party would join hands only with those who leave their affiliation with the IUML, Congress and CPI(M). "The BJP in Kerala will not join hands with the IUML, CPI (M) and the Congress. We will accept only those who leave their affiliation with these parties," Surendran said.  He was speaking to reporters at a press meet at the end of the Palakkad leg of the 15 day state wide 'Vijay yatra', which got underway at Kasaragod on February 21, which was seen as the official launch of the BJP's poll campaign. Various union ministers and the saffron party's popular leaders and star campaigners at the national level are expected to join the yatra in the coming days Union Minister Amit Shah is expected to inaugurate the finale of the yatra at the state capital on March 7, party sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-bring-in-law-to-prevent-love-jihad-in-kerala-if-voted-to-power-in-assembly-elections-bjp-956089.html
27-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: Day after getting Vanniyar quota, PMK allotted 23 seats in AIADMK alliance||Tamil Nadu’s ruling AIADMK on Saturday sealed its alliance with Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) by allotting 23 seats for the April 6 assembly elections. The seat-sharing agreement was signed a day after the government rushed through legislation providing 10.5 per cent internal reservation for Vanniyars, whose interests the PMK champions, within the 20 per cent reservation for Most Backward Classes (MBC). The PMK, which has been demanding separate reservation for Vanniyars for years together, raised its pitch ahead of the elections as it sensed that the AIADMK cannot afford to lose the party’s support. With this, the AIADMK has become the first party in Tamil Nadu to affirm its alliance and finalise seat-sharing with an alliance partner. The agreement was finalised after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam met PMK’s Anbumani Ramadoss and other leaders.“ According to the agreement reached between the two parties, I am happy to announce that the PMK has been allotted 23 seats as part of the AIADMK alliance,” Panneerselvam said, at the conclusion of the talks. PMK, which has a committed vote base of 5 per cent, is very influential among Vanniyars, a dominant community, spread across North Tamil Nadu. An alliance with PMK is expected to boost the AIADMK’s chances in the region – in the 2016 elections, the DMK won 35 and AIADMK 30 seats in the region. PMK contested alone.  After finalising the deal, Anbumani Ramadoss said the PMK settled for “less number of seats” in the alliance as the government fulfilled their demand for a separate reservation for Vanniyars. “As far as this election is concerned, separate reservation for Vanniyars is the major issue for us. Since we have scored a victory on this count, we got less number in terms of seats. It will no way reduce our strength,” Anbumani told reporters here. Meanwhile, the AIADMK launched seat-sharing negotiations with the BJP as well on Saturday with senior leaders of the party receiving a delegation from the saffron outfit. While the BJP is expecting more than 20 seats, the AIADMK is said to have offered 15 to 17 seats. A deal is expected in the next few days. The reservation, which according to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is “temporary” and will undergo changes once the data from a caste-based census is available, is a clear attempt to mollify the PMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-day-after-getting-vanniyar-quota-pmk-allotted-23-seats-in-aiadmk-alliance-956114.html
27-02-2021||South||TTD approves Rs 2,938-crore budget for 2021-22||The Board of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) that governs the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala Hills, near here, on Saturday approved a Rs 2,938-crore budget for 2021-22. The budget proposals foresee a total revenue of about Rs 2,938 crore, a top functionary of the TTD said. After a board meeting on the hills, TTD Board chairman Y V Subba Reddy told reporters that of the total expected revenue, the cash offerings to be made by devotees were likely to be around Rs 1,131 crore during the fiscal. The revenue from the interest on deposits in nationalised and private banks was estimated to be about Rs 533 crore, he said. The laddu prasadam sale was expected to fetch about Rs 375 crore, he said. The sale of tickets for various forms of worship tickets, including daily and weekly rituals in the temple, special entry tickets of VIPs and the online tickets priced at Rs 300 could get Rs 280 crore, he said. The revenue from the TTD accommodations and marriage halls allotted to devotees was estimated to be around Rs 93 crore, he said. The earnings from the auction on human hair to be offered by devotees as a fulfilment of their vows were likely to be Rs 131 crore, he said. About Rs 1,308 crore was expected to be paid on human resources rendering services in TTD, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-approves-rs-2938-crore-budget-for-2021-22-956122.html
27-02-2021||South||8 held for slaughtering 16 cows in Telangana's Siddipet||Tension prevailed in Siddipet town in central Telangana following the slaughter of 16 cows on Friday. The police said that eight men were arrested in this connection and were found to be repeat offenders, supplying beef to Hyderabad. Protesting the slaughter, which is prohibited under law, activists of the BJP, VHP and other Hindu organisations held a rally demanding punishment for the culprits. Siddipet police commissioner Joel Daivs said that on receiving information, they acted swiftly and arrested Mohammed Khaja, Md Rahim, Md Saddam, Md Arfat, Md Arshad, Md Ashraf, Md Javed and Md Zubair. A criminal case was registered in the I-Town police station under 429 (killing, maiming cattle), 153 (provocation to cause riots) sections of the IPC and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and the state's Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act 1977. "Those arrested procure aged cows from Siddipet and Karimnagar districts and supply the meat to a person in Hyderabad. They have confessed to having carried out such slaughter three times till now," Davis said. "We are probing the case and will ensure the trial is fast-tracked," the commissioner said. The situation in Siddipet is now peaceful, the police said. Siddipet district came into being after the TRS came to power in 2014 and was represented earlier in the state Assembly by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and now by his nephew and Finance Minister Harish Rao. Meanwhile, the Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad, the dharmic wing of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Friday resolved to request the Union government to declare "Cow-Gomata" as the national animal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-held-for-slaughtering-16-cows-in-telanganas-siddipet-956154.html
27-02-2021||South||Improper to question accountability of Ayodhya temple fund collection drive: Pejavar seer||The Pejawar Math seer Vishwaprasanna Teertha, who is a trustee of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said on Saturday that it was improper for people to question the accountability of the temple fund collection when the drive was still underway. "It is inappropriate to say at this stage when the drive is underway. The process has to complete first," the seer said at the launch of an art installation of the Ram Temple with Lord Ram prepared using coins of Rs 5 and Re 1 of more than Rs 2 lakh. A Hindu outfit Rashtradharma Organisation set up the installation at Lal Bagh West. Six Chitrakala Parishath students Raghu Vodeyar, Manjunath, Fayaz, Zilal, Suyash and Puneeth prepared it. To a question on a few leaders calling the money collection drive a loot, he said loot is when someone steals money donated to temples and not when money is collected for a noble cause of temple construction. The seer rubbished former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy's charge that houses, where money was not donated, were marked in some parts of the state. "On some occasions when the fund collection team found their receipt books exhausted, where there were people calling them to donate money, their houses were marked as a reminder that the fund has to be collected from there," he said. Earlier, addressing the gathering at the launch of the art installation, he said Rs 2,100 crore has been collected from across the country for the temple construction at Ayodhya and the collection may touch around Rs 2,500 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/improper-to-question-accountability-of-ayodhya-temple-fund-collection-drive-pejavar-seer-956162.html
27-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu transport workers withdraw strike temporarily||The Tamil Nadu government transport workers, who have been on indefinite strike since the last three days, on Saturday decided to call off their strike for now and resume work. The Confederation of All Transport Employees Unions, comprising nine trade unions, commenced the indefinite strike on February 25 demanding that the state government conclude the 14thwage revision talks immediately. It also demanded pending terminal benefits of workers retired since 2020 and non-allocation of funds in the budget to compensate the losses incurred by the corporation which is a service sector. The strike was withdrawn following tripartite talks between the trade union leaders, state transport officials and labour department authorities here on Saturday evening. "All the trade unions involved in the strike have decided to withdraw the strike and to defer the strike till a new government is in place after the April 6 Assembly election," M Shanmugam, general secretary of Labour Progressive Federation (LPF), affiliated to the DMK, told reporters here. He said the unions have resolved not to cause any inconvenience to the members of the public as the election commission's model code of conduct has come into force. "We will pursue our demands when a new government is formed after the election," he added. CITU, AITUC and INTUC are also among the unions that had participated in the indefinite strike. At the talks held here, the state government assured them an interim relief of Rs 1,000 for workers in lieu of wage revision, till the negotiations are completed. Further, the officials reportedly assured them that disciplinary action will not be taken against workers who were on strike for three days nor their wages deducted from salaries during the strike period. Following this, the trade unions announced withdrawal of strike with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-transport-workers-withdraw-strike-temporarily-956165.html
27-02-2021||State||Tumakuru-Rayadurga rly line gets a push||Long-pending plans to construct a new railway line on the Tumakuru-Rayadurga (Andhra Pradesh) route is set to take off in June, while land acquisition process has gathered pace for the  Tumakuru-Davangere route, another delayed project. The state government has joined hands with the South Western Railway for the 207-km Tumakuru-Rayadurga line via Kalyanadurga,which was sanctioned back in 2007-08 at a cost of Rs 2,062 crore. The Tumakuru-Davangere line (191 km) via Chitradurga was sanctioned in 2011-12 at Rs 1,801 crore. Together, the two lines will boost the line capacity of the railways, allowing introduction of new trains and streamlining the existing services. The projects remained stuck due to the delay in acquiring nearly 4,000 acres of land. The railways had requested the government for 1,396.26 acres of land (in Karnataka) for the Rayadurga line and another 2,314.43 acres for the Davangere route. “Over the last two years, the state government has responded very positively and helped in taking the project forward. These are two crucial projects which will benefit the people of the state in the coming days,” SWR Chief Public Relations Officer E Vijaya told DH. In fact, the railways has already begun formation work on a 37 km length. Preparatory works are on to take up the project in engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. A senior official said tenders for the Rayadurga line’s Karnataka portion will be called in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tumakuru-rayadurga-rly-line-gets-a-push-955840.html
27-02-2021||State||Retired cop killed in road accident in Mysuru||A retired sub-inspector of police died in a road accident in Mysuru. Venkata Ramana Shetty (69) died on the spot after a two-wheeler hit him from behind at Tathaiah Circle. The bike rider also sustained injuries and has been hospitalised. K R Traffic Police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/retired-cop-killed-in-road-accident-in-mysuru-955920.html
27-02-2021||State||ED attaches over Rs 84-crore assets of Karnataka-based cooperative society||The Enforcement Directorate has attached over Rs 84-crore worth assets in a money laundering probe linked to an alleged funds embezzlement case against a Karnataka-based cooperative society and its promoters, the central agency said Saturday. The properties, provisionally attached under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), include agricultural and non-agricultural land, buildings, residential flats and factories. These assets are in the names of N Nanjundaiah (the director of Kanva Group of companies), his family members, some related entities and Harish S, the founder director and president of Sree Kanva Souhardha Co-Operative Credit Limited (SKSCCL). The assets, worth a total Rs 84.40 crore, are located at Nelamangala, Koratagere, Chikkabalapur, Srirangapatana and Bengaluru in Karnataka and at Madakasira (Anantpur district) in Andhra Pradesh, the ED said in a statement. Nanjundaiah was arrested from Bengaluru by the agency in this case in August last year. He is in judicial custody at present. A chargesheet was subsequently filed by the ED before a special PMLA court in Bengaluru. The ED case, under criminal sections of the PMLA, was filed after studying at least 3 FIRs filed by the Bengaluru Police and a complaint made by the Registrar of cooperative societies against Nanjundaiah and others. It was alleged that the accused society and its promoters “collected Rs 650 crore deposits from the members of public, assuring high rate of interest through commission agents, without maintaining required liquidity”. “SKSCCL collected the amounts, through unauthorised collection centers and agents, from more than 1,3000 gullible investors by luring them to pay higher rate of interest (ranging from 12-15 per cent) but cheated them by not paying promised interest and not returning the principal amount even after the maturity,” the ED alleged. The money collected was “embezzled” and transferred to various accounts of Kanva group of companies and entities, in the accounts of the accused directors and their family members and some others related to SKSCCL. The agency had earlier said that “Nanjundaiah is the mastermind of the fraud that took place in the said society and had diverted more than Rs 180 crore funds to Kanva group of companies”. “Loans of huge amount were sanctioned to dubious members of the society without proper surety and security that resulted into huge losses to the society and its bona fide members,” the ED had alleged. With the latest order, the total attachment in this case stands at Rs 339.57 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ed-attaches-over-rs-84-crore-assets-of-karnataka-based-cooperative-society-956073.html
27-02-2021||State||Karnataka: Boy murdered by cutting his private parts||A 14-year-old boy was brutally killed by cutting his nose and private parts at Naribol village in Jewargi taluk. A complaint has been registered after the boy's body was found in the Bhima river on Friday night. The deceased has been identified as Mahesh Kolli, a 7th-grade student. He was spending time at home as the school was closed due to Covid-19. He went out of the house on Monday and was later found dead on the river bank. There was no clue about the motive behind the killing. According to the police, the boy was forcibly made to drink liquor before he was murdered and was also found sedated. Perpetrators tortured him by removing his teeth. After killing, his body had been stuffed into a gunny bag and was thrown into the Bhima river, police said, Bhimabai, the mother of the deceased, said Mahesh gave a mobile phone to a girl of other community than his, and they would speak over the phone often. The girl's mother, who was aware of their friendship, may have informed the male members of the family about their exchange, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-boy-murdered-by-cutting-his-private-parts-956166.html
27-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dress code, no loitering in corridors of Vidhana Soudha: Karnataka Legislative Council diktat to staffers||The Karnataka Legislative Council has prescribed a dress code for its staffers, including a new rule that restricts their movement in the corridors of Vidhana Soudha. According to a circular issued Friday, the Legislative Council has asked its Group D employees to follow a dress code - white for men and maroon for women. This will come into effect from March 15, the circular stated. Also, vehicle drivers employed by the Council have been asked to report to work in their prescribed uniform. To curb absenteeism, the Council will implement biometric-based attendance system for employees from March 1. “Forming groups and standing in the corridors while speaking on the mobile phone is prohibited,” the circular stated. Section officers have been directed to “compulsorily” maintain a movement register to keep track of the employees. Employees will be permitted to step out only for work-related purposes, the circular stated. These measures have to be mandatorily followed in order to instill “work ethics” and “discipline” among employees, the circular pointed out. It warned employees of disciplinary acton if they fail to comply with these measures. The circular comes after senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti was elected as the Legislative Council chairperson in early February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dress-code-no-loitering-in-corridors-of-vidhana-soudha-karnataka-legislative-council-diktat-to-staffers-955830.html
27-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Devoted life to poor, farmers: Birthday wishes pour in as Karnataka CM turns 78||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah joined several others in greeting Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa as he turned 78 on Saturday. Taking to Twitter to extend his greetings, the PM said, "Greetings to Karnataka CM @BSYBJP Ji on his birthday. Yediyurappa Ji is one of our most experienced leaders, who has devoted his life towards the welfare of farmers and empowering the poor. Praying for his long and healthy life." In his birthday wishes, Shah tweeted, "His dedication towards the welfare of the poor and farmers of Karnataka is commendable." His dedication towards the welfare of the poor and farmers of Karnataka is commendable. May God bless him with a long and healthy life. "Good wishes on your birthday Shri. @BSYBJP avare. My prayers that you have a healthy, long life in public service," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted. My prayers that you have a healthy, long life in public service. Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy too greeted Yediyurappa wishing him long life and good health to strive for the welfare of farmers, poor and downtrodden communities. BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda and many others took to Twitter to greet the Karnataka Chief Minister. Yediyurappa's followers, ministerial colleagues and party MLAs made a beeline to his residence here since morning to wish him on the occasion. Earlier, the CM performed special prayers at home. The Lingayat strongman of Karnataka, as Yediyurappa is often referred to, is continuing his fourth stint as the Chief Minister of the state including two short spells in the office. The fourth stint started on July 26, 2019, followed by the fall of the coalition government of Congress and the JD(S) led by the then Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy owing to the resignations of the coalition government MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/devoted-life-to-poor-farmers-birthday-wishes-pour-in-as-karnataka-cm-turns-78-955954.html
27-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NGT takes suo motu cognisance of Chikkaballapur quarry blast||The National Green Tribunal has taken Suo Motu cognisance of the blast in a stone quarry at Hirenagavalli, in Chikkaballapur district and formed a panel to study the incident and suggest remedial measures to avoid its recurrence.  The NGT principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also issued notice to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Director, Department of Mines, Karnataka and the Deputy Commissioner Chikkaballapur district. Six people died and one got injured in Hirenagavalli, in Chikkaballapur on February 22 night after gelatin sticks used in stone quarry exploded. The green bench constitutes a six-member joint committee comprising the CPCB, SPCB, Deputy Commissioner Chikkaballapur, a nominee of Director General, Mines, Government of India,  Chief Controller of Explosives, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Nagpur, and the Director, Mines, Karnataka and asked it to file a report to the Tribunal. It posted the matter for consideration on April 30. "The committee may visit the site preferably within next one week and give its report about the cause of the incident, the extent of damage caused, the extent of compensation required to be paid for damage to the environment as well as for the loss of lives, injuries and steps required to be taken for preventing any such occurrence in future within one month," the NGT said. Apart from visiting the site at least once, the Committee will be free to conduct its proceedings online. The Committee may suitably interact with the stakeholders and, apart from considering the present incident, also consider remedial measures for preventing such incidents in the area or by other establishments even beyond the said area, said the bench. The Committee may compile information about the existence and working of onsite and offsite plans in terms of 1989 Rules and conducting of mock drills and safety standard of operation (SOPs). Since in the recent past, the Tribunal has dealt with similar issues of industrial accidents resulting in deaths and injuries and expert committees in some of such accidents have given reports to this Tribunal, such reports may also be taken into account by the Committee to the extent relevant, the Tribunal said. The green bench said that the entire incident raised a number of questions including whether  Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 (“the 1989 Rules”) and Chemical Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Response)  Rules, 1996 (The 1996 Rules), which have been framed under the  Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act), falling in the schedule to the NGT Act, 2010 followed by quarry owner. "It is necessary to determine the question and if necessary, award relief under Section 15 of the NGT Act to the victims and for the restoration of the environment, after determining the liability of the persons engaged in such activity as well as the role of the statutory regulators in failing to prevent the same. The further question of preventive measures to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future in such activities also needs to be gone into," said the bench. The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (EP Act) and the rules required preparation of the onsite and off-site plan and conducting of a mock drill, the bench observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngt-takes-suo-motu-cognisance-of-chikkaballapur-quarry-blast-956129.html
27-02-2021||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Unable to pay fine, Karnataka woman gives 'mangalsutra' to traffic police||A 30-year-old woman ended up pawning her 'mangalsutra' with the traffic police in Karnataka's Belagavi after the authorities intercepted her along with her husband for riding a motorcycle without a helmet.  "The police stopped us and took the key of the vehicle. They did not ask for any document and immediately wrote a receipt for Rs 500 as fine," she said in a video that was shared on social media.  She maintained that the couple had exhausted their money. “I told the cops that we had spent the last Rs 100 we had on breakfast, but they insisted that we pay,” she said The argument between the cops and the couple reportedly went on for about two hours and bystanders had started gathering. Then, in a fit of rage, the woman handed over her 'mangalsutra' and told the cops to sell it to raise money for the fine.  Senior police officers passing by the area took stock of the situation and eventually let the couple go.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/unable-to-pay-fine-karnataka-woman-gives-mangalsutra-to-traffic-police-956091.html
27-02-2021||West||Std 10th, 12th board exams will be held: Maharashtra education minister||Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday said the Std 10th and 12th board examinations will be held in the state. She denied reports that Std 10th examination has been canceled due to the surge in coronavirus cases in the state. In schools where coronavirus cases have been found, local authorities have been directed to ensure that necessary hygiene and disinfection measures are taken, the minister said. Considering the rise in cases in some districts, the local administration has been asked to close schools for some time from March 1 if felt necessary, Gaikwad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/std-10th-12th-board-exams-will-be-held-maharashtra-education-minister-955884.html
27-02-2021||West||Goa Assembly's Budget Session to begin from March 24||The Budget Session of the Goa Legislative Assembly will be held between March 24 and April 16, an official said on Saturday. A notification about it has been issued, he said. The session will have a total of 13 sittings, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and the holy days of the Lent season observed by Christians, the senior official from the legislature department said. The Lent season this year began on February 17 and will end on April 3. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant will present the budget on March 24, the first day of the session, the official said. During the session, the opposition parties are likely to target the BJP-ruled government over three infrastructure projects in the state - proposed highway expansion, railway track doubling and laying of power transmission line. Various NGOs and opposition parties in the state have been opposing these projects, alleging that the government wants to convert the state into a coal hub. They also say that these projects will damage the environment. The opposition is also likely to target the government over the state's economic condition in the wake of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assemblys-budget-session-to-begin-from-march-24-955927.html
27-02-2021||West||Night curfew in 4 Gujarat cities extended again for 15 days amid Covid-19 surge||In view of the recent spike in coronavirus cases, the Gujarat government has decided to extend the night curfew in four major cities of the state, including Ahmedabad, by another 15 days. The ongoing night curfew in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, was to end on February 28. An official statement issued on Friday night said the government decided to extend the night curfew by another 15 days in view of the recent rise in coronavirus cases in four municipal corporations. This is the fifth extension of the night curfew, which first came into force in November last year after a spurt in Covid-19 cases in these cities post-Diwali. The ongoing night curfew starts at midnight and ends at 6 am. Although the statement about the extended night curfew does not mention the time, the existing schedule is likely to continue. In view of increasing Covid-19 cases, the government has decided to expedite the vaccination drive, the statement said. The statement was issued following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday evening to review the coronavirus situation in Gujarat. In the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination, out of the total 4.82 lakh health care workers, more than 4.07 lakh (or 84 per cent) have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, the statement said. Also, out of the total 5.41 lakh frontline workers, 4. 14 lakh (or 77 per cent) have been covered in the drive so far. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccine has been given to 1.23 lakh healthcare workers till now, it said. The health department claimed that Gujarat ranks first in the country in terms of vaccination per million population. The state has so far received 15.70 lakh doses of Covishield, and 4.83 lakh Covaxin. The vaccination drive for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities will begin from March 1 as per the Centre's instructions, it said. Gujarat has so far reported 2,69,031 Covid-19 cases, out of which 2,62,487 patients have recovered. On Friday, it reported 460 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-in-4-gujarat-cities-extended-again-for-15-days-amid-covid-19-surge-955967.html
27-02-2021||West||Social media, OTT guidelines pose threat to democracy: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Minister of State for Home, Housing, Transport, IT, Parliamentary Affairs and Ex-Servicemen Welfare, Satej Patil has vehemently criticised the Union Government’s move to regulate social media and over-the-top (OTT) platforms and said that it has nothing but infringing the privacy of individuals and free speech under the Constitution. “This move by Centre needs to be fought tooth and nail. Such ‘dictatorial’ regulations will not be accepted by the people of this democratic country,” Patil said and added that some bureaucrats passing the judgement on what needs to be published and what not on any media platform is nothing but an attack on the freedom of the press in India.  “Such orders will not have any standing in court of law,” he concluded. Taking a cue from a Delhi court’s recent order on granting bail to climate activist Disha Ravi for allegedly editing a social media material or toolkit on the ongoing farmers’ protest, the senior Congress leader from Kolhapur said that the whole episode is nothing but an act to suppress the voice of those who are exercising their freedom to speech. The Centre on February 25 had announced sweeping regulations for social media firms such as Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The regulations also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against the security and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/social-media-ott-guidelines-pose-threat-to-democracy-maharashtra-minister-955978.html
27-02-2021||West||Modi govt to hold review meeting with 8 states, UTs showing rise in Covid-19 cases||The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with eight states and union territories exhibiting a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said. The states showing a surge are Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal. India's total Covid-19 active caseload is 1,59,590 which is 1.44 per cent of the total infections. Six states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat -- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry underlined. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It was followed by Kerala that reported 3,671 new cases and Punjab with 622 new cases. The ministry said 85.75 per cent of 16,488 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours are from six states and UTs. "Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases," the ministry said.  "In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679 today, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the same period, from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently," the ministry added. The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, MP, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and WB which are exhibiting a surge in cases, it said. A total of 1,42,42,547 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 66,68,974 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were administered the first dose, 24,53,878 HCWs who were given the second dose and 51,19,695 frontline workers (FLWs) who took the first dose. The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. As on Day 42 of the vaccination drive (February 27), a total of 7,64,904 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 3,49,020 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 13,397 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,20,884 HCWs received the second dose of the vaccine. Eight states account for 62.75 per cent of the cumulative second dose vaccinations in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 12.64 per cent (3,10,058) of the total second dose vaccinations in India, the ministry said. Nine states and UTs have administered the first vaccine dose to less than 60 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Punjab and Puducherry. Twelve states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of more than 65 per cent frontline workers. These are Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Rajasthan, Kerala and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The ministry said 12 states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of less than 40 per cent of the frontline workers. These are Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Nagaland, Goa and Mizoram. A total of 1,07,63,451 people have recovered so far, with 12,771 patients having discharged in a span of 24 hours.  "India's Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.17 per cent is among the highest in the world," the ministry underscored. It said 84.79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,936 newly recovered cases. As many as 4,142 people recovered in Kerala in a span of 24 hours followed by 642 in Karnataka. Besides, 113 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states and UTs account for 82.3 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 48. It was followed by Punjab with 15 daily deaths and Kerala reported 14 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted.  These are Gujarat, Odisha, Chandigarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/modi-govt-to-hold-review-meeting-with-8-states-uts-showing-rise-in-covid-19-cases-955991.html
27-02-2021||West||Maharashtra man threatens to end life if politics over daughter's death doesn't stop||The father of the woman, whose death in Pune earlier this month has kicked up a political slugfest in Maharashtra, has warned that if politics over her demise does not stop, he would end his life along with his family members. He said the defamation of his family should stop as he has one more daughter, who is yet to be married. The 23-year-old woman had died after falling from a building in Hadapsar area of Pune on February 8. Some social media posts and the opposition BJP have alleged that Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod was linked to her death. Speaking to a Marathi news channel at their home in Beed district on Friday, the woman's father said, "We are trying to recover from the shock of our daughter's death and move ahead, but every day something new comes up." "Stop defaming my family. I have another daughter to marry in future. If this continues, who will marry her?" he asked. "I have two options before me. I will either commit suicide with my daughter before a court or register an offence in this connection," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-threatens-to-end-life-if-politics-over-daughters-death-doesnt-stop-956000.html
27-02-2021||West||DA case filed against Maharashtra BJP leader's husband; sparks war of words||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered a case of disproportionate assets against the husband of Maharashtra BJP leader Chitra Wagh, an official said on Saturday. The case against Kishore Jagannath Wagh was filed on February 12 following an open enquiry in a bribery case, he said. "It was found that 90.24 per cent of his assets were disproportionate. He has been booked under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act," he said. Wagh was working as a medical records librarian at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial hospital at Parel in Central Mumbai, he said. On July 5, 2016, a case had been registered against the medical superintendent of the hospital Gajanan Bhagat, its medical records librarian Wagh and a private person Sandeep Kamble for demanding and accepting bribe, he said. "A raid was conducted at Wagh's residence in connection with the investigation of the case and an open enquiry was initiated against him on February 11, 2017," he said. Based on the inquiry report, a case of disproportionate assets was registered against Wagh, the official said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Pravin Darekar alleged that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is indulging in revenge politics by implicating the husband of Maharashtra BJP vice president Chitra Wagh in a false case. "Chitra Wagh has been vocal against state forest minister and Shiv Sena MLA Sanjay Rathod for last some weeks. Invoking an old case against her husband and filing a fresh case against him is revenge politics. This is highly unfair," the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council said. A 23-year-old woman died after falling from a building in Hadapsar area of Pune on February 8. Some social media posts and the opposition BJP have alleged that Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod was linked to her death. "It is evident that the Shiv Sena-led MVA government is targeting Wagh. She has been trying to raise her voice over a woman's death...But this is a misuse of the state machinery," he said. Countering the BJP's argument, Congress's state spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, "The case against Kishor Wagh had been filed by then BJP government in 2016. The probe was going on...it should not be politicised the way BJP is trying to do." NCP leader Rupali Chakankar said, "The case was filed in 2016 and you should give time to police to perform their duty. If the police have found some important details, they are taking the investigation ahead." Chitra Wagh, who was earlier with the NCP, had quit the party ahead of the state assembly polls in 2019. She was state NCP's women's wing president at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/da-case-filed-against-maharashtra-bjp-leaders-husband-sparks-war-of-words-956012.html
27-02-2021||West||Indigo to operate select domestic flights from Mumbai airport's Terminal-1||Budget carrier IndiGo on Saturday said that all its domestic flights having subset series 6E 5500 - 6E 5900 will be operated from Terminal-1 of the city airport here, starting March 10. All other flights, including the 5000 series will continue to operate from Terminal 2, the airline said in a release. The private airport operator, running and managing the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) had on Friday announced that it will resume domestic flight operations from Terminal-1 from March 10. From midnight, March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet will resume all its domestic operations from Terminal 1 and in the case of IndiGo, while most of its flight operations will be managed from Terminal 2, the base flights will operate through Terminal 1, CSMIA had said. Mumbai Airport has two terminals--T1 and T2. T1 caters to domestic passengers and Terminal-2 has international services besides domestic operations of some of the Indian airlines. However, after the resumption of domestic commercial passenger services in late May last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown in the wake of the pandemic, the flight services were consolidated at T2. IndiGo, in the release, also said that it has taken measures to ensure passengers are informed of this change at every stage of their journey with the airline. IndiGo is reaching out to all impacted passengers and their respective travel agents via SMS, calls, and emails provided in reservation detail, the airline said. IndiGo passengers are requested to retrieve their PNR on IndiGo's website or mobile app to check their terminal before leaving for the airport, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indigo-to-operate-select-domestic-flights-from-mumbai-airports-terminal-1-956077.html
27-02-2021||West||Cops looking for second car after explosives scare at Mukesh Ambani's house||Two days after a vehicle with explosives was found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani here, police are looking for the other car which had been seen at the spot, an official said on Saturday. The Crime Branch of Mumbai police has recorded the statements of 25 persons in its probe so far, he said. Police teams are trying to track down the Innova in which the driver of the parked vehicle with explosives -- a Scorpio SUV -- was seen leaving. The investigators have checked the footage of hundreds of CCTVs on the route the two cars took but have not found any clues yet, the official said. No terror angle has emerged in the probe so far, he said. A Scorpio with 2.5 kg of gelatin sticks, an explosive material, was found near `Antilia', the multi-storey house of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. A letter found inside the SUV purportedly threatened Ambani and his family. The Scorpio had been stolen from Mulund area a week ago, police said. CCTV footage showed that the Scorpio, alongwith the Innova, reached the spot in the early hours of Thursday, and the driver of Scorpio then got down and left in the other vehicle. The Innova was then seen, in CCTV footage, exiting Mumbai and entering Thane, after which its trace was lost. The police were also investigating from where the gelatin sticks were procured, the official said. The seized Scorpio has been sent for forensic examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-looking-for-second-car-after-explosives-scare-at-mukesh-ambanis-house-956082.html
27-02-2021||West||Covid-19: Lockdown extended in Maharashtra's Amravati||With no let-up in Covid-19 cases in the Amravati and Achalpur towns of the Vidarbha region, the lockdown was extended till March 7. Maharashtra government had imposed a total lockdown of seven days in Amravati city and Achalpur town on February 21 owing to a large number of Covid-19 cases being reported from the two zones. Amravati district collector Shailesh Naval ordered the extension of the lockdown in Amravati and Achalpur cities for a week, and also imposed restrictions in Anjangaon Surji town. Amravati, Achalpur and places adjoining these two cities and the entire Anjangaon Surji town will remain under lockdown till 6 am on March 8, he said. The Amravati city and the district have been reporting over 700 cases on a daily basis over the last few days. On Saturday, Amravati municipal corporation and district areas recorded 122 and 423 cases, respectively. The Amravati district has so far reported 35,084 progressive cases and 467 deaths. The industries permitted to operate earlier would continue to operate. Weekly bazaars, schools, colleges, coaching classes, gyms, swimming pools, cinema halls and multiplexes will remain closed. Hotels would be allowed to provide parcel service while vegetable markets would be open for retailers between 2 am and 6 am. School and college examinations will be conducted as per the schedule, the collector said. Lockdown is also in force for Saturday and Sunday in Nagpur and Buldhana. On Friday, 8,333 new coronavirus cases were reported in the state. Four cities - Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Amravati -- together accounted for 3,401 or 40 per cent of new cases.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-extended-in-maharashtras-amravati-956156.html
27-02-2021||West||Vaccination: Aspirants to get shots at govt hospitals in Goa||Eligible aspirants for Covid-19 vaccination will be administered the shots at government-run hospitals in Goa during the second phase of the drive beginning March 1, a senior officer said on Saturday. State Immunisation Officer Dr Rajendra Borkar told reporters that aspirants will have to carry Aadhaar card or any other government proof of identity for vaccination at their nearest government hospital. As per the criteria laid down by the Central government, people above the age of 60 years and those aged 45 years and above with comorbidities are eligible for inoculation in the second phase. "People in the age group of 45 years to 59 years will have to produce the certificate of their comorbidity given by a registered medical practitioner on a prescribed format of the Government of India along with their photo identity," Borkar said. He said registration for both the categories will be done on the site of vaccination on the 'first-come-first served' basis on a particular day. "Registration can also be done online on CO-WIN portal once it becomes accessible for all," Borkar added. He said the second dose of the vaccine will be given at the same site where the first shot was administered to beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaccination-aspirants-to-get-shots-at-govt-hospitals-in-goa-956203.html
27-02-2021||West||Maharashtra reports deaths of 44 birds due to avian flu||Maharashtra reported the deaths of 44 poultry birds on Friday amid the avian influenza scare, officials said on Saturday. The deaths were reported from Nashik, Jalgaon, Beed, Amravati and Nandurbar, they added. The samples are being sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal and Pune-based Disease Investigation Section for testing. So far, 8,34,676 poultry birds, including 7,00,161 birds from Navapur in Nandurbar, 30,00,308 eggs and 74,394 kilograms of poultry feed have been destroyed in the infected zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-deaths-of-44-birds-due-to-avian-flu-956223.html
