28-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wildfires continue to rage in Kappatagudda hill||Wildfires continued to ravage the Kappatagudda hill range, home for unique flora and fauna, in the district. In third such incident since January 25 and second in 24 hours, vegetation spread across 50 hectares was destroyed in the hill, considered a treasure trove of unique flora and fauna, near Doni village under Dambal hobli of Gadag district on Sunday. The wildfire was spotted at 1 pm. Over 80 forest personnel, joined by locals, battled for seven to eight hours to douse the flames Range Forest Officer Pradeep Pawar told DH, “Vegetation spread across 50 hectares was gutted in the fire. The fire has been doused completely. On Saturday, shrubs and dry grass on 15 hectares were reduced to ashes in what is said to be a man-made fire near Keluru. On January 25, eight acres of vegetation in the hill was destroyed in a wildfire near Doni. The Kappatagudda hill, which was declared as conservation reserve five years back, is facing a serious threat from the man-made and accidental fires and illegal mining.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wildfires-continue-to-rage-in-kappatagudda-hill-956545.html
28-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||KPCC President D K Shivakumar seeks details of Centre's Rs 20-lakh crore Covid-19 package||KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that BJP leaders have failed to give details of the Rs 20 lakh crore package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the pandemic. "The government failed to release documents about the distribution of packages with the details of the beneficiaries. People, including beedi workers in Dakshina Kannada, are on the streets fighting against the government," he said. "The price of petrol and diesel was hiked 10 times in the last few days. When the prices of petrol and diesel are hiked, the price of all essential commodities too goes up," he said. Further, he accused the BJP-led government of hiking the property tax during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress will fight for the demands of the people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/kpcc-president-d-k-shivakumar-seeks-details-of-centres-rs-20-lakh-crore-covid-19-package-956351.html
28-02-2021||National||New social media rules lack Parliament's assent, bureaucrats may misuse vast powers: Congress||The Congress Saturday alleged the government has brought "non-statutory" guidelines without Parliament's assent to control social media platforms, saying vast powers have been given to bureaucrats which could be misused. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi did say social media cannot be left unregulated, but added no attempt should be made to control it through non-statutory rules and executive orders. He termed the rules "extremely dangerous" for free speech and creativity, "unless extreme restraint is exercised" in implementing them. He said no act has been passed in this regard, and even the Data Protection Act has not been cleared in three-four years. He said a Parliamentary scrutiny was necessary before bringing rules to regulate social media. The government on Thursday had said a 'code of ethics' and three-tier grievance redressal mechanism would be applicable for news publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and digital media. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced at a joint press conference here by I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad earlier this week. Singhvi told reporters on Saturday, "Nobody is suggesting that there should be 'Jungle Raj' or unregulated, unknown territory forever in any area. But, equally, there should be no attempt in the guise of non-statutory, delegated legislation rules and executive orders, in getting control of such a vast field." Singhvi said while the law in this regard is still pending “you have brought such far-reaching changes and the czar, the monarch, the master of the universe is a bureaucrat”. "So, I would say that it is extremely dangerous for free speech, for creativity, unless extreme restraint is exercised, and unfortunately, I do not find any restraint in this 'Sarkar' in any sector," he said. "Humongous, vast powers have been granted without statute, without parliamentary assent, without parliamentary scrutiny, Singhvi alleged, noting the operation of rules depends on the wisdom and restraint of bureaucrats exercising them. "Such restraint in 20 other sectors is conspicuous by its absence as far as this government is concerned," the Congress leader said. Singhvi also said the government has come out with guidelines under an IT Act, but there is no act created for OTTs or for other social media, the government has exercised general power under the ÏT act. He said that under the new rules, a bureaucrat will decide what national security is before arresting anyone, and asked whether every arrest made in the last five years has been on the genuine ground of national security. He said these guidelines are covered under the IT Act, but this must go through Parliament and asked why the Data Protection Act has not been passed even after four years. The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Saturday clarified that the provision in the new digital media guidelines to block internet content in a case of emergency nature has been around as a rule since 2009 and was not recently introduced. Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the guidelines which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, a ministry statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-social-media-rules-lack-parliaments-assent-bureaucrats-may-misuse-vast-powers-congress-956254.html
28-02-2021||National||DH Toon | New internet, social media rules to make government's gaze apparent||The new rules, announced earlier this week, require 'significant social media intermediaries' to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. All three officials will have to reside in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-new-internet-social-media-rules-to-make-governments-gaze-apparent-956270.html
28-02-2021||National||Rakesh Tikait to tour 5 states in March to drum up support for farmers' protest||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait will be touring five states in March to drum up support for the ongoing farmers' protest against Centre's new agriculture laws, a Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) office-bearer said on Saturday. Tikait, the national spokesperson of the BKU and a prominent face of the farmers' protest, will begin the tour from March 1, the office-bearer said. "Farmers' meetings will be held in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana, while two meetings will also be held in Uttar Pradesh in March," BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. Two meetings will be held in Rajasthan and three in Madhya Pradesh. The last three meetings will be held on March 20, 21 and 22 in Karnataka, Malik said. "One event is scheduled on March 6 in Telangana, but we have not got permission for it yet due to some election in the state. If permission is granted, the meeting in Telangana will be held as per schedule," he told PTI. Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi's border points at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur since November with a demand that the Centre should repeal the contentious farm laws enacted in September last year and frame a new one guaranteeing the minimum support price (MSP) on crops. Tikait is leading the protest at Ghazipur. The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protesting farm unions, maintains that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rakesh-tikait-to-tour-5-states-in-march-to-drum-up-support-for-farmers-protest-956273.html
28-02-2021||National||Ghulam Nabi Azad has major role to play in coming months, says Congress||Several Congress leaders on Saturday praised party colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad, who retired from the Rajya Sabha recently, with Manish Tewari saying the veteran leader has a major role to play in the coming months as the nation is facing a "threat" to its identity from the ruling BJP. Azad retired from the Upper House of Parliament on February 15. "When this country is facing a threat and attempts are being made to change its identity, we need a leader like Azad and his guidance to take the ship of this country to the shore," Tewari said at a function organised by the Gandhi Global Family here. "The time has come when progressive, nationalist and secular forces should come together on a single platform. Azad has a major role in this," he said. The former Union minister said senior Congress leaders are here on the invitation of the Gandhi Global Family to thank Azad, who has held high posts and served the country and the party at various levels over the past four decades. "Azad is a dedicated Congress party worker and it is not wrong to say that he is the among a few who understand the party as he had been in charge (of party affairs) of various states," Tewari said. Launching a scathing attack on the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said it is responsible for the prevailing situation in the country due to its alleged misrule over the past six-and-a-half years. "Jammu and Kashmir was hit hard by its unilateral decision on August 5, 2019. It has never happened in the history of the country that a full-fledged state was bifurcated into Union Territories. J&K has a golden history and is the crown of India and we promise to fight for the restoration of statehood to it," the Congress leader said. He claimed that the Centre's move was "against the Constitution and justice". In his address, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said questions are being raised as regards "why are we here". "We live in India and it is our right to go anywhere in the country. We do not need permission from anyone. We have come here to give a message that with a person with whom we have spent over 40 years, we are with him," Sharma said. However, he said, "We have raised our voice to improve the health of the party and strengthen it so that the youth join the party." "We have seen good times and do not want to see the decline of the party as we grow older. We will take the political fight from Jammu to Nagpur and will fight it together," Sharma said, adding those who are attempting to mislead the public and create a wrong notion should note that "Congress is our identity and we are the identity of Congress". "We have given our prime to the party and walked a long distance. None of us was dropped by a parachute and we used the doors to enter the party instead of the window. We will strengthen the Congress and become the hope of the people, India will reach new heights," he said. Showering praises on Azad, Sharma said nobody should be of the opinion that his career is over with his retirement from the Rajya Sabha. "This was not the right time to retire him from the Rajya Sabha as the country is faced with challenges. We feel the pain of Jammu and Kashmir and will continue with our fight to ensure that the erstwhile state gets its statehood back," he said. He said this is for the first time after 1950 that the Rajya Sabha has no representative from Jammu and Kashmir after the retirement of Azad. "The Jammu and Kashmir assembly election has not taken place and none of its representatives has been elected to the Rajya Sabha," he said. Taking a dig at the BJP, he said India cannot be run on a single ideology. Another Congress leader Raj Babbar said there are some who are terming them as "G-23" leaders. "I am saying we are Gandhi-23 and the Congress leaders are with the ideology of Gandhi," he said. "This G-23 wants a strong Congress and we are determined that Gandhi-23 will work to ensure the party's victory in the upcoming elections in different states," Babbar said. "The journey of Azad has not finished. It has not even not reached the half-way mark. We need the support of every Gandhian and Congressman to ensure that Azad completes his journey," he said. Senior Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Boopinder Singh Hooda described Azad as a nationalist by core.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ghulam-nabi-azad-has-major-role-to-play-in-coming-months-says-congress-956276.html
28-02-2021||National||State-wise petrol and diesel prices across India on February 28||Petrol and diesel prices remained more or less the same as the previous day on Sunday. Here is a complete list of petrol and diesel prices across states in India on February 28: Rs 87.33/L||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-wise-petrol-and-diesel-prices-across-india-on-february-28-956278.html
28-02-2021||National||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, India sees over 16,000 new infections for 4th straight day||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,10,96,731 on Sunday with 16,752 new infections, the highest in the last 30 days, according to Union health ministry data. The country had recorded 18,855 new infections on January 29. The death toll mounted to 1,57,051 with 113 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 9 am showed. The active caseload further increased to 1,64,511. It constitutes 1.48 per cent of the total infections, it showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,75,169, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.10 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 1.42 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 21,62,31,106 samples had been tested until February 27 with 7,95,723 being tested on Saturday. The 113 new fatalities include 51 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and 11 from Punjab, among other parts of the country. So far, 1,57,051 deaths have been reported in the country including 52,092 from Maharashtra, 12,493 from Tamil Nadu, 12,326 from Karnataka, 10,909 from Delhi, 10,266 from West Bengal, 8,725 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-india-sees-over-16000-new-infections-for-4th-straight-day-956285.html
28-02-2021||National||PM Modi addresses the nation in 'Mann Ki Baat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his address to the nation during the 74th episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat'.  This is the 21st edition of 'Mann Ki Baat' 2.0. To listen to the radio address, you can tune in to Doordarshan or the All India Radio. The live stream would also be available on the NaMo App.  In the previous episode, the Prime Minister had highlighted the Republic Day farmers' tractor rally by saying that the country was saddened by the "insult" to the Tricolour. "We have to infuse times to come with new hope and novelty. Last year, we displayed exemplary patience and courage. This year too, we have to work hard to attain our resolves. We have to take our country forward at a faster pace," he added. He had also said that the government was committed to modernise agriculture and will continue to take steps in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-addresses-the-nation-in-mann-ki-baat-956289.html
28-02-2021||National||5 dead, 8 fall sick after inhaling toxic gas leaked from chemical fibre plant in China||At least five people died and eight others fell sick after inhaling toxic gases leaked from a chemical fibre plant in northeast China's Jilin Province, officials said on Sunday. The accident happened late Saturday in the city of Jilin, local authorities told the state-run Xinhua news agency. The eight people who fell sick are in hospital and stated to be in stable condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-dead-8-fall-sick-after-inhaling-toxic-gas-leaked-from-chemical-fibre-plant-in-china-956293.html
28-02-2021||National||96% people faced drop in earnings during lockdown: Survey||Nearly 96 per cent of the people surveyed under a food rights campaign in Maharashtra faced a drop in their earnings during the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year, claims a social body. Job losses and non-availability of casual work were the key reasons for this, and every fifth respondent was forced to go hungry because of no money to buy food, Mukta Srivastava, the state's convener for the Anna Adhikar Abhiyan, told reporters here on Saturday. The abhiyan, comprising a group of activists from food and nutrition sector, surveyed a total of 250 people in May and September last year in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Pune, Nandurbar, Solapur, Palghar, Nashik, Dhule and Jalgaon. The Centre announced a nationwide lockdown in March last year following the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country. Later, after a few months, restrictions were gradually eased in a phased manner. "Around 96 per cent people out of those surveyed admitted that their earnings dropped sharply in the lockdown period, and their situation remained the same five months after the lockdown was lifted," Srivastava said. Of the total respondents, 52 per cent were from rural areas and the rest from urban limits. Those surveyed included 60 per cent women, she said. Before the lockdown, nearly 70 per cent of the respondents had a monthly income Rs 7,000, while the remaining earned about Rs 3,000 per month, Srivastava said. "The drop in such already low incomes underscores how hard they would have been hit," she said. Nearly 49 per cent of respondents of the survey, conducted as part of the nationwide Right to Food Campaign, had to borrow money from friends and relatives to buy food, she said. Asked about the earning status of respondents in the first few months after the lockdown came into force last year, Srivastava said, "During April and May, 43 per cent people had no income at all. Only 10 per cent of them have come back to their pre-lockdown income levels." The situation of 34 per cent respondents, who had no income in April and May, remained unchanged till September- October, she said. The findings also revealed that 12 per cent of these people sold their jewellery while three per cent sold their land during the lockdown to buy food, Srivastava said. In nutritional aspects, the survey showed lower consumption of cereals (by 63 per cent), vegetables (76 per cent), pulses (71 per cent) and non-vegetarian food (82 per cent), she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/96-people-faced-drop-in-earnings-during-lockdown-survey-956294.html
28-02-2021||National||I-T dept detects Rs 220 crore black income after raids on Chennai-based tiles manufacturer||The Income Tax Department has detected undisclosed income of about Rs 220 crore after it raided a leading tile and sanitaryware manufacturer based in Chennai, the CBDT said. The action was carried out on February 26 and a total of 20 premises in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Kolkata were searched and surveyed, it said. The CBDT said in a statement that Rs 8.30 crore cash was seized during the raids on the group engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of tiles and sanitaryware. The group is the "leader" in tiles business in south India. "In the course of search, unaccounted sale and purchase of tiles were detected. Details of unaccounted transactions were unearthed in the secret office and the software maintained in the cloud," it claimed. It was found that the transactions to the extent of 50 per cent were out of books, the statement claimed.  "Considering the previous turnover, the suppression of income may be in the range of Rs 120 crore. This is in addition to Rs 100 crore of undisclosed income introduced by the group as share premium through shell companies," it claimed. "Total undisclosed income detected so far comes to Rs 220 crore," the CBDT alleged. The statement issued late Saturday night said the searches were on. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), that frames policy for the tax department, meanwhile, said it was fully prepared to check and monitor the role of money in influencing voters. The department remains committed to track the generation of unaccounted cash and its movement in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, it said. Assembly polls to TN and Puducherry will be held in a single phase on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-t-dept-detects-rs-220-crore-black-income-after-raids-on-chennai-based-tiles-manufacturer-956299.html
28-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi's 'catch the rain' pitch to address water woes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made a strong pitch for water conservation, urging people to ‘Catch the Rain’ to boost water availability across the country. Modi, in his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address, asked listeners to clean up water bodies and prepare them to harvest the monsoon even as he recounted age-old water conservation practices from across the country, with a special mention of poll-bound Tamil Nadu. “This is the best time to think about water conservation in the summer months ahead,” he said adding that the Jal Shakti Ministry would launch a ‘Catch the Rain’ campaign to harvest rainwater. “Catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls,” he said unveiling the theme of the campaign. “We shall get existing rainwater harvesting systems repaired, clean up lakes and ponds in villages, remove impediments in the way of water flowing into water sources; thus we shall be able to conserve rainwater to the maximum,” the prime minister said. The Prime Minister highlighted water conservation practices across the country from Uttarakhand to parched areas of Bundelkhand and made a special mention of Tamil Nadu, where elections are due in April. “There was a time when in villages, people would collectively look after wells and ponds. Now one such effort is underway at Thiruvannamalai, Tamil Nadu. These people are rejuvenating public wells in their vicinity that had been lying unused for years,” said Modi. Modi also cited the example of Murugesan from Madurai who makes ropes from banana waste and expressed regret over not learning the beautiful language Tamil. “One of my shortcomings was that I could not make much effort to learn Tamil, the oldest language in the world; I could not make myself learn Tamil,” Modi said in response to a question from a listener. “It is such a beautiful language, which is popular all over the world. Many people have told me a lot about the quality of Tamil literature and the depth of the poems written in it,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-catch-the-rain-pitch-to-address-water-woes-956318.html
28-02-2021||National||CBSE to hold training sessions for schools on restructured affiliation process||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is planning a series of webinars and training sessions for schools to familiarise them about the newly restructured affiliation process, according to officials. “The registration process for the webinar shall commence from March 1 to March 8, 2021 on CBSE website. Interested schools can register themselves accordingly. The application for affiliation will be accepted tentatively from March 16,” he added. Restructuring the affiliation system as per various recommendations for systemic reforms laid down in the new National Education Policy (NEP), the board is making the process completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention. “The restructuring will help in establishing ease of doing business in the CBSE affiliation system, attaining the goal of minimum government, maximum governance, automated and data driven decisions, achieve transparency, bring more accountability in the entire systemic processes and achieve quick and time-bound disposal of all applications," Tripathi said. “A detailed document on CBSE school affiliation system containing the re-structured online procedure for affiliation, required documents, modalities and Standard Operating Procedures for inspections, guidelines for inspection committee and videos for various processes will also be uploaded on CBSE website tentatively by Monday for perusal by schools. Schools may familiarise themselves with the manual prior to attending the online sessions,” he added. The CBSE had introduced a facility for virtual inspection of schools for upgradation of affiliation in August last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board is also in the process of setting up a facilitation centre to address queries, and problems of schools and inspection committees related to the virtual inspection. The board had revamped its norms in 2018 for granting affiliation to schools, leaving the onus of the infrastructural audit on states and limiting its own role to academic quality monitoring. The CBSE has 24,930 schools affiliated to it across the country and abroad, with over 2 crore students and more than 10 lakh teachers. The affiliation by-laws were formulated in the year 1998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-hold-training-sessions-for-schools-on-restructured-affiliation-process-956321.html
28-02-2021||National||Fire breaks out at Eco Retreat facility in Odisha||A major fire broke out at the Eco Retreat facility at Satkosia Wildlife Sanctuary in Odisha's Angul district on Sunday, official sources said. There was no injury or loss of life in the fire incident, the tourism department said in its Twitter post, adding that safety of tourists was paramount and steps will be taken to ensure that no recurrence of such an incident happens in future. Three tents were burnt to ashes in the fire. Though the reason behind the outbreak of fire was yet to be ascertained, it is suspected that an electrical short circuit might have led to the mishap. By the time, fire services personnel reached the spot, the blaze had already engulfed the tents, an official said. The Tourism Department said a probe into the matter is being conducted. Steps will be taken to ensure that no recurrence of such an incident happens in future, it said. Odisha Transport Commissioner Sanjeeb Panda and his wife Santosh Bala, Special Secretary of Home Department, who were staying in one of the cottages at the Eco Retreat camps had a narrow escape early this morning. "By the grace of God, me and Santosh escaped without any injury as fire broke out in our tent at Satkosia Eco Retreat at about 5 am," Panda wrote in a social media post. In a video clip posted by Panda, his wife Santosh was heard saying: "It was so inflammable that we thought we will douse it, Sanjeeb and me rushed out of the tent. By the time we went inside, it (fire) was at high intensity. We could not bring anything out. I would have got burnt had I been on the upper side of the tent."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-eco-retreat-facility-in-odisha-956323.html
28-02-2021||National||GST officers arrest man for Rs 50.03 crore tax fraud, fake firms||GST officers have arrested a person for creating fictitious firms and committing input tax credit fraud of Rs 50.03 crore, the finance ministry said on Sunday. The officers of Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Commissionerate, Delhi East have unearthed a network of fictitious firms which "was being operated by one Vishal, who is an advocate by profession and was practising law in Karkardooma Court, Delhi", the ministry said in a statement. Vishal started this GST fraud by creating a fictitious firm in his own name, which he got registered at his residence. Subsequently, he arranged various KYCs of different persons to create multiple fictitious firms having no business activity and created for the passing on fake Input Tax Credit. "Multiple KYCs and cheques were resumed during the search of his residence. He used to pass on fake Input Tax Credit to his clients in exchange for a commission of 2 per cent of the invoice amount. The total fake Input Tax Credit passed on quantified so far is Rs 50.03 crore, which is expected to increase as the investigation progresses," it added. The accused have been remanded to 14-day judicial custody till March 13. Since the inception of GST Central Tax, Delhi Zone has made 27 arrests in various cases, involving GST evasion amounting to more than Rs 4,019.95 crore, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gst-officers-arrest-man-for-rs-5003-crore-tax-fraud-fake-firms-956325.html
28-02-2021||National||Security stepped up at Kochi airport after threat call||Security has been tightened at the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) here in wake of a threat call, police said on Sunday. Tamil Nadu police said on Saturday that a call was received at the central railway station claiming that bombs will be placed at Chennai and Kochi airports on March 1, besides the Dr MGR Central Railway station in Chennai. The police and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) have stepped up security at the CIAL following the information regarding the bomb threat, a police officer said. Security was also beefed up at the Chennai airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-stepped-up-at-kochi-airport-after-threat-call-956342.html
28-02-2021||National||PM hails 1st dedicated commercial launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation on the success of the first dedicated commercial launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 Mission, saying it ushers in a new era of space reforms in the country. The prime minister also congratulated Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro on the successful launch of Brazil's Amazonia-1 satellite by PSLV-C51, and said this is a historic moment in space cooperation between the two countries. "Congratulations to NSIL (NewSpace India Limited) and @isro on the success of the 1st dedicated commercial launch of PSLV-C51/Amazonia-1 Mission. This ushers in a new era of space reforms in the country," Modi tweeted.  He said 18 co-passengers included four small satellites that showcase dynamism and innovation of our youth. "Congratulations President @jairbolsonaro on the successful launch of Brazil's Amazonia-1 satellite by  PSLV-C51. This is a historic moment in our space cooperation and my felicitations to the scientists of Brazil," the prime minister said. India's Polar rocket on Sunday successfully launched Amazonia-1 of Brazil and 18 other satellites from the spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Sriharikota, in the first mission of the year for space agency ISRO. The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle PSLV-C51 lifted off at around 10:24 am from the first launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SHAR) and first injected into orbit primary payload Amazonia-1 about 17 minutes later. PSLV-C51 is the first dedicated commercial mission of NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), ISRO's commercial arm, and the launch was watched among others by the Brazilian government officials at the mission control centre in Sriharikota, over 100 kms from Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-1st-dedicated-commercial-launch-of-pslv-c51/amazonia-1-mission-956346.html
28-02-2021||National||Vice Admiral Hari Kumar takes over as Western Naval Command chief||Admiral Hari Kumar succeeds Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar, who superannuated on Sunday after 40 years of service. At a ceremony held at the Command Post of Headquarters, WNC, the outgoing and incoming Commanders-in-Chief were accorded a Guard of Honour after which the formal handing-taking over of baton took place with the handing over of the baton to the new Commander-in-Chief. On assuming command, Admiral Hari Kumar laid a wreath at the Gaurav Stambh monument. Vice Admiral Hari Kumar, an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, was commissioned into the Indian Navy on 1 January, 1983. He specialised in gunnery and has commanded five ships including a Destroyer and the aircraft carrier Viraat. He has held important staff appointments both ashore and afloat and has also been Naval Advisor to Government of Seychelles. On promotion to flag rank, he held the appointments of Commandant of Naval War College at Goa, Flag Officer Sea Training, Flag Officer Commanding Western Fleet, Chief of Staff at Western Naval Command, Controller Personnel Services and Chief of Personnel at NHQ. Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar was CISC/VCDS (Vice Chief of Defence Staff) at HQIDS prior to taking over as FOC-in-C Western Naval Command. The Flag Officer is a recipient of the Vishist Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Param Vishisht Seva Medal for distinguished service. Admiral Ajit Kumar, served at the helm of this premier naval Command since 31 January, 2019. During his tenure, the WNC saw extensive operational deployments in response to developing security situation post the Pulwama attack and the Galwan crisis across the Indian Ocean Region. During this period WNC was also at the forefront of anti-piracy missions in the Gulf of Aden as also Op Samudra Setu for evacuation of Indian nationals from various countries during Covid-19 and Missions Sagar I & II to reach out to countries in the IOR littoral with assistance in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-admiral-hari-kumar-takes-over-as-western-naval-command-chief-956347.html
28-02-2021||National||Justice Siddharth Mridul nominated as member of NLU's governing council||Justice Siddharth Mridul of the Delhi High Court has been nominated as a member of the governing council of the National Law University here by Chief Justice D N Patel. Justice Mridul has been nominated for the post for a period up to June 29, 2023 with immediate effect. The Delhi High Court Chief Justice, who is also Chancellor of the National Law University (NLU), Delhi issued a notification on February 26 nominating Justice Mridul as member of the Governing Council of NLU. Justice Mridul has been nominated pursuant to the elevation of Justice Hima Kohli as Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Hyderabad. The Governing Council of NLU, Delhi is the supreme authority of the University to take its all crucial decisions relating to administration. Justice Mridul was designated as senior advocate in May 2006 and was appointed as additional judge of the Delhi High Court on March 13, 2008, and as a permanent judge on May 26, 2009. Justice Mridul worked as a member of the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) for two terms 1992-1998 and 1998 to 2003. He also served as a member of the Disciplinary Committee and as Honorary Secretary of the Bar Council of Delhi. While he was practising as an advocate, he was appointed by the high court as a member in various committees to go into the issues of rehabilitation of children after the abolition of child labour, illegal construction in contravention of municipal bye-laws and member of the committee constituted to suggest, supervise and implement measures for the efficient and hygienic functioning of the Safdarjung Hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-siddharth-mridul-nominated-as-member-of-nlus-governing-council-956348.html
28-02-2021||National||Pakistan arrests 17 Indian fishermen, confiscates boats||Pakistan has arrested 17 Indian fishermen and confiscated their three boats for allegedly straying into the country's territorial waters. The fishermen, arrested on Friday, were produced before a judicial magistrate on Saturday and handed over to the police, said a spokesperson for the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency. The official said the Indian fishermen were warned that they were in Pakistan's territorial waters and should turn away but did not heed the warning. Fast response boats were used to arrest the 17 fishermen who were 10-15 nautical miles inside Pakistan's territorial waters near Sir Creek, the coastal border between Pakistan and India, the spokesperson said. The Indian fishermen are sent either to Malir or Landhi jail in Karachi. The arrest comes after a gap of one year when 23 Indian fishermen were arrested and four of their fishing boats seized by the Maritime Security Agency. Pakistan and India frequently arrest fishermen as there is no clear demarcation of the maritime border in the Arabian Sea and the fishermen do not have boats equipped with the technology to know their precise location. Owing to the lengthy and slow bureaucratic and legal procedures, the fishermen usually remain in jail for several months and sometimes even for years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-arrests-17-indian-fishermen-confiscates-boats-956364.html
28-02-2021||National||Here's a complete list of bank holidays in March 2021||Banks across the country will be closed for a total of 11 days in March. While the holidays vary from state to state, there are some holidays — known as gazetted holidays — which apply nationwide. March 5: Chapchar Kut - Only banks in Mizoram to stay closed March 7: Sunday March 11: Mahashivratri - Banks to remain shut in all but 11 states March 13: Second Saturday March 14: Sunday March 21: Sunday March 22: Bihar Divas - Only banks in Bihar will shut shop March 27: Second Saturday March 28: Sunday March 29: Holi - Banks in all but 10 states to remain closed March 30: Holi - Only banks in Bihar to stay shut||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-a-complete-list-of-bank-holidays-in-march-2021-956365.html
28-02-2021||National||M Venkaiah Naidu congratulates ISRO for successful launch of satellites||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday congratulated the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for successful launch of various satellites and wished them many successful launches in the future. India's Polar rocket on Sunday successfully launched Amazonia-1 of Brazil and 18 other satellites from the spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Sriharikota, in the first mission of the year for space agency ISRO. "My heartiest congratulations to team @isro for successful launch of Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites onboard #PSLVC51 today," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. "Wishing you many more successes in the year ahead," the vice president said. Naidu also greeted the scientific community and science enthusiasts on the occasion of National Science Day. On this day in 1928, Sir CV Raman announced his path-breaking discovery of the 'Raman Effect' and changed the face of science in India. "Science is the lifeline of human progress. As we celebrate National Science Day today, let us resolve to utilise science to bring peace, development and improve the living conditions of people across the world," the Vice President Secretariat said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-venkaiah-naidu-congratulates-isro-for-successful-launch-of-satellites-956371.html
28-02-2021||National||Army cancels recruitment exam after paper gets leaked||The Army has cancelled an examination for pan-India recruitment of general duty personnel after paper was found to have been leaked, officials said on Sunday. They further said at least three persons have been arrested in Pune so far. "The Indian Army has zero tolerance towards corrupt practices in the recruitment process for selection of suitable candidates," an official said. Based on a proactive joint operation with local police at Pune, a case of possible leakage of question paper prepared for Common Entrance Examination for Recruitment of Soldiers (General Duty) was reported last night, the official added. While further investigations are underway, it was decided to cancel the examination to ensure continuous transparency in the recruitment process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-cancels-recruitment-exam-after-paper-gets-leaked-956375.html
28-02-2021||National||Five student-built satellites piggyback on PSLV-C51, soaring dreams of young minds||Five student-built satellites also rode into space on board ISRO's PSLV-C51 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport on Sunday, giving wings to dreams of young minds. The rocket lifted off with Brazil's Amazonia-1 as primary satellite and 18 co-passenger payloads. These small rideshare payloads included "Satish Dhawan Satellite" (SDSAT) built by Chennai-based Space Kidz India, a combination of three satellites "UNITYsat" and technology demonstration satellite "SindhuNetra". The three satellites (UNITYsat) were designed and built as a joint development by Jeppiaar Institute of Technology, Sriperumpudur (JITsat), G. H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur (GHRCEsat) and Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore (Sri Shakthi Sat). "UNITYsat is intended for providing Radio relay services", an official of Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO said. SDSAT is a nano satellite intended to study the radiation levels/space weather and demonstrate long range communication technologies. SindhuNetra was developed by students of Bengaluru-based PES University, which was awarded the Rs 2.2 crore contract by the Research Centre Imarat, part of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). "This project by DRDO will help in identifying suspicious ships through satellite imaging", an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-student-built-satellites-piggyback-on-pslv-c51-soaring-dreams-of-young-minds-956378.html
28-02-2021||National||Atmanirbhar Bharat is a national spirit: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday underlined that Atmanirbhar Bharat is not just a government policy but also a national spirit, and said the mantra of self-reliant India is reaching villages of the country. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme, Modi also called for a 100-day campaign to clean up all water bodies and prepare them for rain water harvesting before monsoon starts. Stressing the importance of collective responsibility towards water conservation, he said the Union Jal Shakti Ministry will soon initiate a "Catch the rain" campaign with its main theme being "catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls". Conveying greetings on the National Science Day, Modi pointed out that this day is dedicated to the discovery of ‘Raman Effect’ by the great scientist of India, Dr C V Raman. Asserting that there is a lot of contribution of the power of science in the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign, Modi said there is a need to make science more popular and that science cannot be limited to physics-chemistry and labs. He called for expanding science with a mantra of 'lab to land'. Modi said water has been crucial for the development of humankind for centuries and people should understand their collective responsibility towards its conservation. He said that in most parts of India, rainfall begins in May-June and asked "can we right away start a 100-day campaign for the sake of cleaning up water sources around us and conserving rainwater". With this very thought in mind, in a few days from now, 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan Catch the rain' is being initiated by the Jal Shakti Ministry, he said. "We shall commit ourselves to the task right now…we shall get existing rainwater harvesting systems repaired, clean up lakes and ponds in villages, remove impediments in the way of water flowing into water sources; thus we shall be able to conserve rainwater to the maximum," he said. Modi highlighted an assertion made by a person who had written to him from Kolkata that the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign is not just a government policy but also a national spirit, and said this was hundred per cent correct. When every person in the country takes pride in indigenous products and connects with the idea of self-reliance, Atmanirbhar Bharat doesn't just remain an economic campaign but becomes a national spirit, he asserted. "When we see fighter plane Tejas made in our own country doing acrobatics in the sky, when Made in India tanks, Made in India missiles increase our pride, when we see Made in India coaches in Metro trains in wealthy-advanced nations, when we see Made in India Corona vaccines reaching dozens of countries, then our heads are held high," Modi said. Noting that is not that only bigger things will make India self-reliant, he said, be it textiles Made in India, handicraft goods made by talented artisans of the country, electronic appliances, mobiles, in every field "we have to raise this pride". "When we move forward with this thought, only then will we become self-reliant in the truest sense," the prime minister said. Modi expressed happiness that the mantra of self-reliant India is reaching the villages. He cited several examples of people using innovative techniques to emerge as shining examples of Atmanirbhar Bharat, from a person in Bihar's Bettiah starting a LED bulb factory to another person in Uttar Pradesh's Garhmukteshwar reviving his family craft of making mats. During the broadcast, he rued not being able to make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language, Tamil. "In the run up to Mann Ki Baat, I was asked if there was something I missed out on during these long years as chief minister and prime minister. I feel -- it is a regret of sorts that I could not make enough efforts to learn the world's oldest language Tamil. Tamil literature is beautiful," Modi said. Sharing a guide's voice at the Statue of Unity, informing people in Sanskrit about the tallest statue of Sardar Patel in the world and also cricket commentary in Sanskrit, Modi highlighted that India is home to many languages. He also batted for sports commentary in different languages and asked why not have good commentaries of different sports and especially Indian sports in more languages. "We must think about encouraging it. I would urge the Sports Ministry and private institutional partners to think about it," he said. Noting that the coming few months are of special importance for students with Boards and other exams approaching, Modi said, "Do all of you remember – You have to become a warrior not a worrier, go gleefully for the examination and come back with a smile. You have to compete with yourself, not with anyone else." "Get adequate sleep and be mindful of time management. Do not stop playing, for those who play are the ones that blossom. Revision and smart methods of memorization are to be adopted, that is, overall, in these exams, you have to bring out your best," he said. He also urged all "exam warriors", parents and teachers to participate in his upcoming 'Pariksha Pe Charcha’ event in March. In his address, the prime minister also highlighted the positive work being done in the Kaziranga National Park in Assam. The Kaziranga National Park and ​​Tiger Reserve Authority has been carrying out its Annual Waterfowls Census and it reveals the population of water birds and also about their favourite habitat, Modi said. "Just two-three weeks ago, the survey was conducted again. You will also be delighted to know that this time the number of water birds has increased by about 175 percent compared to last year. A total of 112 species of birds have been sighted in Kaziranga National Park during this Census," he said. Of these, 58 species happen to be winter migrants from different parts of the world including Europe, Central Asia and East Asia, he said. Modi pointed out that the most important reason for this is that here, there is better water conservation along with very little human interference. He also highlighted how temples in Assam are also playing a unique role in the protection of nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-bharat-is-a-national-spirit-pm-modi-956386.html
28-02-2021||National||There is a move to finish me politically, socially: Sanjay Rathod||There is a move to finish me off politically and socially, says a beleaguered Shiv Sena’s Banjara community leader Sanjay Rathod targeting the opposition BJP. “I was being defamed for nearly a fortnight now, my community was being defamed,” Rathod told reporters outside Varsha, the official residence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, after he resigned as forest minister. He said that there should be a thorough probe into the incident. “Pooja Chavan was a girl from the Banjara community...we are sad, but the way the issue was used politically, it was bad,” he said, adding that the “opposition party” used media and social media to defame him and his community. Rathod was accompanied by Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab and Shiv Sena secretary Anil Desai, said that the opposition threatened to stall the Budget Session. “This is the Constitution drafted by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/there-is-a-move-to-finish-me-politically-socially-sanjay-rathod-956394.html
28-02-2021||National||14 missions lined up for launch in 2021: ISRO chairman K Sivan||ISRO has lined up 14 missions for launch in 2021, including the space agency's first unmanned mission later this year, its Chairman K Sivan said here on Sunday. "Definitely our hands are full. We are going to have something like 14 missions this year. Seven launch vehicle missions and six satellite missions, as well as our first unmanned mission by the end of the year. That is our target and the scientists are working on that", he said. ISRO plans to take up two unmanned space missions before the Gaganyaan-manned space mission. The Gaganyaan mission envisages sending three Indians to space by 2022. The four test pilots selected for the mission are currently undergoing training in Russia. Sivan expressed hope that his team would rise to the occasion as usual and meet all the targets set by the ISRO. Before concluding his speech, the Chairman also referred to the new normal that has been in place at ISRO centres in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. "I would request all of you, still we have not come out of the Covid-19 pandemic...the new normal introduced at ISRO centres definitely is working following all the quality norms without violating the safety and security of my employees", he said. Strict Covid-19 guidelines were in place at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre here, including a ban on entry of media personnel and closure of the rocket launch viewing gallery. The launch was telecast live on Doordarshan and was available in the ISRO website, YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/14-missions-lined-up-for-launch-in-2021-isro-chairman-k-sivan-956395.html
28-02-2021||National||ISF chief takes potshots at Congress at mega rally for delaying seat-sharing talks||Making his displeasure clear at Congress for not accepting the demands of seats raised by his party, Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui on Sunday said that they wanted their share and would not appease anyone. Siddiqui was addressing the mega rally of the Left Front, Congress and the ISF at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. “You may wonder that I asked you to vote for the Left Front candidates but did not say the same about the Congress. I want to make it clear that we are here for our share and not to appease anyone. Enough is enough,” said Siddiqui. “We want the people from backward classes, tribals, Muslims to get their share,” he added. In a bid to send a message to Congress, Siddiqui said that their doors were open for anyone who wanted to be friends with them. “If someone wants to be friends, our doors are open. Then in future Abbas Siddique will fight for them too,” he said. Thanking the Left Front leadership for leaving 30 seats to the ISF for the Assembly elections, Siddiqui said that if the seat-sharing deal was finalised a week ago then he could have brought twice as many people to the rally.  Lashing out at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Siddiqui dubbed her government as the “B team of the BJP “ and said that in the Assembly elections the ISF will turn her into a “ big zero.” “Forgetting what happened in the past, we will support the Left Front candidates and uproot the BJP and it’s B team Mamata Banerjee Government from Bengal...I am challenging that in 2021 we will turn Mamata into a big zero,” said Siddiqui. He said that the people of Bengal were “angry” with Mamata and can no longer tolerate her ‘corruption”, alleging that she used the state administration to suppress the people. “But there is no need to fear her anymore because the power is no longer in her hands but is with the Election Commission,” said Siddiqui. Later in the day, he told reporters that “sources have told me that Sonia Gandhi was keen on the alliance but someone from Bengal was delaying it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isf-chief-takes-potshots-at-congress-at-mega-rally-for-delaying-seat-sharing-talks-956405.html
28-02-2021||National||Gujarat farmer, woman guide find mention in PM's radio show||Kamraj Chaudhary, a progressive farmer from Gujarat's Patan district who grows drumsticks using micro-irrigation and organic farming techniques, came in for praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi also mentioned about a woman tour guide at the Statue of Unity in Gujarat's Narmada district who speaks fluent Sanskrit. The PM said farmer Chaudhary from Lukhasan village in Patan is an example of people who are expanding the scope of science by taking it forward "with the mantra of lab to land". Later, talking to PTI over phone, Chaudhary said while cultivating drumsticks on his land, he follows sustainable farming practices, using organic fertilisers and ensuring that no bees are killed with the use of pesticides. "I practice organic farming and the quality of our produce is much better than what you see in the market. We develop seeds on our own, as the seeds that weget from the market are of mixed quality," he said. The cultivator said they save around 15 to 20 kg seeds for the purpose of cultivation and claimed the drumsticks grown by him fetch a higher price than the market value. "We sell our produce in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Odisha at a higher price," he said. Chaudhary further said he has been growing drumsticks for the last 10 years and has also received the support of the local Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in his efforts. Horticulture specialists trained him and others from the area in "scientific cultivation of drumstick," using a micro-irrigation system and adopting an integrated nutrient and pest management, as per the website of KVK in Patan. Chaudhary is one of the KVK's success stories who has also "inspired and guided other farmers about drumstick cultivation, as a result of which about 50 hectare area is under drumstick cultivation in Sidhpur taluka of Patan," the KVK's website said. In his 'Mann Ki Baat' programme, Modi also shared a clip of a woman tour guide speaking in Sanskrit about the world's tallest Statue of Unity at Kevadia in Narmada. He said there are more than 15 guides who can speak fluent Sanskrit. "India is a land of many languages that are a symbol of our culture and pride," he said. Gujarat's Additional Chief Secretary of Forest and Environment Rajiv Gupta later in a tweet said several guides at Kevadia speak in Sanskrit. "Sanskrit is the oldest language of India. With the inspiration of the Prime Minister, many guides at the Statue of Unity in Kevadia speak Sanskrit after a few months of training. Thank you Prime Ministerji," he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-farmer-woman-guide-find-mention-in-pms-radio-show-956407.html
28-02-2021||National||New social media rules may raise compliance cost, make competition tough for smaller cos: Ind execs||The new social media intermediary rules could raise compliance costs for players, making it difficult for smaller companies to compete against bigger giants like Facebook, according to industry watchers. The new rules, announced last week, distinguish between 'social media intermediaries' and 'significant social media intermediaries' with 50 lakh registered users as the threshold for the categorisation. Significant social media intermediaries will have to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer — with all three officials residing in India. Large players like Facebook have said they are studying the rules. While many in the sector have lauded the new regulations, saying these aim to address concerns like grievance redressal, fake news and online safety of users, a section of the industry has aired concerns around increased compliance cost that could be challenging for smaller players. Software Freedom Law Centre (SFLC) founder Mishi Choudhary said the rules call for an undue burden and compliance and "ensure only larger players with funds and wherewithal of big legal teams are the only ones who will be left to offer services". "(This could result in) increasing the barrier for entry and raising compliance costs for everyone," she added. India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, 21 crore use Instagram, while 1.75 crore users are on microblogging platform Twitter, as per government data. While players like Telegram and Signal do not disclose country-specific user numbers, these platforms have seen a spike in downloads in the last few weeks on the back of concerns around WhatsApp's privacy policy update that seeks to allow sharing limited user data with Facebook and its group firms. Telegram did not respond to queries on the impact of the new rules on the platform. Industry observers noted that players like Telegram and others may not have senior officials based in India and that they will now have to take a series of steps to ensure compliance with the new norms as their business scales up and user base grows in India. According to the amended IT rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. The "Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code" designed to curb misuse of social media platforms require players like WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter as well as streaming services such as Netflix, YouTube and Amazon Prime Video to appoint executives to coordinate with law enforcement, disclose the first originator of provocative content and remove, within 24 hours, content depicting nudity or morphed pictures of women. Any contentious content flagged by the government or legal order has to be taken down within 36 hours. An industry executive, who did not wish to be named, said some companies may choose to protect the privacy of users and challenge these rules in court. Also, the industry feels that there needs to be clarity on nuances like how long do users have to be active to be counted as registered users, and what happens if a platform drops below the threshold of 50 lakh registered users. Rameesh Kailasam, CEO of IndiaTech.org, had also cautioned that while these rules are robust and elaborate, it may translate into a certain degree of cost and operational challenges with it. Nasscom had noted that it is imperative that there is a balance between regulation and innovation as the world is in a phase of accelerated technology shifts. The industry body had also pointed out that there is a need for "responsible use" and building of technology for all stakeholders - government, industry, startups and citizens. The option of voluntary self-verification of user accounts, the right to receive an explanatory notification on removal or disablement of access, and to seek remedy against the action being taken by the intermediaries would be helpful for end-users, Nasscom had said. The association had also said the government has emphasised that the new rules will not curb creativity, and freedom of speech and expression of citizens as it urged the government to ensure that this is the 'design principle' followed during implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-social-media-rules-may-raise-compliance-cost-make-competition-tough-for-smaller-cos-ind-execs-956411.html
28-02-2021||National||Online charity raises over $100K for family of Indian who died in Singapore factory blast||An online charity in Singapore has raised over $100,000 from donations for the India-based family of an Indian worker who died in a factory blast on Wednesday. Give.Asia, which is Asia’s leading free platform for fundraisers to raise money for their causes, said in a post that as many as 2,141 people had donated by Sunday noon. The charity, whose listing shows a goal of 200,000 Singapore dollars for the family of 38-year-old Marimuthu S, has so far raised 153,906 dollars ($115,510) from online donations. Marimuthu, who worked as a site supervisor, never met his 10-month-old daughter. When his wife gave birth to their second child in India in April last year, Singapore was going through its circuit breaker period, The Straits Times reported on Sunday. Last time he was home in August 2019. On Tuesday night, he spoke to his family over a video call. The next morning, he suffered serious burns in the explosion at an industrial building and was one of three workers who succumbed to their injuries. Another five of the factory's workers are in a critical condition. The explosion occurred on the premises of Stars Engrg, a contractor dealing with fire protection systems. Stars Engrg is also the employer of the eight workers. Akash Mohapatra, a volunteer at the non-profit organisation ItsRainingRaincoats (IRR) which focuses on migrant worker issues, told the report that Marimuthu was the pillar of his family. Marimuthu worked in Singapore for the past 12 years to support his elderly mother, his four younger sisters, his wife Rajapriya, 28, and their daughters Riya Sri, 5, and Lithesaa, he said. Mohapatra, who is part of a team of volunteers coordinating efforts to help the victims of the explosion, said Marimuthu is the only one whose family IRR has been able to contact so far. Mohapatra said that counsellor Indu Sukumaran Nair has been providing grief counselling to Marimuthu's wife over the phone, as well as to his brother, who is also a foreign worker here. "He came to work in Singapore & has contributed lots to our economy. A small gesture from me to support his family and paying forward," a donor Diana Chua wrote. Manpower Minister Josephine Teo will appoint an inquiry committee under the Workplace Safety and Health Act to inquire into the factors that led to the fatal fire and explosion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-charity-raises-over-100k-for-family-of-indian-who-died-in-singapore-factory-blast-956415.html
28-02-2021||National||Sale or gift of property by foreigner without RBI's nod illegal: Supreme Court||"We hold that the condition predicated in Section 31 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 of obtaining “previous” general or special permission of the RBI for transfer or disposal of immovable property situated in India by sale or mortgage by a person, who is not a citizen of India, is mandatory," a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar said. "Until such permission is accorded, in law, the transfer cannot be given effect to; and for contravening with that requirement," the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi, added. However, the court declared that transactions which have already become final including by virtue of the decision of the court of competent jurisdiction, need not be reopened or disturbed in any manner because of this pronouncement. "This direction is being issued in exercise of our plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution.  For, there has been a paradigm shift in the general policy of investment by foreigners in India and more particularly, the 1973 Act itself stands repealed," the bench said. The court was dealing with a suit property, measuring 12,306 square feet at Bengaluru, which was gifted in March, 1977 by widow of Charles Raitt, a foreigner and owner to Vikram Malhotra, without obtaining previous permission of the RBI. It set aside the Karnataka High Court's order which confirmed trial court's decision allowing the deal. The court referred to the legislative intent and the spirit of enactment of Section 31, which, it said, was manifest from the statement of the then Finance Minister while tabling the Bill in the Lok Sabha that as a general policy foreign national cannot be allowed to deal with real estate in India. "There is little doubt that the requirement of “previous” permission of the RBI, to be taken by a foreign national before transacting in real estate, is mandatory. In other words, without previous permission of the RBI, such a transaction is forbidden and if entered into, would be unenforceable in law," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sale-or-gift-of-property-by-foreigner-without-rbis-nod-illegal-supreme-court-956420.html
28-02-2021||National||Mobile app improving price data collection of essential commodities, Centre says||The government on Sunday said that data collection of wholesale and retail prices of 22 essential commodities on a daily basis has improved following the launch of a mobile app from January this year. The Department of Consumer Affairs monitors prices of rice, wheat, wheat flour, gram dal, tur/arhar Dal, urad dal, moong Dal, masoor Dal, sugar, milk, groundnut oil, mustard oil, vanaspati, soya oil, sunflower oil, palm oil, gur, tea, salt, potato, onion and tomato. The price data is being collected from 127 centres across the country through food and civil supplies departments of state governments. "To improve the quality of prices data for reporting daily prices by the price reporting centres, the Department of Consumer Affairs launched a Mobile App on 1st January, 2021," the department said in a statement. The monitoring and predictive analysis of prices of essential commodities has taken a giant step forward, it said. The mobile app for price monitoring for 22 essential commodities has started providing effective real-time information about retail and wholesale prices from 127 locations across the country, the statement said. The daily report of retail and wholesale prices are obtained from 127 centres located across the country. The daily report of prices and indicative price trends are analysed for taking appropriate decisions such as release of stocks from the buffer and export-import policy etc. "Price reporting through Mobile App ensures reporting from the market location as data are geo-tagged thereby displaying the location from where price data are reported," the statement said. The reporting of static data from office desktop is ruled out through the application of Mobile App. "Therefore, the condition to operationalise Mobile App is that each Price Reporting Centre has to furnish market details such as names and addresses of the shops and markets from where prices are being collected daily," it said. As per the guidelines for retail price reporting, the prices of the same variety of a commodity are to be collected from three markets -- high-income market, middle-income market and low-income market, and the average of the three prices is to be reported. The department said that the mobile App has an inbuilt feature to calculate and report the average price. This helps in avoiding human errors in calculation. Market information from Agmarknet, Agriwatch, NAFED and trade associations also constitute inputs for price analysis. The department is also utilising the services of Agriwatch for providing market intelligence, predictive analysis of prices and to develop price forecasting model. The department said it had proposed to DEA (department of economic affairs) for technical assistance fund under CARES Progamme of Asian Development Bank (ADB) for improving price monitoring and analysis. The activity components under the technical assistance are upgradation of price monitoring portal, capacity building for price reporting centres and price monitoring cell, identification of long-term improvements for food commodity supply chain & market efficiency. The DEA has approved the proposal, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-app-improving-price-data-collection-of-essential-commodities-centre-says-956424.html
28-02-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Air India if it can pay 1-month's salary to terminated contractual pilots||The Delhi High Court has directed Air India to inform it whether the airline can, in an interim arrangement, pay a month's salary to the pilots who have challenged the termination of their contractual employment during the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the lawyer appearing for the airline to seek instructions "for payment of one month's salary immediately, as an ad-interim arrangement, especially in view of the difficulties being faced by the petitioners (pilots) during the Covid-19 pandemic". The court was hearing two pleas moved by the pilots, through advocate Lalit Bhardwaj, for quashing an April 2, 2020 order suspending their services and the subsequent order of August 7, 2020 by which they were all terminated. Justice Singh, referring to the facts of the case, said that it was "prima facie clear that the suspension, which was issued in April 2020, was nothing but termination for which one month notice was to be issued as per the contract". The court, however, said that it was leaving open for now the question of whether the contracts were rightly terminated or not and listed the matter for hearing on March 25. Bhardwaj, during the hearing, said that Air India, on November 23, 2020, was asked by the court to take instructions on whether the terminated contractual pilots can be paid one month's salary as an interim arrangement. The contention was refuted by Air India's lawyer who claimed the plea was not maintainable as the subject matter of the disputes are private contracts and there is no public function involved. However, the lawyer appearing for the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) told the court that the airline had in fact been asked to seek instructions on paying one month's salary to the terminated pilots. Noting the submissions made on the behalf of the pilots, the ministry and the DGCA, Justice Singh said that the lawyer for Air India "ought to have been fair with the court". "In view of the fact that there is no proposal for making any payment, the matter is now being heard," the court said. On November 23 last year, the high court had said that employees "cannot be left to hang high and dry" and had asked  Air India to consider paying at least one month's salary to its pilots whose services were terminated in August 2020. The pilots have sought a direction to AI to restore their contractual engagements or pay them salaries along with flying allowances with effect from April 1, 2020, when they were put on suspension, till their licences are restored to current ratings. Air India, defending its decision, had told the court that after the lockdown 90 percent of its regular pilots are sitting at home as most of its fleet has been grounded and added that it was suffering huge losses of Rs 1,300 crore each month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-air-india-if-it-can-pay-1-months-salary-to-terminated-contractual-pilots-956428.html
28-02-2021||National||Regret not learning 'world's oldest language' Tamil: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said he regrets not being able to learn the world's oldest language Tamil during his long political innings as a chief minister and prime minister. He stated this during his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address. The prime minister said sometimes even a very small and simple question rankles the mind. "A few days ago Aparna Reddy ji of Hyderabad asked me one such question. She said 'You have been PM for so many years and were CM for so many years. Do you ever feel that something is missing?'” Modi said. Noting that the question seemed simple but was difficult, he said, "I pondered this over and told myself that one of my shortcomings was that I could not make much effort to learn Tamil, the oldest language in the world; I could not make myself learn Tamil!" The prime minister praised the Tamil language and its rich literature. "It is such a beautiful language, which is popular all over the world. Many people have told me a lot about the quality of Tamil literature and the depth of the poems written in it," he said. Modi highlighted that India is a land of many languages, which symbolise its culture and pride.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regret-not-learning-worlds-oldest-language-tamil-pm-narendra-modi-956430.html
28-02-2021||National||Left-Cong grand alliance will defeat TMC, BJP: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal Chief Minister  Mamata Banerjee have the “same political DNA”, Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Sunday that the alliance of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front (ISF) would come to power in the state. “While Modi gave the call for a ‘Congress mukt Bharat’ in Delhi, Didi speaks of ensuring zero opposition. Didi and Modi have the same political DNA,” said Chowdhury. He was addressing the mega rally of the Left Front, Congress and the Indian Secular Front at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. He also said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP wanted to project the Assembly elections as a two-way fight as the two parties want no other rivals in Bengal. “Those who wanted to project the Assembly elections as a two-way fight have been proved wrong by the alliance. They want nothing but the TMC and the BJP to remain in Bengal. But in future only the Sangyukta Morcha will remain,” said Chowdhury. He said that the alliance was set up with the aim of uniting the secular and democratic forces and defeating the communal forces in the State. “It has been founded with the aim of coming to power in Bengal,” said Chowdhury. During the rally, Chattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel alleged that the TMC and the BJP were resorting to “divisive politics”. He also said that “while the country needs to be saved from the BJP, Bengal needs to be saved from the TMC.” Taking potshots at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Baghel said that while the “Chattisgarh government named the police academy in the State after Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, Modi got a stadium named after himself He alleged that despite raising the slogan earlier that the country would not be sold Modi was privatising Railway stations and airports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-cong-grand-alliance-will-defeat-tmc-bjp-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-956441.html
28-02-2021||National||My dream to see India and Pakistan become true good friends, says Malala Yousafzai||The old philosophy of having borders and divisions doesn't work anymore and the people in India and Pakistan want to live in peace, Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai said on Sunday, stressing that it is her dream to see the two countries become "good friends". She also said that minorities need protection in every country, be it Pakistan or India, adding that the issue is not related to religion but to the "exploitation of power" and must be taken seriously. Yousafzai, a Pakistani activist for girls education who miraculously survived a bullet to the head from the militant Taliban in October 2012, said the news of internet shutdown and arrests of activists "protesting peacefully" in India is "worrying" and expressed the hope that the government will make sure that people are heard. "It is my dream to see India and Pakistan become true good friends and that we can visit each other's countries. You can continue to watch Pakistani dramas, we can continue to watch Bollywood movies and enjoy cricket matches," the youngest Nobel Peace Prize winner said. She was speaking on her book "I Am Malala: The Story of the Girl Who Stood Up for Education and was Shot by the Taliban" on the concluding day of the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) which is being held in the virtual mode. "You are Indian and I am Pakistani and we are completely fine, then why is this hatred created between us? This old philosophy of borders, divisions and divide and conquer... they just don't work anymore, as humans we all want to live in peace," she said. The actual enemy of India and Pakistan is "poverty, discrimination and inequality" and both countries should unite and fight them, not each other, she added. Apart from "India-Pakistan friendship", Yousufzai said she also dreams of the day when every girl would get to go to school and have access to quality education. The 23-year-old activist also raised her voice for minorities across the world and said they are at "risk" and need to be protected globally by governments and human rights organisations. "Minorities are at risk. Minorities' rights are not given to them. Be it Hindus and Christians in Pakistan, Muslims, Dalits and other minorities in India ... Palestinians, Rohingya refugees. It is not a religion, it is the exploitation of power, it is just elites vs the poor and minorities. "Minorities need protection globally from every country. They need a voice, need protection, and it is a reminder to governments, to human rights organisations to take this very seriously," she noted. During the discussion, she also applauded Indian girls and young women fighting for human rights, "speaking out" for farmers in India, climate change and protection of the minority rights, and called their work "empowering and inspiring". However, the news of the internet shutdown and arrests of activists protesting peacefully in India is "worrying", she claimed. ".. You may not like their political opinion but it does not mean that you put them in jails and arrest them. It is a democratic right of every individual -- including women and girls -- to highlight their political opinions... So I hope that the government makes sure that people can protest peacefully and ask for their rights, and that they are heard," she added. The 14th edition of JLF featured over 300 speakers and performers representing around 25 Indian and 18 international languages and over 23 nationalities. Some of the big names who made it to the festival this year included American linguist Noam Chomsky, 2020 Booker Prize winner Douglas Stuart, Nobel Laureates Joseph Stiglitz, Microsoft Corporation co-founder Bill Gates, and actor-author Priyanka Chopra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-dream-to-see-india-and-pakistan-become-true-good-friends-says-malala-yousafzai-956446.html
28-02-2021||National||New farm laws are 'death warrant' for farmers: Arvind Kejriwal||The three contentious agri laws are "death warrants" for farmers as they would take away their lands and reduce them to labourers in their own farm, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat organised in Meerut by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against Centre's new laws, Kejriwal said farmers are continuously agitating in the cold because their farms will be taken over by capitalists. He claimed that three-and-a-half lakh farmers have committed suicide in the last 25 years. The AAP national convener alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cheated the farmers after coming to power. Today, farmers are being tortured all over the country. Water cannons are being used against them and iron nails are studded on roads to restrict their movement, Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-farm-laws-are-death-warrant-for-farmers-arvind-kejriwal-956453.html
28-02-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis far from over; 3rd wave to be more dangerous: CSIR official||Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Director General Shekhar C Mande on Sunday warned that the Covid-19 crisis was far from being over and allowing a "third wave" by lowering our guard is fraught with grave consequences. Also, continued collaboration across institutions was necessary to come out of the current situation as well as ward off catastrophic situations arising out of climate change and over dependence on fossil fuels which had the potential to wipe out the entire humanity, he said. Mande was speaking on "India's response to Covid-19 from S & T perspective" at a virtual "National Science Day Lectures," organised by Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here. The expert clarified that India is nowhere near achieving herd immunity and as such people should continue to wear masks and maintain social distancing and hand hygiene to stay away from getting infected by the virus. Cautioning the people and the scientific community against allowing "complacency to set in," he warned that a third wave would precipitate a far more dangerous situation than the challenge the country had faced so far. RGCB Director Chandrabhas Narayana moderated the digital lectures. Answering questions from the scientific community, Mande expressed the hope that the Covid-19 vaccines would be effective against the coronavirus variants. The evidence "is not very strong" that the vaccines would not work against the mutated virus. "We would like to believe that the vaccines are effective" against the variants as the vaccines worked against the entire part of the virus while the mutation took place on a part of the virus, he explained. The prevalence of Covid-19 cases had come down not because of herd immunity, but because of other reasons, including wearing of masks and people remaining outdoors during the winter. The fact that the virus remained suspended in the air in closed areas and it lost its potency in open areas helped a great deal in controlling the spread during the winter, the expertsaid. Precisely for the same reason, the disease went out of control in the West where people remained indoors during the winter, he added. Kris Gopalakrishnan, Chairman of Axilor Ventures, and Jayant Sahasrabudhe, National Organising Secretary of Vijnana Bharati, also delivered lectures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-far-from-over-3rd-wave-to-be-more-dangerous-csir-official-956466.html
28-02-2021||National||We have always told Chinese interlocutors that normal ties contingent on peace at border: Foreign Secretary||India has always stressed in interactions with Chinese interlocutors that a normal bilateral relationship is contingent on peace and tranquillity in the border areas, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Sunday. Underlining that China is the second-largest economy in the world and India has a large trade profile with it, Shringla said clearly India has to continue to work on the economic relationship with the neighbouring country, but it has to be calibrated based on the progress on important issues that are critical to both countries politically. Talking about the "recent disturbances" on the India-China border areas in Eastern Ladakh, Shringla, while speaking at a session of the Asia Economic Dialogue, said, "We in our interactions with our Chinese interlocutors have always made the point that a normal bilateral relationship is contingent upon peace and tranquility in the border areas." This is a sine qua non (absolutely necessary) and this is something both sides have accepted as part of their treaty obligations, Shringla said at an online session of the Dialogue organised by the Pune International Centre. "Now as we disengage and as there is some forward movement in the resolution of some of the recent border friction points...obviously we have to see what else is required," he said. "It is a very long border that we have with China and we are only talking about one small point on the border. "We are trying to now see whether we can apply similar principles in sorting out some of the other areas which are in the Ladakh sector, some other sectors that we are talking about, and to see how else we can move forward on the issue of managing our long but contentious border with China in a manner that allows both countries to sort of maintain a level of semblance of normalcy," the foreign secretary said. The border standoff in Eastern Ladakh between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong Lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Earlier this month, the armies of the two countries concluded the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of Pangong Tso in the high-altitude region. Shringla said the resolution of the outstanding issues was a "work in progress" and has had an impact on the economic ties, he said. On the economic aspect of the ties, Shringla said the important point is that whatever one does, China is the second-largest economy in the world and India has a large trade profile with it. "Clearly, we have to continue to work on the economic relationship but it has to be calibrated based on peace and tranquillity and progress on important issues that are critical to both countries politically," he said. Noting that China is India's largest trading partner in terms of goods, the foreign secretary said the balance of trade is very much skewed in favour of China. "We have carried quite a heavy trade imbalance for over a number of years. Over time this has increasingly seemed as being unsustainable," he said. Speaking about India's ties with the US, Shringla said India has had an element of continuity on this front and there is a range of areas to collaborate. On India's Covid-19 vaccines supply, Shringla said, "We’ve received a number of messages from Africa, the Gulf, the Bahamas and in particular our own neighbourhood about their gratitude for the Covid vaccines. This reveals the generosity of India and its unrivalled position in global and health supply chains."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-have-always-told-chinese-interlocutors-that-normal-ties-contingent-on-peace-at-border-foreign-secretary-956471.html
28-02-2021||National||Maharashtra CM seeks help from PM, HM in investigation of Delkar's suicide||Nearly a week after Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar ended his life in Mumbai, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in case Mumbai Police need to go to the Union Territory for investigations. Thackeray, however, refused to speak anything on the investigations that have been carried out in the case. “I will request the Prime Minister and Home Minister to extend help in case Mumbai Police needs to go to the Union Territory and carry out investigations,” Thackeray said. Delker might have thought that Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar would get his grievances investigated, he felt. “An MP ends his life by suicide...he writes 14 to 16 pages,” Thackeray said expressing concern that a seven-time MP dies by suicide because of harassment. "This is serious," he said.  The Shiv Sena has questioned the silence of people who raised hue and cry after the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput but are silent on the issue of the death of Delkar. Delkar (58), a seven-time MP from Dadra & Nagar Haveli died by suicide at Sea Green Hotel at Marine Drive in Mumbai, on 22 February, after writing a 16-page note in which he allegedly blamed several people including the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Praful Patel, a former Minister of State for Home in Gujarat. The Congress in Maharashtra has urged state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP for a probe into the role of BJP. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘Rokh Thok’ that appeared in Saamana on Sunday, questioned the silence. “How there can be silence over the mysterious death of a seven-time Lok Sabha MP who was found hanging in his hotel room in Mumbai,” he said. Taking a dig at the BJP, Raut said there is a sensation when an actor dies by suicide and unauthorized construction of an actress is pulled down. "Now everyone is silent. Delkar's purported suicide note blamed the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli for harassment and alleged he was being pressurized to join the BJP," Raut wrote. Raut, who is the Executive Editor of Saamana, pointed out that Delkar must have thought that the Mumbai Police will act on his suicide note and arrest the guilty. Saying that he personally knew Delkar for two decades, he said: “Delkar had recently spoken in the Lok Sabha on how MP, MLAs n union territories are insulted by the Administrator.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-seeks-help-from-pm-hm-in-investigation-of-delkars-suicide-956476.html
28-02-2021||National||Govt extends due date for filing FY20 GST annual returns till March 31||The government on Sunday extended the deadline for filing GST annual returns for 2019-20 fiscal by a month till March 31. This is the second extension given by the government. The deadline was earlier extended from December 31, 2020, to February 28. “In view of the difficulties expressed by the taxpayers in meeting this time limit, Government has decided to further extend the due date for furnishing of GSTR-9 and GSTR-9C for the financial year 2019-20 to March 31, 2021 with the approval of Election Commission of India,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. GSTR-9 is an annual return to be filed yearly by taxpayers registered under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). It consists of details regarding the outward and inward supplies made or received under different tax heads. GSTR-9C is a statement of reconciliation between GSTR-9 and the audited annual financial statement. On the extension, AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said, “Even though it is a relatively small extension of 31 days but is sufficient for the tax professionals to complete the requisite filings”. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said most industry players were struggling to meet this statutory deadline and had represented to the government for an extension. Furnishing of the annual return is mandatory only for taxpayers with aggregate annual turnover above Rs 2 crore while reconciliation statement is to be furnished only by the registered persons having aggregate turnover above Rs 5 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-due-date-for-filing-fy20-gst-annual-returns-till-march-31-956477.html
28-02-2021||National||Woman stabbed to death during robbery bid in northwest Delhi||A 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death while resisting a chain-snatching bid in northwest Delhi's Adarsh Nagar area, police said on Sunday. A senior police officer said the woman, Simran Kaur, was returning home from the market along with her two-year-old daughter and mother when the incident occurred around 9:30 pm on Saturday. Police said they have apprehended two persons in connection with the incident. The incident took place hardly 20 metres from the victim's house. There is a police post around 100 metres from the spot. The accused stabbed the victim and fled, police said, adding that she was taken to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. A CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, the two women can be seen walking when a man chases them and tries to snatch the victim's chain from behind. Simran chases the man following which he falls on the road. Thereafter, he stands up, stabs her and flees from the spot. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Adarsh Nagar police station and an investigation is underway to nab the accused, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Usha Rangnani said, "We have formed 10 teams and are very close to working out this incident." Police have apprehended two persons in connection with the incident on the charges of murder. The weapon of offence has also been recovered from their possession, the officer said, adding that they are verifying their age whether they are minor or adults. Simran's aunt said she had gone to the market to buy medicines for her daughter. "She was wearing a chain and holding her daughter. The accused was chasing them and tried to snatch the chain but Simran caught hold of it and did not lose her grip. When she resisted, the accused fell on the road. When she turned towards him, the accused stabbed her twice and fled the spot. We got to know that the accused was with his accomplice who took him on a scooter and fled from the spot," her aunt said. Amit Mehra, Simran's neighbour, said he took her to hospital in his car. "When the incident occurred, the guard followed the accused, but he escaped along with his accomplice who was waiting for him on a scooter. I took her to MD City hospital at Model Town in my car. They referred her to Fortis hospital where she was declared brought dead," Mehra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-stabbed-to-death-during-robbery-bid-in-northwest-delhi-956482.html
28-02-2021||National||Registration for next phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Co-WIN 2.0 portal will open on March 1||The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 60 years and those aged 45 and above with comorbidities will begin from March 1 and registration on the Co-WIN2.0 portal will open at 9 am on Monday. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu. Registration will open at 9 am on March 1 at www.cowin.gov.in, the ministry said. All citizens that are aged, or will attain the age of 60 or more as on January 1, 2022 are eligible to register, in addition to all such citizens that are aged, or will attain the age of 45 to 59 years as on January 1, 2022, and have any of the specified 20 comorbidities.  This information was shared during the orientation workshop organised by the Union Health Ministry and the National Health Authority (NHA) for the 10,000 private hospitals under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, more than 600 hospitals empanelled under CGHS and other private hospitals empanelled under State Government's Health Insurance Schemes, on Co-WIN2.0.  The modalities of the new features integrated in the Co-WIN2.0 digital platform were explained to them.  The private empanelled Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) were also trained on various aspects of the process of vaccination and management of adverse events following immunization (AEFI) through video conference with the support of the National Health Authority (NHA). "There will be only one live appointment for a beneficiary at any point of time for each dose.  "Appointments for any date for a Covid Vaccination Center will be closed at 3 pm on that day for which the slots were opened," the ministry said. For example, for March 1 the slots will be open from 9 am till 3 pm and the appointments can be booked anytime before that, subject to availability.  However, on March 1, an appointment can also be booked for any future date for which vaccination slots are available. A slot for the second dose will also be booked at the same Covid Vaccination Centre on 29th day of the date of appointment of the 1st dose.  If a beneficiary cancels a first dose appointment, then appointment of both doses will be cancelled, the ministry said. According to the ministry, there will be a facility of on-site registration so that eligible beneficiaries can walk into identified vaccination centres, get themselves registered and inoculated. The eligible persons will be able to register at the Co-WIN2.0 portal through their mobile number, through a step by step process.  With one mobile number, a person can register as many as four beneficiaries. However, all those registered on one mobile number will have nothing in common except the mobile number, the ministry said. The photo ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Either of the following photo identity documents can be used by citizens for availing of online registration -- Aadhaar Card/Letter, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), passport, driving license, PAN Card, NPR Smart Card or Pension Document with photograph. A user guide for the citizen registration and appointment for vaccination has also been uploaded on the websites of the Union Ministry of Health and National Health Authority (NHA). It was also explained that the central government shall procure all the vaccines and supply them free of cost to the states and UTs who in turn will disburse them further to the government and private Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs), the ministry said. It was re-iterated that all vaccines provided to beneficiaries at the government health facilities will be entirely free of cost, while private facilities cannot charge the beneficiary a sum above Rs 250 per person per dose (Rs 150 for vaccines and Rs 100 as operational charges). Private hospitals will have to remit the cost of vaccine doses allotted to them in a designated account of National Health Authority (NHA). Payment gateway for the same is being enabled by the NHA on their website, the ministry said. Government of India has supplied two Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, free of cost to the states and UTs to vaccinate healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) and they will also be able to cover the next priority group i.e. 60 years plus age group and the age group of 45 to 59 years suffering from pre-specified co-morbidities. The states have been requested to operationalise the linkages between the CVCs  (both government and private empanelled facilities) with the nearest cold chain points for ensuring smooth vaccine delivery to (CVCs). The ministry specified 20 co-morbidities within the 45-59 years age group including heart failure with hospital admission in past one year, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, coronary artery disease, CT/ MRI documented stroke, diabetes ( >10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 2000 or currently on any cancer therapy for which one will have to submit a medical certificate. The ministry has shared the format of the simplified one page certificate to be signed by any registered medical practitioner.  The certificate can either be uploaded on Co-WIN2.0 by the beneficiary while self registering or a hard copy can be carried by the beneficiary to the CVC, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/registration-for-next-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-on-co-win-20-portal-will-open-on-march-1-956496.html
28-02-2021||National||Woman, who died in chain-snatching bid, had come to Delhi from Canada to meet her sister||Simran Kaur, who was stabbed to death in northwest Delhi's Adarsh Nagar area while resisting a chain-snatching bid, had came to the national capital only last week to meet her elder sister who was visiting from Canada. Simran's aunt said that the 25-year-old had got married to Pramajeet, a Patiala-based businessman, three years ago and they had a two-year-old daughter together. "Simran came to Delhi last week to meet her elder sister, Pooja, who lives in Canada. Her in-laws live in Patiala and she came with her parents to Delhi. She was on her way to buy medicine when the incident occurred," her aunt said. Simran also has a younger brother, Manpreet, and her father runs a photo studio along with him near their residence. Simran, who was with her mother when the incident occurred around 9:30 pm on Saturday, was holding her daughter at the time. She was stabbed hardly 20 metres far from her house. The accused stabbed the victim and fled the spot, the police said, adding that she was taken to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. Anil Jindal, Simran's neighbour, said three years ago, an incident of snatching took place at the same spot where Simran was stabbed. "Three years ago, the snatchers took the chain of a woman while she was taking out some stuff from her car. The snatchers escaped with the chain and luckily did not harm the woman that time. The incident had happened at the same place where Simran was stabbed," Jindal said. Gurvinder Singh, a local resident, said crime in the area is increasing day by day. "Crime in our area has become routine. Thieves are highly active here. They snatch gold chains, mobiles and other valuables. Incidents of battery theft are also increasing in the locality. I locked the battery of my car with a chain, despite that it was stolen by thieves," Gurvinder said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-who-died-in-chain-snatching-bid-had-come-to-delhi-from-canada-to-meet-her-sister-956500.html
28-02-2021||National||ISRO launches DRDO's satellite Sindhu Netra||The Indian Space Research Organisation on Sunday launched 'Sindhu Netra', a satellite developed by the DRDO to monitor the activities of military and merchant navy ships in the Indian Ocean Region. ISRO chief K Sivan told PTI the satellite was part of the PSLV-51 launch on Sunday. In the first dedicated mission of its commercial arm NSIL (NewSpace India Limited), the ISRO successfully launched Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passengers, including five built by students, on board a Polar rocket from the spaceport at Sriharikota. Sivan said 'Sindhu Netra' was part of the satellites launched. Sources added that the Defence Research Development Organisation developed satellites can also monitor military and merchant navy ships in the Indian Ocean Region, critical to India's strategic and commercial interest. India and France have also signed an agreement to build constellations of satellites for maritime surveillance intended to identify and track ships in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-launches-drdos-satellite-sindhu-netra-956504.html
28-02-2021||National||CAIT to launch nationwide agitation from March 5 against GST, ecommerce issues||Traders' body CAIT on Sunday said it would launch a nation-wide agitation against issues related to the goods and services tax and alleged malpractices of foreign ecommerce firms. The day-long 'Bharat Vyapar Bandh', called by the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on February 26, had evoked a lukewarm response. "The campaign will begin from March 5 and continue till April 5 against the GST amendments and malpractices of foreign e-commerce companies," CAIT said. The trader's body said both these issues are directly related to the eight crore traders of the country and till the logical resolution of these two issues is achieved, the movement will continue throughout the country. "At present, traders across the country are badly plagued by the provisions of GST and the constant arbitrariness of foreign companies in e-commerce and now, the traders are either forced to resolve these issues or shut their business," CAIT stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cait-to-launch-nationwide-agitation-from-march-5-against-gst-ecommerce-issues-956505.html
28-02-2021||National||Power not our goal but a medium to reach out to last man in line: BJP president Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said power is not the goal of his party but a medium to reach out to the last man in the line. Inaugurating a newly-built party office in Varanasi, Nada said this was only the hardware. "The software which we have to install in this is our workers. This office will become a medium to inculcate best values," Nadda said. He also inaugurated another office in Allahabad through video conference. Addressing party workers, Nadda said, "Power is not our goal but a medium and our target is the development of the last person in the line." "We have not entered politics for power but to take India to the pinnacle of glory. After coming to power, our target is to change the fortune of India, change its image and take it forward towards development," the BJP chief added. Nadda referred to the scrapping of the Article 370 provisions and commencement of the construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. "It is because of the efforts of the Modi government that the dream to construct a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya is turning into reality. The Congress had put a question mark on Lord Ram," he said. He also said under the Modi government, "the Muslim sisters got free from the curse of triple talaq". "Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the politics of commission into politics of mission," Nadda said. "The politics of vested interest has been made as a means to render service and the politics of appeasement has been made into politics of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas' (with all, development for all and everyone's trust)," he said. Nadda also praised the law and order situation in the state under Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to Varanasi, said to run an organisation, "karyakarta”"(worker), "karyakarni" (executive body), "karyakram" (programme) and "karyalaya" (office) are needed. "Those who got an opportunity to join the BJP, I consider them as fortunate. The party has become a medium to bring transformation in the country," he added. Taking a dig at the Opposition, the BJP chief said all parties in the country have become parties of families. "But in the BJP, it is the party that has become a family," he said. Nadda also claimed that the BJP has never seen a downfall since the days of the Jana Sangh. "We transformed adversity into opportunity in the time of crisis," he said. Recalling his college days, the BJP chief said, "People used to say that Nadda, you are a right person in the wrong party. I used to say that there is nothing right or wrong. If principles are right, then we will prove to be right today or tomorrow. Today, I ask them who is right? who is wrong?" In a reference to the Left parties, the BJP chief said, "Our Comrade friends used to say Nadda, there will be a revolution. I used to tell them that India is a country of saints. Evolution takes place here, not revolution. This thing has to be understood." The BJP chief told party workers that they aim to build 80 offices in the state, of which 53 have been built and the rest will be ready by October. The Union government has worked to bring farmers to the mainstream, he said, claiming that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has honoured farmers. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also addressed the gathering. Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey and BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh were also present at the event||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-not-our-goal-but-a-medium-to-reach-out-to-last-man-in-line-bjp-president-nadda-956508.html
28-02-2021||National||19 years after Godhra riots, most from Gulberg Society want to sell their homes||On Sunday noon, Saira Sandhi and Rupa Mody glanced over their deserted houses, embraced each other and broke down while remembering the arson and killing spree that went on for hours on February 28, 2002, in their society in the communal riots, following the death of 59 kar sewaks returning from Ayudhya in Sabarmati Express. Both these women are eyewitnesses and victims of the in post-Godhra riots. Saira lost four of her family members while Mody never saw her 14-year-old son Azhar from that fateful day. The movie Parzania has depicted Mody's ordeal. The two women met in what is now an annual ritual at Gulberg Society located in the Hindu-dominated Meghaninagar area, where the riots were one of the worst in which 69 persons including former Congress MP Ahsan Jafri were killed by the mob. In 2016, 11 persons were convicted for murder while 13 were awarded lesser punishment by a special trial court. The residents meet every year on this day to pray for the victims. On the occasion, Saira Sandhi tells the women's group, "A majority of house owners want to sell their properties and move on. There is nothing left here for anyone except a couple of those who are rich. Therefore, we should sell our houses." When DH asked about this, she said, "I do want to sell my house. My children would never live here. They will remain scared 24/7 even if they decide to shift to this society. Some people are using the place for their benefit such as taking rents and all but a majority don't get anything in return." Saira shifted to the Shahibaug area after the riots where she lives with her family. Mody agrees. "Coming back to stay here will require lots of money (renovation of houses) which no one has. A majority of the owners are ready to sell but a couple of them including Tanvirbhai are opposing." 52-year-old Nargis Bano and her brother Aslam Mansuri, his 19-year-old daughter Sofia, also came to offer prayers. Bano lost her father and eight other family members. "We have been wanting to sell our house. Leaving it like this forever won't help us. If we get some money by selling it, it will help my brother's family a great deal." For the past several years, efforts are being made to negotiate with builders to sell the society. One of the owners, who didn't want to be identified said, "No Muslim builder wants to buy this since the area falls under Disturbed Area Act while we had tried to negotiate with Hindu builders who were interested but backed off due to four of the society members opposing it." When contacted Tanvir, son of ex-Congress MP Ahsan Jafri, said, "I am not against the individuals who want to sell their properties. I am clear that I am not selling my house. I can't do that ever."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-years-after-godhra-riots-most-from-gulberg-society-want-to-sell-their-homes-956510.html
28-02-2021||National||Centre to restrict import from neighbouring nations' power plants with Chinese link||A new policy introduced by the Modi government has restricted the import of electricity from any power plant which has Chinese investment. A new policy introduced by the Centre recently has restricted the import of electricity from any power plant in India’s neighbouring countries having investment from entities based in China. The new “Procedure for Approval and Facilitating Import / Export (Cross Border) of Electricity” issued by the Ministry of Power this month allows the “designated authority” to approve import from any plant in any of the neighbouring countries, “provided that the generating company is not owned, directly or indirectly, by any natural or legal personality(ies) whose effective control or source of funds or residence of the beneficial owner, is situated in/ citizen of a third country with whom India shares land border and that third country does not have a bilateral agreement on power sector cooperation with India”. The “designated authority” – i.e. the Member (Power System) in the Central Electricity Authority – will have to obtain consent of, not only the Ministry of Power, but also the Ministry of External Affairs, to relax the restrictions in case of any particular plea for approval for import of electricity from the neighbouring countries. The move is intended to bar import of electricity to India from existing or upcoming power plants funded by the state-controlled companies of China in Nepal, Bangladesh or Sri Lanka, although the new policy does not explicitly refer to the communist country. The Modi government introduced the new policy even as the 10-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between India and China appears to be coming to its end. The two sides earlier this month completed mutual withdrawal of the front-line troops from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso and started discussion to work out a disengagement plan for other face-off points in eastern Ladakh. The stand-off took the relations between New Delhi and Beijing to a new low. The Modi government last year banned several apps linked to entities in China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. New Delhi also decided to bar China’s companies from participating in highway construction projects in India. The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and the Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited (MTNL) cancelled tender inviting bids from companies for supply of equipment for upgrading its network to 4G – a move, which is apparently aimed at keeping away Huawei Technologies Company and ZTE Corporation of China away from the project and stopping them from expanding footprints in the telecom sector of India. The Modi government also moved to restrict entities of China from participating in commercial coal auctions in India. It also recently restricted bidders from neighbouring countries from participating in tenders for government procurement without approval from competent authorities – yet another move targeted at the entities of China. Sources in New Delhi recently stated that although tension along the LAC now simmered down, the government might not immediately reverse its actions taken last year to hurt economic interests of China in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-restrict-import-from-neighbouring-nations-power-plants-with-chinese-link-956523.html
28-02-2021||National||No words enough to express gratitude towards corona warriors: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||India has been able to perform well on various Covid-19 management parameters and maintained one of the lowest fatality rates and highest recovery rates in the world due to a preemptive, proactive and graded approach, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Sunday. He made these remarks at the Global Indian Physicians Congress, organised by the Global Association for Physicians of Indian Origin (GAPIO), through video conference, the ministry said in a statement. Vardhan praised the contribution of medical professionals in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "As the world faced the unprecedented crisis of Covid-19, it has been our doctors, nurses and healthcare workers who have cemented their position as the foremost champions of humanity, saving humankind as it was staring at an existential crisis," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement. "I salute their courage, valour and selflessness in serving society. No words are enough to express gratitude towards all the Corona Warriors, who risked their own lives to save the lives of others. It's unfortunate and a great personal loss for me that so many of them lost their lives during this time," he said. In this context, the Union Minister also noted GAPIO's efforts towards establishing the Global Indian Physician Covid-19 Collaborative to continuously share their knowledge and experiences to arrive at the best possible approach for the management of Covid-19, the statement said. Vardhan took the occasion to highlight the government's efforts in controlling the Covid-19 pandemic. "It has been a result of our pre-emptive, proactive and graded approach that India has been able to perform well on various parameters related to Covid19. We have continuously maintained one of the lowest fatality rates and highest recovery rates across the world," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "Even with all the attention directed towards managing Covid-19, our government did not lose sight of ensuring continuity of other essential health services. Various policy interventions as well as the use of technology like telemedicine services played a key role in this regard. Our e-Sanjeevani platform has recorded millions of doctor-patient consultations in a short span of time," he said. The Health Minister also noted the contribution of scientists. "Our scientists have done remarkably well, working round the clock to provide us with two vaccines which are being indigenously manufactured and have been approved for emergency use in India. The world's largest vaccine drive is underway in the country and is moving forward at a rapid pace with more than 1 crore doses administered already," he said. "In what is a remarkable endorsement of our spectacular talent and capabilities, India which is often referred to as the pharmacy of the world, is now also emerging as the Covid19 vaccine manufacturing hub of the world," he added. Detailing the ongoing work within the ministry, he said it is now working towards further augmenting healthcare systems through a paradigm shift of policies and overarching programs like the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and Aatmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana. A new thinking is taking shape with the establishment of the National Medical Commission, Nursing Commission Bill and National Commission for Allied Healthcare Professions Bills. Ambitious plans have been made for expanding medical colleges and revamping the healthcare infrastructure in India, he said. "We are constantly working to revolutionize the delivery mechanism of healthcare services in the country," he said. Vardhan also mentioned that all the endeavours of the government can greatly benefit from the support and assistance of associations like GAPIO. He added that facilitating exchange of ideas and knowledge will not only help formulate best practices but also expedite their implementation which will ultimately benefit society. Vardhan expressed his appreciation to GAPIO which since its inception in 2011 has endeavoured to bring 1.4 million physicians of Indian-origin across the world on a single platform to facilitate exchange of knowledge, skills and research, Vardhan said, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-words-enough-to-express-gratitude-towards-corona-warriors-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-956530.html
28-02-2021||National||Mass Covid-19 vaccine rollout from March 1 as India aims to halt coronavirus||India will launch the world’s biggest Covid vaccination drive on Monday, aiming to inoculate 27 crore people of age 45 and above in an effort to break the virus’s chain of transmission and end the pandemic in the country. The registration for the vaccination in the Co-WIN 2.0 software will open at 9 am, and the slots for booking at more than 8,600 central government empanelled government and private hospitals will remain open till 3 pm. The recipients, however, will not have a choice in selecting the vaccine as they will have to settle for the jabs offered by the hospitals. While most of the vaccination will be carried out with the Serum Institute’s Covishield, some will be administered Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — a homegrown vaccine that has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India without the efficacy data. "The major challenges will be both combating vaccine hesitancy as well as whether the programme will be able to access more distant, rural areas at the same level as it can in urban India," Gautam Menon, a professor at Ashoka University, told DH. After 45 days, only about 1.43 crore vaccine doses have been administered, which is nowhere near the initial plan of vaccinating 3 crore healthcare workers and frontline staff. Only 24.56 lakh healthcare workers received both the doses whereas 66.70 lakh healthcare workers and 51.75 lakh frontline staff got a single dose of the vaccine so far. Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute of Public Health, said "vaccine hesitancy will be the biggest challenge". “Vaccine hesitancy will be the biggest challenge, as India doesn't have the concept of a family practice or GP-led primary care that looks after all the health services delivery for a defined population. People will continue to rely on message forwards and their own advisory circles for insights on vaccination,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute of Public Health. Notwithstanding all the planning, the key question is whether the benefits of vaccination would reach the most vulnerable who need the jab. “In best of the scenario, it is possible that only half of the persons with comorbidities might get vaccinated as the other half is not aware of their diagnosis yet," said Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. "The missed out population is the most vulnerable. Unfortunately, they will also be missed from vaccination since most of the states don’t have a robust database of such vulnerable people. This is a major problem.” Rijo John, a health economist who was a former consultant to the WHO, said "ensuring that private hospitals comply with the mandatory Rs 250 rate set by the government will be another major challenge".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mass-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-from-march-1-as-india-aims-to-halt-coronavirus-956532.html
28-02-2021||National||State, districts required to pre-register Covid-19 Vaccination Centres on Co-WIN2.0||States and districts will be required to pre-register COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on the Co-WIN2.0 portal before the registration is opened for people above 60 years and those aged 45 and above with co-morbidities so that the list of CVCs is available to the citizens, the Union Health Ministry said. The registration begins from March 1 at 9 am. The eligible beneficiaries can choose the centre of their choice and book an appointment based on the slots available. According to a guidance note on Co-WIN2.0 issued by the Health Ministry, states and UTs will decide the target number of doses to be administered in a vaccination cycle, based on already available vaccine doses and additional doses likely to be available in a vaccination cycle.   As far as vaccination slots are concerned, these can be further classified as mobilization slots and open slots. Mobilization slots are those for which respective states and UT government shall mobilize beneficiaries for on-site registration, appointment, verification and vaccination (all on-site on the same day). There will not be any need for pre-registering beneficiaries through online interface for this. Proportion of such slots will be decided by respective state and UT government. Open slots will be open for online appointments by general citizens. The number of Open Slots for a session will be worked out by subtracting the number of reserved slots from the CVC session capacity, the guidance document said.   "It is recommended that, to begin with, one particular Covid-19 Vaccination Centre (CVC) may be either fully reserved or their full capacity is opened for online self-appointment, to avoid the confusion and problems in physical queue management on site at the CVC," the document stated. If it is so decided that a CVC will have both the reserved and the open slots, session timings for open slots may be carefully selected to avoid overlap of beneficiaries between the ones coming through online appointment and the ones being mobilized for mobilization slots, it said. The timings for on-site registrations in such a case should also be carefully publicized. Since, when a beneficiary is being vaccinated with first dose, COWIN will automatically confirm the appointment of the beneficiary for the 2nd dose at the same vaccination centre, the target number of doses should be decided with careful consideration of available stocks and requirement of vaccine stocks for 2nd dose vaccinations for the already partly vaccinated beneficiaries. Citizens will be able to register at www.cowin.gov.in and book an appointment for vaccination using the portal or through other IT applications such as Arogya Setu.  They will be able to register at the Co-WIN portal through their mobile number, said the ministry as it also released an user manual to handhold the citizens to register and schedule an appointment for vaccination. An OTP verification will be done prior to registration to ensure veracity of the mobile number and after registration, an account will be created on Co-WIN for the person. The person can access (login) his/her account on Co-WIN using the mobile phone number used at the time of registration. Features for adding beneficiaries, editing their details and for booking appointment(s) will be available in the citizen's account, the document stated. The citizen can delete only beneficiaries as have been added by him/her. "If one out of the four beneficiaries registered in an account is vaccinated, only three registrations are left, and so on. "Till the time of vaccination, all the records of registration and appointment can be edited/deleted by the person making the registration. Only when a person gets vaccinated, the record is locked and cannot be edited/deleted," the ministry said. The beneficiary then has to select the ID card type and provide ID card number. The photo ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different. Either of the following photo identity documents can be used by citizens for availing of online registration -- Aadhaar Card/Letter, Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC), passport, driving license, PAN Card, NPR Smart Card or pension document with photograph. If the age of the beneficiary is from 45 years to 59 years, the beneficiary will be prompted to confirm if he/she has any specified comorbidity. In such cases, the beneficiary will also be advised to bring the comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. Once all the necessary details are recorded by the beneficiary, registration is completed and an acknowledgement (registration slip/token) will be sent to beneficiary on his registered mobile number. Facility for downloading and printing etc. will also be available. "The new phase of vaccination of age-appropriate groups will expand the COVID vaccination in the country manifold. With a citizen-centric approach, the fundamental shift in this phase is that citizens in the identified age groups, as also those healthcare workers and frontline who have been missed out or left out of the present phase of vaccination, can select vaccination centres of their choice," the ministry had said. A COVID-19 Vaccination Time Table (VTT) (for each vaccination centre) will be published by the states/districts, on Co-WIN  and any beneficiary will be able to choose and book a slot for vaccination at the CVCs declared in the VTT, anytime and anywhere, based on his\her preference and convenience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-districts-required-to-pre-register-covid-19-vaccination-centres-on-co-win20-956537.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi belongs to capitalists: RLD chief Chaudhary Ajit Singh at farmers’ meeting||RLD chief Chaudhary Ajit Singh on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of belonging to capitalists and working for them while showing dreams and telling lies to people. Singh made the acerbic remarks while addressing a farmers’ meeting at Shri Jawahar Inter College, Bamnoli near here. The former Union minister also attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government and urged youths to uproot both the central and state governments. “Save your turbans or else your honour will end. If farmers do not come together today, their future generations will be in danger,” Ajit Singh said, exhorting farmers to unite in their fight against the three central farm laws. “If the agricultural laws are implemented, farmers’ land would be sold and farmers enslaved. The BJP government only shows dreams. Their representatives and ministers should be boycotted,” he exhorted. Targeting the prime minister, he said he does the “work of showing dreams and telling lies”. “The prime minister belongs to the capitalists and not to the poor and farmers. How will the farmer, having two bighas of land, will hire counsel to face Ambani and Adani in court?” he asked. The Food Corporation of India too has been made insolvent and rendered unable to pay MSP for crops, he alleged. The RLD leader targeted UP CM Yogi saying he promised to clear farmers’ dues and arrears in 15 days but did nothing. “They make false promises again and again. Dates are given but the payment is not made. Sugarcane farmers were not paid in western Uttar Pradesh,” he claimed. “Former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh had enacted a law to seize erring sugar mills but this law was abolished by the BJP government in 2014,” he said. “Much was said about doubling farmers’ income, but it was halved first and then finished,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-belongs-to-capitalists-rld-chief-chaudhary-ajit-singh-at-farmers-meeting-956242.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Congress collapsing across India due to dynasty politics, says Amit Shah||Terming former Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy as “corrupt”, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday alleged that he “diverted" to the Nehru-Gandhi family Rs 15,000 crore that the Centre dispatched to the Union Territory for various development works. Contending that the Congress was “declining” across the country due to its obsession with dynasty politics, Shah asked people of Puducherry to vote for the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) by overthrowing Narayanasamy as he accused him of serving the Gandhi family and not the electorate of the Union Territory. Addressing a rally in the Karaikal district of the UT, Shah asserted that “lotus will bloom” in the Puducherry Assembly and took a dig at the Congress Government, which resigned on February 22 after losing its majority, for failing to fulfil promises made during the 2016 assembly elections. “During the last election, Narayanasamy Ji promised to build an IT Park and Electronics Park. Where are those parks? If he can give the address of the parks, we can also go and have a look at them,” Shah said, mocking the Congress leader. He also alleged that Narayanasamy got himself elected as Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader by manoeuvring with the Gandhi family, side-lining A Namasivayam, who is now with BJP.  BJP, which lost all 30 constituencies in Puducherry in the 2016 elections, has formed a rainbow alliance under the leadership of N R Congress headed by former Chief Minister N R Rangasamy. The party hopes to play a crucial role in the formation of the next government in the UT – Shah's rally also saw former Congress MLAs and leaders joining the BJP. Shah's speech in Hindi, translated into Tamil, centred around Narayanasamy, Gandhi family, and the Congress government's “corruption.” “The Centre sent Rs 15,000 crore to Puducherry for development funds. Narayanasamy Ji diverted the funds to the Gandhi family. Did you get the money in your village or town?” he asked. He also latched onto Narayanasamy translating a complaint by a woman against him to a compliment during former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's visit to the UT and called him a “liar.” Targeting former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi for demanding a separate ministry for the fisherfolk, Shah said that the NDA government had fulfilled the demands of the fisherman community two years back. “Rahul bhaiya you were on vacation (then),” Shah said, taking a dig at him. Shah also accused Narayanasamy of postponing elections to local bodies due to the fear that “lotus will bloom.” “How long can you hold (our march)? You feared that we will win local body polls. But now lotus will bloom in the Assembly. You cannot stop it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-collapsing-across-india-due-to-dynasty-politics-says-amit-shah-956355.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Easier access to cooking gas, 1 cr more free LPG connections in 2 years: Oil Secretary||The free LPG connection scheme is one structural reform of the Modi government that has been internationally acclaimed for ridding indoor household pollution and improving women's health. And now, the government plans to give one crore more free LPG connections to the needy over the next two years and make it easier to access cooking gas to achieve near 100 per cent penetration of the clean fuel in the country. Oil Secretary Tarun Kapoor said plans are in the works to provide LPG connection with bare-minimum identity documents and without insisting on residence proof of the place of availing the cooking gas. Also, consumers would soon get a choice of getting a refill cylinder from three dealers in his or her neighbourhood instead of being tied to just one distributor, who may not be able to provide LPG on demand due to availability or other reasons. In an interview with PTI, Kapoor said a record-breaking 8 crore free LPG connections were provided to poor women households in just four years alongside the aggressive rollout of cooking gas, taking the number of LPG users in the country to about 29 crore. The Union Budget earlier this month announced a plan to give out one crore more free cooking gas connections under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala (PMUY) scheme. "Our plan is to complete these additional one crore connections in two years," he said. While no separate allocation for this has been made in the Budget for 2021-22, the general fuel subsidy allocation should be enough to cover the expense of about Rs 1,600 per connection, he said. "We have done a preliminary estimate of the people who are now left out. The number comes to 1 crore," he said. "After the successful Ujjwala scheme, households without LPG are very less in India. We have around 29 crore households with LPG connections. With the one crore connections, we will be close to 100 per cent LPG penetration." He, however, hastened to add that one crore unserved population was a dynamic number and there may be more families that may need LPG connections as they move to cities or other places for employment and other reasons. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's signature Ujjwala scheme for providing a free cooking gas connection to the poor had been lauded by the WHO in 2018 and by the International Energy Agency (IEA) in the following year as one that reduced indoor household pollution by helping families switch to cleaner energy sources and improving the environment and health of women. The carbon footprint of LPG is 50 per cent lower than coal. LPG helps reduce carbon dioxide and black carbon emissions, which are the second-largest contributors to global warming. Before Ujjwala, India was the second-largest contributor to global mortality due to household and ambient air pollution. "We want to connect everyone in the country to the LPG network," Kapoor said. "Besides Ujjwala, we are also easing out the procedure for getting LPG connections." While theoretically, the current rule is that everyone is eligible to get a cooking gas connection, practically it is difficult to get one due to requirements such as proof of residence of the place, where the connection is being sought. "We have asked our oil companies that those kinds of complaints should be eliminated. A person who is even shifting from one city to another, even temporarily, should also be able to get an LPG connection without hassles. We want to move to a stage where with very basic documents, just some proof of identity, one can get an LPG connection," he said. As a step towards that, a unified software for all the three fuel marketing companies - Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum - is being prepared. "We are getting a common information technology-based system in place. Right now, the three companies have their separate IT-based systems. We also want to popularise the mobile applications that our companies have so that no one has to keep a physical booklet," he said. Through this software, inter-company migration will become very easy, he said, adding in cities a person would have a choice of seeking an LPG refill from three distributors of the same company. The Ujjwala Yojana was launched in May 2016 with a target to give free LPG connections to 5 crore mostly rural women members of below the poverty line (BPL) households. The list was later expanded to include all SC/ST households and forest dwellers, among others. In 2018, the scheme was extended to all poor households and the target raised to 8 crore connections. Under the scheme, the government provides a subsidy of Rs 1,600 to state-owned fuel retailers for every free LPG gas connection that they give to poor households. This subsidy is intended to cover the security fee for the cylinder and the fitting charges. The beneficiary has to buy her own cooking stove. To reduce the burden, the scheme allows beneficiaries to pay for the stove and the first refill in monthly instalments. However, the cost of all subsequent refills has to be borne by the beneficiary household.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/easier-access-to-cooking-gas-1-cr-more-free-lpg-connections-in-2-years-oil-secretary-956356.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||People of Bengal will teach Mamata a lesson in assembly polls for her arrogance: ISF chief||The Indian Secular Front (ISF), led by Abbas Siddiqui, on Sunday vowed to defeat the TMC and BJP in the upcoming assembly elections, asserting that people of the state would teach Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee "a lesson for her arrogance". Proclaiming support for the Left Front and its allies in the state, Siddiqui said Bengal will get the better of the BJP and "its B-team Mamata Banerjee" in the polls.  "Mamata and her TMC has destroyed democracy and unleashed anarchy. They will pay for it in the elections," Siddiqui said, addressing a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds here. The ISF has sealed a seat-sharing agreement with the Left Front for the assembly elections, while talks with the Congress are underway. The Election Commission of India had on Friday announced an eight-phase polls in West Bengal, which will commence on March 27 and conclude on April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-of-bengal-will-teach-mamata-a-lesson-in-assembly-polls-for-her-arrogance-isf-chief-956362.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi dubs PM Modi a 'formidable enemy', vows to defeat him||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi a "formidable enemy" who 'crushed' his opponents and vowed to send him to political oblivion by following the path of love and non-violence. During an interaction titled 'Educators Meet' at the St Xavier College here, Gandhi, touring southern Tamil Nadu for the second day as part of his second leg of campaign for the April 6 assembly polls, also said he counted on the people's support to defeat the BJP. When a participant wanted to know if Gandhi felt it was possible to nudge the Modi government to implement his 'good ideas' rather than waiting to assume power which seemed 'Utopian', he said it could be done with the 'powerful' and 'valuable' support of the people. It was important to dream big, though some of it may not come true, he said in an obvious reference to snatching the reins of power from the BJP at the Centre. Continuing, he said, "yes we are fighting a formidable enemy (Modi). We are fighting an enemy that is dominating the money in this country. We are fighting an enemy that is crushing its opponents. But we have done this before. We have defeated a much bigger enemy (British) than this new enemy that has come." Recalling the country's independence movement, he said the Britishers were much more powerful than Modi would ever be.  "Who is Narendra Modi in comparison to the British empire? Nobody. People of this country sent the British empire back and in the same way we will send Narendra Modi back to Nagpur (RSS headquarters in Maharashtra)," he said. Apparently, he meant that Modi would go into political oblivion after defeat by the Congress with people's support. Gandhi said this would be achieved without any hatred, anger or violence towards PM Modi or his party even if they may 'abuse' or unleash 'violence' against them. Congress is an ally of the DMK in Tamil Nadu and BJP is a partner of the ruling AIADMK. The Congress leader, replying to another participant, alleged the BJP-led Centre claimed to "represent Hinduism" in several ideas they espoused, but in reality it had nothing to do with that faith. Hinduism does not preach insulting, killing or beating up people, Gandhi asserted, alleging "but they do it." The essence of all religions was love but the Central government's whole game' is to 'steal' money of ordinary people, including farmers through initiatives like farm laws, and give it away to the biggest businesses in the country, he alleged. To another question, he said he did not like the Centre's New Education Policy, 2020 either. When a professor alleged the NEP was agenda-driven, Gandhi said any policy on education should be an outcome of deliberations with learners and teachers. "Unfortunately this was not done," he claimed adding it concentrated too much power in the hands of the Centre and it was set to damage the education system. Though NEP had a positive aspect of flexibility, it was however a "weapon to communalise, to push a particular ideology into the Indian system and that is why I do not like it." He batted for more scholarship so that more and more poor students got education and underscored women empowerment. Be it education, agriculture or healthcare, these were being seen as a "financial commodity," and he was against it. Rich or poor, man or woman, it is a duty of the nation to give education and healthcare to all its people, he said. To a demand on bringing back education to the state list of the Constitution from the concurrent category, he said, "I don't know, we will look into it." Centralising everything was a bad idea and decentralisation and facilitating access to education from all corners of the country were fundamental, he said. In 1976, the then Congress government led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi shifted education, which was previously a state subject, to the concurrent list allowing the Centre to legislate on the matter besides the states. He visited the Nellaiappar temple here and interacted with people at several places including a tea shop. After his interaction with small traders and farmers, Gandhi said he was able to understand "how a badly designed Goods and Services Tax has hurt our lemon farmers," and the difficulties faced by women who work in the beedi industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-dubs-pm-modi-a-formidable-enemy-vows-to-defeat-him-956376.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal accuses Modi government of 'orchestrating' violence at Red Fort||Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal, on Sunday, accused the Modi government of ‘orchestrating the violence on Republic Day at Red Fort’. While addressing a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Meerut, Kejriwal said, “The entire Red Fort incident was planned by them. Many people told me that they were deliberately shown the wrong path as they didn't know the streets of Delhi. Those who hoisted the flag were their (BJP) workers. Our farmers can be anything but anti-nationals.” The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has strongly come out in favour of the farmers protesting the new farm laws. Kejriwal has visited Delhi's Singhu border, a major protest site, twice and expressed his support to the farmers. Talking about FIRs against farmers, he said, “Today, Bharatiya Janata Party's central government has filed cases against farmers for carrying out anti-national activities. Even Britishers did not have this courage. They call our farmers terrorists.” AAP has further decided to hold a 'Kisan Mahasammelan' at Bagha Purana in Moga on March 21 in order to further strengthen the ongoing farmers' agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-accuses-modi-government-of-orchestrating-violence-at-red-fort-956384.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Abhishek Banerjee: TMC's No.2 at the centre of Bengal poll storm||Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, had a fondness for the outdoors while growing up. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, who have been with Mamata since the inception of the party in 1998, recall that he had a liking for cricket. Young Abhishek didn't become a cricketer; instead, he chose to follow his aunt into politics. Now, as West Bengal gears up for crucial Assembly polls, he is realising that politics is a different ball game (especially with BJP on the opposite side), with his aunt on a sticky wicket due to him. The saffron party is flinging one of its favourite insults to dethrone the Trinamool Congress: Dynastic politics. The reason: Abhishek is the de facto number two in the Trinamool Congress. Buoyed by the success of this weapon in the past, the BJP is now trying to wound Mamata by taking aim at Abhishek, hoping that it would stick and sway the voters. At every rally, the BJP reminds voters of Mamata's nephew. While the "Modi government was working towards ‘jan kalyan’, the Mamata Banerjee government was working towards ‘bhatija kalyan’," said Home Minister Amit Shah at a rally recently. The phrase “bhatija kalyan” (welfare of the nephew) has almost become a mantra for BJP. As the Assembly elections inch closer, a significant portion of the BJP’s top three's—Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah, J P Nadda—speeches are devoted to attacking Abhishek. The conflict between Abhishek and the BJP reached a crescendo when the CBI questioned his wife Rujira in connection with a coal pilferage case. The incident drew sharp retorts from both Abhishek and the chief minister. "If they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us they are mistaken," Abhishek said. The chief minister retaliated by questioning the assets of the Union Home Minister’s son, Jay Shah. Known to be very close to his aunt, Abhishek grew up seeing a feisty Mamata taking on the once-mighty CPM and finally ousting it from power in 2011.Abhishek, unlike her aunt, did not rise through the grind of student politics. An MBA degree holder, Abhishek got initiated into politics by being fielded by Mamata from the Diamond Harbor Lok Sabha constituency after incumbent Somen Mitra resigned. He won the seat, becoming an MP at the young age of 26. After being brought into politics at the insistence of the then TMC general secretary Mukul Roy, Abhishek, according to party sources, sidelined him. Later, Abhishek was used to clip the wings of the leaders whose ambitions seemed to outgrow the party. In a bid to bring the then Trinamool Youth Congress president Suvendu Adhikari under control, Mamata floated the Trinamool Yuva in 2011 and made Abhishek its president. TMC sources said that he began sidelining Adhikari, and in 2014 replaced him as the Trinamool Youth Congress president. As his clout grew in the party, Abhishek started looking after not only the TMC’s organisational activities and campaign strategy, but also played a key role in its candidate selection. However, his meteoric rise rubbed several leaders the wrong way. A section of senior leaders thought that he was handed power on a platter since he did not go through the political grind at the grassroots level, unlike others.  Leaders such as Adhikari, who had joined the BJP, made it clear that Abhishek was one of the main reasons behind their decision to ditch the TMC. "I have neither been dropped on a parachute nor have risen using a lift. I reached this position, climbing stairs, step by step," said Adhikari last October, in a veiled dig at Abhishek. Within weeks he joined the BJP. Reacting to this jibe, Abhishek said: "If I used a lift, I could have held 35 posts at once." TMC sources said that it was at Abhishek’s insistence the party hired poll strategist Prashant Kishor. Several senior TMC MLAs such as Mihir Goswami, who joined the BJP, had expressed displeasure at Kishor’s role in the party. The results of the upcoming Assembly elections, an acid test for Abhishek, will determine whether Mamata’s decision to put him at the forefront of TMC’s activities was a wise move or a costly error.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/abhishek-banerjee-tmcs-no2-at-the-centre-of-bengal-poll-storm-956414.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Delhi records 197 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death||Delhi recorded 197 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 10,910, according to data shared by the city health department. On the preceding three days, the count of daily cases have stood at 200-mark or beyond. On Friday, 256 Covid-19 cases were registered, the highest number of single-day incidences in February, while on Thursday and Wednesday the count stood at 220 and 200, respectively. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 197 fresh Covid-19 cases and a positivity rate of 0.34 per cent, authorities said, adding that the infection tally in the city has risen to 6,39,289. One more death was recorded on Sunday, taking the toll to 10,910, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the city government. From February 1-23, the count of daily cases had been recorded below 200. Delhi had recorded 199 fresh Covid-19 cases on January 28.  From January 15-26, the daily figures ranged from 148 on January 25 to 299 on January 16, according to official data. On Thursday, no fatality was registered, the fourth time the single-day fatality count stood at zero this month. On February 9, 13 and 17 too, the death count was zero. On February 9, no fatality from coronavirus infection was registered in the national capital for the first time this month, and after a gap of nearly nine months. The 197 new cases on Sunday came out of the 57,772 tests conducted the previous day, according to the health bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day included 39,070 RT-PCR tests and 18,702 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said. The tally of active cases on Sunday rose to 1,335 from 1,307 the previous day, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation as on Sunday rose to 691 from 627 on Saturday, it said, adding over 6.27 lakh people have recovered. Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on February 16, the lowest in over nine months. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27,  that time the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incidences count had stood below the 100-mark in that month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-records-197-new-covid-19-cases-1-death-956416.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||BJP fears Gandhi-Nehru family most: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel||The BJP "fears" the Gandhi- Nehru family the most in Indian politics, feels Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, who also insisted that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is the "only choice" for the party's national president post. Baghel said the saffron party is also very scared of Gandhi as he constantly raises pertinent issues affecting the people. "If BJP fears someone or something the most, it is the Gandhi-Nehru family. When Indira Gandhi came to power, then the same Jan Sangh people used to call her 'gungi gudiya' (dumb doll). They made fun of her using that phrase. "But, Indira Gandhi proved that she was an iron lady through her work. When she got a chance, she divided Pakistan and created Bangladesh. The world has not seen anything like what she did," Baghel told PTI in an interview. The Chhattisgarh CM, a close confidante of Rahul Gandhi, said the Lok Sabha MP is the only pan-India leader fighting against the BJP and RSS across the country. "Why is the BJP so scared of Rahul Gandhi? He is just an MP. Because Rahul is down to earth. He listens to the voice of common people and raises their issues," Baghel said. Gandhi speaks about every segment - youths, the unemployed, women, farmers, adivasis and scheduled tribes - he added. "That is why BJP is scared of him... because he speaks the truth. Rahul lives in the heart of people and that pinches BJP's heart," Baghel said. Baghel said Rahul Gandhi is the only choice for Congress's national president, the election for which will take place by June after the completion of assembly polls in five states. Asked about the reason behind such confidence in the Congress leader despite a dismal performance by the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls under his leadership, the CM said, "That is why he resigned. He had the moral courage to accept that." The 2019 defeat was the worst for Congress along with that of 2014, but nobody raised a finger at leadership, he said. "Rahul Gandhi worked hard throughout the country. BJP got votes on the emotional ground due to the Balakot surgical strike. But, the issues raised by him are still valid... He is the only leader at the national level," Baghel said. Talking more about the 2019 general elections, the Chhattisgarh chief minister said BJP leaders were leaving the party before the Pulwama incident took place. "They did not seek votes for demonetisation or GST. Instead, they asked for votes underscoring the valour of our army after the surgical strike. "And, they have still not been able to tell how 300 kg of RDX reached the place that killed our 40 jawans. There is no investigation into that. It is a big question," Baghel said. On whether Priyanka Gandhi will be given more responsibility at the national level in days to come, he said it will be decided by the party high command, but all will "welcome that".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-fears-gandhi-nehru-family-most-chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-956438.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Belgaum issue comes to the fore on eve of Maharashtra Budget Session||The vexed Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary dispute came to the fore yet again on the eve of Budget Session of the Maharashtra Legislature on Sunday. Targeting BJP, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wanted to know what it has done as the party has been in power at the Centre for over six years. Thackeray’s comments came hours after leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that BJP would extend full support to the government in whatever steps it takes. “We are with the government on the Belgaum issue,” Fadnavis said. The issue also finds mention in the Budget Session address of the state governor. It may be recalled in January, calling for a “time-bound programme” to address the vexed Maharashtra-Karnataka boundary issue, Thackeray had reiterated the demand of bringing the Marathi-speaking areas on the border under a Union Territory till the Supreme Court gives its verdict. The government had also released a book - ‘Maharashtra-Karnataka Seemavad: Sangharsh Ani Sankalp’ (Maharashtra-Karnataka Boundary Dispute: Struggle and Pledge), a book penned by Dr Deepak Pawar, that runs into 530 pages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/belgaum-issue-comes-to-the-fore-on-eve-of-maharashtra-budget-session-956462.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Want Congress to be strong and fight country's 'divisive forces: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said he wanted the Congress to remain united and strong to fight “divisive forces” in the country. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister warned selective killings by terrorists would continue unless the root cause of militancy is addressed. Abdullah's remarks came a day after senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and other 'Group of 23' dissident leaders, who have been pressing for a leadership change and organisational overhaul in the party, got together at a function here in an apparent show of strength to convey a message to the party high command. “I want the Congress to be strong. I want the Congress to unite and fight divisive forces in the country... people are looking forward to the Congress sorting things out in the country. It is a part of this nation and has been a 150-year-old party,” Abdullah told reporters on the sidelines of a function organised by Kashmiri Pandits here. Replying to a question on Congress leaders assembling in Jammu on Saturday, Abdullah said, "He (Azad) is a part of the Congress and so are all those who came. They are not out of the party, they are senior leaders of the Congress." Asked about his reaction to an alleged statement made by Congress General Secretary Rahul Gandhi wherein he said democracy is dead in the country, the NC leader said, "Why should I react to what he (Gandhi) or these leaders (Azad and others) are saying... What do I have got to do with them. My party is the National Conference." "It is for them (Congress leaders) to decide, the problem is in their house and they have to set it right," he said. Asked about the killing of Akash Mehra, the son of the owner of a popular eatery,  who was shot by terrorists in Srinagar, Abdullah termed the incident as “very tragic”. Mehra was shot on February 17 and succumbed to injuries at the SMHS hospital on Sunday. His body was brought to his Jammu residence late this afternoon and he was later cremated. “Those who shout from the top of the mountain that everything is hunky dowry here and bring the ambassadors to show them how good it is, should answer… it should be the Lt Governor who should answer. If militancy is dead, the DGP should answer who says every day that it (terrorism) is all over," he said. Asked about the selective killings in the valley, he said, "They (terrorists) will continue to do this. It is not going to end just because you and I say that it should end. They (government) have to find out what is the cause of these things and why it is happening and try and treat the cause." In response to another question about Azad praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for openly speaking about his past as a tea-seller, he said, "I don't have to react to what Azad sahib says. He is a senior leader of Congress and made the statement and why should I react to it.” Earlier, the NC leader said Kashmir is incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits and expressed his desire to see the community back at their place of birth before his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/want-congress-to-be-strong-and-fight-countrys-divisive-forces-farooq-abdullah-956515.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Congress faces uphill task in poll-bound states||The Congress is hoping to benefit from the anti-incumbency factor as well as the public protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and agri laws in the upcoming round of assembly polls but still faces an uphill task in the coming days. Barring Kerala, where the party feels it is poised to defeat the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), the Congress is beset with ally troubles in all other poll-bound states-- Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu -- and the Union Territory of Puducherry. In West Bengal, the party’s seat-sharing talks with the newly formed Indian Secular Front (ISF) are still underway with the Left-Congress alliance keen to have the fledgeling party on board to pocket some of the 30 per cent Muslim votes in the state. In Assam too, the party is yet to finalise the agreement with Badruddin Ajmal’s AIUDF, its main ally in the polls. In Tamil Nadu, the Congress is banking fully on DMK to dethrone the incumbent AIADMK, while in Puducherry the grand old party is left with hardly any core strength after the recent fall of the government to face an aggressive BJP, which is leaving no stone unturned to make inroads in the eastern and southern belts. Though seat-sharing talks have started, Congress is demanding over 50 seats this time which the DMK is reluctant to give. Sources say that DMK is citing the Congress' poor performance in recent polls as well as in the 2016 assembly elections when it won just eight seats out of the 41 it contested. Winning at least one state full steam is key to the revival of the sagging morale of Congress workers and the credibility of Rahul Gandhi as the numero uno in the organisation, observers say. Only yesterday, top Congress dissenters expressed a lack of confidence in Rahul Gandhi’s leadership when they said in Jammu that the party was weakening and they had taken upon themselves the responsibility of rebuilding it. Rahul Gandhi and his strategists hope to wrest Tamil Nadu and Kerala as power switches sides in these states every five years. They also believe they can upset the incumbent BJP in Assam. That explains why Congress has announced "mission 100" in Assam which has 126 assembly seats. But this time, it does not have a stalwart like former chief minister Tarun Gogoi who passed away in November last year. BJP leader and Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has, however, dared the Congress saying, "A Congress tsunami can only come in Bangladesh". The grand old party also faces a major challenge in West Bengal where the TMC and the BJP have long launched their poll slogans, while the Left and Congress are still dithering on their joint strategy. The eight-phase elections in West Bengal are likely to witness a keen contest between the TMC and the BJP, with the Left parties seeking to regain control after allying with the Congress. In 2016 assembly polls in Bengal, the Congress-Left alliance bagged 38 per cent votes, seven per cent less than TMC. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP emerged as the main rival to Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress and the combined vote share of the Congress and the Left plummeted to 15 per cent. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal push in all the poll-bound states is making the road to victory even more rutted for Congress. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has already started a high-pitched campaign in the southern states and has also toured Assam. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is also set to join the party's campaign in Assam on Monday and Tuesday, where she is likely to address smaller meetings as well as a big rally in Tezpur on March 2. Rahul Gandhi's recent remarks in Kerala about "South Indians being deeply interested in issues unlike North Indians" are being used by the BJP to spin an anti-Congress narrative. The grand old party is attempting damage control by saying Gandhi was talking about the need for people to debate national issues and not superficial matters. With elections announced and seat-sharing details in poll-bound states yet to be disclosed, it remains to be seen how big the turf the Congress gets to fight on as it struggles to retain its pan-India electoral footprint, having lost governments in MP, Karnataka and Puducherry. The Congress party is in power on its own in Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh and in an alliance in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. The grand old party faces the challenge of performing well at the hustings in these polls or run the risk of losing its relevance as the principal opposition party, a leader said. "Winning these elections is very crucial as it would give the Congress the much-needed confidence to emerge as a stronger opposition force against the Narendra Modi-led BJP," said the leader. It will also boost the Congress' prospects as it enters the next phase of electoral battles in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-faces-uphill-task-in-poll-bound-states-956516.html
28-02-2021||National Politics||Kerala has become 'fundamentalists' own country': FM Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday attacked Kerala's CPI(M)-led government, alleging that the state, which is known as God's own country, has become fundamentalists' own country under its five-year rule. The Minister also took on the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government for its budget, questioning the role of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) in its making. Condemning the killing of an RSS worker allegedly by SDPI activists in Alappuzha last week, she alleged that violence is rampant in the Left-ruled state. "My heart breaks when I have to say this. A young party activist... RSS pracharak Nandu Krishna was hacked to death. Is this God's own country?", she said and alleged that the CPI(M) had a "backhand alliance" with Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), a political offshoot of Islamist outfit Popular Front of India (PFI). Inaugurating a meeting organised here for giving reception to 'Vijay Yatra' of the BJP led by state party president K Surendran, Sitharaman alleged that the "fundamentalist misbehaviour" will not be questioned in Kerala because of the CPI(M)'s "backhand alliance with SDPI." "I am afraid to say this. God's own country is now gradually becoming fundamentalists' own country", Sitharaman said, also referring to the killings of two youth congress workers in Kasargod allegedly by CPI(M) activists in 2019, and rape and death case of two minor Dalit sisters in Walayar. She also slammed the LDF government for giving permission to fundamentalist outfits to "carry out procession" on the occasion of the 100th year of 1921 Mappila Rebellion. Describing it as a "Hindu genocide", Sitharaman said, "that is celebrated now." "There is a backhanded alliance with SDPI. So no fundamentalist behaviour will be questioned here. Otherwise, how will the 1921 Hindu genocide Mappilla rebellion is being celebrated here now. Fundamentalists are getting permission to celebrate it now," the minister alleged. She also questioned Congress for its alleged silence over the issue. "Congress is silent. This is not minority appeasement but fundamentalist appeasement is happening in Kerala," she said. While for many scholars, the rebellion also known as Malabar rebellion is primarily a peasant revolt against the colonial government, for the BJP and the Sangh Parivar organisations, the movement, which was part of the Khilafat movement during independence struggle, was a Hindu genocide during which many Hindus were killed or forcibly converted to Islam in two Taluks of North Kerala. Sitharaman also condemned the state government for giving permission for organising protest marches during the visit of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for inaugurating the "Vijay Yatra" in Kasargod. Talking about the role of KIIFB in Kerala budget making, the Union Minister said, "I don't know what budget making is this when all the money is given to one KIIFB. What is this organisation? We also make budget in the union government. We don't give all money to one particular agency and say, 'we'll see'." She said the CAG has criticised the functioning of the KIIFB. Presenting the budget for this fiscal, Kerala Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac had placed his bets on KIIFB to fund development projects in the state. "The CAG has commented and criticised... Total questionable operation. If this is budget making, no wonder Kerala is going into a debt trap. And this is a questionable affair. Corruption," she said. KIIFB was constituted by the Government as a Body Corporate financial institution in Kerala to mobilize funds for infrastructure development from outside the state revenue. She also referred to the Kerala gold smuggling and alleged role of CM's office in it to attack the CPI(M)-led government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-has-become-fundamentalists-own-country-fm-sitharaman-956521.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Hindu seers will not participate in 'shahi snan' in Yamuna unless water is clean||Underlining the Yamuna’s acute water pollution, three prominent Hindu seers of the country on Saturday vowed not to take another bath on other ‘shahi snan’ days during the ongoing Vrindavan Kumbh near here unless the river water is clean. The declaration to boycott the “shahi snan” in the river on three remaining auspicious days -- March 9, 13 and 25 -- and thereafter during subsequent Kumbh fairs was made by the chief of the Ayodhya-based Maha Nirvani Akhara, Mahant Dharm Das. Mahant Dharam Das made the declaration in presence of the chiefs of two other Vaishnavi akharas – Maha Nirmohi and Maha Digambar akharas. “In the next 'shahi snan', we would take the holy dip in the Yamuna, only if the water is clean,” Mahant Dharm Das said, with the chiefs of two other prominent akharas nodding in agreement. The Mathura district administration had promised to arrange for clean water in the river at its Devraha Ghat during the Vrindaban Kumbh by discharging additional water from the Ganga but nothing appears to have been done, he said. Mahant Dharam Das made the critical remark on the pollution in the Yamuna after taking a holy dip along with the two other seers at the Devraha Ghat of the river. The three seers earlier led a procession of saints to the river bank for 'shahi snan' during which they were showered with flower petals all along the route of the procession, said Nagendra Pratap, a government official deputed to supervise arrangements for the Vrindavan Kumbh fair. The three other shahi snan days of March 9, 13 and 25 coincide with ekadashi (month's 11th days), amawasya (moonless day) and another pious day as per the Hindu calendar, said Pratap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-seers-will-not-participate-in-shahi-snan-in-yamuna-unless-water-is-clean-956279.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Voting begins for bypolls to 5 municipal wards in Delhi||Voting began on Sunday morning for the bypolls to five municipal wards in Delhi, results of which are likely to have an impact on the 2022 civic elections. Polling began at 7:30 am amid tight security arrangements. The main contenders are the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, the BJP and the Congress. All of them have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious in the bypolls, which are being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the State Election Commission of Delhi, around 2.42 lakh people are eligible to cast their votes in two wards under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three wards under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). These municipal wards are Rohini-C, Shalimar Bagh (North), Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauan Banger. While Shalimar Bagh (North) is reserved for women, Trilokpuri and Kalyanpuri are reserved for the SC category, according to the poll body. The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal before the elections to all 272 MCD wards in early 2022. The results for the bypolls will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations and 26 candidates in the fray. Officials said Covid-19 patients can vote during the last hour of polling as per government guidelines. Of Delhi's 272 wards, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation have 104 each and East Delhi Municipal Corporation has 64. The BJP has been controlling all three corporations since 2012, when the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated into North, South and East corporations. The main candidates in the Kalyanpuri ward bye-elections are Dhirendra from the AAP, Siyaram Kanojia from the BJP and Dharampal Maurya from the Congress. Vijay Kumar from the AAP, Om Prakash Gugarwal from the BJP and Bal Kishan from the Congress are contesting from Trilokpuri ward. In Chauhan Banger, former AAP MLA Haji Ishraq Khan is pitted against Congress' Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad and BJP's Nazir Ansari. These three wards are under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP held these wards. The bypolls were necessitated after sitting councillors contested the assembly polls last year and became MLAs. In Shalimar Bagh North ward, which fell vacant after the death of the BJP councillor, the contest is between the saffron party's Surbhi Jaju, AAP's Sunita Mishra and Congress' Mamta. The BJP had retained all three corporations in the 2017 civic polls with the AAP finishing a distant second.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/voting-begins-for-bypolls-to-5-municipal-wards-in-delhi-956287.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Nine killed, 12 injured in separate road accidents in Rajasthan||Three persons, including two children, were killed and nine others injured when an SUV collided with a truck, they said, adding the incident took place around 2 am on Sunday. The group was on their way to Kaila Devi temple in Karauli district from Uttar Pradesh, police said. The deceased were identified as Ujjawal (8), Vaishnavi (9) and SUV driver Devendra (27), they said, adding the injured are undergoing treatment at the district hospital. Three men were killed and another was injured when a motorcycle collided with a pick-up jeep in Jalore district on Saturday, police said. They were returning to their village, Mandwala, after visiting Sudhamata temple. The deceased were identified as Jitendra Kumar (30), Madan Kumar (21) and Mahendra Kumar (22), police said. In the third incident, three persons were killed when a car hit a motorcycle in the Bhandana area of Dausa district on Saturday, the police said. Kailash Chand (45), Navalkishore (30) and Sanjay Kumar died on the spot, they added. Two occupants of the car were also injured in the collision, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-killed-12-injured-in-separate-road-accidents-in-rajasthan-956330.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||One year on, LNJP corona warriors recall raging pandemic, challenges||At state-run LNJP Hospital, the nerve centre of Delhi's battle against the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, many doctors at times had to wear PPE kits for nearly 18 hours to attend to struggling patients in the sweltering heat when its first wave had hit the city and the mortuary was piled up with bodies. It's been one year since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital, and daily cases and death counts have both come down significantly, and scenes of distress in the hospital's corridors and outside morgue have been replaced by talks about the ongoing vaccination. It was on March 1 that the first case of Covid-19 was recorded in the city, a few months after the "unpredictable virus" had wreaked havoc in Wuhan in China, where it was first reported globally. Rohit Datta, a businessman from east Delhi, who had returned from Italy last year, tested positive for the new virus that had left the world puzzled and in a grip of extreme fear. The world had not seen anything like this before since the Spanish Flu of 1918, and certainly not in India. As the cases began to spiral in large parts of the country, including Delhi, a nationwide lockdown was imposed late March by the government to contain the spread of the virus. While most people were practically left confined to their houses for several months and work for home became the new normal, healthcare workers faced the heavy brunt of the pandemic, as doctors, nurses, served patients day in and day out, without any weekly breaks, isolated from their family members for days, weeks or even months. Amit Anand, a 35-year-doctor at the 2,000-bed LNJP Hospital who has been on duty since the outbreak of the pandemic here, said, "It's one year of Covid in Delhi, and I also met my family back home, after a gap of one year." The Begusarai native, whose wife also holds an MBBS degree, told PTI, "I met my wife and son, now two-and-a-half years old, in Bokaro this February, and he almost didn't recognise me. The pandemic literally separated us from our families. But we have to do our job, which we have chosen, so that motivated us throughout this very tough period." LNJP Hospital, now a partial Covid-19 facility, was the first hospital to be converted into a dedicated coronavirus facility in Delhi, and soon Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH), GTB Hospital and other government hospitals were also roped in, besides reserving beds in private hospitals to treat increasing number of patients. On June 23, the national capital had reported its first wave of the infection with 3,947 cases, the highest single-day spike till then. Delhi went into a war mode, with government efforts to combat the pandemic being led by 'corona warriors' in hospitals in white lab coats and police in streets wearing khaki. Ritu Saxena, Emergency Department chief, at the hospital, which has treated a record over 11,000 Covid-19 patients till date, recalled that in June when the first wave had hit Delhi, a large number of people were dying daily and bodies would pile up beyond capacity in the mortuary. "Some doctors at times had to wear PPE (personal protective equipment) kits for 18 hours in a day in harsh summer when temperature had gone above 40 degrees Celsius to attend to patients," she said. Delhi then battled the second and third waves of the pandemic in September (over 4,000 daily cases multiple times) and November respectively, the latter being the worst this year, but the city known for its resilience, soldiered on and eventually manage to surmount it. The highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases in Delhi till date was reported on November 11, while on November 19 the city recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date. Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of the LNJP Hospital and a Covid-19 survivor, says the past one year of battling the pandemic had taught "valuable lessons" to meet the challenges ahead. "In this period, we also equipped ourselves with more medical infrastructure. So, we had 155 oxygen supply pipe lines in the beginning for beds, besides oxygen cylinders. We expanded it gradually to 1,000, to meet the 2,000-bed requirements. Also, we now know at least something about this virus and its behaviour," he told PTI. As one year gets over since the outbreak of the pandemic, while deaths have reduced significantly, daily cases have shown an upsurge in the last few days. Delhi recorded 243 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, while three fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,909, according to data shared by the city health department. This was the fourth successive day when daily cases count have stood at the 200-mark or beyond. Delhi had recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on February 16, the lowest in over nine months. Doctors on Friday warned that the numbers could go up in the coming months. While the vaccination drive which started on January 16 is currently underway, Kumar urged people to continue to wear masks and adhere to safety norms as the vaccine can only to cut the transmission of the virus. Asked what was the most memorable moment of this one year gone by, he said, "Entire period will stay with us in our memories, but feted by the government with floral showers from helicopters really touched our heart."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-year-on-lnjp-corona-warriors-recall-raging-pandemic-challenges-956331.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Kumbh Mela: Violation of Covid SOPs to attract penal action||Ahead of the Kumbh mela in Haridwar, the Uttarakhand government has issued standard operating procedures making it mandatory for devotees to produce a negative report of RT-PCR test conducted not earlier than 72 hours of arrival and warning of penal action against Covid-19 SOP violators. Based on the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the SOP also makes it compulsory for devotees to bring a medical fitness certificate and an e-pass or e-permit issued to them after registering on the Kumbh Mela web portal, Chief Secretary Om Prakash said. The devotees may carry their test reports, fitness certificate and e-passes on their mobile phones or in hard copies for verification as and when required, Prakash said. All state governments have been requested to widely publicise the SOP so that there is no confusion about it among the devotees, he said. The state health department has been asked to ensure that healthcare personnel and other frontline workers to be deployed on Kumbh duty are administered the Covid vaccine doses on priority, the official said. Officials have also been asked to promote Covid appropriate behaviour like maintaining a distance of 6 feet between two persons in public places, wearing of masks and frequent hand sanitisation, the chief secretary said. International travellers coming for Kumbh will also have to observe the SOP besides following the travel advisory available on the website of MoHFW for international arrivals. Any violation of the SOP will attract penal action against the defaulters, he said. The SOP is to be adhered to at all facilities in the Kumbh Mela area including parking lots, ghats, railway stations, bus stands, hotels, guest houses, ashrams and dharmashalas during the entire duration of the event, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kumbh-mela-violation-of-covid-sops-to-attract-penal-action-956359.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Over 7.35 lakh senior citizens registered with UP Police's emergency 112 service||Over 7.35 lakh senior citizens across Uttar Pradesh have so far registered themselves with the state police's 'Savera' initiative for "enhanced response" when the emergency 112 number is called, officials said. Additional Director General (ADG) of Police (112 service) Asim Arun said the initiative was launched in 2019 with an objective to prepare a database of senior citizens in the state. "At times senior citizens call 112 during emergency situations but are unable to describe their problem or inform their location. In case of cities having multi-storey and high-rise apartments, the PRV (police response vehicle) may track the call location but then there are hundreds of flats and difficult to find the callers location," Arun told PTI at the 112 headquarters in Lucknow. "So, for an enhanced response during such situations involving senior citizens, the Savera initiative was launched and 112 now has over 7.35 lakh senior citizens registered on it," he said. The data base, he said, includes information like name of a senior citizen, their home and work address, contacts of spouse, family or local acquaintances. "There is also an option for them to share their basic medical history so that in case it is a medical emergency, the 112 responders would already have adequate knowledge about the caller. But this information sharing is voluntary," the senior IPS officer said. Arun cited a number of cases, like incidents of domestic violence, in which the emergency police responders have prevented serious mishaps, fights, and even suicide attempts because of this initiative. According to 112 officials, such an enhanced response to distress calls creates a sense of security among the citizens. Any senior citizen living in Uttar Pradesh can get their primary registration in 'Savera' done by calling 112, the officials said. After primary registration, the local police station or beat officer goes to the residence of the senior citizen and gets the detailed registration done in which essential details like health, family (if provided by the senior citizen) are sought, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-735-lakh-senior-citizens-registered-with-up-polices-emergency-112-service-956361.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||19 passengers caught with ammunition at IGI airport this year: Police||Nineteen passengers were allegedly caught carrying ammunition in their hand baggage during screening at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport this year so far, police said on Sunday. A senior police official said all such passengers face criminal proceedings under the Arms Act. He also said it was a matter of concern that despite warnings passengers carry ammunition, knowingly or unknowingly, with them. From January 1 to February 26, a total of 19 cases, where ammunition was found in the passengers’ baggage during the security check, have been registered at the IGI airport police station under sections of the Arms Act, police said. A 44-year-old man was caught with 19 live bullets of .32 bore in his hand baggage on February 14, while he intended to travel to Bangalore from the IGI airport by a private airline, according to data shared by police. A case was registered against him under the Arms Act and during interrogation, he told police that the cartridges belonged to him and he has an arms license which is valid in Karnataka state only, police said. The man worked as a general manager quality for a Bangalore-based garment factory, they said. In another instance, a 21-year-old woman passenger, who was travelling from Delhi to Pune on February 14, was caught carrying one live cartridge in her hand baggage during screening at Terminal 2 of the IGI airport, police said. During interrogation, she told police that she is a housewife and her husband is a constable in the Indian Army and posted at Patiala Cantt. Since she was returning to her native place, she took her husband's trolley bag unaware of the presence of a bullet in the bag which she claimed belonged to her husband, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said as per legal provisions, an FIR is registered against passengers who carry ammunition illegally and without a valid license issued for Delhi or all India. The passenger has to face criminal proceedings before the court of law, he added. In the last three years -- from 2018 to February 2021, a total of 257 cases were registered under the Arms Act at the IGI airport, police said. An appeal that announced ‘Carrying Ammunition at Airport is a Non-Bailable Offence’ was circulated in the public domain through various social media platforms of the Delhi Police. Despite issuing such appeals to the public, cases, where cartridges are found in the baggage of the passengers, are still being reported, which is a matter of concern, Ranjan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/19-passengers-caught-with-ammunition-at-igi-airport-this-year-police-956368.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Arrival of sticky bombs in Kashmir sets off alarm bells||Security forces battling a decades-long insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir are alarmed by the recent arrival in the region of small, magnetic bombs that have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan. "Sticky bombs", which can be attached to vehicles and detonated remotely, have been seized during raids in recent months in the federally administered region of Jammu and Kashmir, three senior security officials told Reuters. "These are small IEDs and quite powerful," said Kashmir Valley police chief Vijay Kumar, referring to improvised explosive devices. "It will certainly impact the present security scenario as volume and frequency of vehicular movements of police and security forces are high in Kashmir Valley." The Indian government flooded Kashmir, already one of the world's most militarised regions, with more troops in August 2019, when it split the state into two federally administered territories. The arrival of the sticky bombs in Kashmir - including 15 seized in a February raid - raises concerns that an unnerving tactic attributed to the Taliban insurgents in nearby Afghanistan could be spreading to the India-Pakistan conflict. Afghanistan in recent months has seen a series of sticky-bomb attacks targeting security forces, judges, government officials, civil society activists and journalists. The attacks - some as victims sat in traffic - have sown fear, while avoiding substantial civilian casualties. None of the devices seized in Kashmir was produced there, a senior security official said, suggesting they were being smuggled from Pakistan. "All of them have come via drone drops and tunnels," he said, asking not to be named. Kashmir has long been a flashpoint between nuclear-armed neighbours India and Pakistan, which each claim all of the Himalayan regions but rule only parts of it. India accuses Pakistan of backing the insurgency in Kashmir, which has claimed tens of thousands of lives since the 1990s. Pakistan denies the charge, saying it gives only moral and diplomatic support to Kashmiri people fighting for self-determination. New Delhi has attempted to maintain a tight grip over the Kashmir Valley, where high-speed mobile internet was suspended for 18 months until earlier in February, but the insurgency has simmered on. Officials said the bombs are particularly worrying because they can be easily attached to vehicles using magnets, potentially allowing militants to carry out assassinations or target military convoys that regularly criss-cross the valley. In February 2019, a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives into a convoy in Kashmir's Pulwama, killing 40 soldiers - the deadliest attack on Indian forces in the region - bringing India and Pakistan to the brink of another war. Police chief Kumar said that security forces were changing protocols to deal with the new threat. The measures included increasing the distance between private and military traffic, installing more cameras on vehicles and using drones to monitor convoys. A difference between militants in Kashmir and Afghanistan is that the Taliban have tremendous ability to move around in urban and rural areas, which, along with the easier availability of explosives, make the bombs a potent threat. The Taliban, which initially said it was behind some of the attacks, has since denied any involvement in the attacks. "The Taliban has targets, can reach them, and kill them with impunity. The whole structure of the attack - and its endless repetition - is what makes the bomb effective," said Avinash Paliwal, a senior lecturer in international relations at SOAS University of London. "In Kashmir, the space for such ability to manoeuvre with ease is limited."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrival-of-sticky-bombs-in-kashmir-sets-off-alarm-bells-956369.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||22 lakh ABPM-JAY Sehat cards issued in J&K over 2 months; 22,000 get free treatment||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has issued Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (ABPM-JAY) Sehat golden cards to 22 lakh beneficiaries since the launch of the scheme in the union territory two months ago, officials said. As many as 22,000 patients have got free medical treatment under the scheme so far, they said. "Under the ABPM-JAY Sehat, in the first two months, 22.05 lakh golden cards have been issued (on a fast track basis). These are in addition to 13.28 lakh golden cards issued under ABPM-JAY", Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education Department, Atal Dulloo said on Sunday. About 70 per cent of eligible families have been registered so far under the PM-JAY scheme, he added. Dulloo said, “ABPM-JAY Sehat scheme is one of the most ambitious schemes of the government of Jammu and Kashmir. It is heartening to see residents availing free and cashless benefits from reputed empanelled hospitals of Jammu and Kashmir.” The scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in J-K on December 26. The Sehat scheme in convergence with PM-JAY aims to provide universal health insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per family on a floater basis. ABPM-JAY Sehat has the same benefits as available under PM-JAY, Dulloo said. The scheme covers all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, including employees and pensioners of the UT administration and their families, he said. The scheme covers up to three days of pre-hospitalisation and 15 days post-hospitalisation expenses, such as diagnostics and medicines, of a beneficiary patient, Dulloo said. "Benefits of the scheme are portable across the country i.e. a beneficiary can visit any of the more than 24,000 empanelled public or private hospitals (including 229 hospitals empanelled within union territory of Jammu and Kashmir) under ABPM-JAY in India to avail cashless treatment," he said. "A network of more than 5,000 CSCs are up and working in J-K. About 30 lakh residents of UT of J-K have already registered under the scheme. Thus, about 56 percent of the families eligible under ABPM-JAY Sehat have been registered," Dulloo said. “So far more than 450 patients have already availed benefits in empanelled hospitals from outside J-K using portability feature of ABPM-JAY scheme,” he said. The ambitious health insurance scheme is going to be the game-changer as far as healthcare services are concerned, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/22-lakh-abpm-jay-sehat-cards-issued-in-jk-over-2-months-22000-get-free-treatment-956388.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||One person arrested every three days for carrying bullets or arms at Delhi airport||One person is arrested every three days on average with ammunition in their hand baggage at the Delhi airport this year, Delhi Police statistics show. A total of 19 passengers, including four women, were apprehended with a weapon and 126 bullets between January 1 and February 26 this year at the airport during the screening of passengers. Besides the four women, the arrested included a garment factory general manager from Bengaluru with 19 live ammunition and a man from Goa who was caught with a .22 mm gun. Most of them are carrying bullets unknowingly though warnings were issued regularly against such practices. All those arrested are booked under relevant sections of the Arms Act. In one of the cases, the general manager of a Bengaluru-based garment factory was arrested at the Delhi airport on February 14 allegedly with 19 live bullets of .32 bore in his hand baggage. He was flying to Bengaluru and was apprehended during the screening of his baggage. He admitted that the cartridges belonged to him and told police that he had an arms licence, which is valid only in Karnataka. On the same day, a 21-year-old woman flying to Pune was apprehended allegedly with one bullet in her hand baggage. He told police that her husband is employed with the Indian Army and posted in Patiala. She claimed she was returning home and she took her husband's trolley bag without being aware of the presence of a bullet. The man from Goa was arrested with a gun on February 1. He also could not produce any document that allows him to carry a firearm. Another person flying from Delhi to Chennai was arrested with one empty magazine. He had the authorisation to carry it from Chennai to Jaipur via Delhi. However, he did not have a journey licence for taking it from Jaipur to Chennai via Delhi. A man flying to Amritsar was also apprehended allegedly with 50 live ammunition. Police said that an FIR is registered against passengers who carry ammunition illegally and without a valid license issued for Delhi or all India. Between 2018 and February 2021, 257 cases were registered under the Arms Act at the IGI airport. Police have also issued an appeal ‘Carrying Ammunition at Airport is a Non-Bailable Offence’ through various social media platforms. However, Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said it was a matter of concern that similar cases are still being reported despite police regularly issuing such appeals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-person-arrested-every-three-days-for-carrying-bullets-or-arms-at-delhi-airport-956400.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 60-year-old man arrested for raping 8-year-old child||A 60-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly raping an eight-year-old girl in the Gyanpur police station area of Bhadohi district. Gyanpur police station SHO Mohammad Alamgir on Sunday said the incident took place on Friday when the girl had gone to fields outside her village to collect firewood. The accused followed the girl, caught hold of her in the field and forced himself upon her, prompting the child to raise an alarm, the SHO said, adding hearing the child's cries, people rushed to her aid while the man fled from the spot. The accused then fled the spot while the child’s family members took her to a hospital, he said. They informed the police on Saturday after which a case was registered, the SHO said, adding the child has been sent for a medical examination. The accused was arrested on Sunday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-60-year-old-man-arrested-for-raping-8-year-old-child-956431.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Ghulam Nabi Azad lauds PM for being 'frank' about his past as tea-seller||A day after voicing concern over a ‘weak’ Congress, party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday showered praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being proud of his roots and cautioned leaders against “living in a bubble”. Addressing a felicitation programme organised by the Gujjar Desh Charitable Trust, Azad also appreciated the prime minister for not hiding his true self, a quality that sets him apart from others. “I, myself, had come from a village and I am proud of being a villager. I admire a lot of things about leaders like our prime minister who also says that he was from a village. He used to sell tea,” Azad said. “We may be rivals but I appreciate he doesn't hide his true self,” said Azad, who completed his tenure as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha recently. Congress has chosen to watch the moves of the dissenters and has refrained from making any harsh comments. However, the young leaders considered close to Rahul Gandhi have not shown restraint. “Dear Ghulam Nabi Azadji you can praise Modi Ji as much as you want. But please remember he tore Kashmir into pieces. This is the state and its people who made what you have been for decades along with Congress,” Jothimani, a first-term Lok Sabha member from Karur in Tamil Nadu said. In a farewell address to Azad and others who completed their tenures in the Rajya Sabha, Modi had choked up when he shared anecdotes about the veteran Congress leader. On Sunday, Azad hailed the Prime Minister as a “grounded person” and had a word of caution for persons hiding their true self. “If you hide your true self then you are living in a bubble or an imaginary world,” the former J&K chief minister said without making any reference to any person in particular. The remarks came a day after a group of dissenters within the Congress, led by Azad, on Saturday said the party was “getting weaker” across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghulam-nabi-azad-lauds-pm-for-being-frank-about-his-past-as-tea-seller-956455.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi: Final phase trial of contactless ticketing system to begin in 3,000 cluster buses from Monday||The final phase of trial of contactless ticketing system will begin in the around 3,000 cluster buses run by the Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System (DIMTS) through the 'Chartr' app from Monday, a transport department statement said. The trial of the app is already underway in all 3,760 buses operated by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), it said. Approximately, four lakh tickets have been booked using the app so far. The pink tickets for women passengers, who travel free of cost in public transport buses, comprise 67 percent of the total tickets booked through the app, it said. "The total daily ticket booking through 'Chartr' app is around 10,000. In the last 10 days, the ticket count through this app has witnessed around 10 per cent increase on a daily basis," it said. The app has seen a progressive increase in the number of users since its trial began and over two lakh people have downloaded it since its release, it said. The trial of the app was launched in August last year amid rising numbers of Covid-19 infections in the city. The one-month trial would cover all the routes of DIMTS buses. In the last week of February, the trial of this app was extended to all 3,760 DTC buses till March 31. Chartr has been developed with the technical support of the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology Delhi (IIIT-Delhi). E-ticketing in DIMTS was started in August last year on route number 473. The total number of buses increased to 550 thereafter in a phased manner. In DTC, the trial of this online ticketing app was started in September last year on route 534 in Ghazipur and Hasanpur depots. It started in a total of 35 buses from both depots.  The transport department in collaboration with IIIT-Delhi trained all the depot managers and the staff of around 50 depots who trained bus conductors as they play a crucial role in the whole system, the statement said. The passengers can take an e-ticket through the app after boarding the bus. A user can also view all stoppages of a bus and expected time of arrivals (ETA) at a bus stand for the next half hour. A user can buy up to three tickets for a journey. The app automatically suggests pink ticket for female passengers based on the gender entered by the user. A female passenger can buy one pink ticket for each journey. More features such as the option to buy a monthly pass, pre-booking, postpaid ticketing are likely to be included in the app in near future, added the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-final-phase-trial-of-contactless-ticketing-system-to-begin-in-3000-cluster-buses-from-monday-956472.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Kamal Nath hits out at BJP over free Covid-19 vaccine promise||Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath on Sunday hit out at the BJP government at the Centre for announcing charges for Covid-19 vaccine doses after claiming in various poll campaigns that inoculation against the infection would be free of cost. On Saturday, the Union Health ministry had announced that private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250 per dose of Covid-19 vaccine, including Rs 100 service charge, while it would be free for those opting to get inoculated in government facilities. "BJP leaders, during polls, said the vaccine would be free. Now we have been told elders and those with serious ailments will have to pay Rs 500 for two doses," Nath said, adding that the ruling party's free vaccination promise has also tuned out to be a "jumla" (poll rhetoric). Hitting back, MP BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said Nath and the Congress were misleading the people as the "government is providing free vaccination to health workers, frontline workers and senior citizens in government hospitals". "The charges are for those who opt to go to private hospitals," Agrawal added. A mass vaccination drive is set to begin nationwide on March 1 targeting senior citizens and people above the age of 45 who have 20 specified comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-hits-out-at-bjp-over-free-covid-19-vaccine-promise-956498.html
28-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar accuses 'G-23' dissident leaders of politics of opportunism||The public squabbling in the Congress intensified on Sunday with the party's Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar hitting out at 'G-23' dissident leaders and asking them to shun the “politics of opportunism”. In a statement, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president referred to remarks of party leaders Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma, made at a public event in Jammu on Saturday, and said those opposing reforms in the organisation were doing a great disservice not only to the party but also to the country. “Come and join me in the protest which would be a refresher course for you all in raising the voice for the people we serve far away from the cozy environs of Rajya Sabha galleries,” Jakhar said, referring to the Punjab Congress' planned march to "gherao the Punjab Raj Bhavan against the spiralling prices of essential commodities".     He said some senior party leaders were “indulging in politics of opportunities” that too at a time when every Congress worker is fighting the grave battle to save and preserve the idea of India "under assault from oppressive central regime". Jakhar said the country needs Congress to engage in politics of struggle to raise the voice of the common man on the street and urged these leaders to take up issues of the public. The leaders are part of the dissident group which was given the moniker of G-23 after it wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi last year demanding an organisational overhaul and internal elections for all posts in the Congress.         Coming together on one stage, several of these leaders had on Saturday said that the Congress has weakened and they have taken it upon themselves to strengthen it. Reacting to it, the party had said that these leaders should join the Congress' campaign in poll-bound states and strengthen it, instead of becoming active against each other. "Those raising their voice against reforms in an organisation which gave them the most potent platform to evolve as leaders, they are today are doing a great disservice not only to the party but also to the country,” Jakhar said.           Disagreeing with Raj Babbar's reported "Hum hi Congress hain" comment, Jakhar underlined the "Congress party is older than you and me" and its core philosophy has consistently been of public service only. “No doubt, you are Congress,” Jakhar said, adding that such comments do not behove a senior leader like Babbar.             On Ghulam Nabi Azad's statement that he has retired from Rajya Sabha and not from active politics, Jakhar said that "retiring from the upper house never means retiring from politics. Rather, politics has begun now".           Referring to Sibal's statement about the need to further strengthen the party, the Punjab Congress chief invited him to join him in working "for the people on the streets to make the party and the country stronger". This is the time to be with the people, he said and expressed the hope that all these leaders would now come forward for the “politics of struggle” also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-chief-sunil-jakhar-accuses-g-23-dissident-leaders-of-politics-of-opportunism-956531.html
28-02-2021||Opinion||How past vaccine races can help win this one||By Clara Ferreira Marques, “The vaccine works. It is safe, effective, and potent.” In 1955, those were the words that told the world US scientist Jonas Salk’s polio shot was a success. It was news greeted with popular jubilation, ringing church bells and boldface banner headlines. The sort of heartfelt relief that most of us can readily identify with, more than a year into a coronavirus pandemic that has now killed 2.5 million people.  In an age when rich countries have largely forgotten the ravages of infectious disease, we have spent the past months grappling with the impact of a highly contagious illness that does not discriminate. We now hope our technological and medical advances can accomplish in months what it took decades to achieve in the past with poliovirus, smallpox or measles. As those rejoicing at Salk’s victory soon found, the first vaccines are the end of the beginning — not quite the beginning of the end.  The two viruses are very different. Poliomyelitis is primarily spread through contact and infected faecal matter, while Covid-19 is usually transmitted through respiratory droplets. The first tends to affect young children, and can invade the nervous system. The second appears to hit the elderly hardest. Polio has triggered no pandemics, no economic crashes. Yet the large-scale campaign against what was once called infantile paralysis, and the fear that preceded it, is arguably the closest precedent to today’s effort. There’s good news in that. Past inoculation successes are reminders of what is possible: We know that vaccination works. There were also painful mistakes that stand as salutary reminders for modern policy makers that ending viral nightmares requires sound judgment, investment and trust.  Records of polio cases date back centuries, perhaps as far back as ancient Egypt, but epidemics only became a serious scourge in Europe and the United States as the last century dawned. The first recognised US outbreak was in Vermont in 1894. Others followed. In 1916, a devastating summer in New York brought death, lockdowns, anti-immigrant prejudice and culls of cats. It left a trail of dread. The annual number of US cases peaked in 1952 at nearly 60,000. Many more children died in accidents or from cancer over these years, but panic was widespread. Images of patients in iron lungs, huge metal chambers designed to help patients breathe, terrified. So did young children in leg braces. By the 1950s, the only thing Americans feared more than polio was the nuclear bomb.  Ending that took a crusade. President Franklin Roosevelt, who contracted polio in 1921, helped turn a rehabilitation charity into an unprecedented national campaign that touched nearly every American, encouraging them to give just one coin for research. They did, sending them in such large numbers the White House could hardly cope. The March of Dimes began in 1938, transformed fundraising and collected hundreds of millions of dollars. Then, success. Salk got to the finish line first with an inactivated virus vaccine, earning him popular adulation, though not necessarily the respect of his peers. Albert Sabin, a bitter rival who developed a different, live virus oral vaccine approved a few years later, dismissed it as “kitchen chemistry,” arguing the University of Pittsburgh scientist had simply put together findings others had made. Still, thanks to both, cases plummeted. After a year or so of Covid-19, we have vaccine breakthroughs, but we’re not yet near the finish line; eradication is distant. There are too many unanswered questions. We don’t know enough about how immunity works after illness or vaccination, nor do we fully understand transmission. Cases go untraced. The goal of today’s shots is to bring down mortality rates, and to keep health systems running. Children will not be immunized for months. Eventually, though, the target will shift. Victory will require mass and even routine inoculation while tackling significant scepticism.  As that happens, it’s worth considering that the world has been here before. There are lessons to carry into the 21st century. At the most basic level, it’s clear that central government-led policy — leadership — is crucial at every stage, from supporting vaccine development to dissemination. The official decision to get behind polio inoculations didn’t guarantee a cure, but without support would have taken far longer. So too with Covid-19. In the US, Operation Warp Speed, a $12 billion-plus effort to fund vaccines, was a rare bright spot in the Trump administration’s otherwise dismal handling of the outbreak. Investment in manufacturing may have saved months. It’s a pity so much time was wasted by the same officials, failing to plan adequately for the actual injections.  A sound strategy will have to include insuring that even the least-affluent countries have the necessary healthcare structures, without which routine immunization, cold chains to preserve vaccines, timely testing, monitoring and oversight — the basics for control of Covid-19 and any subsequent viruses — will be impossible. It’s a priority that has been neglected for too long already. While good governance helps, poor decisions create disproportionate and lasting damage. In the US campaign against polio, not unlike Covid-19, the first hiccup was dissemination. President Dwight Eisenhower’s administration simply did not see distribution as its role. That was “socialised medicine,” opposed by the then secretary of health, education and welfare. One official quoted in David Oshinsky’s “Polio: An American Story” suggested that an allocation program would “constitute an undesirable precedent.” Shortages plagued the early years of the campaign, as did inequities in access at a time when US schools were only just being desegregated. But what followed was worse. In the rush, inspection failures allowed tainted vaccines from one manufacturer, Cutter Laboratories, to get through and spread polio among children and their communities, leaving some 200 paralysed and 10 dead. The pause that followed meant more than 28,000 mostly avoidable cases were reported in 1955, Oshinsky writes. The incident and the obfuscating official statements around it caused deep misgivings and still fuel anti-vaxxers today. It ushered in far tighter regulation in the US and beyond, a boon. It also opened the floodgates to predatory litigation that kept large pharmaceutical firms away from vaccines, seen as high risk and low reward.  Trust is vital to success. It’s striking today to read accounts of a 1947 smallpox scare in New York during which, according to the city’s health commissioner, some 6.4 million people were inoculated in less than a month, most within two weeks. That’s spectacular compared to the current pace of Covid-19 vaccinations. Authorities at the city level were able to take decisions that might be impossible today, and there are questions on the exact figures. But a popular belief in science, clear messaging, and reports like that of President Harry Truman rolling up his sleeves helped stop the spread. In 1956, Elvis lent a hand in the polio fight when he was vaccinated on live television. Rebuilding that confidence is tough, whether in politically polarized Western societies or regions like Pakistan and Afghanistan, where misinformation and threats have helped wild polio remain endemic. In 2003, rumours in northern Nigeria that polio vaccinations were contaminated with anti-fertility agents caused a devastating boycott. Five years later, the country accounted for nearly 90% of type one wild polio cases globally. Combating that means education and swift response to local concerns, especially in countries that may have competing priorities. Vaccine mistrust dates back centuries, but it’s far more pernicious in the age of the internet. It requires presence in communities, where peers can answer questions and concerns. It’s vital, not just in developing nations, to get through to everyone with reason — not condescension, let alone coercion. There remains, to quote one British parliamentarian debating smallpox in 1807, the liberty of doing wrong. History tells us that the best vaccination efforts are built on collaboration and coordination. We know that the US and Soviet Union working together at the height of the Cold War was instrumental in testing the oral polio vaccine. In the 1960s, a Soviet freeze-drying technique helped provide smallpox vaccine doses for developing countries, supported financially by the US Later, a global effort helped dramatically reduce polio cases — and even that might have happened more easily if the emerging world hadn’t been left to last, or cost had not dominated concerns for too long. The live vaccine has been crucial, but combined with poor inoculation practices has also led to a surge in vaccine-derived polio.  We’ve seen over the past few months that fast action is possible with investment and commitment. Full victory is more elusive. Aidan O’Leary, director for polio eradication at the World Health Organization, emphasised to me the importance of aiming not for coverage targets, but for zero cases. It’s relatively easy to get to 50% or even 70% coverage, and soon Western economies will rebound — but the countdown to zero implies that not even the most vulnerable are missed, and that’s tougher. It demands sustained investment and momentum. The smallpox vaccine was discovered in 1796. After a false start, an intensified WHO eradication plan got under way in 1967. There are questions about compulsion, but the illness was vanquished by 1980. Not all efforts have had similar success, because illnesses have been harder to control, vaccines not fully effective or governments stumbled. The economic impact and financial focus on Covid-19 suggests success is more likely than ever before. Learning lessons from history can make it a triumph for everyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-past-vaccine-races-can-help-win-this-one-956302.html
28-02-2021||Opinion||Why Warren Buffett won’t take the Reddit bait||By Tara Lachapelle "All that’s required is the passage of time, an inner calm,” began a sentence in Warren Buffett’s annual letter to his followers Saturday. He was talking about the essentials of investing in a farm or business, but it felt like a metaphor for the collectively lonely and despairing moment that the world found itself in during the past year. With his own 90-year perspective, Buffett reminded his readers that a moment is all this is. The bar was high for Buffett this time, given all that’s happened since last year’s letter: a public-health crisis; lockdowns; social unrest; worsening wealth inequality; a new US president; extreme political divisiveness that led to insurrectionists storming the Capitol; climate disasters such as the tragic freezing conditions and blackouts in Texas last week; the resurgence of Bitcoin; and the recent market tumult brought on in part by a boiling over of frustrations with the state of the world. Did he clear that bar? Perhaps that’s the wrong question. Anyone looking to hear his thoughts on today’s issues may feel let down — he didn’t directly address any of them — but I doubt his devotees were surprised by this or disappointed. Buffett met the occasion by doing what he always does: explain his decisions, take his lumps and victory laps, offer up his musings on investing. If you wanted something different, you didn’t get it, and you don’t know Buffett. The last time the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. spoke publicly was at the virtual shareholder meeting in May, an uncharacteristically somber event at which he sat in an empty auditorium normally filled with his adoring fans and left listeners wondering whether he was still the Oracle of Omaha. New icons with investing philosophies arguably antithetical to the Buffett way have since filled the void, such as Tesla Inc. billionaire Elon Musk, futuristic stock picker Cathie Wood and so-called SPAC king Chamath Palihapitiya — especially as Berkshire’s stock continues to lag the market.  But Buffett has his story and he’s sticking to it. And as if to remind readers of exactly that, the letter takes time to recount the history of Berkshire and how it came to be: a state-by-state discovery of ordinary Americans building extraordinary businesses — See’s Candies, Nebraska Furniture Market, Clayton Homes, Pilot Travel Centers — that Buffett and his now-97-year-old partner, Charlie Munger, couldn’t help but acquire and continue to admire. Some are still run by descendants of the families that started them. If this were to be Buffett’s last letter, it would be a relatively eloquent signoff. Here’s a notable passage: There has been no incubator for unleashing human potential like America. Despite some severe interruptions, our country’s economic progress has been breathtaking. Beyond that, we retain our constitutional aspiration of becoming “a more perfect union.” Progress on that front has been slow, uneven and often discouraging. We have, however, moved forward and will continue to do so. Our unwavering conclusion: Never bet against America. There was no mention of Bitcoin, Robinhood or Reddit, but Buffett did write glowingly of “the million-plus” individual investors who own Berkshire stock. He and Munger “feel a special obligation” to this group because their earliest investors when they began managing money — before acquiring Berkshire Hathaway in 1965 — were just regular people. “Partners” is what they call Berkshire shareholders, and the company says it’s happy with the partners it has, not needing to court Wall Street the way other publicly traded companies might. That Berkshire never holds earnings calls with analysts or attends investor conferences apart from its own annual event is the somewhat controversial proof. On the topic of the Reddit day-trading phenomenon, Munger put it a bit differently this week, telling the Wall Street Journal: “I hate this luring of people into engaging in speculative orgies.” And while taking questions during the shareholder meeting Wednesday for Daily Journal Corp., which he chairs, Munger had choice words for SPACs, too. “I think the world would be better off without them,” he said. “It's just that the investment banking profession will sell s--t as long as s--t can be sold.” He is truly the yin to Buffett’s yang. The biggest omission from Buffett’s letter was any rumination on markets and valuations, nor were there signs that maybe he’d come to accept higher prices as the new normal. In fact, it seems to be just the opposite. Berkshire had to write down the value of its last major acquisition, Precision Castparts, by $11 billion. The aerospace-parts manufacturer was hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic as travel stopped. “I paid too much for the company,” he wrote. Doesn’t sound like he’s eager to make that mistake again. Instead, Berkshire has been buying back stock. Share repurchases tallied almost $25 billion in 2020. Speaking to his “partners,” he wrote, “That action increased your ownership in all of Berkshire’s businesses by 5.2%,” and added that buybacks have continued since yearend. Last week, Berkshire also revealed large stakes in Chevron Corp. and Verizon Communications Inc. The company’s cash stockpile — so large it has become part of Buffett folklore — did come down a tad last quarter to $138 billion.     The topic of succession didn’t come up in Saturday’s memo either, but Buffett did reveal that the virtual May meeting will be held not in Omaha as usual but in Los Angeles, where a wheelchair-bound Munger lives. Vice Chairmen Greg Abel and Ajit Jain, who have been given more authority in recent years, will also take part in the Q&A. Perhaps more succession news is in store. “Nobody’s going to listen to Buffett. Buffett doesn’t have the energy to say what he said 30 and 40 years ago in 2021. And that’s OK, he’s earned the right to basically chill out and be the GOAT. But there has to be other folks that take that mantle, take the baton and do it as well to this younger generation in a language they understand.” This was Palihapitiya speaking in a Bloomberg TV interview earlier this month. Maybe Buffett’s style doesn’t fit the current moment, but a moment is all it is. Value investing has cycled in and out of fashion, and as fad securities sold off this week, there’s talk that it may be back “in” again. In any case, “energy” isn’t what earned Buffett his celebrity. It was patience, conviction, a sense of duty to his partners and a rejection of complex profit adjustments that are so often used to obscure and confuse. That philosophy should never go out of style.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-warren-buffett-won-t-take-the-reddit-bait-956311.html
28-02-2021||Opinion||Tailored ads are killing the informed consumer||By Cathy O'Neil In many ways, the tailored advertising that supports much of the internet works pretty well. It helps people with money figure out where to spend it with minimal effort and waste. But I’m afraid it could lead to the extinction a certain kind of human: the informed consumer. The early internet was pretty useless for finding stuff. I’m an avid knitter, which is another way of saying that I collect yarn. I remember prospecting on the Alta Vista search engine in the mid-1990s, before Google: Most yarn stores didn’t have websites, and even finding discussions was hard. The best resource for yarn stores back then was an actual book called the MilePost Guide — which, on my Alaskan honeymoon in 1997, took me and my shockingly patient new husband to every purveyor reachable by car. Fast forward to now. Whenever I browse online, I’m accosted by luxury sellers displaying sexy jewel-toned reams of yarn like NSFW porn. As much as I might struggle to ignore it, I am susceptible — as evidenced by all the impulse-buy inventory in my basement, in tones of burgundy, leaf green and turquoise. Yet I see and buy only certain types of yarn, produced by big companies with ample marketing budgets. It’s like strolling through an endless mall filled with national chain stores, every third of which is Yankee Candles. Sure, with some effort I can seek out something different. I can go to conventions and specialized websites in search of rare, local brands. But I’m no longer as hungry for the yarn experience, in large part because it comes to me daily, sapping my volition. The overall experience is simultaneously convenient and lame, even as I feel utterly sated. I’ve gone from a passionate investigator to a passive consumer. I recognize that my yarn experience is not among the world’s great issues. Yet the phenomenon applies elsewhere, too. Consider financial services. I’m in no hurry to revisit the sexist and racist lending practices of the 1950s. But as recently as the 1990s, I could and did visit several different banks to compare their offerings, which were pretty much standard for anyone who walked in the door. Now, if I go online, each bank will eyeball my credit and — while I’m busy streaming Derry Girls — push out some tailored products designed to extract the maximum profit from me. I can’t be an informed consumer, because I see only what they choose to show me. Instead of doing due diligence, I’m getting profiled and managed. Another consequential example is the job market. As the economy recovers from the pandemic, people will be searching for work largely online. The main job sites — such as LinkedIn, Indeed and Monster — make money by finding the best matches between employer and candidate. This means the platforms will optimize by showing people the jobs that people like them have proven most likely to get, as opposed to the jobs they might actually want. Aside from the obvious risk of illegal discrimination. this will have the effect of limiting people’s ambitions, since they might never see the more highly paid positions that, although harder to get, might be within reach. Again, I’m not saying it’s impossible to bypass the targeting. Savvy job seekers who push past the first few pages of listings might find that diamond in the rough. But I fear that by making things too easy, the age of automation might be allowing some of our most valuable skills to atrophy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tailored-ads-are-killing-the-informed-consumer-956354.html
28-02-2021||South||Kerala dismisses reports on excluding private hospitals from 2nd phase of Covid vaccination||As the country gears up for the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive from Monday, the Kerala government has dismissed reports that private hospitals were excluded from the programme and said steps have been taken to ensure their cooperation which is "essential" for the initiative. State Health Department officials here said preparations have been completed in around 300 private hospitals for the drive and the ongoing propaganda that private hospitals were not part of the second phase of the vaccination was "baseless". The details of those private hospitals, taking part in the government programme, can be available in the website http:ha.kerala.gov.in/list-of-empanelled-hospitals, they said. "The participation of the private hospitals is essential for the time-bound and safe vaccination. Seeking to coordinate the activities related to the immunisation programme at the private hospitals, several meetings have been conducted under the Covid-19 vaccine may cost up to Rs 250 per dose in private hospitalsaegis of senior health department officials at the district level," an official statement said. Several private medical facilities have come forward to cooperate with the vaccination drive and its follow-up measures would be taken as per the guidelines of the Centre, it added. Everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities would be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at a number of private hospitals, the Centre had said last week. These beneficiaries would be able to register themselves on the Co-WIN platform from Monday itself, the Centre said adding that there would also be a walk-in provision for the beneficiaries to get themselves registered at the session sites. The second phase of the world's largest vaccination drive would start from Monday, in which anybody above 60 years, that may not be less than 10 crore people in the country, and above 45 years with comorbidities would be administered the vaccine at 10,000 government medical facilities and over 20,000 private hospitals, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had said said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-dismisses-reports-on-excluding-private-hospitals-from-2nd-phase-of-covid-vaccination-956327.html
28-02-2021||South||One section of job aspirants withdraw strike in Kerala||The ongoing indefinite stir by a section of job aspirants in front of the Kerala government secretariat has been called off following favourable assurance by the government. Candidates who cleared the recruitment tests of Kerala Public Service Commission to the post of last grade servants and awaiting postings withdrew their stir following a meeting with Kerala Law Minister A K Balan. However, since the elections were already announced, the government would require the Election Commission's nod as Assembly elections were declared in the state. Representatives of the candidates said that the minister assured that more vacancies would be created by reducing the duty hours of the existing last grade servants. The government will seek the Election Commission's nod for this. Meanwhile, the government is yet to initiate talks with candidates who cleared the civil police officer's tests as the validity of the rank lists already expired. The candidates alleged that owing to delay in reporting vacancies by the government most of them did not get placement. Even as the job aspirants were on stir for the past many weeks, the law minister was deputed for holding talks with the job aspirants on stir by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, the day on which elections were notified. Hence the opposition Congress and BJP alleged that it was just a gimmick fearing backlash in the elections. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the government was trying to save its face by giving assurances to the candidates after the election was declared. The government had enough time before the declaration of the election to hold talks and give assurances. But they did not do that despite the repeated plea of the candidates. Even now there was no assurance to withdraw the strike. Meanwhile, an indefinite hunger strike by three Youth Congress workers in support of the job aspirants was also called off. Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil said that a discussion between representatives of the job aspirants and leadership of Congress-led UDF would be initiated and definite assurances would be given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-section-of-job-aspirants-withdraw-strike-in-kerala-956349.html
28-02-2021||South||Inoculation Phase 2: Tamil Nadu won't disclose type of Covid-19 vaccine used, as per guidelines||Director of Public Health Selvavinayagam told the publication that the guidelines were in accordance with a policy decision from the Union government, and the vaccine used — Covaxin or Covishield — will not be known to beneficiaries. "The guidelines say that you’ll not know from which company it’s coming; it will be just a Covid-19 vaccine. It will not be revealed since till now we just say that it is a polio or hepatitis vaccine and no one knows the company. It is a government of India policy," he said. Tamil Nadu will begin the second phase of Covid vaccinations from March 1 for people above 60 and above 45 with comorbidities. The guidelines further state that: 1. There will be only one live appointment for a beneficiary at any point of time for each dose. 2. Vaccine type will not be disclosed at the time of appointment. 3. The Co-WIN portal will provide the facility for booking an appointment based on the Vaccination Centers declared by the states/UTs. It will also have their location, the dates on which appointment slots are provided and the vacancies available at the Centre while booking. 4. The second dose of the vaccine will be scheduled on the 29th day from the date of appointment of the first dose. 5. Beneficiaries can change the slot for the second dose for a date between the 29th day and 42nd day from the first dose. This can be done only if the first dose has already been administered and only for centres where the vaccine type available is the same as the first dose. 6. Special reserved second dose slots will be kept for beneficiaries who are not able to avail vaccination for 2nd dose in the period of 29th day to 42nd day of administration of the first dose. 7. If a beneficiary cancels a 1st dose appointment, then the appointment of both doses will be cancelled. 8. The second dose appointment cannot be cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inoculation-phase-2-tamil-nadu-wont-disclose-type-of-covid-19-vaccine-used-as-per-guidelines-956372.html
28-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK chief M K Stalin to contest from Kolathur in Chennai||DMK President M K Stalin on Sunday expressed his interest to contest from Kolathur, a constituency that he represents since 2011, for the third consecutive term in the April 6 assembly election. Stalin personally submitted an application at the party headquarters seeking a ticket for him from Kolathur constituency in Chennai. Party insiders said this is probably the first time Stalin submitted the application in person. The DMK has been collecting applications from ticket aspirants and the same closed on Sunday.  Stalin shifted from Thousand Lights constituency, where he won 4 times and lost twice, to Kolathur in Chennai in 2011, but he won by a slim margin. However, in 2016, the DMK leader won by a huge margin. Stalin seeking the Kolathur seat comes days after his son Udhayanidhi expressed interest to contest from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni, which was represented by his grandfather and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi in the past. The DMK will begin interviewing people who have sought tickets from the party from March 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-dmk-chief-m-k-stalin-to-contest-from-kolathur-in-chennai-956409.html
28-02-2021||South||'Urappanu LDF': Kerala's CPM-led alliance's new election slogan||'Urappanu LDF' (It's sure, LDF) is the new slogan of the CPM-led Left Democratic Front in Kerala for the coming Assembly election. CPM state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan formally announced the new slogan by hanging over the tag line to Chief Minister for sure. Vijayaraghavan said that it was a message that LDF would come to power again and had fulfilled the assurances already given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/urappanu-ldf-keralas-cpm-led-alliances-new-election-slogan-956426.html
28-02-2021||South||With its heft and space shrinking, Left looks to retain Kerala, win back Bengal||Going into political battles in the crucial states of West Bengal and Kerala, the Left Fronts' fortune depends on its alliance partners as it looks to retain power in the southern state and revive its political relevance in the eastern, once its stronghold. In both the states, the Congress will significantly influence the Left's prospects — as an opponent against the CPI(M)-led LDF government in Kerala, and a partner in West Bengal. While four states – also including Assam and Tamil Nadu — and the Union Territory of Puducherry are going to polls over the next month, the fight will be most keenly watched in the eight-phase war in West Bengal, where the Left Front once again has decided to ally with the Congress after a failed experiment during the 2016 West Bengal Assembly election. "These are crucial elections. Our overall objective is to keep the BJP at bay. In Bengal, the basic alternative that is emerging, on the strength of the people’s struggles in the past few months braving the repression of the TMC government, is the secular democratic alliance of Left-Congress. To defeat the BJP in Bengal, it is necessary to defeat the incumbent TMC government, which has facilitated the BJP’s entry into the state. The anti-incumbency against the TMC government is the biggest feeder of the BJP in terms of vote share,” CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said. In 2016, the alliance secured 38 per cent of the votes, seven per cent fewer than what the TMC got. CPI (ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, however, finds little merit in the alliance. The party, which recently won 12 out of the 19 seats it contested in the Bihar Assembly polls in alliance with once bitter rival RJD, has chosen to go solo in Bengal on 12 seats. The CPI-(ML), he said, will lend its support to all non-BJP parties, including the TMC, if required. ¨Somewhere, the weakening of the Left in Bengal has allowed the BJP to emerge as a force in the state. The Left front has to identify that the BJP is the number one threat, not the TMC. Underestimating the BJP could be the biggest mistake here. We are not in a position to convince the CPI(M), so we decided to go alone. ¨Putting the TMC and the BJP in the same bracket is a mistake and could weaken the fight against the BJP in the state. Also, the viability of the Left Front-Congress alliance is yet to be proven,” he said. These issues are not unknown to the CPI(M) cadres on the ground and the Leader of the Left Legislature Party in the Assembly and CPI(M) MLA Sujan Chakraborty knows that. ¨At the end of the day, we want to defeat the TMC and the BJP, and along the way, some sacrifices have to be made. Our cadres understand that alliances need to be forged. The Left parties are not driven by individuals, we are ruled by party orders,” he said. Allying with the Congress in West Bengal and fighting against it n Kerala presents a unique set of challenges before the Left front. Big Congress faces — Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra — are unlikely to share the stage with Left leaders in West Bengal to ensure their Kerala alliance looks undented. In fact, in Sunday’s mega rally in West Bengal, despite requests from state party leaders, the duo will not be seen on stage. Also, a significant player in the Bengal polls could be the third partner in the Left-Congress alliance, the Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui-led Indian Secular Front (ISF). It could fetch a big chunk of the vote share for the alliance by bringing in Muslims as well as the anti-TMC Muslim votes into the fold. Siddiqui, a pirzada at one of the holiest shrines among Bengali Muslims — Furfura Sharif in Hooghly — launched the ISF last month and could become a deciding factor in a close contest scenario. West Bengal has a 30 per cent Muslim population and can influence the outcomes in around 100-110 seats. In Kerala, though the battle is clearly between the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-led-UDF, and Yechury is convinced that the Left-led alliance is poised to return to power. ¨We will return to power and it will be unprecedented. There will be continuity in the government. This is because of the work done by the LDF which was vindicated in the results of the local body polls. ¨In Kerala the BJP will be cut to size, but unfortunately, the Congress-led UDF is playing in tandem with the BJP in Kerala to defeat the LDF,” he said. CPI General Secretary D Raja said, ¨In all these states, including in Assam, the general anti-incumbency is very high and the way NRC was dealt with and the extreme communal polarisation caused has resulted in the overarching desire of people to defeat the BJP. The mismanagement of the COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis has added to this.” Both Raja and Yechury said that in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the BJP alliances are set for major defeats because of what they did over the last five years. ¨The CPIM is in the lead to mobilise the anti-BJP forces, to mobilise people for alternative policies which are pro-people and against the policies of the BJP government,¨ said Yechury. The Left-Congress-ISF alliance will kick-start their campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Kolkata on Sunday — the success of which is likely to give a boost to the two-pronged campaign of the Left.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-its-heft-and-space-shrinking-left-looks-to-retain-kerala-win-back-bengal-956429.html
28-02-2021||South||Kamal Haasan to contest from MGR's old constituency?||In yet another bid to claim the legacy of M G Ramachandran, actor-politician Kamal Haasan is likely to make his debut in elections from Alandur, which was represented by the late matinee idol for a decade from 1967. Alandur constituency was known as Parangimalai till 1977 after which it was renamed. Though Kamal was keen on contesting from Velachery, a constituency that has a sizeable chunk of middle-class and upper-middle-class voters, MNM leaders now feel Alandur is the right choice. “Our leader Kamal Haasan has been claiming the legacy of M G Ramachandran and we feel it is fitting that he contests from Alandur. We have proposed this to him and he will take a call,” a senior MNM leader told DH. However, the leader added that Velachery and T. Nagar are still among the choices for Kamal. If Kamal contests from Alandur, the party may field one of its general secretaries from Velachery. MNM candidate, M Sridhar, had scored over 10 per cent of the total polled votes in the constituency in the 2019 LS polls from Sriperumbudur parliamentary seat. DH had on December 16 reported that Kamal might test the electoral waters from the Velachery constituency. Alandur, formerly known as Parangimalai, has a special place in Tamil Nadu's political history as MGR made his debut in elections in 1967 and later successfully sought re-election in 1971. Kamal, who projects himself as a change agent, has been making a concerted effort to claim the legacy of MGR, inviting vehement opposition from AIADMK, the party the late leader founded in 1972. The BJP has also sought to claim MGR's legacy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-to-contest-from-mgrs-old-constituency-956457.html
28-02-2021||South||Supreme Court to hear plea against Tamil Nadu law granting 69% quota in jobs, admissions||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear on March 5 a plea challenging the constitutional validity of the 1993 Tamil Nadu law providing 69 per cent quota to scheduled castes (SCs), scheduled tribes (STs) and backward classes in admissions and government jobs in the state. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari on Friday took note of submissions that a similar plea against the Tamil Nadu quota law has been pending before the apex court since 2012, and ordered tagging of the fresh plea filed by one Dinesh B this year with the earlier one. "It is brought to our notice that the validity of Tamil Nadu Reservation Act, 1993 is assailed in Writ Petition... of 2012 and is pending before this Court. In that case, we deem it appropriate to direct the Registry to place this writ petition along with Writ Petition... of 2012 before appropriate Bench on 5th March, 2021 for consideration of interim relief and for other appropriate orders, as pressed in this writ petition," the court said in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing. The bench also said that the application of National Union of Backward Classes, SCs, STs and Minorities, seeking to be made a party in the pending proceedings would also be taken up by it on March 5. This organisation, in its plea filed through its secretary general S Geetha, supports the state law and wants to be heard in the case filed against the quota law. Dinesh B, who was represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, has filed the plea this year assailing the Tamil Nadu Backward classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational Institution and appointment or posts in the services under the state) Act 1993 on the ground that it violates apex court's Mandal judgement of 1992 in which the ceiling of 50 per cent on quota was fixed. The plea said that the reservation in admissions and government jobs cannot be in excess of 50 per cent as it has been categorically held by the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney judgement, also known as Mandal verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-against-tamil-nadu-law-granting-69-quota-in-jobs-admissions-956465.html
28-02-2021||South||Kamal Haasan hopes to lead an alternative front in Tamil Nadu, inducting AMMK may spell trouble||After having projected itself as the “change agent” that Tamil Nadu “badly needs”, actor-politician Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is now working towards forming an “alternative front” to the DMK and AIADMK by bringing all “like-minded” parties under one umbrella. Though this may eventually work out with a few parties already backing Kamal's idea, there could a surprise addition to the Third Front in Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala. It is not mere speculation anymore – Kamal himself told reporters on Saturday that he would welcome AMMK into the alliance but there will be no change in MNM's stand on him being the Chief Ministerial face. The talk of a Third Front or alternative front gained momentum on Saturday after Kamal's colleague in tinsel town and politician, Sarath Kumar, met him and discussed the possibility of both coming together to fight the April 6 assembly elections. Sarath Kumar's AISMK has already entered into an electoral pact with IJK, headed by an educationist who is also a media baron controlling an influential television news channel in the state. An activist all through his life has given his voice for several social causes, Kamal has been able to get retired and former bureaucrats, and activists to his fold. U Sagayam, a bureaucrat popular among people for his activism and taking politicians head-on, is likely to join MNM or the alliance led by it. Sagayam, who felt sidelined in the government due to his outspoken nature, was granted voluntary retirement from service recently after he sought the same. While all this may work as an advantage to Kamal, an alliance with AMMK, if it finally sees the light of the day, would raise questions on his “change agent” plank. Though there has been no word on the potential alliance from AMMK, there seems to be disquiet among several functionaries of the MNM. “Nothing can be ruled out in politics. But any alliance with the AMMK would severely dent our anti-corruption plank. Already there is a disquiet among a section in the MNM about the potential alliance,” a senior leader of the MNM told DH. Kamal has made “corruption by Dravidian parties” as the centrepiece of his campaign. That section feels any truck with Dhinakaran would only put Kamal and MNM on the defensive from its current track of being on the offensive against the Dravidian parties. The objection is because Dhinakaran is identified with V K Sasikala, who has just returned from a prison following completion of a four-year term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. “After a photo of (Naam Tamizhar Katchi chief) Seeman meeting Sasikala was released in the media, it did not go well with the party cadres. If that is the case in NTK, imagine what kind of reaction it would lead to in our party. And it is our leader Kamal who was among the first to speak against Sasikala assuming the Chief Minister's role in 2017. We should not forget the past,” another MNM functionary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-hopes-to-lead-an-alternative-front-in-tamil-nadu-inducting-ammk-may-spell-trouble-956469.html
28-02-2021||South||Sreedharan's entry a 'gimmick'; BJP will remain marginal player in Kerala: Cong's Tariq Anwar||Terming technocrat E Sreedharan's entry into the BJP a "gimmick", Congress' Kerala in-charge Tariq Anwar on Sunday said it would be a direct fight between the UDF and the ruling LDF in the upcoming assembly polls as the people will not "waste" their votes on the BJP which will remain a marginal player in the state. The Congress general secretary also asserted that it was not the party's tradition to announce a chief ministerial face and after polls the name of the CM candidate will be arrived at through consensus. In an interview with PTI, Anwar exuded confidence that the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) would form the next government in Kerala and stated that the main issue in polls would be the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government's "corruption and mismanagement" in the last five years. "The results will be in UDF's favour. People had given mandate to the LDF last time but their performance in the last five years has not been good and three-four scandals have also been unearthed recently in which even the CPI(M) office has come under suspicion," the AICC in-charge Kerala said. Talking about other issues that would hurt the LDF's chances in the upcoming polls, Anwar said recently an MoU signed with an American firm has created a lot of dissatisfaction among fishermen and so has the "mismanagement" of Covid-19. "Conditions are in favour of the UDF as there is strong anti-incumbency of the five years," the former Union minister said, adding that corruption and mismanagement will be the main issues in the assembly polls. The LDF government had said it had done great work during Covid-19 and the health system is very good, but the way the cases are rising all its claims have been proven wrong, Anwar said. Asked about 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan's entry into the BJP and its impact on the polls, he said, "I don't think it will have much of an impact because he may be a good technocrat but he does not have much of a rapport with the public." "The people of Kerala are very politically conscious and I don't think suddenly bringing up a name would make much of a difference," he asserted. Talking about the BJP's big ticket launch of the 88-year-old technocrat, Anwar claimed the BJP always uses such tactics as it does not have a strong leadership in Kerala. The BJP's presence is minuscule, so they want to make their presence felt by such "gimmicks", he said, adding that the saffron party will remain a marginal player in the state. "It will be a direct fight between LDF and UDF. Last time, the BJP had invested resources heavily in Kerala but despite that they had a low vote percentage," Anwar said. "This time we expect the BJP not to get even less because Kerala people know that the fight is between LDF and UDF so people would not like to waste their votes," he said. 'Metroman' Sreedharan formally joined the BJP last Thursday at a meeting organised at Changaramkulam as the "Vijay Yatra" led by Kerala BJP chief K Surendran reached there. Addressing the meeting, Sreedharan had said it is one of the greatest moments in his life and also thanked Surendran for giving him an opportunity to work for the BJP. Asked if the Congress is going to rely on Rahul Gandhi for being the face of its campaign and canvass aggressively in Kerala, Anwar said, "Rahul is hugely popular in Kerala. If we look at the Lok Sabha result last time, since Rahul fought election from there, it had a major impact and we won 19 out of 20 seats. If he campaigns and concentrates heavily on Kerala, it would make a huge difference." On the party deciding not to announce a CM face before polls, he said it was Congress' tradition not to declare a chief ministerial face before polls. "After polls, according to the results, through consensus, the choice of the leader will be made," Anwar said. Asked about Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's remarks accusing Rahul Gandhi of "speaking in the same tone" as of Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP leader Yogi Adityanath against his government, he said nobody will believe this charge as the Congress has a history that it cannot have any understanding with communal forces. Rahul Gandhi is leading a frontal attack on the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi which not only the Congress but other opposition parties are also recognising and praising, Anwar asserted. He said such statements show that the LDF is "nervous" They don't have the confidence in their Front it seems, he added. The Congress leader exuded confidence in the UDF securing a comfortable majority and said its aim was to get a two-thirds majority so that it can provide a stable government that works freely for the development of the state. Anwar said talks were on for sealing the seat-sharing deal among UDF constituents and 50 per cent of the things had been finalised. Polling in Kerala for 140 seats of the Assembly will take place in a single phase on April 6. Counting for the assembly polls in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sreedharans-entry-a-gimmick-bjp-will-remain-marginal-player-in-kerala-congs-tariq-anwar-956499.html
28-02-2021||South||Choose between development and dynasty politics: Amit Shah appeals to people in TN||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asked people to chose between a government that would be at confrontation with the Centre and a dispensation that will work together to deliver “double-engine” growth in Tamil Nadu. Addressing an election rally in Villupuram, 166 km from Chennai, Shah branded the DMK-Congress as “corrupt parties” that are only interested in “promoting” their respective first families, Shah asked people to vote for a government led by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu. “The DMK and Congress worry only about their families and are knee-deep in corruption. They are just not bothered about the welfare of people. All that Sonia Gandhi wants is to make her son Rahul the Prime Minister. Likewise, Stalin wants his son Udhayanidhi to be the Chief Minister,” Shah said. Hitting back at the DMK for talking about corruption, Shah asked the party chief M K Stalin to “look within” before raising fingers at others. He said the 2G scam took place under the DMK and that the regional party was in an alliance with Congress when the UPA Government was rocked with several corruption allegations. “Tamil Nadu has seen 2G, 3G and 4G. Two generations of Maran brothers, three generations of the Karunanidhi family, and four generations of the Gandhi family. We believe in development and I would like to congratulate the AIADMK government for its splendid work during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Shah said. He also asked people to vote for the AIADMK-BJP alliance saying only such a combination can bring development to Tamil Nadu. “Do you need a government that is in confrontation with the Centre or a double engine?” he asked. Talking about the BJP's Vetrivel Yatra, which never took off, Shah said the yatra will achieve its success only when the party forms its government in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/choose-between-development-and-dynasty-politics-amit-shah-appeals-to-people-in-tn-956503.html
28-02-2021||South||You can no longer play online rummy games in Kerala||The Kerala government has imposed a ban on online rummy games by issuing a notification under the Kerala Gaming Act. The decision came in the wake of a strong demand from various quarters to curb online rummy, and a petition was even filed at the Kerala High Court in this regard recently. The government had informed the court that a law to regulate online rummy would be introduced. Government sources said that owing to a paucity of time, online rummy was banned through a notification under section 14 A of the Kerala Gaming Act instead of bringing in a fresh law. The police could take action against those involved in online rummy games using the notification. The High Court recently issued notices to Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli, actress Thamannah Bhatia and Malayalam actor Aju Varghese in connection with the petition seeking a ban on online rummy games. They were accused of endorsing the online rummy games and were hence issued notices. The petition seeking a ban on online games came close on the heels of a couple of youths in Kerala ending their life by suicide allegedly due to financial crises caused by online rummy games. A staff of the Kerala government treasury was also accused of syphoning off huge amounts from the treasury owing to his addiction to online rummy games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/you-can-no-longer-play-online-rummy-games-in-kerala-956512.html
28-02-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccine to cost Rs 250 at private hospitals in Bengaluru||The Union government fixed Rs 250 as the ceiling price for Covid vaccine dose at private hospitals until further notice as the country geared up for the next phase of its vaccination programme.Informing states about the pricing, the National Health Mission said that private hospitals can charge Rs 150 per vaccine dose and Rs 100 as user fees from recipients. In the next phase of Covid vaccination starting Monday, senior citizens aged 60 and above and those with comorbidities, aged 45 years to 59 years, will be vaccinated against Covid-19, Karnataka health officials said on Saturday. "Vaccination sessions will be held from 12 noon to 5 pm for four days a week," said Karnataka Immunisation Deputy Director Dr Rajani Nageshrao, adding "cost should be deposited in the specified GoI bank account by private hospitals". To begin with, vaccination will be done at all government facilities (except primary health centres and community health centres) and at select private hospitals. If a person is 45 years to 59 years and has any one of the 20 comorbidities, he/she will be eligible for Covid vaccination. These comorbidities were selected for priority vaccination as they enhance the risk of mortality when an individual contracts Covid-19. The 20 comorbidities include nine heart conditions. Co-morbidities1. Heart failure with hospital admission in past one year2. Post cardiac transplant/left ventricular assist device (LVAD)3. Significant left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF <40%)4. Moderate or severe valvular heart disease5. Congenital heart disease with severe PAH or Idiopathic PAH6. Coronary artery disease with past CABG/PTCA/MI and hypertension/diabetes on treatment7. Angina and hypertension/diabetes on treatment8. CT/MRI documented stroke and hypertension/diabetes on treatment9. Pulmonary artery hypertension and hypertension/diabetes on treatment10. Diabetes (> 10 yearsORwith complications) and hypertension on treatment11. Kidney/ Liver/Hematopoietic stem cell transplant: Recipient/On wait-list12. End stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD13. Current prolonged use of oral corticosteroids/immunosuppressant medications14. Decompensated cirrhosis15. Severe respiratory disease with hospitalizations in last two years/FEV1 <50%16. Lymphoma/ Leukaemia/ Myeloma17. Diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after 1st July 2020 or currently on any cancer therapy18. Sickle cell disease/bone marrow failure/aplastic anemia/thalassemia major19. Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases/HIV infection20. Persons with disabilities due to intellectual disabilities/muscular dystrophy/ acid attack with involvement of respiratory system/persons with disabilities having high support needs/multiple disabilities including deaf-blindness Registration on Co-WIN 2.01) Advance self-registration can be done through cowin.gov.in or Arogya Setu app2) Beneficiary can choose Covid vaccination centre of their choice with date and time of the available schedule3) Onsite registration will also be available4) With one mobile number, a person can register at most four beneficiaries with nothing in common except the mobile number5) The ID card number for each such beneficiary must be different6) All beneficiaries, are advised to carry any one of the following photo ID documents: • Aadhar Card • Electoral Photo Identity Card (EPIC) • The Photo ID card specified at the time of registration in case of online registration (if not Aadhar or EPIC) • Certificate of co-morbidity for citizens in age group of 45 years to 59 years (signed by a registered medical practitioner) • Employment certificate/ Official Identity Card – (either but with photo and date of birth) for HCWs and FLWs 7) Around 10,000 private hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, more than 600 hospitals empanelled under CGHS and other private hospitals empanelled under State Govts' Health Insurance Schemes can participate as Covid Vaccination Centers (CVCs).8) A list of all these private hospitals has been uploaded on the website of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Health Authority||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccine-to-cost-rs-250-at-private-hospitals-in-bengaluru-956229.html
28-02-2021||State||JD(S) workers protest against BJP Minister after he termed H D Kumaraswamy a joker||The JD(S) workers staged a protest against Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara on Sunday morning, for terming former CM H D Kumaraswamy a joker. The protest was held under the leadership of JD(S) youth wing President Akshith Suvarna. The protesters gathered outside the hotel where the minister had stayed and shouted slogans against him. The JD(S) workers had gheraoed the escort vehicle of the minister. On learning the same, the minister did not travel in his official car and left in another vehicle. Condemning the BJP Minister's statement against Kumaraswamy, Akshith Suvarna said, "The minister had forgotten that JD(S) is still strong in Dakshina Kannada district. We staged a protest to showcase our strength. However, the Minister left for the Mangalore airport from the backdoor. The Minister should act according to his stature."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-workers-protest-against-bjp-minister-after-he-termed-h-d-kumaraswamy-a-joker-956309.html
28-02-2021||State||Karnataka sends seaplane proposal to Centre||A proposal for a tourist circuit to connect the state’s 320-km long coastal belt by seaplane has been submitted to the Centre, Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara said on Saturday. The seaplane will help woo tourists to different destinations in Karnataka, the minister said. He said that though investors are keen on the seaplane project, the state lacks basic landing facilities. Seaplane services have already been launched in Gujarat and once a similar service is introduced here, those wishing to travel to Goa, Mumbai, and Kerala can use the facility, he said during meet the press programme organised by DK Working Journalists’ Association at Patrika Bhavan. Yogeeshwara said that to promote tourism in the coastal belt, infrastructure for landing of yachts needs to be developed. He said a heli tourism service will be launched in Mysuru shortly and stressed on a similar service in Mangaluru for foreign tourists arriving by cruise ships so that they can visit Lakshadweep and other tourist destinations from Mangaluru. “Cruise passengers stay only for eight to nine hours in Mangaluru. If their stay is extended to two to three days by providing them with facilities, then we can chalk out programmes to introduce local culture and tourist spots in and around Mangaluru,” he said. He said relaxation of CRZ rules will be sought on the lines of Kerala and Goa to promote tourism. Further, he said tax on tourist taxis was high in Karnataka compared to Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “I will bring the issue to notice of the chief minister,” he said. The minister said the Tourism Policy 2020 will be implemented from April. He said backwaters in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts will be used to promote sports which in turn will generate jobs and boost tourism. The 20-km stretch of Gurupura river backwaters will be developed on the lines of Alappuzha in Kerala. Priority will be given for promotion of eco tourism in Tannirbavi in Mangaluru. He said the government needs to promote Mangaluru as a brand and explore the potential in health tourism, religious tourism, eco tourism and local tourism. “We need to develop a circuit to promote temple tourism in the district,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sends-seaplane-proposal-to-centre-956340.html
28-02-2021||State||PV launches 'Spardhavani' for students||Catering to the educational needs of SSLC and PUC students, Prajavani has launched new edition 'Spardhavani.' The edition helps students preparing for the annual exams by providing useful information on their subjects. The new edition was launched by Gopinath of the Sparsha Trust, V Ramaswamy of Hitachintana Trust along with PV Executive Editor Ravindra Bhat and Deputy Executive Editor Nagaraj. Addressing the students, Ramaswamy recalled his association with Prajavani since the school days. "The Spardhavani edition will not only be useful for the students but turns out to be handy for them while preparing for the exams as it has all the relevant details required to excel in the examination. PV's efforts will enrich the quality of education." Students from BGS Educational Institutions and other schools presented cultural activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pv-launches-spardhavani-for-students-956544.html
28-02-2021||State||'Rare disease policy should address more patients, fund disbursal'||Six-year-old Druti P in Mysuru was diagnosed with MPS 1 when she turned three. Ever since her mother has been travelling to Bengaluru every week for enzyme replacement therapy for her daughter. As her father was a driver with Employee State Insurance (ESI), she received the infusion at ESI Rajajinagar hospital. But during the pandemic, he lost his job and with that his ESI health benefits lapsed in October last year. Druti’s mother Shalini told DH, “I am told two vials cost Rs 1 lakh. The therapy was recommended till December but we had to stop much before that as her father lost his job. She has breathing difficulty. After the infusion, she improved and could breathe better. Now she wheezes like before.” Currently, 42 children are being treated for rare diseases in the state. According to Organisation for Rare Diseases India founder Prasanna Shirol, “At least four patients, aged between three and six, are suffering from Gaucher’s disease (a rare disorder). They have been awaiting treatment as fund disbursal is ad hoc in the state, something that can be remedied if the Union Health Ministry comes out with a Rare Disease Policy before March 31 this year, as promised.” In a recent webinar, Dr Arundhati Chandrashekar, Mission Director, NHM, Karnataka, said, “Since 2016, 22 patients with Lysosomal Storage Disorders (LSD) have been treated in the state. This has been done at a cost of Rs 18 crore annually from the state budget. Around 30 patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders have also been treated at a cost of Rs 1 crore from other sources. Rare diseases are a neglected area.” Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar, said, “Rare diseases are of low prevalence and individually rare, however collectively they effect a considerable level of population. The prevalence is 6 to 8% according to international research.” “We are facing a long-drawn public interest litigation in Karnataka and based on the court order we are treating a good number of patients suffering from rare diseases. The expenditure might be up to Rs. 20 crore on a yearly basis,” he added. “Considering the number of children suffering from rare diseases is large and the state cannot afford the finances required to treat them, we are one state which has been pressing for a Centrally-sponsored scheme so that the expenses can be shared with the Centre,” he explained. Every year the state government negotiates with the drug manufacturers about the drug quantity required. They provide 25% of the doses free. “If the economy of scale comes in, then the cost for the country as a whole will come down,” Akhtar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rare-disease-policy-should-address-more-patients-fund-disbursal-956554.html
28-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Explosion at quarry site in Karnataka: NGT directs committee to submit report||The National Green Tribunal has formed a six-member committee and directed it to submit a report in connection with a gelatin explosion at a quarry site in Chikkaballapur in Karnataka that left six people dead. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel took note of a media report and issued notices to the Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board, Director Mines Karnataka and the District Magistrate Chikkaballapur. “We constitute a six-member joint committee comprising the CPCB, State PCB, District Magistrate, Chikkaballapur, nominee of Director General, Mines, Chief Controller of Explosives, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Nagpur, and the Director, Mines, Karnataka to give a report to this tribunal,” the bench said. The nodal agency for coordination and compliance will be the CPCB and the State PCB, the NGT said while adding that the committee may visit the site preferably within next one week and give its report about the cause of the incident. “Except for visit to the site at least once, the Committee will be free to conduct its proceedings online. It will be free to take the assistance from any other expert/organization. “The Committee may suitably interact with the stakeholders and, apart from considering the present incident, also consider remedial measures for preventing such incidents in the area or by other establishments even beyond the said area,” the bench said. The tribunal took cognisance of media report dated February 23, 2021 which reported that six people were killed in quarry blast in Hirenagavalli, Chikkaballapur on February 22. The blast occurred in a stone quarry unit situated in Hirenagavalli village. According to the preliminary information shared by the police, the quarrying work was stopped at the site on February 7 after local residents complained of rampant use of gelatin sticks.  The work continued despite the ban, and another raid was conducted by the police, during which the contractor was warned not to use gelatin. The explosives went off when the men were trying to dispose them off, the NGT noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/explosion-at-quarry-site-in-karnataka-ngt-directs-committee-to-submit-report-956374.html
28-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget will focus on women's welfare and development: CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said the upcoming state budget that will be presented on March 8 will focus on welfare of women and their development. "While presenting the budget on March 8, I will do all that is possible for the benefit of women and their welfare...I will pay attention towards it, I'm assuring this to the women of the state," Yediyurappa said. Speaking at an event in Soraba in Shivamogga district, he said, priority will be given for developmental works during the budget this time. The budget session of the state legislature that will begin from March 4 will go on till the end of that month, and Yediyurappa, who holds the Finance portfolio will be presenting the budget on March 8. Due to floods, Covid-19 and other reasons tax collection was hit for about seven to eight months, Yediyurappa said, we have mobilised funds from various sources, also borrowed loans to see it that developmental work in the state is not hampered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-will-focus-on-womens-welfare-and-development-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-956463.html
28-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 45% of Karnataka's urban sewage water is treated||Owing to rapid urbanisation in most parts of the state, sewage is generated in Karnataka cities at the rate of 3356.5 MLD (million litres per day), of which only 45 per cent (1513.5 MLD)  is treated, said a report. The Central Monitoring Committee set up by the National Green Tribunal to study and suggest remedial measures to check river pollution in the state, stated this in its report submitted to the Green Bench. It stated that even though 125 sewage treatment plants are installed in Karnataka to treat 2,242 MLD sewage water, only 1513.5 MLD treated while the remaining 1,843 MLD is not treated. Only 427.5 MLD treated water is being reused in Bengaluru city, while 106.65 MLD treated water is being used in areas other than Bengaluru city. Treated water is used mostly for recharge of lakes, industrial establishments, by horticulture departments and for gardening, said the report. In the state, a total of 3,503 industries generate 1,339 MLD polluting water, of which 3,289 industries have set up effluent treatment plants having the capacity to treat 4,532 MLD polluted water. Total 17 river stretches have been identified as 'pollutant stretch' in the state, in which Tunghabhandra river has been selected for model development of rejuvanation. In the entire country, 48,004 MLD of sewage (from urban settlements) was being generated in 31 States/ UTs. These states set up sewage treatment plants with 30,001 MLD capacity, which can treat only 62 per cent of the total sewage. However, against the existing capacity, only 56 per cent was being utilized, said the report. The capacity utilisation of STPs was highest in Andhra Pradesh (90%) and Delhi (90%), followed by Telangana (82%) and Punjab (80%). Assam does not have any existing treatment capacity while Tripura and Manipur has only one STP each. "States must ensure optimum utilization of the existing treatment infrastructure and also ensure compliance of the plants with regard to the environment norms. For this purpose, States may carry condition assessment studies of existing STPs/ sewage infrastructure in a fixed time frame, say another 3 months so as to identify the reasons of suboptimum utilization and dysfunctionality of existing STPs. This will help them in finalizing plans to upgrade STPs requiring upgradation so as to make them functional," said the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-45-of-karnatakas-urban-sewage-water-is-treated-956468.html
28-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget will accord priority to women's welfare: CM BSY||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said the state budget would accord top priority to welfare of women and lift irrigation schemes. "The 2021-22 Budget will focus on the welfare of women. I am assuring this to the women of the state," Yediyurappa told reporters here. "Debates and deliberations on the budget have been completed. The budget will be given shape in a day or two. I will transform challenges into opportunities and ensure Karnataka will move forward on the development path," the chief minister said. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance portfolio, will present the budget on March 8. Replying to a query on the upcoming bypolls to three Assembly constituencies, Yediyurappa said, "I have not announced any special grants for the bypoll-bound constituencies. The said constituencies have already seen several development works. The BJP will win in all three segments," he added. Earlier in the day, the chief minister inaugurated Rs 105 crore Mugur Lift Irrigation scheme at Anavatti in Sorab taluk. The said scheme aims at drawing Varada river water to 31 tanks in the taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-will-accord-priority-to-womens-welfare-cm-bsy-956547.html
28-02-2021||West||Voting underway for local bodies polls in Gujarat||Elections to Gujarat's 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats are being held on Sunday across 36,000 polling booths in the state. Voters, including leaders from various political parties, arrived at the booths to cast their vote after polling began at 7 am. The voting will continue till 6 pm. A couple, scheduled to get married later in the day, arrived at a booth in Gondal taluka of Rajkot to exercise their franchise in the initial hours of voting, and said they did not want to miss out on their democratic duty. Besides, a newly-wed couple was also seen in a queue at a polling booth in Dehgam taluka of Gandhinagar. Union Minister of State for Panchayati Raj and Agriculture Parshottam Rupala cast his vote at a booth in Amreli in the morning. BJP's Rajya Sabha member Jugalji Thakor cast his vote in Mehsana. As per the State Election Commission (SEC), there are total 8,474 seats across 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats in the state, out of which candidates on 237 seats have remained unopposed, while no form was filled for two seats in taluka panchayats. Thus, elections are being held in 8,235 seats, where the BJP has fielded 8,161 candidates, the Congress-7,778, the Aam Aadmi Party-2,090, among others, said the SEC. This time, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis- e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) has also jumped into the fray for the local body polls in Gujarat. Bye-elections are also being held for two seats in taluka panchayats and 24 seats in municipalities. A total of 3.04 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise for these elections. Over 44,000 policemen, including the State Reserve Police and 12 companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), along with 54,000 Homeguards have been deployed to ensure free and fair polling. Votes will be counted on March 2. On February 21, polls to six municipal corporations - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar - in the state were held. The BJP emerged victorious in all these civic bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/voting-underway-for-local-bodies-polls-in-gujarat-956305.html
28-02-2021||West||Research scholar of National Chemical Lab found killed in Pune||A 30-year-old research scholar of the CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory has been found killed here in Maharashtra, a police official said on Sunday. Some locals spotted the body in Sus area of Pune on Saturday and alerted the police. "The police rushed to the spot and the deceased was later identified as Sudarshan Pandit, a research scholar at the NCL. His face was smashed with a stone," Deputy Commissioner of Police Pankaj Deshmukh told PTI. He was a native of Jalna and was staying in Sutarwadi area here with his brother, the official said. A case has been registered and a probe is underway into it, he added. The NCL, located in Pashan area of Pune, is a research and development organisation of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) which focuses on chemistry, biology and chemical engineering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/research-scholar-of-national-chemical-lab-found-killed-in-pune-956326.html
28-02-2021||West||CM won't come under pressure: Raut on demand for minister's ouster||Amid the demand for the ouster of Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod over his name being linked to the death of a woman, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will not take any decision under pressure. It is the chief minister's prerogative whether to keep anyone in the cabinet or not, Raut told reporters here. The opposition BJP in the state has demanded Rathod's resignation, even as the minister has denied that he had anything to do with the death. The 23-year-old woman died after falling from a building on February 8, and Pune Police had said they were probing the suicide angle. Some audio clips purportedly having bearing on the case had gone viral after her death. "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will not take any decision under pressure. To keep anyone in the cabinet or not is the CM's prerogative," Raut said. The Rajya Sabha member also accused Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari of indulging in politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-wont-come-under-pressure-raut-on-demand-for-ministers-ouster-956336.html
28-02-2021||West||Shiv Sena questions BJP's silence over D&NH MP’s suicide||Nearly a week after Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar ended his life in Mumbai, the Shiv Sena on Sunday questioned the silence of people who raised a hue and cry after the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Delkar (58), a seven time MP from Dadra & Nagar Haveli died by suicide at Sea Green Hotel at Marine Drive in Mumbai, on 22 February, after writing a 16-page note in which he allegedly blamed several people including the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Praful Patel, a former Minister of State for Home in Gujarat. The Congress in Maharashtra has urged state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP for a probe into the role of BJP. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column ‘Rokh Thok’ that appeared in Saamana on Sunday, questioned the silence of people over the incident. “How can there be silence over the mysterious death of a seven-time Lok  sabha MP who was found hanging in his hotel room in Mumbai?” he wrote. Taking a dig at the BJP, Raut said there is sensation when an actor dies by suicide in Mumbai and unauthorised construction of an actress is pulled down. "Now everyone is silent. Delkar's purported suicide note blamed the administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli for harassment and alleged he was being pressurised to join the BJP," Raut wrote. Raut, who is the Executive Editor of Sena mouthpiece Saamana, pointed out that Delkar must have thought that the Mumbai Police will act on his suicide note and arrest the guilty. Saying that he personally knew Delkar for two decades, he said: “Delkar had recently spoken in the Lok Sabha on how MP, MLAs in Union Territories are insulted by the Administrator.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-questions-bjps-silence-over-dnh-mp-s-suicide-956358.html
28-02-2021||West||Covid-19: Curfew in Maharashtra's Hingoli from March 1 to 7||In the wake of a rise in daily Covid-19 cases in Hingoli, the local administration has decided to impose curfew in the district from March 1 to 7. A total of 46 new Covid-19 cases were found on Saturday in Hingoli, located in the state's Marathwada region, raising its tally to 4,083, as per official figures. Hingoli Collector Ruchesh Jayvanshi in an order issued on Saturday evening said the curfew will come into force from 7 am on Monday and continue till March 7 midnight. Schools, colleges, religious places and function halls shall remain closed during the period, while banks will operate only for administrative work, said the order. Bank officials are instructed to carry their identity cards while travelling to their workplace, it said. Milk shops will be allowed to operate from 9 am to 5 pm. Medical stores are also permitted to remain open during the curfew period, said the order. Government offices will continue to work, it said. The administration has also allowed continuation of highway maintenance operations, and works related to the departments of health, electricity, telephone, water drainage and sanitation. Petrol pumps are instructed to sell fuel only to vehicles of the government, and those engaged in essential and agriculture services, the order said. Hotels and other food suppliers for students, who hail from other districts and are currently residing in Hingoli, are instructed to operate parcel service between 9 am and 7 pm during the curfew period, it said. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported more than 8,000 new Covid-19 cases for the fourth straight day, raising the caseload in the state to 21,46,777. The death toll in the state due to the pandemic has reached 52,092, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curfew-in-maharashtras-hingoli-from-march-1-to-7-956360.html
28-02-2021||West||Pooja Chavan death case: Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod resigns||Amid mounting pressure and fierce attack from the BJP, forest minister Sanjay Rathod, whose name has cropped up in the wake of the mysterious death of social media star Pooja Chavan, on Sunday tendered his resignation on the eve of the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature. Rathod (49), a prominent leader of the Banjara community, accompanied by his wife Shital, called on Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray at the latter’s official residence Varsha and put in his papers. “I have resigned...let there be a thorough probe, the allegations against me are politically motivated,” said Rathod. Asked whether the resignation has been accepted, Thackeray said, “You tell me what needs to be done....do we frame and keep the resignation letter.” During the day, Puja Chavan’s father Lahu Chavan, her mother Mandodari Chavan and sister Devyani called on the Chief Minister. In the evening at the customary news conference, Thackeray asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab to read out the resignation letter of Rathod and the memorandum by Pooja’s parents. Rathod, in the letter, has sought a detailed probe into the death of the girl and said he would like to step aside to facilitate a proper probe.  Pooja’s parents had requested not to accept the resignation of Rathod, however, take action against him or anyone else found responsible for her death. Taking an aggressive stance, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis threatened to withdraw BJP legislators from the joint select committee of the Shakti Bill, which is being brought on lines of the Disha Act proposing crucial changes to existing laws on violence against women and children. “Sanjay Rathod resigned...but that does not mean that he is innocent,” said Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in Council. Rathod’s name has cropped up after the 7-8 February death of a social media star Pooja Chavan in Pune. Pooja (22), also from the Banjara community, hailed Parli Vaijanath from the Beed district of the Marathwada region, was active in social and community work. Pooja died after falling from the balcony of an apartment in Pune’s Hadapsar area – the police have registered an accidental death report (ADR) and are carrying out investigations. It may be recalled, days after the death of Pooja, Fadnavis had shot off a letter to the state’s director general of police Hemant Nagrale and submitted 12 audio clips vis-a-vis the incident and called for a probe. Thackeray on his part had assured a probe, however, Rathod continued as a minister and a few days ago staged a massive show of strength at Poharadevi Temple in Washim district – an incident that saw all norms and protocols related to Covid-19 going for a toss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pooja-chavan-death-case-shiv-sena-minister-sanjay-rathod-resigns-956370.html
28-02-2021||West||2 VCs resign in Maharashtra, ABVP alleges government interference||Two vice chancellors of universities in Maharashtra have abruptly quit their posts before the end of their tenure and submitted their resignations to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. While sources said the two VCs cited personal reasons for their decision, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (AVBP), which is the students' wing of the BJP, alleged that they quit due to "political interference" by the state government. When asked about the resignation of the two VCs, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said this is a serious issue and the governor should take cognisance of it. According to sources, Governor Koshyari, who is the chancellor of universities in the state, has accepted the resignations of Pradip Patil, who was the VC of Jalgaon-based Kavayitri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University, and Vedala Rama Sastry, the VC of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University at Lonere inRaigad district. The ABVP alleged that they had quit due to "political interference by government". "The ABVP believes this is due to frequent political overreach which undermined the authority and autonomy of vice chancellors," it said in a statement. Of late, the education sector has been complaining about increasing "government overreach and interference" in universities in Maharashtra, the ABVP claimed. Tales of "instructions" regarding a university's tenders from ministries have been doing the rounds, it said. "This overreach and constant interference has compelled the two vice chancellors to resign, and this is a worrisome state for the education sector in Maharashtra," the statement said. Courts have repeatedly reprimanded the government on issues such as conducting examinations and interfering in appointments of registrar of the Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj Nagpur University and the Mumbai University, it said. ABVP's Konkan state secretary Prerna Pawar said, "The resignation of the two vice chancellors because of political interference by the government even after repeated lashing by courts indicates the sorry state of affairs in the education sector under the MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi-comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) government." She appealed to stakeholders of the education fraternity to unite against the government's alleged interference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-vcs-resign-in-maharashtra-abvp-alleges-government-interference-956379.html
28-02-2021||West||Prevent minors from becoming prey to online predators, Mumbai Police social media advisory to parents says||The cyber wing of Mumbai police on Sunday issued a social media advisory asking people not to share personal information with strangers online and to ensure the internet activities of their children is monitored. Accounts being operated by minors must be checked by their parents or guardians to ensure nothing is amiss in their conduct that could make them prey to online predators, an official said. It has come to the notice during various police probes that such predators manage to obtain objectionable photographs from minors after befriending them online and then proceed to extort money through blackmail, he added. "Do not accept friend requests from strangers, do not share personal photographs online, and try to keep social media accounts as private as possible," the official said by way of advice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prevent-minors-from-becoming-prey-to-online-predators-mumbai-police-social-media-advisory-to-parents-says-956398.html
28-02-2021||West||After Sanjay Rathod's resignation, BJP sets target on Dhananjay Munde||Maharashtra  BJP president Chandrakant Patil said, "Today Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray showed the courage to dismiss Sanjay Rathod. He hopes NCP President Sharad Pawar would also take a similar decision in the matter of another minister Dhananjay Munde." “We will demand Munde’s resignation,” senior BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar told DH on Sunday. Munde (45), a prominent Vanjari leader, is an MLA from Beed in the Marathwada region - and is seen close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. On being asked about Munde, Thackeray evaded a direct reply, he said, "Both cases are different...in Munde's case, the complainant has withdrawn the allegation."  Dhananjay, the nephew of late BJP leader Gopinath Munde, was accused of rape by Mumbai-based singer Renu Sharma, with whose sister Karuna Sharma he had a long relationship and sired two children. Following the allegations of rape by Renu Sharma, the Maha Vikas Aghadi leadership was of the opinion that Munde should face a probe without expulsion from the ministry – after then Mumbai city BJP vice president and now Shiv Sena leader Krishna Hegde and MNS leader Manish Dhuri accused the woman of attempting to honey-trap them. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar had described the charges as “serious” but went by the collective decision of the NCP and MVA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-sanjay-rathods-resignation-bjp-sets-target-on-dhananjay-munde-956425.html
28-02-2021||West||Covid-19 curbs in Pune district extended till March 14||The existing restrictions due to coronavirus in Pune district of Maharashtra were extended till March 14 on Sunday, an official said. These include restrictions on movement between 11 pm and 6 am for non-essential activities, as well as closure of educational institutions, he said. The order was issued by District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh and Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar, he said. The Covid-19 restrictions, from which essential services are exempt, had been imposed on February 21 due to the recent spike in infection cases. The district reported 1,505 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which took its total case count to 4,06,453. The death toll in the district till Saturday night stood at 9,235, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curbs-in-pune-district-extended-till-march-14-956435.html
28-02-2021||West||MVA government made strategy for no debate on performance: Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday accused the MVA government of preparing a strategy to ensure there is no debate on its performance during the budget session of the state Legislature which begins on Monday. Addressing a press conference on the eve of the 10- day budget session, Fadnavis said the BJP boycotted the meeting of the Legislature's Business Advisory Committee on February 25 since it had decided that there will be no debates and calling attention notices during the House proceedings. The state budget session is normally held for six weeks, but in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, it has been curtailed. Fadnavis claimed the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA-comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) government is "directionless" and has failed on all fronts. "Its single-point agenda is corruption in transfers of IAS and IPS officers," he alleged. He said the BJP will publish a booklet on "corrupt practices" in Mumbai while dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the state government has cancelled the customary tea party on the session's eve due to the pandemic. "The political meetings of the Congress and NCP are allowed during the current situation. The Shiv Sena's show of strength is okay. Only what is not allowed is the tea party and the Shiv Jayanti celebration (wherein curbs were imposed earlier this month)," he said. Fadnavis also targeted Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, who resigned as state cabinet minister on Sunday after facing flak from the opposition BJP over his name being linked to a woman's death. "Despite evidence in the form of video and audio clips, there is no FIR against Rathod. I will not blame Rathod, but the higher-ups for shielding him," he said, without naming anyone. The police official conducting the probe into the case should be immediately suspended, the BJP leader said. Fadnavis said NCP minister Dhananjay Munde also faced accusations from a woman. Even though the woman has withdrawn the allegations, the issue has not ended, he claimed. "We are of the opinion that the proposed Shakti Act for crime against women is a farce. There is no action against ministers involved in cases of crime against women. Is the law different for ministers?" he asked. The condition of cotton and soybean farmers in the state is "extremely bad". There is no procurement of farm produce and even the loan waiver scheme is not operational as of now, he claimed. Targeting the government over complaints of high electricity bills received by consumers in the state, Fadnavis said 3.5 lakh power connections have been cut and notices for default in payment has been sent to 75 lakh consumers. The Shiv Sena, which heads the ruling alliance, talks of pride and self-respect over the issue of boundary dispute with Karnataka, but why is it not showing the same pride and self-respect over the BJP's demand for renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, Fadnavis said. Fadnavis further said he will ensure all central help to the state government in the legal battle in the Supreme Court over the Maratha quota issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-government-made-strategy-for-no-debate-on-performance-fadnavis-956437.html
28-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: BJP scores first 'goal' against MVA government in Sanjay Rathod's resignation||More than one year after its oldest ally broke away and joined hands with the Congress-NCP front to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi and come to power in Maharashtra, the BJP has been restless. The BJP never left any opportunity to target Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray over the last one-year-and-three months. Thackeray became the chief minister on November 28, 2019. The BJP’s success or its first goal came on February 28, 2021 – exactly 15 months after Thackeray took charge of the Trimurti alliance – when Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod, a prominent leader of the Banjara community, had to put down his papers in the wake of Pooja Chavan case. Amid fierce attack from the BJP, the defence of Rathod had become untenable and there was no other option. Plus, add to it, two things that Uddhav did not like - the way Rathod defied the Covid-19 norms and staged a show of strength in twin districts of Yavatmal and Washim, and the Vidarbha leader bringing in ‘mahants’ to join the issue and put up an opposition against his removal. “The BJP was restless, the BJP had been maintaining that the government would collapse on its own, but at the same time, some leaders had been speaking about what is known as Operation Lotus,” points out veteran political analyst Prakash Akolkar. “Whether it was about the Covid-19 pandemic, Sushant Singh Rajput case, Arnab Goswami episode, Kangana Ranaut fiasco, Thackeray, his son Aaditya, Shiv Sena, and the MVA government has been at the receiving end,” he added. On 7 February, when union home minister Amit Shah visited Sindhudurg in the Konkan region at the inauguration of a medical college owned by a trust of BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane, he held a meeting with the leader of opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in the Council Pravin Darekar, and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, after which decided to go all out against the Thackeray-sarkar. “Resignation is not enough, there should be an FIR, Sanjay Rathod should be arrested...resignation itself indicates that he is guilty,” says Rane, an ex-chief minister and ex-leader of opposition, who is a bête noire of Uddhav. Both Fadnavis and Darekar have questioned why there has been a delay of a fortnight or rather 20 days. “There is overwhelming evidence against Rathod,” said Fadnavis. Lashing out at the MVA government, Fadnavis said that what the state is witnessing is unprecedented. “There is rampant corruption in the transfer of IAS and IPS officers,” he said, pointing out that the police force is siding with the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-scores-first-goal-against-mva-government-in-sanjay-rathods-resignation-956448.html
28-02-2021||West||BJP welcomes resignation of Sanjay Rathod||The BJP on Sunday welcomed the resignation of Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod, whose name is being linked to the death of a woman in Pune. Rathod submitted his resignation to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray earlier in the day. The minister, who holds the forest portfolio, was facing allegations of complicity in the death of Puja Chavan (23), a resident of Beed district, who was found dead in Pune on February 8, apparently after falling off from the building in which she lived. Talking about Rathod's resignation, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said, "It was due to the constant pressure of the people of Maharashtra and the workers of the BJP that the chief minister had to ultimately yield." He said he was glad that the chief minister showed courage in removing Rathod from the cabinet. Patil said he hoped that NCP chief Sharad Pawar would also take a similar decision regarding another minister Dhananjay Munde, accused of rape by a Mumbai-based woman, who later withdrew her complaint. On Saturday, Patil had saidthat the BJP will not allow the budget session of the state legislature, which begins on Monday, to function smoothly if the CM does not remove Rathod from the cabinet by Monday. The BJP leader also urged the police to work in a free and fair manner in this case and provide justice to the woman's family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-welcomes-resignation-of-sanjay-rathod-956460.html
28-02-2021||West||Jaish-ul-Hind claims responsibility of placing explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's house||An organisation named Jaish-ul- Hind has claimed the responsibility of placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai, police said on Sunday. A senior police official said that all possible angles were being investigated in this connection. The outfit claimed the responsibility by posting a message on social messaging app Telegram, which went viral on social media and came to the notice of Mumbai police, the official said. A Scorpio with gelatin sticks was found parked on Carmichael Road near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening. The registration number on the vehicle's number plate was the same as that of an SUV in Ambani's security detail, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jaish-ul-hind-claims-responsibility-of-placing-explosives-laden-suv-near-ambanis-house-956461.html
28-02-2021||West||Covid-19 situation serious, but citizen’s help needed: Maharashtra CM||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, the opposition BJP targeted the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government saying that it would expose the corruption in the pandemic-related procurements during the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature starting Monday. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, referring to the customary tea party held on eve of Legislature sessions: "The political meetings of the Congress and NCP are allowed during the current situation. The Shiv Sena's show of strength is okay. Only what is not allowed is the tea party and the Shiv Jayanti celebration." However, Thackeray shot back, saying that the Dharavi model of handling the pandemic was appreciated by the World Health Organisation and World Bank.  "It is okay if you do not appreciate the government... but do not discourage the Covid-yodhas," Thackeray said. "Daily there are photos of Covid-yodhas who are felicitated," Thackeray said in a veiled reference to Raj Bhavan events when Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari felicitates the Covid-warriors. Thackeray said that there is definitely a rise in cases, and people need to be careful and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour. When reminded about his statement last week that the government would take a call on lockdown in eight to 10 days, Thackeray said: “Lockdown is not a wish but a compulsion... Yes, the situation is serious but we need people's help."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-situation-serious-but-citizen-s-help-needed-maharashtra-cm-956518.html
28-02-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 8,293 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths||Maharashtra's per day count of new Covid-19 cases continued to remain above the 8,000-mark on Sunday, while the death toll increased by 62 to reach 52,154, the health department said. The state recorded 8,293 new cases during the day, it said. It was the fifth consecutive day when the state's daily infection count was more than 8,000. A total of 3,753 patients were discharged during the day, which pushed the recovery count to 20,24,704. There are 77,008 active cases across the state at present, the department said in a statement. With 84,794coronavirus tests conducted through the day, the overall test count rose to 1,62,84,612. The recovery rate in the state is 93.95 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.42 per cent, it said. Mumbai city reported 1,061 new cases, Pune city 790, Amravati city 632, Nagpur city 796 cases. There were 1,931 new cases across Mumbai division, 1,796 in Pune division, 1,565 in Akola division and 1,369 in Nagpur division. During his press conference on Sunday, when Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was asked about his last week's eight-day ultimatum given to people to follow "COVID- appropriate behaviour or face a lockdown", he said, "We are not willing, but if at all it is done, it will be out of compulsion." Some cities of Vidarbha region and Pune have seen imposition of restrictions as well as lockdown due to the rising cases. Maharashtra's coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 21,55,070; death toll 52,154; recoveries 20,24,704; active cases 77,008; total number of tests 1,62,84,612, tests conducted on Sunday 84,794.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-8293-new-covid-19-cases-62-deaths-956533.html
