01-12-2020||India||SC angered after man appears shirtless during online hearing||Upset by a bare-chested lawyer adjusting the camera during a hearing by videoconferencing on Tuesday, the Supreme Court remarked that lawyers cannot afford to be so reckless because it has already been eight months since the apex court has been hearing cases in the virtual mode amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The incident happened in the Supreme Court virtual courtroom presided over by justice LN Rao. The judge was hearing a suo moto {of its own accord} petition on the condition of Child Care Homes during the pandemic when suddenly an image flashed on the screen of a bare-chested person adjusting the camera of the standing counsel for the Kerala government, G Prakash.The bench called out to the lawyer appearing on the screen, “Someone is standing beside you who is shirtless.” There was no response from the other end and the next moment, the link with the lawyer could not be established. The bare-chested person was also a lawyer, ML Jishnu, who is related to Prakash.Upset by the behaviour of the lawyer in question, the bench, also comprising justice Hemant Gupta ,said: “Even after seven to eight months of telling lawyers to be careful during videoconferencing, you (advocates) are so reckless.”“I was not able to hear or see the courtroom. Before the hearing started, the link was connected but later it disappeared. It was during that time somebody was helping to fix the system for me. But I was fully dressed up in my advocate robe and because my device faced technical glitch I was unable to hear or see what happened in the court,” Prakash told HT.This is the second instance in two months of a lawyer appearing without a shirt during a virtual hearing at the Supreme Court. On October 27, another lawyer appeared shirtless during the hearing of a case before a bench presided over by justice DY Chandrachud. The judge had then remarked, “Some decorum has to be maintained by lawyers while appearing before us. Caution must be taken in future.” Even solicitor general Tushar Mehta called the behaviour “unpardonable”.The lawyer who was involved then was MS Suvidutt who wrote to th solicitor general snd the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association president that he was attending the Vidyarambam (initiation of education) ceremony of his niece with his camera off. He expressed regret and apology for his inadvertent act. Since the videoconferencing proceedings started in March this year, lawyers across high courts too have been caught eating food and appearing casual dressed, lying on the bed, and even chewing gutka. In May this year, the Supreme Court secretary general Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar issued a notification allowing lawyers to shun their long robes and coats while appearing before the court through videoconferencing. The notification said, “The advocates may wear plain white-shirt/white-salwar-kameez/white saree, with a plain-white neck band’ during the hearings before the Supreme Court of f India through Virtual Court System till medical exigencies exist or until further orders.” A lawyer found smoking in the car during a virtual hearing before the Gujarat high court was fined Rs 10,000 for his conduct. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan faced an embarrassing moment when he was found smoking a hookah during the hearing of an important case before the Rajasthan high court. He escaped the eyes of the judge, though. In June, the Supreme Court hauled up a lawyer for appearing in a T-shirt, lounging on his bed. A bench remarked: “Minimum court etiquette in terms of what can be considered a decent dress, background, etc should be followed given the public nature of the hearings.” The lawyer was let off on offering an unconditional apology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-angered-after-man-appears-shirtless-during-online-hearing/story-EYhDM7yvSXADgnp6L1GJHP.html
01-12-2020||India||NSCN (IM) accuses Nagaland Governor of planning to hijack peace talks||Nagaland Governor RN Ravi’s message to the people on the eve of Nagaland’s 58th statehood day, hailing the 16 Point Agreement which led to the formation of Nagaland state has riled the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) and the influential Naga Students’ Federation (NSF).The two organisations have separately condemned the governor’s statement by saying that the Naga people have rejected said agreement.The 16 Point Agreement, signed between the Naga People’s Convention (NPC) and the government of India in 1960, had led to the formation of the state of Nagaland in 1963.“His (Ravi’s) statement reminds the Naga people once again of how under the leadership of AZ Phizo the war of resistance of the Nagas against the Indian colonialists were manipulated by the IB (Intelligence Bureau) officials who roped in some of the treacherous Naga individuals, mostly Indian government employees that formed a superfluous body called the NPC. The NPC came out of nowhere and signed the 16 Point Agreement where the Naga solution was hijacked and a state under the Indian Constitution was accepted giving a foothold to the Indian government to claim that from thence Nagas were a part of India,” the NSCN (IM) said in a statement on Tuesday.The NSCN (IM), which has been holding talks with the central government for the past 23 years, alleged that the statement by Ravi, who is also the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga peace talks, clearly exposed that another NPC was in the making.“His assertion that some of the civil societies under his payroll are the main stakeholders on the Indo-Naga issue and therefore their decision must be supreme is farce. This is the same RN Ravi who was a signatory to the 2015 Framework Agreement signed between the government of India and the NSCN representing the Naga people, and also signed with the 7 NNPGs in 2017,” the group said.It maintained that the Centre and the Naga people were fully committed to resolve the protracted issue through peaceful means and for which, the talks were at a concluding stage. However, the organisation accused Ravi, who is an ex-IB officer, of planning to hijack the 23 years of peace talks in the same style of the NPC.On the governor’s statement that India as a nation has a sovereign territory and can have only one constitution and one national flag, the NSCN (IM) asserted that in the same breath Nagaland too must have sovereign territory, one constitution and one national flag within which the two must share sovereign powers and coexist peacefully as two entities as agreed upon in the framework agreement where Ravi himself is a signatory.The NSCN (IM) advised the governor “not to bite off more than he can chew as far as the Indo-Naga Issue is concerned” and said was undeterred by his threat.The NSF, an influential students’ body in the region, also denounced the governor’s message glorifying the l6 Point Agreement when in reality the Naga people have disowned it as it only sowed the seed for division. The NSF said Ravi’s statement was a shallow attempt to mislead the Naga people.“....governor’s claim that it has been the best thing to happen to the Naga people only reveals his shallow understanding of the Naga history and also the narrow walls within which he has been trying to solve the vexed Indo-Naga political issue,” the NSF stated.It reminded the governor that the obvious failure of the impugned agreement to solve the Naga political issue had led to the ceasefire and political dialogue with the Naga National Council in 1964 followed by the endless political dialogue leading to the present day.“The federation appeals to the interlocutor to refrain from furthering the old ‘carrot and stick’ policy and adopt a more pragmatic approach in-order to ensure that the interests of the two entities are upheld through the political solution,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-accuses-nagaland-governor-of-planning-to-hijack-peace-talks/story-x7Q8sVGjvqYNF691NP8NKN.html
01-12-2020||India||CBI launches fresh searches in coal theft case allegedly involving ECL officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) on Tuesday started a fresh round of searches at five locations in the Asansol region of West Bengal in connection with the alleged large scale pilferage of coal through illegal mining by Anup Manjhi in connivance with the officials of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) and others, officials said.  The CBI had, on November 28, launched a massive search operation at 45 locations in four states after registering the case.The agency on Tuesday started searches again at the official and residential premises of the accused officials of ECL in the Asansol region, they said.The CBI teams also started scanning the documents seized during the November 28 searches when it had recovered Rs 40 lakh cash, documents, electronic devices and instruments of financial transactions, they said.The agency may send digital evidence for forensic analysis to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), they said.The CBI registered the case on Friday against Manjhi, ECL General Managers Amit Kumar Dhar (of then Kunustoria area now Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajor area) besides ECL Chief of Security Tanmay Das, Area Security Inspector, Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and SSI and security in-charge Kajor area Debashish Mukherjee.It is alleged that accused Manjhi alias Lala is involved in the illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in Kunustoria and Kajora areas, they said.The CBI had acted on information from “reliable sources” indicating illegal excavation and theft of coal in the leasehold area of ECL in “connivance” with the officials of ECL, CISF and Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-launches-fresh-searches-in-coal-theft-case-allegedly-involving-ecl-officials/story-CTufJnaXI2LbpJHCubSWGP.html
01-12-2020||India||CSIR chief slams ‘faulty’ Chinese report on Covid-19 origin||Slamming a recent Chinese research report which claimed that Covid-19 had origins in India or Bangladesh, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Director-General Dr Shekhar C Mande on Tuesday said that the study was shoddily done and was riddled with errors.“There is a paper which is under consideration of publication in Lancet. It has not been peer-reviewed yet, so we can’t say what the peer review system will do to it. But it claims that the origin of the SARS-CoV2 virus is in India, and having read the paper myself fully and thoroughly understood what it says, the study is very shoddily done. The analysis was very badly done, and I don’t think it will stand the scrutiny of a peer review system,” Dr Mande told ANI.Dr Mande further said that the Chinese reported a high monkey-human interaction in India, which had nothing to do with the virus.“The combination of methodologies that they have used to show that the virus originates in India or Bangladesh is quite faulty, it is not right. For example, they have taken sequences from one database. That database has only selective sequences that have been submitted. So it is not a random sample of sequence,” he said.He further informed that there were too many loopholes in the study and therefore its veracity could not be confirmed, adding that it can be comfortably said that the study is wrong.During a media briefing on Monday, World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that some countries are politicising the origin of the virus.“We’re doing everything to make sure that we know the origin. Some have been politicising this. Our position is very clear that we’ll start the study from Wuhan, know what has happened there and based on findings, to explore if there’re other avenues,” said Ghebreyesus.Commenting on Ghebreyesus’ statement, Dr Mande said: “WHO goes very rationally about finding these things. We don’t need to bring any political angle to it, what we want is to go to the bottom of the truth and there is science behind it. Scientifically, we explore every question and try to see where the origin of the virus is, and today the consensus is that the origin of the virus is in Wuhan province of China. So there is a general consensus in the world and it is what we would like to trust,” he further said.Taking to Twitter, Dr Mande shared the link of the study, saying: “Plenty of glaring errors in the study. I’ve pointed out in a series of my tweets that the study design, conduct and analysis are faulty. Hopefully the scientific world will reject the hypothesis.”According to South China Morning Post, a paper from researchers in China proposed that the first transmission of SARS-CoV-2 may have taken place on the Indian subcontinent.The report was based on research into strains of the virus provided by 17 countries and regions, and claimed to trace the earliest outbreak to India or Bangladesh.The deadly virus which emerged in China’s Wuhan province has now infected more than 63 million people worldwide, and claimed the lives of more than 1.4 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csir-chief-slams-faulty-chinese-report-on-covid-19-origin/story-7gEug1ku07Xu5EhqEXc4HL.html
01-12-2020||India||UP slashes rate of RT-PCR test. Here’s what it costs in other states||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday reduced the price of RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by private laboratories at Rs 700 and said it will cost Rs 900 if done at home. State governments can decide the rates of various Covid-19 testing methods, including the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, which is considered to be the gold standard by medical professionals all over the world.Here is what they cost in these states:DelhiThe Delhi government has capped the price of RT-PCR tests at Rs 800 for all private laboratories, reducing the amount from Rs 2,400.GujaratThe Gujarat government has reduced the price of RT-PCR tests conducted by private laboratories for Covid-19 to Rs 800 from Rs 1,500. The charge for the RT-PCR test will be Rs 1,100 if a laboratory assistant is called at home to collect samples.MaharashtraThe price for an RT-PCR test is Rs 980 for tests carried out in labs and at Rs 1,800 for in-house sample collections in the western state.Andhra PradeshThe Andhra Pradesh government has fixed the price for testing samples sent to private labs at Rs 1600 bringing it down from Rs 2400. For people giving samples directly at the Indian Council of Medical Research-recognised labs, the rates have been capped at Rs 1,900.TelanganaFor samples collected at private labs, the price for RT-PCR tests has been fixed at Rs 850, a revision from the previous Rs 2,200. For samples collected at home, prices have been slashed to Rs 1,200 from the earlier Rs 2,800. All the revised prices are inclusive of charges for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and others.KeralaThe Kerala government has slashed the rates of all available tests to detect the coronavirus disease. The RT-PCR tests now cost Rs 2,100, it was capped at Rs 2,750 earlier. TrueNat tests are capped at Rs 2,100, antigen test cost at Rs 625, and GeneXpert at Rs 2,500.West BengalThe West Bengal government capped the price of RT-PCR tests in the state at Rs 1,500, for tests done by private labs. It was marked at Rs 2,250 earlier.JharkhandJharkhand has capped RT-PCR test prices for private hospitals and labs at Rs 1,500. This was the second such intervention by the State government, who had earlier brought down the prices of RT-PCR tests from Rs 4,500 to Rs 2,400.MeghalayaThe state government has capped the prices of all available tests, for rapid tests at Rs 500, and for RT-PCR and TrueNat at Rs 3,200 each. BPL card holding families were exempted from any sort of payment.AssamAssam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced a ‘tatkal’ system of RT-PCR tests in Assam. If patients shelled out Rs 2,200 the results will be given within 24 hours, for the results of the free test would be given out after five days.RajasthanThe state government has slashed the prices for RT-PCR tests carried out by private laboratories at Rs 1,200 from the earlier cost of Rs 2,200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-slashes-rate-of-rt-pcr-test-here-s-what-it-costs-in-other-states/story-ypLaT3f9S0qTrJwWyILN1L.html
01-12-2020||India||‘One-of-its-kind spiritual journeys’: All you need to know about Ramayana cruise service||The government will soon launch a luxury cruise based on the epic Ramayana on the Saryu River in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya, according to the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways. On Tuesday, Union minister for ports and shipping Mansukh Mandaviya held a review meeting for the implementation of cruise service.“It will be the first-ever luxury cruise service on the Saryu river (Ghagra/National Waterways-40) in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. It aims to give a mesmerising experience to devotees with one-of-its-kind spiritual journeys while cruising through the famous ghats of the holy river Saryu,” the ministry of ports, shipping and waterways said on Tuesday.The ministry has also released an artist’s sketch of the proposed cruise vessel that will be taking devotees on a ride.Here is all you need to know about this newest project in Uttar Pradesh:1. Tourists on this ‘Ramcharitmanas Tour’, will be able to watch an exclusively made film of 45-60 minutes duration, based on the Ramcharitmanas by Goswami Tulsidas. It will cover the period from the birth of Lord Ram to his coronation.2. The tour will cover a distance of approximately 15-16km. There will be several activities and selfie points inspired by the many episodes of television series on the Ramayana. The tour will be followed by a Saryu Aarti.3. The fully air-conditioned cruise boat’s interior will depict various scenes from the Ramayana.4. The cruise boat will seat 80 tourists and will be equipped with bio-toilets and hybrid engines system to make it environment friendly.5. It will also be equipped with kitchen and pantry facilities for the comfort of the tourists.6. Tourists will be able to enjoy the scenic beauty of the ghats of Ayodhya through the panoramic glass windows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-its-kind-spiritual-journeys-all-you-need-to-know-about-ramayana-cruise-service/story-a36rfv0kpBATvgZrdGtseM.html
01-12-2020||India||India, US agree to increase collaboration on counternarcotics regulation and law enforcement||India and the US have agreed to enhance their collaboration on counternarcotics regulation and law enforcement, and identified areas for joint action and coordination on this “important” issue, a statement said on Tuesday.During the inaugural meeting of the Counternarcotics Working Group (CNWG), held virtually on November 24, the two countries also agreed to enhance their data sharing operations to combat the production, distribution, diversion, and export/import of drugs and precursor chemicals.The Indian delegation was led by Sachin Jain, Deputy Director General, Narcotics Control Board, Ministry of Home Affairs, while the US side was headed by White House Office of National Drug Control Policy Assistant Director Kemp Chester.Along with the Department of State Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Jorgan Andrews, and Department of Justice Deputy Assistant Attorney General Jennifer Hodge jointly led the US delegation.“The delegations engaged in wide-ranging conversations focused on increasing collaboration on counternarcotics regulation and law enforcement. The two sides identified areas for joint action and resolved to continue their close coordination on this important issue,” said a joint statement issued on Tuesday.Noting that both sides exchanged views on the broad array of narcotics-related challenges facing the US and India, the statement said that the officials committed to strengthening their cooperation in curtailing the illegal production, manufacturing, trafficking, and distribution of pharmaceutical and illicit drugs, as well as the precursor chemicals used to manufacture them.Participants highlighted their efforts in combating drug trafficking in accordance with the rules and regulations of their respective countries and proposed to share best practices for countering synthetic opioids and precursor chemicals. The two sides also discussed initiatives to strengthen India’s regional leadership role in building capacity for counternarcotics initiatives in South Asia; countering regional cross-border drug trafficking and crime through enhanced sharing of operational intelligence; and expanding law enforcement cooperation on counternarcotics issues.Both sides also agreed to cooperate and assist each other in the area of drug treatment and awareness against drug abuse, said the joint statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-agree-to-increase-collaboration-on-counternarcotics-regulation-and-law-enforcement/story-9zNMNUBkw4IUOCDXjMvAKK.html
01-12-2020||India||With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership is pushing for an early, amicable resolution to the farmers’ protest as the ongoing agitation threatens to derail the party’s expansion plans in Punjab, and weakens the Union government’s “pro-farmer image”, said people aware of the details. Even as the meeting between the government and the farmers’ representatives remained inconclusive on Tuesday, BJP functionaries remained optimistic that the logjam will be resolved. The next round of talks between the government and the farmers’ representatives will now be held on Thursday.A senior party functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Monday that the laws are beneficial for the farmers is an indication that the government is ready to address their concerns. But a rollback may not be on the cards, the functionary added. “The genuine grievances of the farmers will be addressed. They have concerns over some aspects such as whether the government will continue providing MSP (Minimum Support Price). We are ready to answer those concerns. The demand for a rollback is based on rumours and fear stoked by the opposition,” the functionary said. On Tuesday, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Piyush Goyal attended a meeting over the farmers’ protest at BJP chief, JP Nadda‘s residence. The party has also stepped up efforts to reach out to farmers’ groups, sending out senior functionaries to set the “record straight”. “From ministers to MPs to functionaries at the block level, everyone will act as an emissary of the government and clear the misconception of the farmers,” said a second functionary. Pro-farmer image To ensure that its pro-farmer image is not tarnished, the party is reiterating the measures taken to improve the lot of the farmers. “It was the BJP government that announced schemes such as soil health cards, facilities for micro irrigation, irrigation in every field, 95% of the Swaminathan report has been implemented, farmers are getting cash benefits from the Kisan Saman Nidhi. But the opposition has created fear that the government will not support MSP,” the second functionary said. Party leaders have also been pointing out that the protests being limited to Punjab and parts of Haryana is proof of the Congress misleading farmers. “Farmers elsewhere have understood how small and marginal farmers stand to gain from the new laws. It is only in Punjab where the Congress government has created fear in their minds. In states such as MP, UP and Gujarat farmers have faith in the Modi government,” the second functionary said. Punjab prospects The political ramifications of the protest are another area that has the party worried. After the Shiromani Akali Dal ended its alliance with the BJP over the new farm laws, the saffron party has been trying to expand its footprint in the state. “There is a vote bank that is neither Akali nor supports the Congress; these are non Panthak voters who the party can count on for support,” said a third functionary. The BJP has already begun preparations for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls that it plans to contest on its own. It has deployed its cadre to undertake a membership drive at the booth-level and set up party offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-govt-s-pro-farmer-image-under-fire-bjp-wants-amicable-end-to-farm-protests/story-l73sxS1QXYsoqAStsEA0qI.html
01-12-2020||India||Covid+ patients treated as untouchables once posters outside homes, says SC||Pasting posters outside Covid-19 positive homes is causing such patients to be treated as untouchables, remarked the Supreme Court on Tuesday while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a ban on this practice.“The hard reality that exists on ground is that if you are pasting such posters outside the homes of Covid positive persons, they are being treated as untouchables,” said a three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah to a PIL filed by Kush Kalra.The Centre informed the apex court that such a practice has not been approved under any guideline issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).The ministry, through an affidavit, informed the top court that on November 19, all states and union territories have been strictly informed that “MoHFW Guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidelines regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found Covid positive.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, told the bench, “We have not prescribed that posters have to be affixed. Perhaps states may have issued it on their own.”The petition by Kalra stated that such an exercise undertaken under the Disaster Management Act, stigmatised persons suffering from the disease and infringed their privacy and right to live with dignity protected under Article 21 of the Constitution.Mehta said, “If something is pasted that causes anyone to be maligned or stigmatised, it should be avoided. But the logic seems to be that any unknown person should not inadvertently enter the home.”It was Kalra who had earlier approached the Delhi High Court that led the Delhi government to discontinue the practice of affixing posters outside Covid-19 infected persons or persons in isolation. He sought similar orders for the entire country as he said that such a practice commenced during the plague epidemic in the 1730s.“Circulation of such names in WhatsApp groups leads to stigmatisation of such persons in their neighbourhood and community,” the petition stated. The bench posted the matter for hearing on December 3 as it was yet to go through the affidavit of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patients-treated-as-untouchables-once-posters-outside-homes-says-sc/story-Uc5kiHlfCLEt7K6XEjLFLK.html
01-12-2020||India||In battleground Bengal, data becomes key weapon for BJP, TMC||The campaign for next year’s assembly election in West Bengal is witnessing for the first time a more focused battle in which data is the principal weapon as the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP spar on social media. In their extensive social media campaigns, the parties are dishing out statistics, videos and photographs to counter each other’s claims on sector-wise development and social welfare measures. In the past, only the Communist Party of India (Marxist) focused on statistics in poll campaigns but social media was in its infancy when the party was in power. “The data war intensified about two weeks ago when Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information and technology (IT) cell, was given additional charge of Bengal by Union home minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda,” said a senior state BJP leader who did not want to be named. “IT cell members compiling data and experts in the multimedia teams have their hands full. Current and old recordings of speeches of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and senior TMC leaders are being played back and forth so that short clips can be made out of selected portions and used with data in social media posts. These have an impact on people,” the leader added. The TMC, on the other hand, is focusing on statistics not only on social media but at special press conferences being held every afternoon for the last two weeks. “Unlike Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we are open to questions. A senior MP or minister focuses on a specific area and speaks for 20 minutes. This is followed by a 15-20 minute interactive session with journalists. We will do this till Mamata Banerjee completes her third term in office,” Derek O’Brien, TMC Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson told HT. O’Brien is also leading the TMC’s data war on social media. “Mitron, Modi-Shah and their tourist gang are photo-op know-alls in Bengal. But data shows how BJP’s governance is anti-Dalit. 2019 saw 62% increase in deaths due to manual scavenging (Swachh Bharat?!) States with highest deaths 2019: UP: 21, Maharashtra: 17, Gujarat: 16.” O’Brien tweeted on Tuesday. The Dalit vote bank, incidentally, is crucial for the BJP in Bengal. On November 27, Abhishek Banerjee, Lok Sabha member and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew targeted the Prime Minister with a tweet comparing the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat healthcare scheme with the state’s Swasthya Sathi programme. He posted a chart showing that while the entire cost of treatment is borne by the Bengal government the Centre bears only 60 % under Ayushman Bharat. “It is indeed high time that @narendramodi ji starts taking governance lessons from @MamataOfficial!...” tweeted the young TMC leader.The BJP quickly posted a counter tweet, referring to him as bhaipo (nephew in Bengali) and the chief minister as pishi (aunt in Bengali). “Will Bhaipo explain to people of Bengal why he and Pishi opt to get treated at a multispeciality hospital that has refused to come under Swasthya Sathi? Or is it that Bengal’s poor don’t deserve to get treated at Kolkata’s top hospitals under Pishi’s scheme?” the BJP tweeted.Incidentally, Malviya refers to Mamata Banerjee as pishi in almost all his tweets even if they are not related to Abhishek Banerjee. “Election campaign and media outreach programmes are intertwined. Social media posts are necessary for remaining in focus all the time. It is not that these will increase vote share but some posts get tremendous response. Malviya’s tweet on Tuesday on Bengal’s debt burden is a good example. I got calls from two media houses,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. O’Brien, however, did not want to link the posts to the polls. “We are not into this campaign for the elections or counter the BJP’s fake posts. Our intention is to focus on the positive aspects of governance. The BJP leaders camping in Bengal are tourists. They will enjoy local vegetarian food for five months and leave. We will win the elections,” said O’Brien.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-battleground-bengal-data-becomes-key-weapon-for-bjp-tmc/story-3GafkNJ4VqElbsqGCawQAL.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Shirtless man next to you’: Supreme Court to lawyer during online hearing||Hearing a suo motu petition on the condition of child care homes during Covid-19, the judges on a Supreme Court bench had to point out to a lawyer that a shirtless man is standing next to him.The incident happened in the Supreme Court virtual courtroom presided by Justice LN Rao. While the hearing was on, a bare-chested person adjusting the camera of standing counsel, G Prakash, for the Kerala government appeared on screen.The bench called out to the lawyer appearing on the screen, “Someone is standing beside you who is shirtless.” There was no response from the other end and the next moment, the link with the lawyer could not be established. The bare-chested person was also a lawyer, ML Jishnu, who is related to Prakash.Irked by the behaviour of the lawyer in question, the bench, also comprising Justice Hemant Gupta, said, “Even after seven to eight months of telling lawyers to be careful during videoconferencing, you (advocates) are so reckless.”“I was not able to hear or see the courtroom. Before the hearing started, the link was connected but later it disappeared. It was during that time somebody was helping to fix the system for me. But I was fully dressed up in my advocate robe and because my device faced technical glitch I was unable to hear or see what happened in the court,” advocate Prakash told Hindustan Times.This is the second incident of a lawyer appearing without a shirt at the Supreme Court within a span of two months.On October 27, another lawyer appeared shirtless during the hearing of a case before a bench presided by Justice DY Chandrachud. The judge had then remarked, “Some decorum has to be maintained by lawyers while appearing before us. Caution must be taken in future.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta called the behaviour “unpardonable”.The lawyer who was involved then was MS Suvidutt who wrote to Mehta and the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association President that he was attending the Vidyarambam (initiation of education) of his niece with his camera off. He expressed regret and apology for his inadvertent act.In June, the apex court hauled up a lawyer for appearing in a T-shirt lounging on his bed. The bench remarked, “Minimum court etiquette in terms of what can be considered a decent dress, background, etc should be followed given the public nature of the hearings.” The lawyer was let off on offering an unconditional apology.Such incidents have also happened at the state level.Since the videoconferencing proceedings started in March, lawyers across high courts too have been caught eating food, appearing in casual dress lying on the bed, and even chewing gutka.In May, the Supreme Court Secretary General Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar issued a notification allowing lawyers to shun their long robes and coats while appearing before the court through videoconferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shirtless-man-next-to-you-supreme-court-to-lawyer-during-online-hearing/story-GhFfujkqpLf53C43pCzskN.html
01-12-2020||India||After Delhi and Gujarat, UP caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday slashed the price of RT-PCR test to detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by private labs at Rs 700 and said it will cost Rs 900 if done at home, a day after Delhi and Gujarat governments also revised the rates of the tests. In September, the Uttar Pradesh government had revised the rates for Covid-19 tests conducted by private labs from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600.According to the government, if a patient gives sample at the laboratory or the sample is collected by a hospital and sent to the lab the fee for the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction test will be Rs 700. And in case the lab gets their sample collected by its staff the rate will be Rs 900. These rates are inclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Government hospitals are providing these tests free of cost, including RT-PCR and antigen tests.Also read | Delhi lowers cap, RT-PCR tests for Rs 800 at private labsThe RT-PCR test was initially priced at Rs 4,500 and the rates were gradually brought down to Rs 2,500 and on September 10, the government decide the rate for private labs will be Rs 1600.RT-PCR tests are accurate but have so far remained costly, and with higher turnaround times than rapid antigen tests. On the other hand, rapid antigen tests are often inaccurate when it comes to so-called false negatives, or giving negative results to people who may be Covid-19 positive.Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 caseload reached 545,545 on Tuesday after 1,703 fresh cases were reported across the state and 29 more deaths pushed the toll to 7,788. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease in the state stands at 23,670, while 5,14,087 people have recovered so far, a government bulletin said.Also read | Gujarat govt slashes RT-PCR test price to Rs 800Of the new cases, 240 have been reported from Lucknow, followed by 156 from Meerut, 127 from Ghaziabad, 113 from Agra and 112 from Gautam Budh Nagar, a health department bulletin said. Lucknow recorded seven deaths, Meerut and Etawah three each, and Varanasi and Balrampur two each, it said.More than 143,000 tests were done in the state on Monday, taking the number of total tests conducted to over 19.4 million.The Gujarat government has reduced the price of RT-PCR tests conducted by private laboratories for Covid-19 to Rs 800 from Rs 1,500. In Delhi, the RT-PCR test will now cost Rs 800 at all private laboratories, down from Rs 2,400.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-delhi-and-gujarat-up-caps-price-of-rt-pcr-test-by-private-labs/story-mlN8N7DaNk8SXbg3Lx3faO.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Wish to break stereotype image of Biharis in the industry’||Known star of Bhojpuri cinema, Aditya Ojha feels that there are a few lucky ones amongst us who get a chance to live their parents’ dream and he is one of them. “My father Ajay Ojha, came to Mumbai from Bihar to become an actor but he couldn’t complete his dream. Instead, he got into the film industry as a camera attendant. He did a few films as cinematographer before becoming a director and producer. When I grew up, I knew without a doubt that I have to become an actor and fulfill my father’s long-lost dream. When I was all set to act, he planned to produce and direct a Bhojpuri film ‘Sugna’ for me. Luckily, the film was a super hit and helped me to establish myself in the industry,” said the young actor. Aditya has already worked in dozens of Bhojpuri films. “I’m in no hurry. Bhojpuri industry has given me all love and support. I’m slowly expanding my wings. Like any other actor, I too want to try my luck in Hindi films but for now, its TV that is on the cards.”Aditya is happy to make his TV debut . “When I got through auditions for my first TV show, I knew it will be a right move to take up this role in the show ‘Namak Issk Ka’ where I play the lead. The show will also help me to break stereotyped image of Biharis on television. We too have advanced with time. We have mastered English as a language but still love to remain attached to our mother tongue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/wish-to-break-stereotype-image-of-biharis-in-the-industry/story-GvpqbZJB6md87KkfKuzSvI.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Artistic expression that one craves for gets it in UP’||Basking in success of ‘Mirzapur’, actor Divyenndu says Uttar Pradesh has played a significant role in his phenomenal success. “I’m much indebted to UP as it has always proved to be very favourable and lucky for me. More than anything, artistic expression that one craves for gets it here. Not just in terms of roles, it has given a lot in terms of popularity, love and respect from the people,” said ‘Pyar ka Punchnama’ actor on his recent visit to Lucknow. Besides, both seasons of ‘Mirzapur’, he shot for ‘Toilet Ek Prem Katha,’ ‘Kanpuriye’ recently released ‘Bicchoo ka Khel’ and yet to release ‘Brahmastra’ along with ‘Assi Nabbey Pure Sau’. “As I hail from Delhi, I had to work hard to play characters from UP. In ‘Mirzapur,’ ‘Kanpuriye’ or ‘Toilet…’ they belonged to a particular region but then you need to make your accent and body language believable without extra effort. For that, you have to train more, work hard and research well.” On use of excessive expletives in his dialogues, he justifies. “If I talk about Delhi and surrounding region the language is a bit harsh but here even use of abuses is very lyrical. Besides, we just maintained the flavour and kept a universal language so that people can understand it all over. Also, bringing different flavours from the place makes it all the more special.” Divyenndu has shot for film ‘Mere Desh ki Dharti’. “It will be a theatrical release. Besides, I am starting with some very interesting projects soon,” he shared. Talking about his journey he says, “Unlike others my struggle started after I became successful. ‘Pyar ka Punchnama’ gave me instant recognition and reward then ‘Chasme Badoor’ became a bigger hit. Then the challenge was to break the cute-boy image. To break the image, I had to say no to many powerful projects and good money. As an artiste, I’m all raring to do more,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/artistic-expression-that-one-craves-for-gets-it-in-up/story-vSeZM8WYYQhzuNj3jpQPwL.html
01-12-2020||India||‘I never show off’: Mamata Banerjee on PM Modi reciting Bengali verse||It’s all there on the teleprompter, said Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, making light of PM Modi quoting a Bengali verse during his Mann ki Baat radio address on Sunday, adding she knows a host of languages but does not feel the need to publicise or “show off”. “Everything appears in front of you on a teleprompter when you are giving a public speech. You just read it. The public won’t get to see it. Only a few people know this. Earlier it was a practice in the USA and the UK. Now we are seeing it in India,” CM Banerjee said while speaking to reporters at the state secretariat. The Bengal CM said that she learnt Vietnamese on a tour to that country and knows a bit of Russian because she had visited the country thrice. She also claimed to know Naga, Manipuri, Assamese, Odia, Punjabi, Marathi, Urdu, Gorkha and Nepali apart from Bengali, Hindi and English. “There is no need to do publicity. Whenever I visit any state I speak in their language. I have seen enough of this drama. I never show off. I feel proud because I can raise their issues and speak for them,” the CM said. On Sunday, PM Modi had cited a Bengali verse to highlight the significance of his government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat and vocal for local campaigns, while recalling the revolutionary-turned-philosopher Aurobindo Ghosh’s views on Swadeshi. A challenge The Bengal CM also threw a challenge at the BJP-led centre, saying that they may deploy as many investigating agencies and central forces as they want but it would be hard to defeat her party - the Trinamool. “They are targeting Bengal because elections are coming. But no matter what you do, the people of Bengal will not allow an inch of their land to go without a war. Be prepared. You can send as many central agencies and send people to jail,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-never-show-off-mamata-banerjee-on-pm-modi-reciting-bengali-verse/story-okGxfmsGTYQZp0jdWYQVfP.html
01-12-2020||India||BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat dies of Covid-19 complications||BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat Abhay Bharadwaj died on Tuesday while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 complications. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise, tweeting,“Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Shri Abhay Bharadwaj Ji was a distinguished lawyer and remained at the forefront of serving society. It is sad we have lost a bright and insightful mind, passionate about national development. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.”  Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Shri Abhay Bharadwaj Ji was a distinguished lawyer and remained at the forefront of serving society. It is sad we have lost a bright and insightful mind, passionate about national development. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said Bharadwaj was an “able leader”.“Shri Abhay Bharadwaj ji was a nationalist, a legal luminary, committed public servant & an able leader. I am overpowered by emotions on passing away of such a dear friend. He shall be remembered for time immemorial. I pray for the departed soul. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. Shri Abhay Bharadwaj ji was a nationalist, a legal luminary, committed public servant & an able leader. I am overpowered by emotions on passing away of such a dear friend. He shall be remembered for time immemorial. I pray for the departed soul. Om Shanti... pic.twitter.com/6zrd1lmnP8Bharadwaj was hospitalised at Covid hospital on the campus of the government-run Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital in Rajkot. He was undergoing treatment for Covid-19.Bharadwaj was elected to Rajya Sabha on June 20 this year on BJP’s ticket. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-rajya-sabha-mp-from-gujarat-dies-of-covid-19-complications/story-kaZvrUgXuFDCXqXILXMQeI.html
01-12-2020||India||Hyderabadis remain lukewarm to GHMC polls, only 42% turn out to vote||Notwithstanding the high decibel campaign by major political parties in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polling for which was held on Tuesday, voters of Hyderabad once again remained nonchalant about voting. At the close of polling at 6 pm, only around 42% of the 74.67 lakh voters exercised their franchise, according to tentative estimates of the Telangana State Election Commission authorities. “By 5 pm, the recorded polling percentage was as low as 36.73 and it went up by another 5-6 per cent in the next one hour. We are awaiting final figures from the divisions, as there were still some voters in the queue in some divisions at the time of scheduled closure of polling hours,” a GHMC official familiar with the development said. Moreover, polling was held only in 149 out of total number of 150 divisions in the GHMC, as the SEC cancelled the polling in Old Malakpet division following a complaint from the Communist Party of India (CPI) candidate that his party symbol was missing in the ballot paper. On verification, it was noticed that in the ballot papers, the symbol of CPI (M) party -- hammer, sickle and star was printed, instead of CPI party symbol of ears of corn and sickle. Following a report from the local authorities, the SEC ordered for repoll in all 69 polling stations of Old Malakpet division on December 3. The commission also banned telecast and publication of all exit polls in the GHMC elections till Thursday evening. “If the polling in Old Malakpet division is also taken into consideration, the overall poll percentage might go up further slightly,” the GHMC officials said.’ Yet, the percentage of polling in the GHMC elections this time will be lesser than that in 2016, when it was around 45.27 per cent. In 2009, when the GHMC faced the first elections after its formation in 2007, too, the polling percentage was only 42.04. “Fear of Covid-19 might have forced many people to stay away from polling, because day in and day out, the health department has been cautioning the people about the spread of the virus in public places,” said political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar. He said lakhs of people who were eking out their livelihood in Hyderabad had returned to their native places due to lack of job opportunities. Thirdly, many others like software professionals who had been given the option of work from home might have gone back to their native places, he said. Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), a body of software companies, pointed out that most of the 5.82 lakh techies in Hyderabad had gone out of station. “Nearly 80% of software engineers did not take part in voting,” TITA global president Sandeep Makthala said. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay accused the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi of deliberately ensuring low polling percentage hoping to get advantage. “But I am sure the people have reposed their faith in our party,” Sanjay said. Pradesh Congress party working president Ponnam Prabhakar blamed it on the TRS, BJP and Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen parties for the low polling percentage. “They ignored the real issues of people and talked about non-serious issues, as a result of which the voters did not evince much interest,” he said. TRS working president K T Rama Rao, who made an appeal to the people to turn up in large numbers for voting, did not make any comment on the poor turnout. He, however, thanked all those who had voted for the TRS in the elections. The polling went on peacefully, barring minor incidents of clashes among the activists of the TRS, BJP and MIM. Incidents of minor clashes were reported from Azampura, Ghansi Bazaar, Jangammet, Uppuguda, Karwan and Puranapul division in the old city, besides in areas like Hastinapuram, Alwal and Kukatpally. The police quickly brought the situation under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabadis-remain-lukewarm-to-ghmc-polls-only-42-turn-out-to-vote/story-RVBk9fYGa0urI8ExFoYr9I.html
01-12-2020||India||No agreement between farm unions, govt: Who said what during meeting||The meeting between farm union leaders and the government on Tuesday failed to reach a breakthrough and another round of discussions will be held on Thursday, December 3. The government has suggested setting up a committee to look into the issues raised by farmers protesting against the new farm laws, but it was rejected by the representatives of 35 agitating organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers. Here’s who said what during the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan:1. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the media after Tuesday’s talks that the government was keen on a group being formed but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone. 2. “The meeting was good and we have decided that the talks will be held on December 3. We wanted a small group to be constituted but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone, we do not have a problem with it,” the minister said.3. Tomar also appealed to the farmers to suspend the protests saying, “We appeal to the farmers to suspend the protests and come for the talks. However, this decision (of suspending the agitation) depends on farmers’ unions and farmers.”4. Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the meeting remained inconclusive.5. “The farmer’s organisations rejected the government’s proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws,” Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), told PTI. 6. “The government asked us to give names of 5-7 members to form a small committee for better discussion, but we rejected it. We said we all will be present. The government is insisting for a small group because they want to divide us. We are very well aware of the government’s tricks,” BKU (Dakaunda) Bathinda district president Baldev Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-agreement-during-farm-unions-govt-meet-who-said-what/story-SBX2Ltco8xe3RORF7vqOVO.html
01-12-2020||India||TN CM forms panel to gather caste-wise data even as PMK pushes for 20% quota for Vanniyars||Tamil Nadu Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced on Tuesday that a commission will be formed to gather caste-wise data for the state after meeting Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader and MP Anbumani Ramadoss whose party is demanding 20% reservation in government jobs and education for the Vanniyar community.Earlier in the day, PMK workers pelted stones on a moving train and blocked roads leading to Chennai near Perungalathur when police prevented them from entering the city. Traffic came to a standstill on Grand Southern Trunk, a national highway. The party workers were coming to Chennai from different districts such as Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri to partake in the first day of their protest.“Around 2,000 people have been detained across 65 places,” said assistant commissioner of police, M S Bhaskar citing violation of Covid-19 pandemic norms. There was heavy police deployment across Chennai and its borders. PMK workers were seen removing barricades to make way for their vehicles. Ramadoss who also participated in the protest in Chennai appealed to his party workers to not indulge in unrest. “I request police to allow party workers into Chennai. We want to protest peacefully,” he said. “We had announced that we will protest from December 1 two months ago and reiterated it during our recent general council meeting. This isn’t a caste issue but a developmental issue where backward communities like Vanniyars should grow for the overall progress of Tamil Nadu.” The PMK has been demanding the reservation for four decades without justice, he added. The PMK and its parent outfit, Vanniyar Sangam have revived this old demand ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. PMK and AIADMK are allies in the state. Similar agitations fizzled out in the late 1980s after the Most Backward Category (MBC) was created in which Vanniyars were among the 108 other caste groups that were included. But PMK leaders say that their assessment shows that there are only 4 to 6% of beneficiaries from the Vanniyar community.PMK founder S Ramadoss had lamented in their general council meeting that though they were in alliance with the ruling AIADMK, it was of “no use”. Ramadoss warned that if their demands weren’t met, they would intensify the protest similar to reservations based agitations led by Patidar in Gujarat and Gujjar in Rajasthan. He added that they were also let down by former DMK patriarch and late chief minister M Karunanidhi on this issue.The PMK has often switched their partnership between the DMK and AIADMK. “Ramadoss is one of the finest weathercocks in Tamil Nadu politics. He’s testing waters to increase his stake,” said Ramu Manivannan, head, politics and public administration, University of Madras. “He is useful as a share of vote transfer. The AIADMK needs his support which is why they go out of their way to deal with him whereas the DMK has considerable Vanniyar leaders within their fold. Karunanidhi consciously cultivated that kind of resistance for Ramadoss within the Vanniyar community.”Despite its poor show in the electoral fray in the past decade, PMK retains clout amongst the Dravidian majors. In the 2019 parliamentary elections, PMK’s vote share was 5.4% higher than their ally BJP’s 3.6%. In 2016 assembly elections, the party went solo projecting their leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss as their chief minister candidate but it drew a blank with a 5.3% of vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-will-consider-pmk-s-demand-for-20-quota-for-vanniyars-tamil-nadu-cm/story-tXHU8UyEMTfMLgIk8C2eRI.html
01-12-2020||India||Sputnik-V from Russia arrives in India for clinal trials||Sputnik V, the first registered Covid-19 vaccine from Russia arrived in India on Tuesday for clinical trials.Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories today initiated the clinical trials of the vaccine, the Indian pharma company said.Russia became the first country to register the world’s first Covid-19 vaccine on August 11. Sputnik V was developed by the Gamaleya National Research Centre for Epidemiology and Microbiology of the Russian Healthcare Ministry.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe Sputnik V vaccine is based on a well-studied human adenoviral vector platform that had proven safe and effective with no long-term side effects in more than 250 clinical trials globally conducted during the past two decades (while the history of use of human adenoviruses in vaccine development started in 1953). More than 100,000 people have received approved and registered drugs based on the human adenoviral vectors.Last month, Russia on Wednesday said that its vaccine Sputnik V is 92 per cent effective at protecting people from Covid-19 according to the first interim analysis.“The Sputnik V vaccine efficacy amounted to 92 per cent (calculation based on the 20 confirmed Covid-19 cases split between vaccinated individuals and those who received the placebo),” the RDIF said in a statement read.Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will be tested in India on 100 volunteers, the Indian Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation’s Drug Controller General (DCGI) told Sputnik in October.DCGI has granted permission to pharmaceutical giant Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for conducting tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-from-russia-arrives-in-india-for-clinal-trials/story-b8k3Ecncxw2RBTrIxOiqxO.html
01-12-2020||India||Piyush Goyal to chair Board of Trade’s meeting tomorrow, to discuss foreign trade policy||In order to scale domestic manufacturing and exports, a meeting of the Board of Trade (BOT) will be held on Wednesday by the Union Minister Piyush Goyal, via video conference.According to an official release, the discussions in the meeting will focus on the new foreign trade policy (2021-26) and the strategies and measures to be taken in order to take forward domestic manufacturing and exports. The BOT platform provides an opportunity to have regular discussion and consultation with trade and industry and advise the Government on policy measures related to Foreign Trade Policy(FTP) in order to achieve the objective of boosting India’s trade. It also provides a platform to state governments and Union Territories (UTs) to articulate their perspective on trade policy, and also to the Centre for apprising them about international developments affecting India’s trade potential and opportunities and to prepare them to deal with the evolving situation, the release read. The meeting will be addressed by Ministers of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash, and Hardeep Singh Puri. The BOT consists of secretaries of many departments of the Government of India, CEO, Niti Aayog, heads of various government bodies, representatives of apex industry associations, and Export Promotion Councils.The BOT will take an overview of the export/import performance, investment promotion strategy for AtmaNirbhar Bharat, including public procurement, Make in India, trade remedies recent measures and steps taken for new logistics policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-to-chair-board-of-trade-s-meeting-tomorrow-to-discuss-foreign-trade-policy/story-EaHav0mvLM2owki3GFqryM.html
01-12-2020||India||Election Commission proposes extending postal ballot facility for NRIs||The Election Commission has proposed to the government to extend the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) facility, so far available to service voters, to eligible overseas Indian voters.In a letter to the legislative secretary in the law ministry on November 27, the Commission said with the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, it is now “confident” that the facility can also be extended to the overseas electors. “The Commission is technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” the poll panel said. Elections in these state are due sometime in April-June next year.It said the poll panel has been receiving several representations from Indian diaspora residing abroad to facilitate voting through postal ballots since such overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling area as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair and otherwise also, they cannot leave the country of their residence owing to specific compulsions of employment, education or other engagements. “Due to protocols associated with Covid-19, problem further gets compounded,” the letter to the law ministry said.The Commission observed that Section 62 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 envisages right to vote for every citizen registered in the electoral roll who is not subject to disqualification for voting. “Therefore, it is necessary to explore all avenues to enable exercise of a franchise by all eligible electors,” it said.As of now, overseas Indians are free to cast their votes in constituencies they are registered.Unofficial data with the EC shows that only 10,000 to 12,000 overseas voters have exercised their franchise because they do not want to spend foreign currency to come to India and vote.Under ETPBS, postal ballot is send electronically to a service voter. The service voter downloads it and uses a specific envelope to return it to the returning officer of his constituency. The postal ballot should reach the returning officer by 8.00 am on the day of the counting. Counting of votes begin with counting of postal ballots at 8.00 am.Personnel of armed forces posted outside their constituencies in forward areas, personnel of central armed police forces posted in outside their constituencies state police personnel posted on poll duty, embassy staff are considered as service voters. The EC has suggested amending the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 to extend ETPBS for overseas electors. The rules wre amended in October, 2016 to allow service voters use ETPBS.ETPBS has nearly halved the time in sending and receiving postal ballots from far-flung areas.The Conduct of Election Rules were also changed to allow those who are 80 years of age or above and those with disabilities to use postal ballot to cast vote. The same facility was extended for Covid-19 patients. But this postal ballot facility is different from ETPBS. For overseas electors, EC has said the voter will have to intimate the returning officer that he r she wants to use postal ballot. The returning officer will then electronically transmit the ballot paper to the voter by means specified by the EC.The Commission requested the government to make necessary amendments at the earliest “which will go a long way in not only facilitating exercise of right of overseas electors but also further boosting image of the country internationally.” A bill to extend the facility of proxy voting to overseas Indians had lapsed following the dissolution of the 16th Lok Sabha in 2019.The bill had proposed that overseas Indians, who are entitled to vote in India, can appoint a proxy voter to cast the ballot on their behalf.An expert committee of the Election Commission, working on the issue, had in 2015 forwarded the legal framework to the Law Ministry to amend the electoral laws to allow the overseas Indians to use proxy voting.The bill said the necessary provision of coming to India to cast ballot caused hardship for overseas electors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-proposes-extending-postal-ballot-facility-for-nris/story-s6r1puoQcBf3M635ca4k7M.html
01-12-2020||India||Kerala braces for cyclone Burevi, IMD sounds red alert in four districts||As the depression over the south Bay of Bengal intensified into a severe cyclonic storm, Kerala started evacuating people from low-lying and coastal areas on Tuesday and sought more teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).The storm named Burevi is expected to make landfall in Kanyakumari by Thursday morning. The MeT office said the depression is now centered 800 km away from Kanyakumari and it is likely to develop more speed during the next 12 hours. The Indian Meteorological Department has sounded red alert in four south and central Kerala districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta and orange alert in three other districts.Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba who chaired the National Crisis Management meeting in New Delhi on Tuesday, later spoke to the chief secretaries of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and advisor of Lakshadweep. Kerala has sought seven more teams of the NDRF and services of the Navy, Coast Guard and the Air Force, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.“We have started relief camps and will shift people living in low-lying areas to these camps. We are monitoring water level in all major dams. The state is bracing to meet the cyclone,” said revenue minister E Chandrasekharan. Heavy rain is expected for two days starting from Wednesday accompanied by strong wind with a speed of 75 to 90 km per hour, the MeT office said.In 2017, cyclone Ockhi that hit Kerala and coastal Tamil Nadu claimed many lives. Authorities feel that with enough precautions and planning, Kerala can minimise the damage this time. The revenue minister has called another meeting on Wednesday to review the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-braces-for-cyclone-burevi-imd-sounds-red-alert-in-four-districts/story-dloD2IqNjQvnQHocIiZKIK.html
01-12-2020||India||ADB to provide USD 563 million loan for power projects in UP, Meghalaya||Multi-lateral funding agency Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Tuesday said it will provide loan of USD 562.8 million (about Rs 4,143 crore) for power projects in Uttar Pradesh and Meghalaya.The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a USD 430 million multi-tranche financing facility (MFF) to improve the quality and reliability of electricity supply in Uttar Pradesh in India, it said in a release.Besides, ADB has also signed a USD 132.8 million loan to strengthen and modernise the distribution network and improve the quality of power supplied to households, industries, and businesses in Meghalaya, it said in a separate release.The Uttar Pradesh Power Distribution Network Rehabilitation Project will improve the efficiency and sustainability of power supply in the state. The project is estimated to benefit 70 million people in 46,000 rural villages, ADB said.It will also finance the construction of a parallel network of 11-kilovolt feeders with a total length of 17,000 km to separate the distribution of electricity between residential consumers and agriculture consumers. This will facilitate the use of solar energy to meet the agriculture demand, increase in electricity supply duration to rural residential consumers, and energy and water conservation. In addition, the project will improve the gender inclusivity, corporate governance, and financial management capacity of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL). “Reliable and sustainable power distribution and service is an important aspect to India’s growth and development. This project fully supports the Government of India’s vision of ‘Power for All’ in a sustainable and inclusive way in the largest and one of the poorest states in India,” said ADB Principal Energy Specialist for South Asia Pradeep Perera. Existing rural power distribution networks will be upgraded to enable the provision of reliable supply to customers in rural Uttar Pradesh in a financially sustainable manner, he said.ADB said the MFF is complemented by a USD 2 million technical assistance (TA) grant from the ADB TA Special Fund and the Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction to strengthen the gender inclusivity and institutional capacity building of Uttar Pradesh power sector. The TA will pilot test innovative bill collection strategies involving rural women self-help groups, pilot test gender-sensitive workplace practices, provide capacity building for improved financial management, gender-inclusive workplace practices, and strengthen project management and safeguard compliance capacity of UPPCL.The funding to Meghalaya will be used for construction of 23 sub-stations; renovate and modernise 45 sub-stations, including provision of control room equipment and protection systems.Also, it will install and upgrade 2,214 km of distribution lines and associated facilities covering three out of the six circles in the state. Installation of smart metres will benefit about 1,80,000 households, ADB said.The loan will be supplemented by a USD 2 million grant from ADB Japan Fund for Poverty Reduction.The project will help develop a distribution sector road map and a financial road map for the Meghalaya Power Distribution Corporation Limited (MePDCL). These road maps will strengthen the capacity of MePDCL to operate and manage the distribution networks, said the Manila-headquartered global funding body.It said though Meghalaya has achieved 100 per cent electrification, remote rural areas in the state suffer from frequent power interruptions due to overloaded distribution networks and sub-stations that use outdated technology, resulting in high aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses. The Government of India and the state government of Meghalaya embarked on a joint 24x7 Power for All Meghalaya initiative to provide uninterrupted, quality, reliable, and affordable power supply to all electricity consumers, ADB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adb-to-provide-usd-563-million-loan-for-power-projects-in-up-meghalaya/story-6d95cLbhHcOkmWDY3cz7BI.html
01-12-2020||India||Farmers should flag specific issues in laws, Govt ready to look into them: Tomar||As a meeting with representatives of protesting farmers remained inconclusive, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday they have been asked to come with specific issues in the new farm laws and the government is ready to discuss and address their concerns.The government had called a meeting with 35 representatives of agitating farmers at Vigyan Bhawan hereafter large-scale protests by various farmer groups, including from Punjab and Haryana, entered its sixth day on various borders of the national capital.“We had a detailed discussion. We will again meet on December 3. We suggested to them to form a small committee, but they said they all will be present in the meeting. So, we agreed to that,” Tomar told PTI after the meeting.Asked why the government was holding a separate discussion with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait, the minister said, “They have come to us, so we are discussing with them also. We are ready to discuss with all farmers.”Asked when the deadlock will end, he said, “The time will decide.”On the protesting farmers insisting on the repeal of all three farm laws, Tomar said, “We have asked them to come with specific issues in the laws and we are ready to discuss and address their concerns.””If they have any specific issue with any clauses, let them point out. Let them put their views, we will look into them,” he added.Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing the middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price and scrap away mandis that ensure earning.After the meeting, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement that the talks remained inconclusive and the government’s proposal was not acceptable to farm unions.It further said protests will now intensify across the country until their demands are met.The 35 farm leaders had met a ministerial delegation that included Agriculture Minister Tomar, Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, to press for their demands around the repeal of three central farm acts and withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020.While 32 of the farm leaders were from Punjab unions and one from Haryana, two were from national farmer alliances -– AIKSCC and RKMS.The talks ended inconclusively and will resume the day after on December 3.The farmer leaders rejected the government proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the objections and study the concerns. They told the government that such committees have led to no results and outcomes in the past.The government also asked the farm unions for their detailed critique to be provided in the statutes, and to articulate the objections in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-government-notifies-one-farm-law-examining-the-other-two/story-L0UjW2AtRtTNif4EXi9yCO.html
01-12-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh govt decides not to hold winter assembly session in December||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided not to convene the proposed winter Assembly session at Dharamshala this month due to recent spurt in coronavirus cases, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Tuesday.The decision of not convening the proposed winter assembly session from December 7 to 11 was taken during a state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Tuesday.The minister said the state government would recommend to the Governor to withdraw its earlier notification of convening the winter session from December 7 to 11.He said the last monsoon session was adjourned on September 18 and as per rules, the next assembly session may be called anytime before six months.The next assembly session will be called before March 18, Bhardwaj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-govt-decides-not-to-hold-winter-assembly-session-in-december/story-sQIG3Zz4lR6xbYXDySPSdL.html
01-12-2020||India||Meeting between farmers’ leaders, govt inconclusive; next round on Dec 3||The meeting between leaders of farmers agitating against the farm laws and the government on Tuesday remained inconclusive and another round of talks is going to be held on Thursday. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the meeting with representatives of protesting farmers was “good” and that the next round of talks has been scheduled for Thursday. The minister told the media after Tuesday’s talks that the government was keen on a group being formed but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone.“The meeting was good and we have decided that the talks will be held on December 3. We wanted a small group to be constituted but farmers’ leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone, we do not have a problem with it,” the minister said. Tomar also appealed to farmers to suspend their protest. “We appeal to the farmers to suspend the protests and come for the talks. However, this decision (of suspending the agitation) depends on farmers’ unions and farmers,” he said.Also read | JJP suggests written assurance from Centre on MSPThe government, during the course of the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan, suggested setting up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 agitating organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers that ended without any resolution. The government also gave a detailed presentation to the farmers’ leaders on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act during the meeting.The protesting farmers are apprehensive that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.At the nearly three-hour-long meeting at Vigyan Bhawan, Tomar was accompanied by railways and commerce and industry Minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab.Also read | Delhi government notifies one farm law, examining the other twoAfter the meeting, Bharat Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said it remained inconclusive and the government has called for another meeting on December 3. Ugrahan, the leader of one of the largest blocks of farmers who have been protesting against the new laws, said the government will arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. “The farmer’s organisations rejected the government’s proposal to form a five-member committee to look into the issues related to the new farm laws,” Roopsingh Sanha, member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), told PTI.The government was, however, firm in its stand that a high-level committee must be formed to look into the issues and wanted the farmer representatives to further consider the proposal. PTI reported citing sources that the ministers were of the view that it was difficult to reach a decision while interacting with such large groups and therefore they suggested meeting with a smaller group, but the farmer leaders were firm that they would meet collectively only.Union leaders said they feared the government might be trying to break their unity and the momentum of their protest. “The government asked us to give names of 5-7 members to form a small committee for better discussion, but we rejected it. We said we all will be present,” BKU (Dakaunda) Bathinda District President Baldev Singh said. “The government is insisting for a small group because they want to divide us. We are very well aware of the government’s tricks,” he alleged.Also read | Trudeau expresses concern at farmers’ protest; India says remarks ‘unwarranted’After the meeting held at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan, a member of the farmers’ delegation said that their movement against the three farm laws will continue. “We will definitely take back something from the government, be it bullets or a peaceful solution. We will come back for more discussions with them,” Chanda Singh said according to ANI.News agency PTI reported citing officials that another round of meeting was held later in the evening at the agriculture ministry with representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). BKU leader Naresh Tikait also said another delegation of farmers’ leaders was meeting the government at 7pm. He said issues other than the recently enacted farm laws are also likely to be discussed, and mentioned power tariffs for farmers among the probable talking points.The meeting was expected to be attended by representatives from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Uttarakhand, Tikait told reporters at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border while on his way for the meeting. This meeting began soon after the end of the first one with a much larger group at Vigyan Bhawan, where the farmer representatives were unanimous in seeking repeal of the three laws that they have been terming as being against the interest of the farm community.The opposition parties too have stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to “respect the democratic struggle” of the farmers and repeal the laws.An earlier meeting on November 13 had failed to reach a breakthrough and the next one was originally scheduled for December 3, but it got advanced due to the ongoing protests on Delhi borders. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday’s violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-between-farmers-leaders-govt-inconclusive-next-round-on-dec-3/story-vAJL2ziPSsPsagOM7fvFBI.html
01-12-2020||India||NCMC reviews situation in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Lakshadweep||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Tuesday reviewed the situation evolving in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep where heavy to very heavy rains are expected in view of a deep depression emerging along the coastline.At a meeting held here, the NCMC, headed by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, also took note of the advisory given to fishermen and deployment of rescue teams.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn view of the deep depression emerging along the southern coast of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the cabinet secretary chaired the NCMC meeting through video conferencing with the chief secretaries of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the advisor Lakshadweep and secretaries of different ministries, an official statement said.The director general of the India Meteorological Department informed that winds of different speed during the deep depression are likely to affect the coast of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep with heavy to very heavy rainfall between December 2 and 4.He mentioned that as of now, it is likely to cause damage to crops and some essential services.There should be complete suspension of fishing activities up to December 4, he told the meeting.The chief secretaries of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Advisor, Lakshadweep briefed the NCMC about their preparedness and arrangements by District Disaster Management Committees in the districts concerned, warning to fishermen and deployment of rescue teams.The Director General of the National Disaster Response Force informed the meeting that the necessary teams have been positioned in these areas and the remaining teams have been kept on stand-by across Tamil Nadu.The secretaries from the ministries of Civil Aviation, Telecommunication, Power, Home, NDMA and the representative of Ministry of Defence also briefed the NCMC about their preparedness.The cabinet secretary asked the state governments and central ministries to ensure that all necessary actions are taken to ensure that damage is minimum and necessary preparations are made to restore essential services at the earliest, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncmc-reviews-situation-in-tamil-nadu-kerala-lakshadweep/story-z8GlnJWX4DU5Km4LFbLBgP.html
01-12-2020||India||Bangladesh signs deal with Serum Institute of India for 30m Covid-19 vaccine doses||Bangladesh expects to receive its first batch of coronavirus vaccines by February which people will receive free of charge, the health secretary said on Tuesday.The South Asian country of more than 160 million last month signed a deal with the Serum Institute of India to buy 30 million doses of the vaccine developed by British drugmaker AstraZeneca.“We expect to get the vaccine as early as February and people will get it for free,” health secretary Abdul Mannan told reporters.Frontline workers like health service providers and police will be given priority.In the global race to develop vaccines against Covid-19, AstraZeneca’s candidate is viewed as offering one of the best hopes for many developing countries because of its cheaper price and ability to be transported at normal fridge temperatures.Some experts, however, raised questions around its trial data.Bangladesh will also get 68 million doses of vaccine from the GAVI vaccine alliance, Mannan said, referring to a global health partnership set up in 2000 to increase access to immunisation in poor countries.Experts say Bangladesh, with patchy healthcare facilities, could face another surge in infections, having so far confirmed 467,225 cases and 6,675 deaths since the pandemic began.Daily infections have shown a rising trend over the past few weeks, with 2,293 new cases and 31 deaths reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/bangladesh-expects-to-receive-first-covid-vaccines-by-february/story-wCwEY05bPT5PoJLH1Hs7IP.html
01-12-2020||India||SIT recommends ED probe into ₹150 cr property of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, aides||A special investigation team (SIT) has recommended a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the property worth ₹150 crore amassed by slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides, a senior Uttar Pradesh government official said here on Tuesday.Dubey was shot dead by the Uttar Pradesh police in an encounter on July 10. The SIT was headed by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy.The SIT was set up to probe different aspects of the ambush case in which eight policemen, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Mishra, were allegedly shot dead by Dubey and his aides when a police team raided his house in Bikru village of Kanpur on July 3. The SIT had earlier recommended action against 90 officials, including 41 policemen, and other government employees from rural development, food and revenue departments for allegedly helping the gangster. “While recommending an ED probe into the gangster’s property, SIT also recommended registration of FIRs against all those officials who had helped Dubey and his gang in the past many years,” said the government official who did not wish to be named. .He said the SIT report also recommended that these officials be given punishment, ranging from severe to mild, for remaining in constant touch with Dubey and helping him. According to the official, the report, which was submitted in October, said the officials did not attend to complaints against the gangster and issued licensed weapons, SIM cards and passports to him and his gang on the basis of fake documents and false details.He said the SIT in its 3,100 page report recommended strict action against officials who had helped the gang procure licensed weapons and ammunition. The state government had earlier suspended senior IPS officer of DIG rank Anant Deo after the SIT probe pointed to a nexus between Dubey and the police. Deo was SSP of Kanpur for several months before being transferred as deputy inspector general (DIG) of the Special task Force (STF) only a few days before the ambush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-recommends-ed-probe-into-150-cr-property-of-slain-gangster-vikas-dubey-aides/story-7wAuPRJJv2QJhMCF52avAO.html
01-12-2020||India||Gujarat govt slashes RT-PCR test price to Rs 800||The Gujarat government on Tuesday reduced the price of RT-PCR tests conducted by private laboratories for Covid-19 to Rs 800 from Rs 1,500.Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel told reporters here that since the prices of test kits have come down, the state government decided to pass on this benefit to people.“From today, the government-authorised private laboratories will charge Rs 800 for an RT-PCR test, a reduction of Rs 700 from the current rate,” Patel said.The prices of test kits have come down following large scale production, he said.If a laboratory assistant is called at home to collect samples, the charge for the RT-PCR test will be Rs 1,100, he said, adding that labs charge Rs 2,000 for the home collection service at present.The decision to slash the test rates was taken by the government’s core group under the guidance of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, he said.The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi and the Congress-led government in Rajasthan also recently announced reduction in the prices of RT-PCR tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-govt-slashes-rt-pcr-test-price-to-rs-800/story-rsqI4IRAQuNcqqei8ZhAbK.html
01-12-2020||India||Railways to prepare detailed report on corporatisation of production units, discuss it with unions||Rail PSU RITES will prepare a detailed project report on the proposed corporatisation of the railways’ production units, which will be discussed with the unions in April-June next year, Railway Board Chairman and CEO VK Yadav said Tuesday.Railway unions have vehemently opposed the national transporter’s decision to turn its production units into corporate entities, raising concerns about job losses.  “The detailed project report for the corporatisation of the railway production units is being prepared by RITES. Once it is ready we will discuss it with unions and see how best we can take it forward along with ensuring that interests of railway employees are adequately taken care off,” Yadav said while addressing a press conference.  He said the consultation period will be of two to three months between April and June next year.  “Based on the talks with the trade unions and railway employees we will proceed further,” Yadav said.The railways plans to corporatise its production units which it has claimed will result in greater efficiency. These include the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, Integral Coach Factory, Diesel Locomotive Works, Diesel Modernization Works, Wheel and Axle Plant, Rail Wheel Plant, Rail Coach Factory and Modern Coach Factory.These plans have also been opposed by Opposition parties, including the Congress. To a question on only three companies bidding for the manufacturing of Vande Bharat train sets, Yadav said the tender was a domestic one with local content requirement increased to over 75 per cent.He said technical evaluation was going on and after that the financial bid will be open.In September this year, almost a month after cancelling the tender for manufacturing 44 Vande Bharat train sets, the Indian Railways invited fresh tenders for manufacturing the semi-high speed train sets focusing on the domestic manufacturers and promoting the government’s ambitious Make in India project.In a statement, the Railway Ministry had said it has floated the revised tender of semi high speed 44 Vande Bharat trains sets for which the pre-bid meeting will be held on September 29. The ministry had said the tender will open on November 17, 2020.According to the railway ministry officials, train sets shall be manufactured at ICF-Chennai, RCF-Kapurthala and MCF-Raebareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-prepare-detailed-report-on-corporatisation-of-production-units-discuss-it-with-unions/story-rkI9O4atYoiLqZF21ulqhP.html
01-12-2020||India||Over 4,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi; death toll reaches 9,260||Delhi on Tuesday reported more than 4,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 86 deaths, taking the city’s tally to 574,380 and toll to 9,260, a government bulletin showed on Tuesday. As per the health bulletin by the government, 4,006 people contracted Covid-19 and 5,036 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours.There are 31,769 active cases of Covid-19 in the national capital and 533,351 patients have recovered so far, the latest data showed. The positivity rate was at 6.85% as it tested as many as 58,456 samples for the deadly virus. So far, the authorities have conducted 6,346,521 tests. Based on the last 10 days’ data, the death rate now stands at 1.93%.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageDelhi is reeling under the third wave of Covid-19. On November 11, it recorded its highest daily spike as 8,593 people contracted the virus. On November 18, the city recorded the highest number of fatalities with 131 deaths. The positivity rate was 15.33% recorded on November 15. However, it is on a downward trend now. For the last few days, the daily average has been below 5,000.Meanwhile, the Delhi government slashed the cost of a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for detection of Covid-19 by almost 67% to Rs 800 per test. As per the latest order issued by the state health department on Monday, RT-PCR tests from all private laboratories in Delhi will cost Rs 800, whereas a home collection of samples will cost Rs 1,200. Until Sunday, the cost of an RT-PCR test was capped at Rs 2,400 irrespective of whether a person visits the laboratory or testing centre or gets the test done at home. All Covid-19 tests in government establishments will, however, continue to be free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-death-toll-reaches-9-260/story-rqdoJVQ14UyBqNRHWsDztI.html
01-12-2020||India||Maoist group in Dhanbad sends Rs 50 lakh extortion notice to 4 businessmen||Four businessmen here have received extortion calls of Rs 50 lakh each allegedly in the name of People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), a faction of the outlawed CPI Maoists that is active mainly in South Chotanagpur and Mohan divisions of Jharkhand, police said Tuesday. Those who have received extortion demands are well known traders from the upscale Bank More area of the coal city.All four businessmen received extortion demand through WhatsApp message and telephone calls at 9.30 pm on Monday. They duly informed senior superintendent of police (SSP) Asim Vikram Minz and additional superintendent of police (ASP) Manoj Swargyari about the extortion messages and calls.The businessmen also lodged an FIR in this connection in the Bank More police station against unidentified criminals.“Police are investigating the matter. Criminals involved in the incident would be arrested soon”, Minz told media persons.This is the first time PLFI has served extortion notice to businessmen in Dhanbad. According to the complaint, the extortionists demanded Rs 50 lakh each from Vishal Kumar, Vikash Kumar, Tinku Agrawal and Govind Agrawal. All four businessmen have been asked to deposit the money in the PLFI party fund.The Federation of District Chamber of Commerce (FDCC) has taken the matter seriously and requested SSP to provide special security in Bank More area which is the district’s business hub. “There is panic among businessmen as this is the first time the PLFI has demanded extortion from the city’s businessmen”, said Rajesh Gupta, patron of FDCC.In the past few months similar cases have been reported in the state capital Ranchi. On November 2, alleged PLFI members had demanded Rs 50 lakh from two businessmen of Ranchi. On November 17, the PLFI had demanded Rs 20 lakh from Dr Shambhu Prasad, IMA secretary Ranchi chapter through WhatsApp message and telephone call.None of these men have paid the ultras while the police have increased their protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-group-in-dhanbad-sends-rs-50-lakh-extortion-notice-to-4-businessmen/story-pLAnslj1PNFfQoMzxh0ZRI.html
01-12-2020||India||SC slams Gujarat govt for ‘attempts to suppress facts’ regarding Rajkot hospital fire||The Supreme Court on Tuesday slammed the Gujarat government for its attempts to allegedly suppress facts regarding the fire in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Rajkot, which led to the death of five Covid-19 patients.A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan told the counsel appearing for the Gujarat government that “no one can suppress the facts, the facts need to come out in the correct fashion”.“We have seen your affidavit. According to you, everything is good. So far, as the state hospital is concerned all is well. So far inquiry commission is concerned that has also expired. Your stand is contrary to your own chief electrical engineering,” Justice MR Shah told Gujarat’s counsel.Last week, the apex court had taken suo motu cognizance of the incident and expressed anguish over the same.At the outset, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Central government told the bench that the Centre has issued a guideline under the NDM Act on fire safety. The court then posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday.The bench was hearing a suo motu case pertaining to the management of the Covid-19 crisis and mishandling of dead bodies. On the last hearing, the bench had sought a response from the Centre and a report from the Gujarat government over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-slams-gujarat-govt-for-attempts-to-suppress-facts-regarding-rajkot-hospital-fire/story-I22HD1f4CFCuacBdlNh2cP.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Danger still out there’: Covid-19 survivor Manipur CM Biren Singh warns||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh has recovered and tested negative for coronavirus. The CM thanked his doctors and advised people to be on their guard against the infection. “With your love and prayers, have finally recovered and tested negative for Covid-19. I thank my doctors for looking after me well in the last two weeks. Make no mistake, the danger is still out there, let’s follow the advice of doctors to keep ourselves safe from coronavirus,” tweeted Biren Singh on Monday.An RT-PCR test report also showed the chief minister as having tested negative for the infection.It may be mentioned that the CM had tested positive for coronavirus on November 15. On Tuesday, the CM attended a review meeting on Covid-19 dealing with issues regarding fatality rate, home isolation and collective efforts of various state government departments and Covid-19 vaccination preparation, etc.The meeting was attended by all cabinet ministers and concerned officials of the state government.During the meeting, the CM emphasised on the need for timely diagnosis and hospitalisation for effective treatment and prevention of the casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danger-still-out-there-covid-19-survivor-manipur-cm-biren-singh-warns/story-q9G94oi7lYIlit3U5n9R9L.html
01-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi records 4,006 new cases, 86 deaths raise toll to 9,260||Delhi recorded 4,006 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 5.74 lakh, while 86 new fatalities pushed the toll from the disease to 9,260, authorities said.These fresh cases came out of the 58,456 Covid-19 tests conducted the previous day, including 30,297 RT-PCR tests, while the positivity rate stood at 6.85 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department. The active Covid-19 case count stood at 31,769 in Delhi on Tuesday, it said. The bulletin said the total number of novel coronavirus cases has climbed to 5,74,380 in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-records-4-006-new-cases-86-deaths-raise-toll-to-9-260/story-kaFxZogBdf0upDSOw7uE9J.html
01-12-2020||India||Govt never spoke about vaccinating the entire country, says health ministry||The government said on Tuesday it has not talked about vaccinating the entire population of the country against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as India reported 9,462,809 infections and 137,621 related deaths so far.“I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It’s important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only,” Rajesh Bhushan, the secretary of the Union health ministry said.Bhushan also said that the average daily positivity rate in India has been 3.72 per cent and with 211 cases per million, India has the lowest cases per million count “among all the big nations.” While data from the past seven days indicate that cases are increasing in European nations, the cumulative positivity rate has decreased in India, he noted. The cumulative positivity rate fell from 7.15 per cent to 6.69 per cent between November 11 and December 1. The number of recoveries had exceeded the number of new Covid-19 infections in India in the month of November, Bhushan added.When asked about the allegations against Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, the health secretary said that the vaccine timelines in India will not be affected in any manner by adverse events. Recently, a volunteer from Chennai had served a legal notice to SII stating ‘sudden collapse of medical condition’ after vaccination, which the SII has denied, saying Covishield is “safe and immunogenic.” Both parties have now served legal notices regarding the issue.Bhushan said that all subjects sign a consent form before the trials that detail all the possible adverse effects of the vaccine inoculation. The government has also appointed an Institutional Ethics Committee that functions independent of the government and the vaccine manufacturer. This is done to ensure the safety of vaccines since the trials happen over various sites and locations.The health secretary noted that the ethics committee will submit a report to the central authority, that is Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) in case of any adverse events.He also said that the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) monitors the clinical trials on a “day-to-day basis” and reports all adverse events. The DCGI then analyses the reports and would then establish if there are any “one-to-one correlation” between the vaccine and the adverse event, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-never-spoke-about-vaccinating-entire-country-health-ministry/story-RpzmIJ46RlDnMxnmyeKnLP.html
01-12-2020||India||Andhra govt threatens to attach properties of cement factory promoted by TDP ex-MP||The Andhra Pradesh mining and geology department has written to the revenue authorities of Anantapur district seeking to invoke the Revenue Recovery Act to attach the properties of Trishul Cement Company, promoted by the family of senior Telugu Desam Party leader and former Anantapur MP J C Diwakar Reddy. “We have served a notice on the company in May this year imposing a penalty of Rs 100.24 crore for alleged illegal mining of limestone, failing which the government shall invoke the Revenue Recovery Act to attach the properties of the company,” a senior official of the mining and geology department in Anantapur district told HT on condition of anonymity. In February, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government cancelled the limestone mining lease of Trishul Cement Company located across 649 acres at Konauppalapadu village of Yadiki block in Anantapur, on the charges that company had violated the Minerals Concession Rules. The mining lease was granted to the company in August 2007 for captive use for a period of 20 years subject to the condition that the company should establish the cement unit within three years. When the factory was not set up even after the deadline, the government had extended the deadline by two more years and later by five more years twice. After the YSR Congress party came to power, it ordered an inquiry into the alleged irregularities of the company. The mining authorities detected illegal mining of 14 lakh metric tonnes of limestone which were sold instead of being used for the cement factory. The mining department official quoted above said though the company was promoted by Diwakar Reddy and his family, his name did not figure in the company records and the company was in the name of other directors. “We have written to the revenue department to identify the actual beneficiaries of the limestone mining and take appropriate action as per the Revenue Recovery Act,” the official said. Diwakar Reddy could not be reached for comments. He is said to have gone to Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-threatens-to-attach-properties-of-cement-factory-promoted-by-tdp-ex-mp/story-3iw5TLFN9lfVXj0kIhE2LM.html
01-12-2020||India||Govt proposes to form panel with farmers’ leaders to discuss contentious farm laws||The Centre on Tuesday proposed to form a committee to discuss new agricultural laws during the meeting with farmers agitating against the contentious legislation, news agency ANI reported. The government asked farmers to give names of four to five leaders from their organisation who will become part of the committee which will also include representatives from the government.The government made the proposal during a meeting with the leaders of 32 farmers’ unions at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi. It also gave a detailed presentation to the farmers’ leaders on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash are representing the government.Also Read | Covid-19 cases per million lowest in India, says govtThousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the three farm laws, passed by the Parliament in September. The agitating farmers are demanding the withdrawal of farm laws -- The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- as they fear that it will dismantle the entire Mandi system. They are demanding that they should get MSP whether inside or outside agricultural markets.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lauded the enactment of the farm laws. On Sunday, PM Modi blamed opposition-peddled “rumours” and “propaganda” for the farmers’ unrest in and at the borders of the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-proposes-to-form-panel-with-farmers-leaders-to-discuss-contentious-farm-laws/story-5FbarCAzxPYdIwbFeMEydJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Former TMC leader Asif Khan questioned by CBI in Saradha scam||The CBI Tuesday interrogated former Trinamool Congress leader Asif Khan in connection with an audio clip in connection with the multicrore rupees Saradha scam.Khan said that the investigation agency had summoned him for testing his voice sample in the audio clip but it could not be done for some ‘technical reasons’.“The CBI called me for testifying my voice in an audio clip which has been unearthed by the probing agency. But this could not be done for some technical reasons,” he told newspersons.“I will come and cooperate whenever I am called again,” he said.Khan was interrogated by the investigating agency in connection with the Saradha scam in 2014. He was arrested and is now on bail.The scam, which surfaced in April 2013, had defrauded thousands of common investors through various schemes.Founder of the Saradha group Sudipto Sen and his close aide Debjani Mukherjee had been arrested by CBI and are yet to secure bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tmc-leader-asif-khan-questioned-by-cbi-in-saradha-scam/story-WHf5FMhBt9qvllkAXZ5YAN.html
01-12-2020||India||More than one-third of kids with Covid-19 show no symptoms, says study||More than one-third of kids infected with the novel coronavirus are asymptomatic, according to a study which confirms that children diagnosed with Covid-19 may represent just a fraction of those infected.The research, published in the journal CMAJ, analysed results for 2,463 children in Alberta, Canada, who were tested during the first wave of the pandemic -- March to September -- for Covid-19 infection. “The concern from a public health perspective is that there is probably a lot of Covid-19 circulating in the community that people don’t even realise,” said Finlay McAlister, a co-author of the study from the University of Alberta Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry in Canada. “When we see reports of 1,200 new cases per day in the province of Alberta, that’s likely just the tip of the iceberg -- there are likely many people who don’t know they have the disease and are potentially spreading it,” he said. Of the 2,463 children, 1,987 had a positive test result for Covid-19 and 476 had a negative result, and of those who tested positive, 714 -- about 36 per cent --reported being asymptomatic. Due to the asymptomatic nature of the disease in up to one-third of children, McAlister said closing schools for a longer period over Christmas was the right decision. “As far as we know, kids are less likely to spread disease than adults, but the risk is not zero. Presumably asymptomatic spreaders are less contagious than the person sitting nearby who is sneezing all over you, but we don’t know that for sure,” he added. The researchers also found that cough, runny nose and sore throat were three of the most common symptoms among children with Covid-19 infection -- showing up in 25, 19 and 16 per cent of cases respectively. However, they said these symptoms were slightly more common among those with negative Covid-19 test results, and therefore not predictive of a positive test. “Of course, kids are at risk of contracting many different viruses, so the Covid-specific symptoms are actually more things like loss of taste and smell, headache, fever, and nausea and vomiting, not runny nose, a cough and sore throat,” McAlister said. “Some people with Covid feel well and don’t realise they have it so they socialise with friends and unintentionally spread the virus, and I think that’s the big issue,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/more-than-one-third-of-kids-with-covid-19-show-no-symptoms-says-study/story-gkhqCpMeu4uMIKu2oBT9qI.html
01-12-2020||India||Earthquake hits Haridwar after 40 years, seismic activity being studied||A magnitude 3.9 earthquake hit Haridwar on Tuesday, said experts from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG). The experts said such seismic activity has been reported from Haridwar after almost 40 years. ML Sharma, a professor of earthquake engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, said the source of the earthquake may be attributed to the Himalayan Frontal Fault which is located in this area. “This region is seismically quite active and the present earthquake is one of the earthquakes in this sequence. But still an earthquake from the Haridwar region is being reported after almost 40 years.”Officials said no loss of life or any other damage to property was reported.Meera Kainthura, Haridwar’s district disaster management officer, said the earthquake was recorded at a depth of 10 km. Sushil Rohella, a senior scientist from WIHG studying seismic activities, said that the entire Himalayan terrain falls under Zone V and Zone IV of Earthquake Zoning Map of India that divides the Indian landmass into four distinct risk zones.“This particular region lies in Zone IV, where such small magnitude earthquakes are expected. A big tectonic feature also passes from this region. We are currently looking at this earthquake from WIHG data and gathering more details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-hits-haridwar-after-40-years-seismic-activity-being-studied/story-dbtaZdo9tN8R9vVzaphEnL.html
01-12-2020||India||Where has PM-CARES Fund money gone, asks West Bengal CM Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday accused the Centre of using central agencies to bulldoze the countrys federal structure and sought to know where is the money of Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund.Banerjee said that her government would not work as per whims and fancies of the BJP-led regime at the Centre.Where has all the money of the PM Cares Fund gone? Does anyone know about the future of these funds? Where are the lakhs of crores of money gone? Why was no audit done? The Centre is lecturing us. What have they given us to combat the Covid pandemic,” she told a press conference after a cabinet meeting.Charging the Centre with targeting West Bengal as elections are approaching, the Trinamool Congress supremo claimed that law and order situation is better in the state than many other states of the country.“The Centre is using agencies to bulldoze and threaten us. We are not afraid of them. They (BJP) are not a political party but garbage of lies,” she said.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are due in April-May next year.About the on-going farmer’s protest in north India, she claimed that no other political party supported the BJP on the issue of farm laws but the saffron party is adamant on bulldozing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-has-pm-cares-fund-money-gone-asks-west-bengal-cm-mamata/story-owr31o4EDqcV343vzsI4GJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Ahead of Yogi Adityanath’s visit, Uddhav Thackeray says Maharashtra won’t allow anyone to ‘forcibly’ take business away||Ahead of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath’s visit to the financial capital, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday warned he will not let anybody “forcibly” take businesses away from the state. He made it clear that Maharashtra is not “jealous” about someone’s progress if it happens on the basis of fair competition. Adityanath is arriving late this evening in Mumbai and slated to meet industrialists and film personalities during the visit. As per reports, Sachin Sawant, a spokesperson for the Congress party, a part of the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, has alleged a conspiracy to shift Bollywood, the Hindi film industry, out of Mumbai. “We are not jealous if someone progresses, we do not have any problem with someone’s progress if one competes. But if you are going to forcibly take anything away, then of course, I won’t let it happen and you (industrialists) will not be willing to go,” Thackeray said at an event organised by IMC, a small businesses-focused lobby grouping, here. Drawing from the tag line ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ used by his state while pitching to investors, Thackeray said Maharashtra has strengths including its culture and institutions. “Some people are coming today, they will also meet you all and ask you to come (for investments). But they do not know the magnetic strength (of Maharashtra), it is so powerful that forget people going from here to there, it should not so happen that somebody from there comes here,” Thackeray said.Thackeray said the economy, which had suffered reverses because of the pandemic, is slowly coming back as the unlock process gets underway. Unlike the demonetisation, which had led to “disappearance” of money, Thackeray said the stress caused by the pandemic is not permanent and the money will come back into circulation once economic activity resumes. He said of the Rs 60,000 crore of investment tie-ups with companies announced earlier, work on 70 per cent of them is underway through land allotment or other permissions. Helping a common man’s purchasing power by creating jobs is necessary for overall development, Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-yogi-adityanath-s-visit-uddhav-thackeray-says-maharashtra-won-t-allow-anyone-to-forcibly-take-business-away/story-gC6ZPdIMVNzqRnXNfit1iN.html
01-12-2020||India||ICICI bank fraud: Court refuses bail to Deepak Kochhar||A special court on Tuesday refused bail to Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar, in connection with the money laundering case against him.His lawyers cited a recent order of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act Adjudicating Authority’s refusal to confirm attachment of the flat owned by the couple, saying it was not the proceeds of crime. In this backdrop, Deepak Kochhar claimed there was no evidence of money laundering against him.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) opposed the plea and claimed the order of Authority has nothing to do with the proceedings before the court. In any case, the agency said, they were in a process of challenging the order.ED said between June 2009 and October 2011, ICICI Bank sanctioned six high value loans to various Videocon Group companies. In August 2009, Rupee Term Loan (RTL) of Rs300 crore was sanctioned to Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) in contravention of the bank’s rules and policy.Also read | PMLA adjudicating authority dismisses attachment of assets of Kochhars“As per the structure created by/on the directions of the accused [Deepak Virendra Kochhar], part of the amount which was taken as loan by VIEL from ICICI Bank with an interest liability of more than 12% per annum was paid/transferred to NRPL without any security and without any interest payable by them. This amount of Rs 64 crore is proceeds of crime that is transferred by Videocon Group/ Mr. V. N. Dhoot to NRPL, a company beneficially owned and controlled by Deepak Kochhar,” the ED said in its reply.“The said amount Rs64 crore has been utilised for purchasing properties [Wind farm projects of 33.15 MW capacity].” ED said the proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 64 crore were not intended to be returned to VIL. “... because the company of Videocon Group namely M/s Real Cleantech Private Limited [RCPL, which was part of structure created for holding the proceeds of crime], was allowed silent death i.e. it was struck off in 2018 and the link for return back of funds to Videocon Group was broken.”ED said the flat located at CCI Chambers acquired by family trust of Chanda Kochhar from Videocon Group for a minuscule amount is also a part of proceeds of crime. “Chanda Kochhar and the accused were associated with Mr. V. N. Dhoot/Videocon Group since 1994-95. The accused floated M/s Vikvin Finance Private Limited (VFPL) with his Mother [Late Mrs. Vinodini Kochhar] on 18.03.1992 which was later renamed as M/s Credential Finance Limited (CFL) on 27.09.1994,” the agency said.It added Chanda Kochhar was allotted 1890 equity shares of CFL in 1993. “Further, in 1994-1995, Dhoot through M/s Videocon International Limited, had also invested approximately Rs10 crore in CFL. The flat was the asset of CFL and was purchased after the investment of Dhoot.”The agency said in 2016, through various layered transactions, the flat was transferred to the family trust of Chanda Kochhar set up by her mother for the benefit of her children and Deepak Kochhar is its managing trustee.Deepak Kochhar earlier sought bail saying the ED had failed to file a charge sheet against him within the stipulated 60 days of his arrest. He argued therefore he was entitled to be released on bail. The special court rejected the argument last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icici-bank-fraud-court-refuses-bail-to-deepak-kochhar/story-tTvJUa5hTWZXO7odfhZ1HO.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Indian security forces went 200 meters inside Pakistan to unearth tunnel used by terrorists to infiltrate’: Govt official||Indian security forces in a recent operation went almost 200 metres inside Pakistan’s side to unearth a tunnel which was used by terrorists to infiltrate inside Indian territory, a top government official said on Tuesday.“Security forces went inside Pakistan for almost 200 meters which was the starting point of the tunnel, used by the terrorists eliminated last week by Indian forces,” a top official said.A 150-metre long underground tunnel suspected to be used by terrorists for infiltration was detected near International Border in Jammu and Kashmir’s Samba sector on November 22.In the third week of November, security forces recovered mobile phones from the possession of terrorists killed by them which helped the forces to unearth a tunnel.Also Read |  BSF officer killed in Pakistan firing along LoC in RajouriBorder Security Force (BSF) DG Rakesh Asthana on Tuesday talked about the operation during Raising Day and said, “On the basis of the analysis of mobile phones recovered from terrorists eliminated by security forces, on November 22, BSF unearthed a tunnel used by terrorists to infiltrate in Samba sector.”Asthana said this on the Raising Day of BSF while giving a speech. Though the DG BSF didn’t say anything on the operational part of it.The tunnel was detected in a joint operation by Border Security Force (BSF) and Jammu and Kashmir police.“It seems terrorists involved in Nagrotra encounter used this 150-metre long tunnel as it’s a fresh one. We believe they had a guide who took them till highway,” BSF Jammu frontier, Inspector General, NS Jamwal had said.The tunnel exit was in thick bushes carefully concealed and meticulously covered with soil and wild growth. The mouth of the tunnel was strengthened and reinforced by the sandbags with markings of Karachi, Pakistan. It was a freshly dug tunnel and appears to be used for the first time. It appears that proper engineering effort has gone in making the tunnel which shows the hand of the establishment.On November 19, security forces neutralized four terrorists in the Nagrota encounter in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-security-forces-went-200-meters-inside-pakistan-to-unearth-tunnel-used-by-terrorists-to-infiltrate-govt-official/story-wsWa4wvIp8dxjIn6vA7MqJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Rajasthan police officer suspended for allegedly demanding Rs 2 cr bribe||The Rajasthan government has suspended a police officer facing corruption charges after he allegedly demanded a bribe of ₹2 crore from an office bearer of a cooperative society.The suspended officer, Satpal Midha, posted as deputy commandant in Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC), was booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) in July on charges of corruption when he was handling the economic offences wing of the Special Operations Group. The accused officer was allegedly demanding ₹2 crore as bribe on behalf of additional director general of police (ADGP) Anil Paliwal to settle a case related to a cooperative society fraud. “A case has been registered against Rajasthan Police Services officer Satyapal Midha, the then addl SP, SOG, by ACB under Prevention of Corruption Act and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. Hence, using the powers provided under Rajasthan Civil Services Rules, Midha has been suspended. During the suspension period Midha will report to the police headquarters,” said the order issued by the home department on Monday evening. An ACB official said that in April an investor had filed a complaint with the SOG against an office bearer of a cooperative society, alleging that he was duped into depositing ₹25,000 in the society. The complaint was being investigated by Midha. In June, the accused additional SP allegedly demanded ₹2 crore from the office-bearer as a bribe on behalf of ADGP Paliwal. “In the beginning of June, the victim had approached the ACB and filed a complaint that Midha and some of his colleagues were demanding ₹2 crore for not registering an FIR in a case of cheating,” the ACB official said. The ACB official added that between June 2 and June 30, the accused and his subordinates made the victim meet a person in Tammanah towers, located in Vaishali Nagar area of the city and introduced him as Anil Paliwal. The victim expressed his inability to pay the hefty amount and finally approached the ACB, following which an investigation was launched into the case and evidence against Midha obtained. ADGP Paliwal refuted the allegations that he had asked Midha to collect a bribe on his behalf. “I can only say that I had no involvement in the bribery case. The ACB is investigating the charges,” Paliwal said. Midha had also refuted the ACB’s allegations.“I am innocent. All the allegations levelled against me are fake,” he had said when he was booked by the ACB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-officer-suspended-for-allegedly-demanding-rs-2-cr-bribe/story-hJni0bFSHuoXfvz1XOhu0N.html
01-12-2020||India||Now, two Muzaffarnagar labourers booked under Uttar Pradesh anti-conversion law||Two more people have been booked under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance in Muzaffarnagar district of the state, a police officer said.Station house officer KP Singh said the case was registered on Monday against Nadeem and Salman, who work as labourers in a factory in Hardwar. He added the complainant in the case, who is from Muzaffarnagar’s Mansoorpur and a contractor in the factory, alleged that Nadeem would frequent his place in Haridwar in connection with the work and gradually got acquainted with his family, particularly his wife. Singh said the complainant alleged later Nadeem with the help of his friend Salman started pressuring his wife for marrying him after conversion.When the complainant came to know about it, he claimed he shifted his family to Mansoorpur but Nadeem and his friend continued mounting pressure on the woman through phone calls. Singh said this prompted the complainant to approached the police.Also read | Haryana forms 3-member committee to look into laws framed to tackle ‘love jihad’He added no arrests had been made and a team was being sent for an investigation.This is third case to be filed under the ordinance since Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved it. The first case was registered under it against a Muslim man in Bareilly district hours later on Saturday night when a Hindu man of Sharifnagar village accused him of pressuring his daughter to convert to Islam.The state cabinet cleared the ordinance earlier this month, targeting what many right-wing groups term “love jihad”, which involves Muslim men marrying Hindu women. According to the ordinance, marriage with the intention of changing a woman’s religion will be declared null and void.The first two case under the ordinance were registered in Bareilly on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-two-muzaffarnagar-labourers-booked-under-uttar-pradesh-anti-conversion-law/story-j6NDTM467Hg1bxKnp8wRTN.html
01-12-2020||India||PMK leader Ramadoss to meet TN CM after workers’ stir over 20% quota||Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader and MP Anbumani Ramadoss met Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam in the state secretariat on Tuesday afternoon to discuss PMK’s demands. Earlier in the day, PMK workers pelted stones on a moving train and blocked roads leading to Chennai near Perungalathur when police prevented them from entering the city. Traffic came to a standstill on Grand Southern Trunk, a national highway. The party workers were coming to Chennai from different districts such as Salem, Dharmapuri , Krishnagiri to partake in the first day of their protest demanding 20% reservation for vanniyar community. “Around 2,000 people have been detained across 65 places,” said assistant commissioner, M S Bhaskar, adding that there was violation of Covid-19 pandemic norms. The officer said that further course of action will be updated. There is heavy police deployment across Chennai and its borders. PMK workers were seen removing barricades to make way for their vehicles. Ramadoss who also participated in the protest in Chennai appealed to his party workers to not indulge in unrest but protest peacefully. “I request police to allow party workers into Chennai,” he said. “We had announced that we will protest from December 1 two months ago and reiterated it during our recent general council meeting.” PMK has been protesting for this reservation for four decades, he added. “This isn’t a caste issue but a developmental issue where backward communities like vanniyars should grow for the overall progress of Tamil Nadu,” said Ramadoss. PMK and their parent outfit, Vanniyar Sangam are holding protests demanding a 20% sub quota reservation for the vanniyar community in the state’s educational institutions and government jobs-- an old demand that the party has revived in recent months ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. PMK and AIADMK are allies in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmk-leader-ramadoss-to-meet-tn-cm-after-workers-stir-over-20-quota/story-evpj2fYTJ1LIb0L1aiSxyJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Delhi HC seeks govt’s stand on safe disposal of swabs used for Covid tests||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the counsel for the Delhi government to take instructions on a plea seeking directions to follow stringent measures for the safe disposal of swabs used for Rapid Antigen Testing of Covid-19.A division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, after going through the petition and submissions, asked the counsel of the Delhi government to take the instructions and apprise the court about the same and listed the matter for December 3.The public interest litigation, filed by advocate Pankaj Mehta, sought directions to form specific guidelines on the waste disposal in the testing of the novel coronavirus, and to carry out safety audits at Covid-19 testing centers across the national capital.The PIL alleged that the used swabs were being thrown out in public and tests were being carried out over a pile of used swabs for Covid-19 testing at the office of the District Magistrate, South East Delhi in Lajpat Nagar.“Upon complaining about the risk of widespread infection and the irregularity behind the disposal of the swabs in this manner, the concerned doctor at the counter said the swabs are of negative patients and thus it is safe to stand over them and get tested,” the plea said.The plea mentioned that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has via a Clinical Management Protocol Notification dated July 3, 2020, laid emphasis on safe waste management and cleaning of the environment across all the areas of healthcare facilities.However, the enforcement of the same has been completely ignored by the respondents as evident by the actions of the medical staff at the office of the District Magistrate, southeast Delhi in Lajpat Nagar, and by medical staff across the country, the plea said.Such negligence on the parts of the respondents amounts to the violation of the fundamental right to life as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and as such, demands the intervention of the court, it added.The plea said the Supreme Court, in a catena of judgments in recent months, had held that appropriate measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 should be put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-seeks-govt-s-stand-on-safe-disposal-of-swabs-used-for-covid-tests/story-2vFIo5HrYAj2Auf5lVKesI.html
01-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s remand extended in UK, final hearings in 2021||Nirav Modi, wanted in connection with the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, was further remanded in custody on Tuesday by a court in London hearing India’s extradition request for the diamond merchant The 49-year-old appeared on Tuesday via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London, dressed in a maroon sweater and sporting a full beard, for his regular 28-day “call-over hearing” at Westminster Magistrates’ Court, where Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot extended his remand for another 28 days until December 29.“It will be another short videolink call-over hearing and then there is just over a week before closing submissions in the case,” she told Modi, who spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth.The final hearings in the extradition case are scheduled over two days, on January 7 and 8 next year, when District Judge Samuel Goozee is scheduled to hear closing arguments from both sides before he hands down his judgment a few weeks later.At the last hearing in the case on November 3, Judge Goozee heard the arguments for and against the admissibility of certain witness statements provided by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) and ruled that the evidence to establish a prima facie case of fraud and money laundering against the fugitive diamantaire is broadly admissible.He concluded that he considered himself “bound” by the previous UK court rulings in the extradition case of former Kingfisher Airlines chief Vijay Mallya.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had stressed that the evidence, including witness statements under Section 161 of the Indian Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), meets the required threshold for the UK court to determine whether Modi has a case to answer before the Indian judicial system.“The argument that this is a very specific case, distinguishable from Mallya is frankly nonsense,” said CPS barrister Helen Malcolm.That Mallya has a case to answer in India in his fraud and money laundering case has cleared various levels of the UK judicial system and is currently undergoing a “confidential” legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can consider signing off on his extradition.Modi’s barrister, Clare Montgomery, who was also the defence counsel in Mallya’s case, however, disputed that the Section 161 witness statements qualify as similar.“The government of India case is not as strong as it was in Mallya,” said Montgomery, as she also raised a specific issue over a witness who was said to speak no English in his testimony for the CBI but signed a statement in English for the ED.Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of “Letters of Understanding” (LOUs or loan agreements), and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of “causing the disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death” added to the CBI case.The jeweller has been in prison since he was arrested on March 19, 2019, on an extradition warrant executed by Scotland Yard and his attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down. The charges against him centre around his firms Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds making fraudulent use of a credit facility offered by PNB or LoUs.The CPS, on behalf of India, have told the court during the course of two separate set of hearings in May and September that a number of PNB staff conspired with Modi to ensure the LoUs were issued to his companies without ensuring they were subject to the required credit check, without recording the issuance of the LoUs and without charging the required commission upon the transactions.Modi’s defence team has sought to counter allegations of fraud by deposing witnesses to establish the volatility of the gems and jewellery trade and that the LoUs were standard practice. His severe depression has also been raised as part of the arguments against extradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-remand-extended-in-uk-final-hearings-in-2021/story-aRdyHWLZgt0ruqIKz9CyXM.html
01-12-2020||India||SC refuses plea seeking action against Andhra CM for his comments against judge||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a petition seeking action against Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy for going public with scandalous allegations against Justice NV Ramana of the top court.A Justice SK Kaul-led three-judge bench said lawyers GS Mani and Pradeep Kumar Yadav’s prayer was not maintainable. It also refused to allow the prayer for an inquiry by a retired judge or Central Bureau of Investigations into the allegations against Ramana. Reddy accused Ramana of influencing the listing of cases against him with a view to destabilise his government in a letter to Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on October 6.The bench sent another petition on the issue to be heard along with Andhra Pradesh government’s pending appeal against a separate Supreme Court order lifting the media gag on reporting contents of a First Information Report (FIR) lodged in connection with a land allotment scam at Amravati. Certain relatives of Ramana have been named in the FIR.Also read | Law should not be used to selectively harass people: SCIn the second petition, advocate Sunil Kumar Singh has questioned Reddy’s constitutional propriety in going public with his allegations. The court allowed this petition to be heard along with the pending appeal.On Mani and Yadav’s petition, the bench said, “Once the gag order had been lifted by this Court, how do these prayers survive.” The court was referring to their prayer to restrain Reddy from making any such statement in future.On the propriety, the bench said, “Once a bench of this Court is seized of the matter, whatever consequences are to follow that bench will examine.”Earlier attorney general KK Venugopal refused to grant consent for initiating contempt proceedings against Reddy and his advisor Ajeya Kallam for writing the October 6 letter and the subsequent press conference on October 10. He noted Reddy’s comments were prima facie contumacious. But since the letter is pending consideration with Bobde, he refused to interfere by granting consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-plea-seeking-action-against-andhra-cm-for-his-comments-against-judge/story-tnd3S27DiR4XUNw4tYonCP.html
01-12-2020||India||Covid-19 cases per million lowest in India, says govt||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday India has been recording one of the lowest Covid-19 cases per million among the big nations reeling under the coronavirus pandemic. “The average daily positivity rate last week was 3.72%. Among all the big nations in the world, cases per million in India are the lowest. The last seven days trends show that European nations are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases,” said health ministry secretary Rajesh Bhushan.Bhushan said India’s cumulative positivity rate has decreased from 7.15% to 6.69% during November 11-December 1 period. “In November 2020, the number of recoveries has been more than the number of new cases,” Bhushan said.A total 12,78,727 cases were reported in November, a decrease from October’s 18,71,498, accounting for about 13.51 per cent of the total Covid-19 infections reported so far. A total of 88,89,585 people has recovered from the infection so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 93.94 per cent.The health ministry official also confirmed that adverse events are unlikely to impact the delivery timeline of Covid-19 vaccine. “Whenever clinical trials start, subjects are expected to sign a prior informed consent form. This is global practice; it happens across all countries. The form tells the subject about possible adverse events that may happen in case one decides to participate in the trial,” Bhushan explained.India on Tuesday recorded 31,118 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, pushing the country’s tally to 94,62,809 and the death toll climbed to 137,621 after 482 new fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2 million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-per-million-lowest-in-india-says-govt/story-De7ncMLOBLOzoO1M4sLOtL.html
01-12-2020||India||Odisha: Three elephants die within 12 hrs; two of electrocution||Three elephants died within 12 hours in Odisha, including two of electrocution, in three separate incidents as they fell prey to bushmeat poachers who had laid a trap with high tension 11 KV wires to kill wild boars.In Kadala village under Hindol range of Dhenkanal district, a full grown 35-year-old makhna (tuskless male elephant) was found electrocuted along with a wild boar this morning by locals. Dhenkanal divisional forest officer Prakash Chand Gogineni said late on Monday evening, the lone elephant was passing by the village when it was tracked by elephant trackers and an official of power distribution compnay TDCCOL was asked to switch off power to avert electrocution.“However, he did not listen to us, saying the lines were insulated. But poachers had already cut through the insulation and dangled electric wires which killed the wild boar first and the elephant later. We would write to the distribution company with all the records, seeking departmental action against the junior engineer for not paying heed to to our requests. We are also trying to apprehend the person who laid the live wire,” said Gogineni.Also read | Skeleton of elephant, unidentified animal found at metro construction site in MaharashtraSimilarly, late on Monday night, a 12-year-old tusker in Sambalpur district was also found electrocuted at Jadu Loisingha village after it came in contact with an electric wire connected to 11 KV line.Sambalpur divisional forest officer Sanjeet Kumar said the tusker may have died after coming in contact with the live wire laid for poaching wild boars. “It has been a common practice for some hunters to lay electric wires to prevent their crops from being destroyed by pachyderms and other wild animals. And this caused the death of the tusker. Exemplary punishment will be handed down to the culprits found,” said the DFO.The elephant, part of an 18-member herd, was seen on Sunday night among paddy crops at Basiapada and Bargetikra in the area. There, the people drove the herd away into the forest. Samples have been collected for lab tests from the carcass which bore no injury marks. The DFO said he has ordered a probe into the incident and directed assistant conservator of forest to submit a report in this connection within three days.Wildlife activists demanded that forest department should take immediate steps to stop rampant poaching of wild boar throughout the state and ensure all power lines in forest areas are insulated cables.In a separate incident, a four-month-old elephant calf died after being stuck in mud at Lauguda under Seragada block of Ganjam district on Monday night. Forest officials had launched an operation to rescue the animal, but could not rescue it well in time. The officials have recovered the carcass for autopsy.Since April 1 this year, 40 elephants have died in the state due to electrocution, poaching or after getting hit by running trains and trucks. Similarly, 64 people have died in human-elephant conflict while 71 have been injured in 111 encounters. Wildlife activists said the casualties in elephant and human beings would increase in the next few months as paddy harvest season is about to start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-three-elephants-die-within-12-hrs-two-of-electrocution/story-zmD9V74RpUuIrzmmlBlmyL.html
01-12-2020||India||Elderly man killed by leopard in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district||A 65-year-old man was killed in a leopard attack on Monday in Chamoli district, forest officials said.The man was attacked by the leopard on his way to the market on Monday morning in Joshimath block of the district.After the attack, locals present at the spot made a noise due to which the leopard went back to the forest area, but angry locals protested till evening with the deceased’s body on the road.JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of the Uttarakhand forest department said, “I have ordered to install cages in the area to try to capture the leopard. This is the second incident of an attack by a leopard from the area. A few days ago a Nepali worker was attacked by a leopard.”The senior forest official said that the leopard will be declared a man-eater if any further attacks take place.This is not the first such attack to be reported from the state, where human-leopard conflict has been increasing. In the first week of November a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district.Three women, including a teenager lost their lives in a week in October in Okhalkanda block of Nainital. On October 21, a 13-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Nainital district when she was going to the forest to cut grass. On October 15, an 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Jaspur area in US Nagar district when she was playing with her siblings outside her house. On October 14, a 40-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Pithoragarh district when she had gone to the forests to cut grass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elderly-man-killed-by-leopard-in-uttarakhand-s-chamoli-district/story-Ic342Y3qakrQcx7w97zZHI.html
01-12-2020||India||Ayurveda surgery row: IMA threatens to suspend non-Covid, non-essential services on Dec 11||Terming their protest as “freedom struggle for modern medicine” from the forces of ‘mixopathy’, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday said it will go on public demonstration activities and withdrawal of non-essential and non-Covid services on December 11, 2020.In a statement, the medical body said that the emergency services including casualty, labour rooms, emergency surgeries will function along with ICUs, CCUs, but no elective surgical case will be posted.“Launching the freedom struggle of modern medicine from the forces of mixopathy, IMA has directed public demonstration activities and withdrawal of non-essential and non-Covid services on December 11, 2020, from 6.00 am to 6.00 pm. Emergency services including casualty, Labour rooms, emergency surgeries will function along with ICU’s, CCU’s but no elective surgical case will be posted,” the statement said.Talking about the protest, Dr Rajan Sharma, national president of IMA said, “The notification of the amendment to the CCIM Act on Postgraduate Ayurveda surgery and the entitlement to study and practice independently have to be seen as another step in advancing and legitimising mixopathy.”“In fact, the purity and identity of Ayurveda stands equally challenged. That the council prescribed modern medicine textbooks and Ayurveda institutions practiced surgery with the assistance of modern medical doctors cannot be reason enough to legitimise encroachment into the jurisdiction and competencies of modern medicine,” he added.Adhering to Covid protocols, public demonstrations will be held in small groups of 20 participants between 12 noon to 2 pm on December 8, and all the participants will wear white aprons and sport a stethoscope, along with showcasing placards with slogans against mixopathy.Also Read |  NMC member writes to chief, criticises nod to Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeriesThe medical body added that the objective of these demonstrations is the withdrawal of CCIM order on the surgical disciplines of Modern Medicine and withdrawal of the four committees of NITI Aayog mixing all systems of medicine.Dr RV Asokan, Honorary Secretary General of IMA appealed to the government on the medical body’s behalf to consider the sensitivity of the medical fraternity and take appropriate steps in the matter.“IMA will be constrained to intensify the agitation until the steps towards implementing mixopathy are abandoned. IMA has appealed to all the sister professional speciality organisations, the organisations of medical college teachers, Government Doctors, Resident Doctors Associations apart from medical students and Hospitals Associations to support its cause to retain the separate identity and existence of modern medicine,” said Asokan.“Today India remains the frontier of modern medicine in both evidence-based and clinical streams. Advanced and sophisticated surgeries and procedures are done at a fraction of the cost than in the West. Indian doctors are supporting Health Systems globally,” IMA added in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurveda-surgery-row-ima-threatens-to-suspend-non-covid-non-essential-services-on-dec-11/story-mx7InipXoJmeQM5dunbebP.html
01-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt announces steps to ease unemployment, engineers to benefit||In an attempt to provide employment, the Chhattisgarh government has planned to initiate an E-category registration system in all departments under which construction work tenders will be given to only local unemployed engineers and diploma holders.The E-category registration system is to be initiated in all the construction departments, bodies, and boards of the state government and directions have been issued in this regard, said Pradeep Sharma, advisor to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel told HT on Tuesday.“The idea is to provide work to local block-level contractors, who will provide employment to diploma holders and engineers in projects of their area,” Sharma said.“We have decided that the contractors will have to employ a diploma engineer in the projects worth Rs 20 lakh and graduate engineers in projects costing up to one crore or more. A provision has been made to pay 15,000 per month to the diploma engineers and 25,000 per month to the graduate engineer. The government believes that through this we can give work to a large number of unemployed engineers,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-announces-steps-to-ease-unemployment-engineers-to-benefit/story-QqNSwQX8p4C5rvsHkejOZJ.html
01-12-2020||India||BJP will not tolerate Pakistan’s ‘policy of bloodshed’ in J-K: Raina||Stern action will be taken against leaders who have “bled” Jammu and Kashmir at the behest of Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said on Tuesday. “We will not tolerate Pakistan’s policy of bloodshed…. Anyone whether a terrorist, separatist, politician or Tukde Tukde gang leaders like Shehla Rashid will be dealt with sternly,” Raina said in a statement. The BJP leader’s remarks came a day after Abdul Rashid Shora, the estranged father of student activist Shehla Rashid, levelled serious allegations against her, demanding that a probe be initiated into her NGOs and also accused her of having taken a huge amount of money for joining politics in Kashmir, a charge denied by her. Shehla termed her father’s statement “absolutely disgusting and baseless” and said this was his reaction after a court barred him entry into their Srinagar house on November 17 in response to a complaint filed by the family against him for alleged domestic violence. Raina alleged, “Hurriyat Conference, Tukde Tukde gang’s Shehla Rashid, (former MLA) Engineer Rashid and (businessman) Zahoor Watali  and some other political leaders have been running their ‘shop of death’ in Jammu and Kashmir over the past 30 years. “They have bled Kashmir at the behest of Pakistan from whom they are taking money and their hand is behind the killing of innocent people.” He said they are not leaders or well-wishers of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. “They stand exposed today. All such people who are involved in treason against the country or make an attempt to bleed J&K will be dealt with sternly,” Raina said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-not-tolerate-pakistan-s-policy-of-bloodshed-in-j-k-raina/story-6LCgM9ogPK5jAtEPXGyFwM.html
01-12-2020||India||Shatabdi Express runs over man in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani||A 55-year-old man was killed after train ran over him in Haldwani area of Uttarakhand’s Nainital district on Tuesday, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) said.Randeep Kumar, RPF inspector at Kathgodam railway station said when Shatabdi Express (New Delhi to Kathgodam) was approaching Kathgodam on Tuesday around 11:15 am, its loco pilot felt that the train had hit something. “The loco pilot stopped the train and came down to check. He saw a man was lying on the railway track and immediately informed the RPF” he said. The RPF personnel and a police team rushed to the spot following the loco pilot’s information. Police took possession of the body and sent it for post-mortem. The deceased was identified as Manohar Chandra Sati, a resident of Shivali village in Ranikhet area of Almora district, said Kumar. “We have started probe to find out whether it was an accident or a suicide. We will also take the statement of the train’s loco pilot in this matter” Kumar said. In the last one year, four people have been run over by trains, three of them in the Lalkuan area of Nainital district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shatabdi-express-runs-over-man-in-uttarakhand-s-haldwani/story-lPJSkDxbrC7bYAdpCQvoEP.html
01-12-2020||India||Calcutta HC directs CAG for audit of distribution of relief materials in aftermath of cyclone Amphan||The Calcutta high court on Tuesday directed the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India to do an audit of the distribution of relief materials and compensation in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan that hit West Bengal in May this year. Alleged nepotism and malpractice by the ruling Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) panchayat leaders involved in the distribution of compensation had turned into an issue in poll-bound West Bengal. “A division bench of the high court directed the CAG on Tuesday to do a financial audit and a performance audit of the distribution of relief and compensation after cyclone Amphan and submit a report within three months,” said Shamim Ahmed, the advocate who filed the case on behalf of two farmers’ organisations in south Bengal. Amphan hit West Bengal on May 20, killing 98 people and damaging more than a million houses and croplands. While the state government had announced a relief of Rs6,250 crore, the Centre announced a relief of Rs1,500 crore. “The case was filed in August. At least five cases were filed in connection with corruption charges. The high court was hearing all the cases. Earlier, it had asked the state disaster management department to submit a report. The department’s secretary was also asked to remain present in the court,” said Shamim. Later in the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said even though distribution of relief materials after Amphan has had come under the scanner, no audit was done for the PMCares fund set up by the Centre to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am not saying anything against the court. I am just asking as a citizen. Even though questions are being raised against distribution of relief materials and compensation in post-Amphan period, not a single audit has been done to find out where lakhs of crores of rupees are going from PMCares fund. Why such double standards?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-directs-cag-for-audit-of-distribution-of-relief-materials-in-aftermath-of-cyclone-amphan/story-7SVozRbTfEEqvUrftFtJ0O.html
01-12-2020||India||Former IAS joins Kamal Haasan’s MNM party ahead of Tamil Nadu assembly polls in 2021||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections slated to be held in 2021, actor turned politician Kamal Haasan inducted former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Santhosh Babu, as the General Secretary of his Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Tuesday.Speaking during the induction ceremony, Haasan also lent his support to the ongoing farmer’s agitation in the country against the three farm laws recently passed by the Central government during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament.“The government should listen to the demands of the farmers,” said the MNM president.Giving party membership to Santhosh Babu, Haasan said the newly inducted General Secretary took voluntary retirement to serve the people of Tamil Nadu after working with the state administration as an IAS officer for nearly 25 years.Also Read |  Rajinikanth delays political foray once again; party says decision likely in few days“Santhosh Babu is a doctor and he had served in Tamil Nadu administration for nearly 25 years. He still had eight years but resigned. He joined our party today. In coming days, he’ll welcome many good people in the party,” said the southern superstar.According to him, Santhosh Babu will be responsible for making the party manifesto for upcoming state elections, along with other headquarter operations.When asked about the Tamil Nadu government’s role in providing relief during cyclone Nivar, Haasan said his party is not satisfied with Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ‘s work.Haasan had launched Makkal Needhi Maiam on February 21, 2018, in Madurai. The party is all set to contest the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-ias-joins-kamal-haasan-s-mnm-party-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-in-2021/story-irdo6G0WBRFUpIjHwcO95L.html
01-12-2020||India||28 years of NACO: How India battled AIDS/HIV||India diagnosed its first cases of AIDS in 1986 under the guidance of Suniti Solomon, a teacher at Madras Medical College. Before Solomon decided to track the advent of AIDS in India, it was largely considered to be a disease that only affects homosexuals.When she took on this mammoth task, India did not have the required technology to carry out Western Blots, the technique preferred for HIV diagnosis across the world. The samples had to be sent to Johns Hopkins University in the US.In 1992, the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) was launched in India along with the Phase I of the National AIDS Control Programme (NACP), funded with the help of a World Bank loan. After many trials and tribulations, India was able to record success in controlling the advent of AIDS during the Phase III process of the NACP.NACP III was launched in July 2007 with ‘the goal of Halting and Reversing the Epidemic by the end of project period’ according to NACO. And for the first time, indigenous and grounded ways were developed by the experts at NACO to halt and reverse the spread of HIV epidemic in India over a five-year period by targeting High-Risk Groups (HRG). Involving activists who lived with HIVNACO involved people who had been living with HIV, many of whom had already worked as activists, to target High-Risk Groups. This ushered in a new era of cooperation between the community and the government. To reach the people living on the margins of society who were part of the HRGs grassroots activists played the most significant role, right after donors.Educating HRGs on use of protectionNACO activists worked with sex workers, long haul truck drivers, rural migrants, transgender individuals, and homosexuals to educate them on the need for protection during sexual intercourse. This was the first known movement in India that openly talked about the importance of condoms, without ostracising them. The grassroots activists carried the community work forward with their lived experience.Innovative and effective campaigningNACO was able to track and trace the advent of HIV in drug users through needle sharing. A specially designed campaign was launched in Manipur to educate drug users on the negative side effects of needle sharing, grassroots activists took great care in making the targeted population involved and included. NACO also partnered with many NGOs like the Naz Foundation to increase impact. A special train filled with literature on HIV awareness was flagged off from Delhi. It travelled all over the country to distribute reading material and raise awareness of HIV.Road aheadNACO, for the most part, has functioned as an autonomous body but over the years successive experimentations have taken its toll on its effectiveness. With significant fund cuts, NACO has started to lag behind in its efforts to combat the epidemic. The United Nations has warned the world that this ongoing coronavirus pandemic will take its toll on programs like HIV prevention as nations go through fund crunch.“In the light of all these challenges, the Centre needs to seriously rethink its position on committing funds for priority public health programmes like AIDS,” JVR Rao, former head of NACO and health secretary, also pointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-years-of-naco-how-india-battled-aids-hiv/story-qXoOM5C8wfV4shIDa4k1RP.html
01-12-2020||India||‘As per the Indian culture’: Saibaba temple appeals to devotees to come in civilised attire||The Saibaba temple trust at Shirdi in Maharashtra has put up boards appealing to devotees to be dressed in a “civilised” manner, or as per the “Indian culture”, when they come to the sacred place to offer prayers.When contacted, Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust’s Chief Executive Officer Kanhuraj Bagate told PTI on Tuesday that it is just an appeal, and the trust has not imposed any dress code on devotees.He said the appeal was made after devotees complained that some people come to the shrine, located at Shirdi in Ahmedanagar district, in “objectionable” attire.“Since it is a holy and sacred place, we have appealed to the devotees come to the shrine dressed in civilised attire, or as per the Indian culture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-per-the-indian-culture-saibaba-temple-appeals-to-devotees-to-come-in-civilised-attire/story-TChVRKxV8u8TX0q5FwyJJJ.html
01-12-2020||India||‘For her own safety’: Delhi Police on why Shaheen Bagh Dadi was stopped at Singhu border||Bilkis Bano, the 82-year-old who earned the moniker “Dadi of Shaheen Bagh” was detained by police on Tuesday as she joined farmers protesting against the recently enacted farm laws at the Singhu Border in Delhi. The police later in the day said that Bano is a senior citizen and stopped “for her own safety” amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“Bilkis Bano is a senior citizen and due to Covid-19 pandemic, she was stopped at Singhu Border and escorted by police to her home in Delhi for her own safety,” news agency ANI quoted Gaurav Sharma, DCP as saying.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Several former sportspersons to return awardsBano, along with two other grandmothers emerged as the face of NRC-CAA protests earlier this year. Her husband died about 11 years ago and she currently lives in Shaheen Bagh with her daughters-in-law and grandchildren.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September. They have been camping in and around Delhi demanding that the laws should be taken back by the Centre.Also Read | ‘Will reach solution’, says Agri Minister as govt holds meeting with farmersThe Centre has invited representatives of farmer groups for the next round of talks today. The talks were initially scheduled for Thursday but they got preponed after Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union home minister Amit Shah met twice on Monday to discuss the issues.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-detain-bilkis-dadi-face-of-shaheen-bagh-protests-as-she-joins-farmers-protest-at-singhu-border/story-o2RccQxsjGaSjq8PK7iBRM.html
01-12-2020||India||Ahead of assembly polls, Assam launches scheme to give Rs830 per month to 2.2 million poor families||Ahead of the assembly elections due in March-April, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Assam on Tuesday launched the Orunodoi scheme under which Rs 830 monthly will be paid to nearly 2.2 million families belonging to economically weaker sections to help them meet their nutritional and medical needs.The scheme was among the 18 flagship schemes announced in the 2020-21 state budget in March.“This scheme is our gift to the people of Assam and part of our continued efforts at all round development of the state. The amount transferred each month will help beneficiary families to fulfil their nutritional and medical needs,” said chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal while launching the scheme.Also read | BJP promises implementation of Bodo accord, development ahead of BTC polls in AssamFrom December, Rs 830 would be transferred monthly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries to buy medicines, sugar, pulses and fruits.Officials said preference is being given to families headed by women, widows, and those separated or divorced. Families with special needs members and those below poverty line, who are not getting benefits of government’s free rice scheme, will also benefit from the Orunodoi scheme.The money will be transferred into the bank accounts of women members of the beneficiary families to ensure that it is spent on the genuine needs.“This is the biggest social welfare scheme of Assam ever. It is also the largest direct benefit scheme...,” said Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.In the first phase, around 1.8 million families would get the money. After elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council are over this month, the number of beneficiary families will increase to 2.2 million.The scheme will cost the exchequer over Rs 200 crore monthly. Rs 2,800 crore has been earmarked for the scheme in this year’s budget. The government hopes to gradually increase the number of beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-assam-launches-scheme-to-give-rs830-per-month-to-2-2-million-poor-families/story-JxlWNnvha5rstMbvbVjKXI.html
01-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Several former sportspersons to return awards||Several former sportspersons including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees have extended their support to the agitating farmers and said they will return their awards in protest against the “force” used against the peasants en route to Delhi.Among them are Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee wrestler Kartar Singh, Arjuna awardee basketball player Sajjan Singh Cheema and Arjuna awardee hockey player Rajbir Kaur.They said they will proceed to Delhi on December 5 and will place their awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan.They slammed the Centre and Haryana government for using water cannons and teargas against the protesting farmers to stop them from going to Delhi.“We are the children of farmers and they have been holding peaceful agitation for the last several months. Not even a single incident of violence took place.“But water cannons and teargas shells were used against them when they were going to Delhi. If turbans of our elders and brothers are tossed, then what will we do with our awards and honour? We are in support of our farmers. We do not want such awards and that is why we are returning the same,” said Cheema on Tuesday.Farmers had faced water cannons and teargas when they were heading towards the national capital as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the farm laws.Singh said several former players will go to Delhi on December 5 and will return their awards.“If farmers do not want such laws, then why the central government was imposing on them,” asked Singh, who has retired as Inspector General in the Punjab Police.He further said that former players would also join farmers’ stir at the Delhi borders on December 5.Singh said they are also trying to contact former players in Haryana for coming out in support of farmers’ agitation.Cheema said several former players including Kaur and Arjuna awardee (shotput) Balwinder Singh have backed them.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-several-former-sportspersons-to-return-awards/story-S1nrYFQyy9mbQ1dOGi5vYN.html
01-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand police set up grievance redressal panel, will shorten hill postings in revamp||The Uttarakhand police have formed a Police Personnel Grievance Redressal Committee (PPGRC) to address the issue of its personnel, especially the lower ranks as part of an exercise to reform the force and reduce stress.Under the initiatives taken by the new director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar, the police headquarters is also considering reducing the tenure of hill postings for the personnel which has been a major issue in the department for lower ranks. Kumar said the formation of PPGRC was an important step for the welfare of police personnel. The department would also take a series of steps for the force’s welfare.“Under this new initiative, a WhatsApp number would be given to all working in the department. A police personnel can lodge his or her complaint or give an application for a request. A solution would be given to him or her within a week,” said Kumar. He said the committee would comprise four members at the police headquarters including an inspector general as its chairperson, a deputy inspector general as its vice-chairperson, superintendent of police (personnel) as member secretary and a deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) as its member. The DGP also said the headquarters is also considering the reduction of posting tenure of personnel especially of the lower ranks in hilly areas which has been a contentious issue. “There is sometimes discontent among some personnel on posting in the hilly areas of the state due to its long tenure. The tenure for a constable is 16 years while that of a sub-inspector is 8 years in hilly areas. We will try to cut the former to 12 and the latter to about 5-6 years,” he said. On the issue of postings, Kumar also said that each personnel will be given three options for if and he would be given a chance to choose as per preference. “We would try to focus on the reforms for the welfare of our personnel. But we will also focus on ensuring optimum work among our men and women. They can’t make excuses to escape work. When it will come to welfare, we assure them that would be fully taken care of,” said Kumar. Police personnel have welcomed the move saying it will help them to address their issues and get a solution. A 44-year-old head constable in Dehradun said, “The moves taken by the headquarters, especially the redressal committee, are ready good. It will give a platform to us in the lower ranks to raise our issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-police-set-up-grievance-redressal-panel-will-shorten-hill-postings-in-revamp/story-Dqdf7ToCoidR2U2Akk4jXK.html
01-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Positivity rate in Delhi should decelerate in next two weeks, says Satyendar Jain||The Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has fallen by a margin of nearly 55 per cent since early November and it should reduce further in the next two weeks, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.Interacting with reporters, he also said the labs taking samples are being operated at their full capacity, hence there are some delays in test outcomes and this matter was being taken up with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Delhi recorded 3,726 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest in 15 days, while the daily death toll crossed the 100-mark again and stood at 108.“The positivity rate stood at 7.35 per cent on Monday. It was 15.26 per cent on November 7. There has been a reduction of nearly 55 per cent since then. In the coming one-two weeks, it should further reduce and come under control,” Jain said.  While a total of 50,670 tests for the detection of coronavirus cases were conducted on Sunday, the number of RT-PCR tests surpassed that of rapid antigen ones, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Monday.Asked about the delay in RT-PCR test reports at some laboratories, the health minister said, “Labs in Delhi are being used to their full capacity. RT-PCR test turnaround time is 24 hours. Since, the labs are fully used, so more time is being taken by labs to process (the samples)”. “The Centre had said some special labs will be allotted. ICMR controls all such labs. So the issue of delay is being taken up so that delays do not happen,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-should-decelerate-in-next-two-weeks-says-satyendar-jain/story-IUX8NBcyVpO1SoCam0YJmO.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Will reach solution’, says Agri Minister as govt holds meeting with farmers||The government on Tuesday expressed confidence that it will reach a solution after discussing issues raised by protesting farmers, as a meeting got underway between union ministers and representatives of over 30 farmer organisations. For the meeting at Vigyan Bhawan here, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was accompanied by Railways and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, also an MP from Punjab. “We are ready for a discussion to resolve their issues. Let’s see,” Tomar told reporters as he arrived for the meeting.Follow all the live updates of Farmers’ protest against farm laws He further said the government will arrive at a solution after hearing the representatives of the farmer organisations. Hours before the meeting. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Tomar and Goyal, along with BJP chief J P Nadda, had held marathon discussions over the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new agriculture reform laws. Peaceful sit-ins by farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, continued at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported after Friday’s violence, while the numbers of protestors swelled at the Ghazipur border on Monday.Also Read | Union ministers meet at Nadda’s residence over farmers’ protests The opposition parties too stepped up the pressure, asking the Centre to “respect the democratic struggle” of the farmers and repeal the laws. The farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-reach-solution-says-agri-minister-as-govt-holds-meeting-with-farmers/story-ASXT469asYz2eaNWUWHgrL.html
01-12-2020||India||Another cyclone alert for Tamil Nadu, Kerala: Forecast of heavy to very heavy rain||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded another cyclone alert for Tamil Nadu, which was slammed by Cyclone Nivar last week, and Kerala. The weather department has said that a deep depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal lay centred on Tuesday which is very likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours.It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka coast close to Trincomalee between evening and night of December 2, emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area in the morning on December 3 and move westward towards south Tamil Nadu coast. The system lay about 900km southeast of Kanyakumari as of 12pm on Tuesday. The maximum wind speed during the storm will be 70-80kmph gusting to 90 kmph.Also read | Red, orange alerts for 5 Kerala districts; warning of very heavy rains in parts of south IndiaHere what’s IMD has said:1. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 1 and 4, and over south Kerala on December 2 and 4.2. Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai in Tamil Nadu and Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha in south Kerala are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls on December 2 and 3.3. North Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe and Karaikal and north Kerala will also witness heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on December 2 and 3.4. Heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh during December 2 and 3, and over Lakshadweep from December 3 and 4.Also read | No major destruction reported in Tamil Nadu due to Cyclone Nivar5. IMD has also directed a complete suspension of fishing operations till December 4 in the region.6. The weather agency said that fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast Bay of Bengal during December 1.7. They should also avoid the southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off east Sri Lanka coast from December 1 to 3.8. IMD added that they should not go into the Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from December 2 to 49. The Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining the southeast Arabian Sea should be avoided from December 3 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-cyclone-alert-for-tamil-nadu-kerala-forecast-of-heavy-to-very-heavy-rains/story-U8uNY9V2IfTPant3NVjKkM.html
01-12-2020||India||Abducted Madhya Pradesh minor girl rescued from Uttar Pradesh||A 14-year-old girl allegedly abducted from Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad on November 22 was rescued from Uttar Pradesh on Monday morning, the state police said.Hoshanagabad police superintendent Santosh Singh Gaur said one Farhan Ansari from Uttar Pradesh’s Amroha befriended the girl over social media and later abducted her from Hoshangabad. “After investigating the case for a week, police traced the location of Ansari to Uttar Pradesh near the Nepal border and rescued the girl.”Ansari has been arrested and was being brought back to Madhya Pradesh along with the girl. Gaur cited security reasons and said they we cannot reveal the exact location from where the girl was rescued.Also read | 22-yr-old cousin held for minor’s rape, murder in RajasthanThe girl’s family, community members and organisations affiliated to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party held a protest in Hoshangabad over the alleged abduction and met chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to demand swift action.Makhan Meena, the head of a local organisation, linked the alleged abduction to “love jihad”, the term Hindu right uses to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. “Ansari hatched a conspiracy to abduct the girl. We are happy that the girl has been rescued but we want tough action against Ansari.”Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra last month cited rising cases of “love jihad” and said they will pass a law to ban such marriages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abducted-madhya-pradesh-minor-girl-rescued-from-uttar-pradesh/story-fAlXqfpcvfmLRqkl9FxUbP.html
01-12-2020||India||Cyclone alert for Tamil Nadu, state gears up for heavy rainfall again||Tamil Nadu, which saw cyclone Nivar just last week, is preparing for heavy rains once again after India Meteorological Department (IMD) sounded another cyclone alert for the state and Kerala. A deep depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal lay centred on Tuesday which is very likely to intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the next 24 hours, the IMD said. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka coast close to Trincomalee between evening and night of December 2, emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area on 3 December morning and move westward towards south Tamil Nadu coast. The system lay about 900 km southeast of Kanniyakumari as of 12noon Tuesday. The maximum wind speed during the storm will be 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph.Also read | Red, orange alerts for 5 Kerala districts; warning of very heavy rains in parts of south IndiaTamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami chaired a high-level inter-departmental meeting on Tuesday and appealed to people to remain indoors unless necessary until December 4. “We are monitoring the path of the cyclone and all precautionary measures have been taken,” said minister for disaster and revenue management R B Udayakumar. Relief camps are being readied and first responders are being deployed to affected districts, he added. Heavy to very heavy rainfall has been forecast for December 2 and 3 in Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai districts. Total suspension of fishing operations between Tuesday and 4 December have been announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-alert-for-tn-state-gears-up-for-heavy-rainfall-again/story-RrAIQ2wFOUpalp3KsBL29O.html
01-12-2020||India||EC proposes postal ballot for NRIs, asks government to amend law at earliest||The Election Commission (EC) has written to the government seeking extension of voting through postal ballots to non-resident Indians (NRIs) for the assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. In a letter to the Union law ministry, the EC cited a successful implementation of Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) for service voters and added it is confident that the facility can also be extended to overseas electors.“After an amendment in Rule 23 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, the Commission has now implemented Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (EPTBS) for service voters,” the letter said. “This system is completely secure and functioning satisfactorily.”Voters living outside India can currently vote only in their respective constituencies. There are around 12.6 million Indian passport holders, who ordinarily reside in over 200 countries, according to the government.Also read | Plea in SC to direct EC to nullify election if NOTA gets most votesLok Sabha in October 2018 passed a bill to allow NRIs to vote through proxies. The bill lapsed pending approval by the Rajya Sabha before the dissolution of the lower House.The EC, in its letter, a copy of which HT has seen, said it has received several representations from the Indian diaspora to facilitate voting through postal ballots. It added overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling areas as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair. EC said job compulsions have kept the voters from travelling for voting. It added the problem has been further compounded due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A panel formed in 2014 to assess the matter proposed an amendment to section 60 of the Representation of People’s Act to allow NRIs to vote via postal ballots or through proxies. The proposal is pending before the law ministry and will require parliamentary approval.EC requested the government to make necessary amendments at the earliest. “[The extension of the facility to NRIs] will go a long way in not only facilitating the exercise of the right of overseas electors but also further boosting the image of the country internationally.”Former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi said the problem remains the differentiation between the domestic and international migrants. “The problem with postal ballots for NRIs is that we cannot pick and choose between domestic and international migrants. How can those, who migrate from Bihar to Delhi for work, not be allowed but those moving from Delhi to the US [be allowed to vote via postal ballots]?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-proposes-postal-ballot-for-nris-asks-government-to-amend-law-at-earliest/story-RdBYMVsHLlalkSKJlSRHVP.html
01-12-2020||India||Power consumption growth slows to 4.7% in November||India’s power consumption growth rate slowed to 4.7 per cent at 98.37 billion units (BU) in November this year amid the onset of early winters especially in the Northern part of the country.In November 2019, electricity consumption in the country was recorded at 93.94 BU, as per government data.Power consumption had entered positive territory in September and recorded double-digit surge in October, showed the power ministry data.In September this year, power consumption recorded a growth of 4.4 per cent at 112.24 BU, compared to 107.51 BU in the same month last year.India’s power consumption grew by nearly 12 per cent to 109.53 BU in October this year, as against 97.84 BU in the same month last year.According to experts, the onset of early winters especially in the Northern part of the country has affected power consumption. Economic activities are almost near normal due easing of lockdown, they said adding that growth in power consumption would continue in coming months.According to the weather reports, Delhi recorded the coldest November in the past 71 years. Similar situation was witnessed in other parts of the country where the minimum temperature dipped.The government had imposed the nationwide lockdown on March 25, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Power consumption started declining from March onwards due to fewer economic activities in the country.The Covid-19 situation affected power consumption for six months in a row -- from March to August this year.Power consumption on a year-on-year basis declined 8.7 per cent in March, 23.2 per cent in April, 14.9 per cent in May, 10.9 per cent in June, 3.7 per cent in July and 1.7 per cent in August.The data showed that electricity consumption had grown by 11.73 per cent in February. It has shown an improvement post-lockdown easing for economic activities after April 20.Peak power demand met, the highest supply of power in the country in a day, in November was recorded at 160.77 GW, which is 3.5 per cent higher than 155.32 GW in the same month last year.The peak power demand met in October was recorded at 170.04 GW, 3.5 per cent higher than 164.25 GW in the same month last year.Peak power demand in September this year recorded a growth of 1.7 per cent at 176.41 GW, compared to 173.45 GW a year ago, the data showed.Peak power demand met had recorded negative growth from April to August this year due to the pandemic.It had dropped to 24.9 per cent in April, 8.9 per cent in May, 9.6 per cent in June, 2.7 per cent in July and 5.6 per cent in August. In March, it was muted at 0.8 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-consumption-growth-slows-to-4-7-in-november/story-ij9W2fRoLMQpmQ92L8Ad1J.html
01-12-2020||India||Andhra Legislative Council adjourned briefly after uproar on agricultural issues, cyclone Nivar||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council adjourned for 15 minutes on Tuesday morning after an uproar from the ruling and opposition parties while discussing agricultural issues and the after-affects of Cyclone Nivar.The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the opposition accused the state government of cheating farmers by not paying crop insurance. The statement was met with condemnation from Agriculture Minister K Kannababu, saying that the opposition was spreading lies.Irrigation minister Anil Kumar also slammed TDP leader N Chandrababu Naidu, saying that he had long back said that agriculture was waste.He further went on to allege that Babu’s statements had been published in a book, and the TDP had made it vanish.TDP MLCs objected to the matter after which pandemonium broke out in the house and Council Chairman MA Sharif adjourned the House for 15 minutes.The council reassembled and continued the session thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-legislative-council-adjourned-briefly-after-uproar-on-agricultural-issues-cyclone-nivar/story-CB5f0XqAprGNFCD6x6ylgI.html
01-12-2020||India||Trial in 2008 Malegaon bomb blast case to resume on December 3||A special NIA court on Tuesday asked all the accused in 2008 Malegaon bomb blast case to remain present before it on Thursday, December 3, to enable it to resume trial.The direction came on the plea of family members of a victim, requesting the special court to expedite the trial.The National Investigating Agency (NIA) had responded to the plea, saying the agency was ready to resume the trial. “We told the court that because of the pandemic, we will require some time to trace the witnesses and prepare ourselves to resume the trial. But once that happens, we will go ahead with the trial on a regular basis,” it said.In its reply, the agency claimed that the trial was delayed as most of the times, the defence advocates have requested for an adjournment.The special court has discharged some of the accused and now seven of them, namely Lt Col Prasad Purohit, BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, Sudhakar Dhar Dwivedi alias Swami Amrit Anand, Samir Kulkarni, Ajay Rahirkar, Major Ramesh Upadhyay and Sudhakar Chaturvedi, are facing the trial.“After framing of the charges, the case is being conducted on a day-to-day basis. The prosecution is making all efforts for conducting a speedy trial by assuring the presence of the witnesses,” NIA said, pointing out that so far, 140 prosecution witnesses have been examined.The trial came to a standstill after retirement of the special judge VL Padalkar and the court remained vacant, till the appointment of PR Sitre as special judge, said the agency, adding that the trial could not be resumed due to Covid-19 pandemic.As per the prosecution case, late in the evening of September 29, 2008, a bomb planted on a motorcycle went off opposite a religious shrine at Malegaon, killing six people and injuring 101.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trial-in-2008-malegaon-bomb-blast-case-to-resume-on-december-3/story-9FwJXtHFWZOlzxTqzS6FaJ.html
01-12-2020||India||HC pulls up RBI for leaving it to PMC bank to decide depositors requests for money in emergencies||The Delhi High Court Tuesday pulled up the RBI for leaving it to scam-hit PMC Bank to decide which emergencies cited by its depositors were to be considered for disbursal of Rs 5 lakh to them, saying since the central bank imposed the restrictions it should have been the one taking the decision.Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank has been put under restrictions, including limiting withdrawals, by the RBI, following the unearthing of a Rs 4,355-crore scam.“The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was to apply its mind and not act as a post office. If you (RBI) have imposed the restrictions, then you have to apply your mind. You cannot accept what PMC bank says as gospel truth. You cannot leave it to PMC bank to decide to whom it will disburse funds.” said a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan.“This is not satisfactory. You cannot leave it to the PMC bank to decide. There has to be some way to monitor it. something independent of the administrator (appointed by RBI),” the bench added.The court was hearing an application by consumer rights activist Bejon Kumar Misra seeking directions to the RBI to consider other needs of PMC bank depositors such as education, weddings and dire financial position, not just serious medical emergencies as being done at present.The application was filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi in Misra’s main PIL seeking directions to the RBI to ease the moratorium on withdrawals from PMC Bank during the coronavirus pandemic.During the hearing on Tuesday, the bench told RBI that “there should be a valve open so that depositors can access their money” and asked it to consider gradually increasing the cap on withdrawals from its present limit of Rs 1 lakh per account.The bench also told RBI that there should be a grievance redressal mechanism in place to address grievances of depositors who are not satisfied by the decision taken by PMC bank or the administrator appointed by the top bank.The court also told Misra that while the depositors need to have some recourse, the restrictions on withdrawals cannot be removed as then PMC bank would go under and then no one will get any money.“We have to strike a balance. There is limited corpus available with PMC bank. Therefore, there has to be a gradation of the difficulties being faced by the depositors,” the bench said.The court gave RBI four weeks time to file its reply to the application and listed the matter for hearing on January 4, 2021.The court on May 28 had asked the Centre, the RBI and PMC Bank to appreciate the difficulties faced by the depositors on withdrawals during COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-pulls-up-rbi-for-leaving-it-to-pmc-bank-to-decide-depositors-requests-for-money-in-emergencies/story-UsujDIQ5k5gFZcROzx798L.html
01-12-2020||India||ASI dies by suicide in Bastar’s Bijapur district||An assistant sub-inspector posted in Bijapur district of Bastar region allegedly died by suicide due to unknown reasons on Monday.The body of the ASI was found hanging from the ceiling at his house in the village in the district. According to the police, no suicide note was recovered from the spot and a police team started investigating the reason behind the drastic step.“Prima facie, it seems the ASI, who was in his 40s, died by suicide. However, no suicide note was found at the spot and the reason behind his step is being ascertained,” an official said.On Sunday, a Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) jawan allegedly ended his life in neighboring Sukma district, while a police constable shot himself dead with his service rifle in Bijapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-dies-by-suicide-in-bastar-s-bijapur-district/story-O7JmeztmAQQ7wo9WEZXg3H.html
01-12-2020||India||Bengal govt kicks off massive ‘Duare Sarkar’ outreach campaign ahead of polls||With an eye on the 2021 assembly elections, the Trinamool Congress administration in West Bengal on Tuesday launched its massive outreach programme ‘Duare Sarkar’ (government at doorsteps) to ensure that people avail the benefits of 11 state-run welfare schemes.Elections to the 294-member state assembly are due in April-May next year.People were seen queuing up in front of various ward and panchayat offices to avail the benefits of the schemes.The outreach programme will continue till January 30.With slogan ‘jar jekhane darkar, asche apnar duare sarkar’ (government will be at your doorsteps whenever you need it), the programme will be conducted for two months in four phases.“This is a revolutionary step taken by our government to that ensure no one is left out. All those who are eligible for the schemes will get the benefits. For example, Swastha Sathi (health scheme) will cover the entire population of the state,” Municipal Affairs Minister Firhad Hakim said while inaugurating a ward office here.The 11 schemes will be made available to the beneficiaries through camps set up for the purpose, he said.The camps will be functional from 10 am to 4 pm every day, an official said.The schemes include globally acclaimed ‘Kanyashree’, a cash transfer programme aimed at retaining girls in schools and preventing their early marriage, ‘Khadya Sathi’ which aims at ensuring food security for 90 per cent of the population and ‘Sikhashree’, a one-time grant to SC and ST students studying in classes 5-8 to reduce their dropout rates.Other schemes include ‘Rupashree’, a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 to poor families during their daughter’s marriage, ‘Jai Johar’ for the betterment of STs, ‘Taposili Bandhu’ pension scheme for SCs and ‘Aikyashree’ scholarship programme for students from minority communities.State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, however, alleged that the TMC government kicked off its election campaign using public money.“They are using public money for the election campaign. After 10 years, if the state government has to launch a campaign to ensure everybody gets the benefits, then the TMC leaders should be ashamed of themselves,” Ghosh said.Hakim, while reacting to the allegations, said Ghosh should first answer about the amount of public money spent by the BJP-led government at the Centre on its publicity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-kicks-off-massive-duare-sarkar-outreach-campaign-ahead-of-polls/story-QIr489Ik46HwKgrmuvLPIP.html
01-12-2020||India||BSF officer killed in Pakistan firing along LoC in Rajouri||A BSF officer was killed in Pakistan firing along the LoC in Rajouri district on Tuesday morning. BSF IG NS Jamwal said, “On Tuesday, Pakistan Army restored to unprovoked ceasefire violation in Rajouri sector on the Line of Control in which BSF Sub Inspector Paotinsat Guite who was deployed at FDL of BSF attained martyrdom while displaying conspicuous act of bravery in not only retaliating to the enemy fire but also saving many of his colleagues. Martyred SI P Guite displayed the highest degree of dedication and devotion to duty and laid down his life in the line of duty.Jamwal stated that martyred Guite was a gallant and sincere borderman. “The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he said. Border Security Force has retaliated strongly and effectively on Pakistan Army posts. “The martyrdom of the Border man will not go in vain. Border Security Force salutes the braveheart on BSF Raising Day,” he said. The mortal remains of the martyr will be sent by air to Imphal and then to his native place Maphoukuki Post- Lamlong in Manipur, where his last rites will be performed with full state honours. “In this hour of grief, BSF stands in solidarity with the bereaved family of martyr,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-officer-killed-in-pakistan-firing-along-loc-in-poonch/story-95qdLUCT6VW9I1iIJudCdI.html
01-12-2020||India||Over 40% turnout recorded till 1 pm in phase 2 of DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir||The second phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections has recorded a voter percentage of 40.31 per cent till 1 pm, as per the Jammu and Kashmir administration.The polling is being held in 43 constituencies in the second phase of DDC elections. These include 25 seats in the Kashmir division and 18 in Jammu.In the Kashmir division, the highest turnout has been recorded in Bandipora (60.99 per cent) and in Jammu division, the highest polling percentage has been recorded in Jammu (61.10 per cent), according to data shared by Jammu and Kashmir election commissioner KK Sharma. #DDCElections2020 .....Poll percentage upto 1PM... pic.twitter.com/MuVvCgQWMeThere are a total of 321 candidates in the electoral fray - 196 from the Kashmir division and 125 from Jammu.Out of 7,95,118 voters, 3,88,273 are from Jammu division and 4,06,845 are from Kashmir. The Kashmir division has 2,12,024 male voters and 1,94,821 women, whereas Jammu has 2,04,721 male electors and 1,83,553 female voters.The sarpanch bypolls are being conducted in 83 constituencies and total 223 (151 male and 72 female) candidates are in the fray. The panch bypolls are being held in 331 constituencies with 709 candidates (552 males and 157 females) in the fray.There are 2,142 polling stations - 837 in the Jammu Division and 1,305 in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40-turnout-recorded-till-1-pm-in-phase-2-of-ddc-polls-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-ISbEpR4pBAyyNU077GPkQP.html
01-12-2020||India||Union ministers meet at Nadda’s residence over farmers’ protests||Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Piyush Goyal attended a meeting over the farmers’ protest at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief J P Nadda‘s residence on Tuesday. The meeting was the latest in a series of meeting of BJP leaders over the issue and lasted for over two hours.The farmers have been seeking repeal of three laws enacted in September to liberalise the farm sector and have been camping at Delhi’s borders. The government has invited the protesting farmers for talks on Tuesday.Also read | ‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams CentreA BJP functionary, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Monday that the laws are beneficial for the farmers is an indication that the government is ready to address their concerns. But a rollback may not be on the cards, the functionary added.“The genuine grievances of the farmers will be addressed. They have concerns over some aspects such as whether the government will continue providing MSP [Minimum Support Price]. We are ready to answer those concerns. The demand for a rollback is based on rumours and fear stoked by the opposition,” the functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-ministers-meet-at-nadda-s-residence-over-farmers-protests/story-vEnly2WBGEArYcXHohZU1O.html
01-12-2020||India||China-made drones are the new weapon in Pakistan’s jihadi arsenal: Intel||Pakistan-backed terrorist groups and its Inter Services Intelligence have started using bigger drones to expand its capacity to smuggle arms and ammunition across the border in India’s Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir, people familiar with the matter said.Counter-terror officials in Delhi said the terrorist groups and the ISI, which had been using drones for arms trafficking at a small scale over the past few years, had procured upgraded versions of the drones that can carry much larger quantities of firearms in every sortie.The increased capacity, one official said, was crucial since the high mountain passes on the Line of Control (LoC) are all snowed in to make jihadist infiltration difficult in Jammu and Kashmir. There are multiple intelligence reports, he said, that the Pakistani deep state is using weapon drops in Punjab, which are meant for terrorists operating in Jammu and Kashmir.Latest reports also indicate that Pakistan-based Khalistani groups are also being pushed by their handlers to exploit the farmers’ agitation in Punjab as part of its continuing effort to revive militancy in the border state. These suspicions have been communicated to the Centre and internal security agencies by the State Police time and again.In Punjab alone, officials said, there have been four Chinese drone recoveries by Punjab Police along with weapons since 12 August 2019 apart from other aerial movements.But Chinese commercial drones being used to ferry firearms is only one part of the problem. Intelligence agencies have also alerted security forces to stay alert to the threat of the drones capable of carrying loads being used to bomb targets close to the border. Pakistan’s ISI, inspired by the success of using cheap drones to carry out small bomb attacks, has been exploring this option for terrorist groups. The ISI had laid out its plan first at a meeting with senior Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed commanders in Punjab province’s Taxila in April this year. There was a follow-up meeting the next month at the brigade headquarters in Kotli district of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, according to an intelligence report reviewed by Hindustan Times in October.Officials said while India is pushing hard to build its anti-drone capacities, the coming two winter months with fog along the border in Punjab and J&K will test the Indian security agencies hard as more drone drops are expected. Border Security Force director general Rakesh Asthana alluded to the challenge at the raising day event of the force on Tuesday, pointing that the BSF had intercepted a drone with a huge payload of weapons and ammunition in Jammu’s Kathua sector on 20 June this year.The BSF, he said, is also working to find technical solutions to counter drone infiltrations on the western border.Punjab Police, on its part, has asked the Centre as well as the Indian Air Force (IAF) to deploy low-level radars along the border to detect the drones and destroy them. Even the BSF, which mans the international borders, is now rushing to procure anti-drone systems as apart from weapons, drugs are also being dropped to raise terror funds within the two Indian territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-imran-khan-bsf-punjab/story-MCIN6IXmarR7ic9D5YHTkL.html
01-12-2020||India||‘India’s internal issue not fodder for your politics’: Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi on Justin Trudeau||As Canada’s prime minister Justin Trudeau became the first international head of government to comment formally on the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted that “India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics.” Chaturvedi also urged prime minister Narendra Modi to resolve the issue before other countries too “find it okay to opine.”Also Read | Canada PM Trudeau expresses concern over farmers’ protest in India“Dear @JustinTrudeau, touched by your concern but India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics. Pls respect the courtesies that we always extend to other nations. Request PM @narendramodi Ji to resolve this impasse before other countries find it okay to opine,” the Sena Rajya Sabha MP tweeted on Tuesday. Dear @JustinTrudeau ,touched by your concern but India’s internal issue is not fodder for another nation’s politics.Pls respect the courtesies that we always extend to other nations.Request PM @narendramodi ji to resolve this impasse before other countries find it okay to opine.Chaturvedi’s tweet came after Trudeau, in a Facebook video interaction on the occasion of Gurpurab or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, on Tuesday said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends.”“I know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns,” he further said.Also Read | ‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams CentreCanada is home to a large Indian diaspora, many of whom are Sikhs. Several members of Trudeau’s cabinet, including minister of national defence Harjit Sajjan, are Sikhs as well. In fact, Sajjan himself has commented on the farmers’ stir, calling the reports of protesters being “brutalised” in India as “very troubling.” The reports of peaceful protesters being brutalized in India are very troubling. Many of my constituents have family there and are worried about the safety of their loved ones. Healthy democracies allow peaceful protest. I urge those involved to uphold this fundamental right. https://t.co/myWev8t3uWLakhs of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against three agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September, for nearly a week now. The protesters, who braved a crackdown by the Haryana police in their journey to the national capital, say they plan to “gherao” the city for months if their demand to revoke the three “black laws” is not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-internal-issue-not-fodder-for-your-politics-shiv-sena-s-priyanka-chaturvedi-on-justin-trudeau/story-gITodfseE75hiQpTMPKCvO.html
01-12-2020||India||Over 500 farmers from UP’s Bundelkhand to join ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest||Over 500 farmers from Bundelkhand will join the ongoing farmers’ protest at Delhi border points against the new agriculture-related laws on Thursday. Bundelkhand Kisan Union (BKU) national president Vimal Sharma said all the preparations for going to the national capital have been completed and district units have been instructed to participate in the movement in a peaceful manner. “Over 500 farmers from Banda, Chitrakoot, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur will go to Delhi on Thursday from their own means with ration and other necessary things to take part in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the farm laws made by the central government,” he said. Peaceful protests were underway at both the Singhu and Tikri borders, where farmers had gathered from Punjab and Haryana, for the sixth day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-500-farmers-from-up-s-bundelkhand-to-join-delhi-chalo-protest/story-qby0tDT4Rb3XkMFRycIJPL.html
01-12-2020||India||Nagaland observes 58th statehood today with muted celebrations||Nagaland is observing its 58th foundation day today. A sombre event with strict Covid-19 protocols marked the celebrations in the state capital of Kohima. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio, who took the general salute from a five-team parade contingent at the Civil Secretariat Plaza in Kohima, greeted the people of the state and paid rich tributes to the leaders, whose “foresightedness and determination” ensured the creation of Nagaland state with special Constitutional provisions as the 16th state of the Union of India on December 1, 1963.“We, as a state, have come a long way since its creation. We have been able to build good capabilities in every sector, and our unified response in combating Covid-19 is a testimony of it,” Rio said. Also read | Nagaland Governor shoots down NSCN’s demand for separate flag, ConstitutionHe also mentioned that people’s quest for a solution to the long standing Naga political issue has continued through the years and the journey has passed many milestones. “We all are aware that the negotiations between the various Naga political groups and the Government of India have seen a breakthrough with common ground being reached on various issues. We expect everyone to continue with the same spirit of understanding and oneness for moving forward to the eventual solution without any delay,” Rio said.He also talked about the extraordinary situation brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, where the entire health infrastructure went through a major overhaul. The chief minister lamented that despite all efforts, the lockdown, though necessary, had an adverse impact on the livelihoods of the people. But he pointed out that various government departments were rising to the challenge with new initiatives and approaches.The pandemic has also posed a serious threat to the tourism industry but the government is launching the 21st edition of its annual Hornbill Festival 2020 on virtual platform to boost the industry, said the chief minister.Further, Rio reminded the people to be aware that the threat of the pandemic still exists and they cannot afford to lower their guard any time soon.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind took to Twitter to extend their greetings to the people of Nagaland on the occasion of statehood day.“Greetings to my sisters and brothers of Nagaland on their Statehood Day. The people of Nagaland are known for their courage and kindness. Their culture is exemplary and so is their contribution to India’s progress. Praying for Nagaland’s continuous development,” PM Modi tweeted, while the President tweeted, “Greetings to the people of Nagaland on statehood day. Nagaland offers a unique blend of heritage, culture and natural beauty. May the state scale new heights of progress in the coming years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-observes-58th-statehood-today-with-muted-celebrations/story-N9e2sjW5JDUgGmnCPTVjYO.html
01-12-2020||India||BSF officer killed in firing by Pakistani troops along LoC in J-K’s Poonch||A Border Security Force (BSF) officer was killed on Tuesday as Pakistani troops violated ceasefire by resorting to firing on forward posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The firing from across the border in Tarkundi area of Mendhar sector was “unprovoked”, they said. Indian troops retaliated effectively to silence the Pakistani guns, the officials said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-officer-killed-in-firing-by-pakistani-troops-along-loc-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-vo9xzocl4NiNsIbc6PwwCL.html
01-12-2020||India||Centre allotted labs taking more than 24 hours in providing Covid-19 test reports: Satyendar Jain||The Central government allotted laboratories are taking more than 24 hours in providing reports for the Covid-19 tests as they are working at their full capacity, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.“The turnaround period for results should be 24 hours. However, when the labs are functioning at full capacity... The Central government had promised that they will get the tests done by big labs. But these tests results are not being provided within 24 hours,” the Minister told reporters here.He said that number of tests should always remain at least 10 per cent less than the capacity of the lab to ensure timely results. “The issue of delay is being taken up with the Centre and the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the Minister added.Speaking about the Union Ministry’s announcement that tests in Delhi will be increased to 60,000 per day by November 30, he said that the testing can be increased anytime, but added that the labs are unable to process the reports on time.Yesterday, 3,726 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported. The positivity rate is steadily declining. The positivity rate yesterday was 7.35 per cent, which is down around 55 per cent from its peak of 15.26 per cent on November 7,” the Minister said.“In the coming one or two weeks, the positivity rate will go down further. The death ratio is currently at 1.61 per cent. The condition of a lot of people worsened due to air pollution in November. The situation will soon improve,” he added.The Minister said that the cost of the RT-PCR test has been reduced to Rs 800 and Rs 1,200 if the sample is collected from home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-allotted-labs-taking-more-than-24-hours-in-providing-covid-19-test-reports-satyendar-jain/story-SN3zFYJ2V0AEbo2EqzWG8K.html
01-12-2020||India||BSF raising day: Will protect country from infiltration attempts of Pakistan, says DG Rakesh Asthana||The Border Security Force (BSF) will always stand to protect the country from the coward infiltration attempts of Pakistan, said Rakesh Asthana, Director-General of the force on its 56th Raising Day on Tuesday.“We want to assure the country that our men will always stand to protect the country from the coward infiltration attempts of Pakistan, which we see have risen in the recent past,” the Director-General of BSF said.Asthana also paid tributes to BSF personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty on the occasion.“I pay my respects to families of all BSF personnel who have lost their lives in the line of duty. The BSF is the sentry to the more than 6,000 km long international border of the country. The BSF constituted with 25 battalions, is 192 battalions strong today,” he said.The event was organised at BSF Chhawla camp with Covid-19 safety protocols in place. A parade by BSF personnel also took place to mark the occasion.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the force has distinguished itself with its unwavering commitment to protect the nation and assist citizens during natural calamities.“Best wishes to all BSF personnel and their families on the special occasion of their Raising Day. BSF has distinguished itself as a valorous force, unwavering in its commitment to protect the nation and assist citizens during natural calamities. India is proud of BSF!” tweeted Prime Minister Modi. Best wishes to all @BSF_India personnel and their families on the special occasion of their Raising Day. BSF has distinguished itself as a valorous force, unwavering in their commitment to protect the nation and assist citizens during natural calamities. India is proud of BSF!Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah also saluted brave personnel of the force for their national service.“The BSF has always lived up to its motto ‘Duty for Life’ (Jeevan Paryant Kartavya) with its bravery and prowess. Today, on the 56th Raising Day of BSF, I salute all the brave personnel of the force for their national service and dedication. India is proud of its victorious ‘Border Security Force’,” the Minister tweeted in Hindi. बीएसएफ ने अपने शौर्य और पराक्रम से अपने आदर्श वाक्य 'जीवन पर्यन्त कर्तव्य' को सदैव चरितार्थ किया है।आज @BSF_India के 56वें स्थापना दिवस पर मैं बल के सभी बहादुर जवानों को उनकी राष्ट्रसेवा और समर्पण के लिए नमन करता हूँ।भारत को अपनी रणविजयी ‘सीमा सुरक्षा बल’ पर गर्व है।The BSF is termed as the First Line of Defence of Indian Territories. The paramilitary force was raised on December 1, 1965 in accordance with an Act of the Indian Parliament soon after the India-Pakistan War of 1965. The paramilitary force is tasked with guarding India’s land border with Pakistan and Bangladesh during peacetime and preventing transnational crime. It is one of the largest border forces with a strength of 257,363 active personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-raising-day-will-protect-country-from-infiltration-attempts-of-pakistan-says-dg-rakesh-asthana/story-zkGn1tqsFrpEM3ej1RCS1I.html
01-12-2020||India||Actor Urmila Matondkar joins Shiv Sena in presence of party chief and Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Actor Urmila Matondkar on Tuesday joined Shiv Sena in presence of party president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Matondkar had unsuccessfully contested last year’s Lok Sabha polls on Congress ticket from Mumbai North constituency.“She (Urmila Matondkar) may join Shiv Sena tomorrow. She is a Shivsainik. We are happy that she is joining the Shiv Sena. This will strengthen the party’s ‘mahila aghadi’,” Shiv Sena leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut had earlier said on Monday.Matondkar had last year resigned from the Congress party, a key ally of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. She had cited inaction on the part of key functionaries of Mumbai Congress as the reason of her resignation.Watch: Actor & former Congress leader Urmila Matondkar joins Shiv Sena According to party insiders, the Sena has already proposed Matondkar’s name for one of the 12 Governor-nominated seats in the state legislative council.Senior Shiv Sena leaders said that the leadership was impressed with the manner in which Matondkar took on actor Kangana Ranaut when the latter and the party were locked in a war of words after Ranaut equated Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).Matondkar will be an additional resource for the Sena to put out its messages on a national level. Party insiders said that Matondkar is a well-known face nationally, has a good social connect within Maharashtra and will become an additional voice for the party on issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urmila-matondkar-visits-uddhav-thackeray-s-home-may-join-shiv-sena-today/story-i37AyFtHB5L91EnVEpdZKK.html
01-12-2020||India||Punjab-based farmers’ body accuses government of ‘dividing’ the movement refuses to attend meeting with Centre||Punjab-based farmers’ body Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Tuesday refused to participate in a meeting called by the Centre over the farm laws, demanding that representatives of all farmer unions be invited for talks.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday had invited leaders of farmer unions for talks on Tuesday, instead of December 3, citing the Covid-19 pandemic and cold.Thousands of farmers stayed put at various Delhi border points for the sixth consecutive day on Tuesday protesting against the new agri laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system and corporatise farming. The KMSC is one of the 32 Punjab farmers’ bodies invited for talks with the Centre. “A committee of several farmers’ bodies has not been invited and moreover, the prime minister is not holding this meeting. Because of these reasons, KMSC is not going to attend the meeting,” KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said. Pandher accused the government of trying to divide the protesting farmers by not inviting all the farmer unions. “If 32 Punjab-based farmers’ bodies have been invited (for talks), a committee representing around 500 farmers’ organisations is also there which should have also been invited,” he said. “By not inviting all farmers’ bodies, an attempt is being made to divide the farmer organisations. If we attend the meeting, it will be presumed that this agitation (against farm laws) is only taking place in Punjab which could be the conspiracy of the Centre,” he claimed. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that these farm laws are in the interest of the farming community, Pandher said, “He (the PM) has already given his decision before the meeting. And now, no minister can go against the PM.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-based-farmers-body-accuses-government-of-dividing-the-movement-refuses-to-attend-meeting-with-centre/story-QchM50qrw1rzoV3bu8QluO.html
01-12-2020||India||Char Dham project: Sudden change in road width may lead to spurt in accidents, Centre tells SC||In the latest affidavit to the Supreme Court (SC) in the Char Dham road project over alleged new hill cutting, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has said that there has been no new hill cutting in Uttarakhand after the apex court’s September order. In its affidavit, MoRTH also mentions that before the SC’s September 8 order, “12m formation cutting has already been carried out in 537km out of the total sanctioned length of 662km… Thus, where hill cutting has been done on the basis of 12m formation and a 10m tarred road has already been laid down or yet to be laid down, a substantial reduction in the width of the road to 5.5m in terms of the 2018 circular at this stage will result in non-uniform carriageway width varying from 10m to 5.5m in short stretches.” “This sudden change in road width in a short road length is not desirable from road users’ safety perspectives and may lead to the formation of black spots and spurt in road accidents.” HT has a copy of the affidavit signed by Dharmananda Sarangi, additional director general, MoRTH. Also read | Don’t undermine SC on Char Dham planOn September 8, the apex court had upheld the recommendation of the minority members of the High-Powered Committee (committee formed to assess environmental damages of Char Dham Road) and asked the implementing agencies to reduce the width of the road to 5.5m for the whole project. This order was based on a March 2018 circular released by MoRTH laying down guidelines for road construction in hilly terrains in the country. A senior official from the regional office of MoRTH in Uttarakhand, requesting anonymity, said, “All we are trying to say is that reducing the road length is not advisable in this situation as a broad length road is already running and all of a sudden, it will be reduced, which will give rise to accident spots in between.” He added, “In future (15 years estimated design life of Char Dham Road), traffic will increase on these roads and the need for a two-lane paved shoulder road can arise, when cutting the hills again will be problematic. So, we are requesting the court that if not 12m, we should at least be allowed to make 10m of road.” Further citing strategic importance of the roads leading to the Indo-China border, the affidavit mentions that the March 2018 circular of MoRTH, “…is general in nature based on Passenger Car Unit traffic and applicable to all the hilly areas in the country. The same did not have in mind the strategic requirement for movement of military vehicles with heavy equipment especially in the Himalayan region leading to International Borders/ Line of Actual Control as well as for roads identified as economic corridors.” Reacting to the arguments of the affidavit, Hemant Dhyani, member of HPC from minority group said, “First, environment impact assessment was deliberately by-passed, then several violations with regards to forest clearances have been done, hill cutting and tree felling continued unabated despite HPC’s request to wait for its recommendations.” “MoRTH’s own 2018 circular for hilly terrain was kept concealed from the court and the HPC and now to say that since they have done all this work, therefore they should be allowed to continue, even in opposition to court’s order will be like rewarding and legitimising wrong actions,” added Dhyani. Mallika Bhanot, an Uttarakhand-based environmentalist, said, “There is no notification which says that strategic roads should be of double-lane paved shoulder. The Centre is saying that there has been no fresh hill cutting, but when we go on ground, the reality is different. They are misleading the court by making such claims. Moreover, when they (MoRTH) are saying that sudden shortening of road will lead to accidents, it is true; the implementing agencies should have followed their own guidelines of March 2018 and not done excess hill cutting. The SC and the HPC had also repeatedly said that no new hill cutting should be done till their report is submitted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-project-sudden-change-in-road-width-may-lead-to-spurt-in-accidents-centre-tells-sc/story-feKuOStkyQgIyHCHkD8gIM.html
01-12-2020||India||2 civilians hurt as Maoists blow up SUV in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district||Two civilians were injured after Maoists blew up a SUV using improvised explosive devices (IED) in Bijapur district of Bastar region on Tuesday. The injured were admitted to the field hospital of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Basaguda area and their condition is believed to be stable. Inspector General of Police (IG) Bastar, Sunderaj P said that the incident took place at about 10 am near Rajpenta village between Basaguda and Tarrem villages which is a core Maoist area of Bijapur district. “Two people, Mohammed Iqbal Ansari, the vehicle’s owner, and a motor mechanic Balram Pradhan were heading towards Tarrem village in a Tata Sumo, when Maoists triggered an IED and blew up the vehicle. The blast was a very powerful one due to which the vehicle was badly damaged,” said the IG. According to the police, Ansari also owns a truck that had broken down on Monday night. “On Tuesday morning, Ansari and Pradhan were heading to fix the truck which was parked near Terrem village when the blast took place. The Maoists thought that it was a police vehicle and hence they triggered the blast,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-civilians-hurt-as-maoists-blow-up-suv-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district/story-2j13EE8fppev2TdLtmeQPK.html
01-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: A week after testing land-attack version, India test-fires anti-ship version of BrahMos, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India test-fires anti-ship version of BrahMos, week after testing land-attack version: ReportContinuing with its recent tests of BrahMos, India on Tuesday test-fired an anti-ship version of the supersonic cruise missile, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. The missile, reported ANI, was test-fired from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands territory as part of the trials being conducted by the Indian Navy. Read moreLow-intensity earthquake hits Haridwar in UttarakhandAn earthquake of magnitude 3.9 on the Richter Scale was reported near Haridwar in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. At 9:41 am, tremors were recorded at a depth of 10 kilometres, about 22 kilometres west-northwest of Haridwar, said the National Centre for Seismology (NCS). Read moreIndia vs Australia: Virat Kohli 23 runs away from breaking Sachin Tendulkar’s massive recordIndia captain Virat Kohli will be on the verge of achieving a huge milestone when he steps out to bat in the 3rd ODI against Australia on Wednesday in Canberra. The Indian team has already lost the series with the Aaron Finch-led Australia taking an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match ODI series. Kohli played a scintillating 89-run innings in the 2nd ODI during India’s 390-run chase. But a great catch from Moises Henriques ended his stay as India lost the match by 51 runs. Read moreMaruti reports 1.7% year-on-year growth in November but small cars underperformMaruti Suzuki on Tuesday reported a 1.7% year-on-year growth in total sales in the month of November. The country’s largest car maker sold 138,956 units in the domestic market and another 5,263 units to other OEMs. The total sales for the company stood at 153,223 (domestic plus exports) in the month as against 150,630 in November of 2019. Read moreAnushka Sharma takes ‘very able husband’ Virat Kohli’s help as she does headstand during pregnancy, see picActor Anushka Sharma is her superfit self as she traverses pregnancy. The actor, who has been seen finishing her professional commitments before she goes on a maternity break, has now shown how she kept fit through these months. Read moreNurse shares ‘how it started vs how it is going’ pictures. They are jarringIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you may have seen the ‘how it started vs how it is going’ trend. In it, netizens share pictures of themselves from the past and compare them to where they are now. A particular nurse from the US has now taken part in the trend. Her heart wrenching post, which sheds light on what it is like to be a healthcare worker during a global pandemic, has left many shocked. Read moreWatch: Melania Trump unveils decorations for last Christmas in White HouseFLOTUS Melania Trump unveiled the White House Christmas decor on the theme, ‘America the Beautiful’, which she said is a ‘tribute to the majesty of our great nation’. This is also the last Christmas of the Trump family in the White House. All of the halls, from the East Room to the Red Room, were decked by over 125 volunteers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-a-week-after-testing-land-attack-version-india-test-fires-anti-ship-version-of-brahmos-and-all-the-latest-news/story-v0rXOlulKPfavuwKvYWVuM.html
01-12-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects Chanda Kochhar’s appeal against termination||The Supreme Court Tuesday rejected the appeal filed by Chanda Kochhar against the Bombay High Court order which had dismissed her plea against being removed as the managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank.“Sorry, we are not inclined to interfere with the high court order,” a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said.“This falls within the realm of private bank and employee,” the apex court said.The bench was hearing Kochhar’s appeal against the March 5 order of the high court which had dismissed the plea against termination of her services as managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank while noting that the dispute arises from a contract of personal service. PTI MNL ABA SJK SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-chanda-kochhar-s-appeal-against-termination/story-W7nOUMbkoUq4ek2tzR4BIJ.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Owe great debt to farmers,’ says Rahul Gandhi as he slams Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday again hit out at the government for not paying heed to the farmers’ protests while asking it to give them their rights.“Those who provide are protesting in the streets and those who peddle lies are giving speeches on TV,” Gandhi tweeted. “We owe a great debt to our farmers. We can only settle this debt by getting them justice not by insulting them, hitting them with sticks and tear gassing them. Those occupying the seats bolstered by their ego, should come down and restore the farmers rights.”Gandhi’s comments came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said farmers were being misled on three laws enacted in September for liberalising the sector.Also read | Decision should be for farmers of entire country, not Punjab alone: Farm leadersThousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders seeking the repeal of the laws since November 26. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday announced that the government has invited leaders of the agitation for talks on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-owe-great-debt-to-farmers-says-rahul-gandhi-as-he-slams-centre/story-fWqS1xr5NdPy1y6ObSxsLO.html
01-12-2020||India||CM Neiphiu Rio wishes people on 58th Nagaland Statehood Day||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on Tuesday wished the people of the state on the occasion of the 58th Statehood Day, remembering the sacrifices of the state’s leaders who ensured its creation as the 16th state of the country. “On the 58th Statehood Day, I extend my greetings to the people of the State. As we celebrate this historic day, we remember with gratitude those leaders who by their sacrifices, foresightedness and determination ensured the creation of Nagaland as the 16th State of India,” Rio tweeted.  I wish the citizens of #Nagaland, well-wishers and friends all around the world, a happy virtual #HornbillFestival2020. When the world reopens, Nagaland will be ready with a tourism narrative in tune with a post #COVID scenario and to welcome you to our beautiful land. pic.twitter.com/HGamsUHTmyEarlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister Rajanth Singh also extended their greetings to the people of Nagaland. “Greetings to my sisters and brothers of Nagaland on their Statehood Day. The people of Nagaland are known for their courage and kindness. Their culture is exemplary and so is their contribution to India’s progress. Praying for Nagaand’s continuous development,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Greetings to my sisters and brothers of Nagaland on their Statehood Day. The people of Nagaland are known for their courage and kindness. Their culture is exemplary and so is their contribution to India’s progress. Praying for Nagaland’s continuous development.Nagaland was formally recognised as a separate state on December 1, 1963, with Kohima being declared as its capital. Before this, Naga leaders and the central government reached an agreement to create a separate region of the Naga Hills in 1957. The State of Nagaland Act, 1962, was enacted by the Parliament to give Nagaland statehood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-neiphiu-rio-wishes-people-on-58th-nagaland-statehood-day/story-ZLMZpU9bB01c6Q9LrHADrN.html
01-12-2020||India||SII says ‘Covishield’ safe and immunogenic, incident with volunteer no way induced by it||The Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Tuesday that vaccine candidate ‘Covishield’, which is being developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), is “safe and immunogenic”. The SII is testing the candidate in India.The company also said that the incident with one of the volunteers during clinical trials was “no way induced by the vaccine”.“All regulatory, ethical processes and guidelines were followed by the company. The principal investigator DSMB (Data and Safety Monitoring Board) and ethics committee stated it was non-related issue to vaccine trial,” news agency ANI reported, quoting a statement from the SII.The Pune-based company also said that it has sent a legal notice to a man who claimed he had developed serious side-effects in the human trials. “The legal notice was sent to safeguard the reputation of the company which is being unfairly maligned,” ANI quoted SII as saying.Also Watch l SII’s Adar Poonawala on side-effects of Oxford’s Covid vaccine at #HTLS2020 Also Read: Pune-based SII likely conduct trials for those under the age of 18The man had served a legal notice on SII, claiming to have suffered a virtual neurological breakdown and impairment of cognitive functions, seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation and a halt to the trial.The SII has collaborated with Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc in testing Covishield, the vaccine candidate they developed. Along with SII, the man also named Indian Council of Medical Research, one of the sponsors, and Chennai-based Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research, which administered the vaccine to the man.Also Read: SII to sue man over claims of Covishield side effectsThe man, according to the notice, suffered acute encephalopathy, a disease that affects the brain, following vaccination and all tests confirmed that the setback in his health was because of the vaccine candidate.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had deployed an institutional ethics committee at the implementation site to investigate the adverse event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-says-its-vaccine-candidate-covishield-safe-and-immunogenic-incident-with-volunteer-no-way-induced-by-it/story-rS1MG57SNKC424r2nIZAZJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Cyclone developing in Bay of Bengal to bring heavy rains to southern states: IMD||Parts of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry, and south coastal Andhra Pradesh will start receiving heavy rainfall under the influence of a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal. The low pressure system is likely to intensify into cyclone with wind speeds of up to 80km per hour by Tuesday evening and will be named Burevi. The system is currently located 930km southeast of Kanyakumari. As per the current trajectory, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the cyclone will continue to move northwestwards and cross the Sri Lankan coast near Trincomalee in the evening or night of December 2. It is likely to continue its westward movement to reach the Indian coast the next morning. The cyclone comes on the tail of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar that had made landfall in Karaikal, Puducherry, on November 25. It was the third named cyclone to hit the Indian coast in 2020 -- the first was super cyclonic storm Amphan in May and severe cyclonic storm Nisarga in June. There would be squally winds reaching the speed of up to 65 km per hour on Tamil Nadu and Kerala coast on December 2 as the system nears India. As per the IMD forecast, it is likely to bring extremely heavy rainfall to parts of south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala on December 3 when it is likely to reach the Indian coast. The sea conditions will be rough to very rough Monday through December 4, with the government advising a complete suspension of fishing operations in the region. The fishermen have been advised to return to coast by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-developing-in-bay-of-bengal-to-bring-heavy-rains-to-southern-states-imd/story-NTtSTUQLZKOVwEjSQYcjGL.html
01-12-2020||India||India test-fires anti-ship version of BrahMos, week after testing land-attack version: Report||Continuing with its recent tests of BrahMos, India on Tuesday test-fired an anti-ship version of the supersonic cruise missile, news agency ANI reported quoting sources. The missile, reported ANI, was test-fired from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands territory as part of the trials being conducted by the Indian Navy.“During the test held around 0925 hours, the DRDO-developed BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with a strike range of 300 km was launched from the Indian Navy’s INS Ranvijay and it successfully hit its target ship near the Car Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal,” it further quoted sources as saying. During the test held today around 0925 hours, the DRDO-developed BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with a strike range of 300 Km was launched from Indian Navy’s INS Ranvijay and it successfully hit its target ship near the Car Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal: Sources https://t.co/lBfRpAgdLAThis latest test comes as a part of a series of tests carried out by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in the last two months. On November 24, a land-attack version of BrahMos was test-fired, also from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands territory. The missile had “successfully” hit its target, located on another island, in a test that was carried out by the Indian Army.Also Read | India test-fires land-attack version of BrahMos missile: ReportThe recent missile tests come in the backdrop of ongoing tensions with China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, which started in May and intensified in the subsequent months. There has also been a spate of ceasefire violations by Pakistan across the Line of Control (LoC) in recent days and a fighter jet of the Pakistan Air Force (PAF) was reportedly spotted near the LoC on Monday.Jointly developed by the DRDO and Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyeniya, BrahMos is the world’s fastest supersonic cruise missile. A missile which can be launched from submarines, ship, aircraft or land, BrahMos is also the fastest anti-ship cruise missile in operation. A hypersonic version, called BrahMos-II, is currently under development.The name ‘BrahMos’ has been derived from India’s Brahmaputra and Russia’s Moskva rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-test-fires-anti-ship-version-of-brahmos-week-after-testing-land-attack-version-report/story-mb1LUtbjoHJviFblG24BSL.html
01-12-2020||India||Low-intensity earthquake hits Haridwar in Uttarakhand||An earthquake of magnitude 3.9 on the Richter Scale was reported near Haridwar in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. At 9:41 am, tremors were recorded at a depth of 10 kilometres, about 22 kilometres west-northwest of Haridwar, said the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The NCS tweeted, “Earthquake of magnitude: 3.9, Occurred on 01-12-2020, 09:41:50 IST, Latitude: 30.03 and Longitude: 77.95, Depth:10 Km, Location: 22km West North West (WNW) of Haridwar, Uttarakhand.”  Earthquake of Magnitude:3.9, Occurred on 01-12-2020, 09:41:50 IST, Lat: 30.03 & Long: 77.95, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 22km WNW of Haridwar, Uttarakhand, Indiafor more information @ndmaindia https://t.co/HOwT0w2VBt pic.twitter.com/JEB5d7qHn9No casualties have been reported as yet.According to the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority, the entire Himalayan terrain falls in Zone V and Zone IV of Earthquake Zoning Map of India that divides the Indian landmass into four distinct risk zones, i.e. from Zone II to Zone V. Being traversed by major Himalayan tectonic discontinuities, Uttarakhand often witnesses earthquakes of lesser magnitude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-intensity-earthquake-hits-haridwar-in-uttarakhand/story-veaMWbiMQXovxbz6ZEaASP.html
01-12-2020||India||DDC elections: Voters come out despite cold, over 23% turnout till 11 am||The people in Jammu and Kashmir are braving cold to come out in large numbers to vote in the second phase of District Development Council (DDC) election.As per the data available till 11 am, 23.67 per cent turnout has been recorded so far in DDC polls.Long queues can be seen in Kashmir Division and hilly areas of Jammu division.Forty three constituencies are going under polling in the second phase of DDC elections. These include 25 seats in the Kashmir division and 18 in Jammu.As per the figures given by the office of State Election Commissioner, in Kashmir Division, Kupwara has recorded voting percentage of 16%, Bandipora 39.89%, Baramulla 14.45%, Ganderbal 15.65%, Srinagar 18.26%, Budgam 25.29%, Pulwama 6.08333 %, Shopian 3.95%, Kulgam 14.37% and Anantnag 15.56% till 11 am.Similarly, in Jammu division, Kishtwar has recorded voting percentage of 28.47%, Doda 35.86%, Ramban 24.75%, Reasi 32.27%, Udhampur 26.39%, Kathua 29.75%, Samba 38.34%, Jammu 39.65 %, Rajouri 32.09% and Poonch 38.42% till 11 am.The polling began at 7 am and will continue till 2 pm.There are a total of 321 candidates in the electoral fray - 196 from the Kashmir Division and 125 from Jammu.Out of 7,95,118 voters, 3,88,273 are from Jammu Division and 4,06,845 are from Kashmir. Kashmir Division has 2,12,024 male voters and 1,94,821 women, whereas Jammu has 2,04,721 male electors and 1,83,553 female voters.The sarpanch bypolls are being conducted in 83 constituencies and total 223 (151 male and 72 female) candidates are in the fray. The panch bypolls are being held in 331 constituencies with 709 candidates (552 males and 157 females) in the fray.There are 2,142 polling stations - 837 in the Jammu Division and 1,305 in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddc-elections-voters-come-out-despite-cold-over-6-turnout-in-first-2-hours/story-IggzxV6UuROCVaZTO02CjL.html
01-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri border points remain closed||Two major arterial roads passing through the Singhu and Tikri border points with Haryana continued to remain closed for commuters for the fifth day on Tuesday even as restrictions at some other points left motorists inconvenienced.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders and disrupted traffic movement from and to Haryana at Singhu and Tikri since last week seeking the repeal of three farm laws enacted in September.The Delhi Police said that while the two border points remained entirely closed, the Badisarai and Jatukara borders were open only for two-wheelers.Also read | Decision should be for farmers of entire country, not Punjab alone: Farm leadersAt the Ghazipur border, farmers used a tractor to break the police barricades. About the incident, deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh said, “The situation is normal now. We have deployed police personnel in adequate numbers at the Ghazipur border.”Apart from that, commuters continued to be hassled at the Jharoda Kalan border which remains under strict vigilance. “We are allowing traffic out of Delhi, but anyone entering the city using that route will be inconvenienced as the checking there is very strict,” said deputy police commissioner Santosh Kumar Meena.He added the problem persisted there because the Rohtak flyover on which farmers are moving towards the Tikri border is just 200 metres from Jharoda Kalan.Monday was relatively relaxed for commuters due to the government holiday on account of the Gurupurab festival.On Tuesday, the police tweeted to list of other borders points and alternate routes that the motorists can take to commute between Delhi and Haryana. Around 7am, the traffic police posted the first tweet and said that the Singhu border was closed from both sides.“Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from the signature bridge to Rohini &Vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu border,” the traffic police tweeted.About the Tikri border, the police first issued an alert, saying that the border is closed for any traffic movement. The traffic police said that Badusarai and Jhatikara borders were open only for two-wheelers traffic. It also listed other borders points for commuters to Haryana such as Kharida, Dhaana, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.As soon as the police posted the advisories, many began posting their queries about the traffic disruptions and sought suggestions regarding their planned journeys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-border-points-remain-closed/story-z0mVa7gC9A8PjIyKjOBHxL.html
01-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: All you need to know||Three laws were enacted in September to allow agri businesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions. They permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Here is why the laws have triggered protests, their repercussions and what the government is doing about them: --Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s Minimum Support Price system that offers cultivators assured prices from the government.--They say the laws will help corporate players and will eventually be detrimental to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the country’s population. Also read | Decision should be for farmers of entire country, not Punjab alone: Farm leaders--Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders and disrupted traffic movement from and to Haryana at Singhu and Tikri seeking the repeal of the laws. --The blockade has also hit the supply of goods from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. --The Delhi Police have placed concrete barriers and bolstered security at the Ghazipur and Noida border with Uttar Pradesh as the number of protesters swelled there too. --The government has maintained the laws bring freedom from middlemen even as the farmers see intermediaries as necessary service providers. --Farm leaders have said they will march to New Delhi for a “decisive battle” against the laws. --The protesters have stayed put since November 27 even as police have denied them entry into New Delhi and placed multi-layer barricades at the borders. --Tractor-trolleys have turned into temporary shelters with farmers spending nights under tarpaulin in their vehicles. --Many have brought ration and other essentials to see themselves through this period. --On Sunday, leaders spearheading the agitation set fresh terms for talks with the Centre. --They demanded the Centre name and authorise a Cabinet Committee or a Group of Ministers for future discussions. --The farmer leaders rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s offer to advance the date for the next round of talks. --They said the Union home ministry officials should not lead the discussions as agriculture was outside their jurisdiction. --Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday announced the government has invited leaders of the agitation for talks on Tuesday. --He advanced by two days a proposed meeting with them. --A previous round of talks on November 13 involved farm leaders, Tomar, and his cabinet colleague Piyush Goyal. --Another meeting was held on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-all-you-need-to-know/story-5PC5o5mQO9CqLwAQ8Vr9mM.html
01-12-2020||India||Arnab Goswami ‘cop assault’ case: Sessions court to hear anticipatory bail pleas today||A Mumbai sessions court will on Tuesday hear pre-arrest bail pleas filed by senior journalist Arnab Goswami and his wife Samyabrata Ray for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer in a criminal case registered against the couple by the Mumbai police.Also Read | Arnab Goswami bail plea hearing update: ‘Power to re-investigate wrongly used’, Supreme Court toldThe police had registered an FIR against Republic TV editor-in-chief Goswami, his wife and their son at the NM Joshi Marg police station. The alleged “assault” took place on the morning of November 4 when a police team went to Goswami’s house to arrest him in connection with an alleged 2018 abetment to suicide case. At present, only Goswami and Ray have filed anticipatory bail pleas. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 353 (assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and under the Damage to Public Property Act.On November 12, a day after Goswami was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court, the sessions court haf adjourned bail plea hearing to November 23, which was further adjourned to December 1.The case pertains to alleged death by suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud Naik in May 2018. In his suicide note, Naik had accused Goswami and two others of not paying his dues collectively amounting to Rs 5.40 crore. While the case was closed last year, it was reopened earlier this year after Naik’s daughter approached Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Also Read | Arnab Goswami detained: All you need to know about abetment to suicide caseIt was in connection with this case Arnab was arrested last month and taken to a municipal school in Alibaug where he was kept in judicial custody. He was later shifted to Taloja prison in Raigad district for allegedly using a mobile phone while in custody.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-cop-assault-case-sessions-court-to-hear-anticipatory-bail-pleas-today/story-21qxUX49hxE8Fs2etd2xfM.html
01-12-2020||India||PM Modi greets Border Security Force on its raising day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted the Border Security Force, which guards the country’s international border, on its raising day and said India is proud of it.  The BSF has distinguished itself as a valorous force, unwavering in its commitment to protecting the nation and assisting citizens during natural calamities, he said in a tweet.  The BSF was raised on this day in 1965 with a purpose to guard India’s international border with Pakistan and later with Bangladesh too when it became an independent country in 1971.BSF personnel have also been deployed in the past to deal with internal challenges, including in counter-terrorism operations in Kashmir.  In a tweet, the prime minister said, “Best wishes to all @BSF_India personnel and their families on the special occasion of their Raising Day. BSF has distinguished itself as a valorous force, unwavering in their commitment to protect the nation and assist citizens during natural calamities. India is proud of BSF!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-border-security-force-on-its-raising-day/story-lxGkoccm0IkA9973GfZY9O.html
01-12-2020||India||TRS lawmaker Nomula Narasimhaiah dies of cardiac arrest after post-Covid-19 complications||Senior Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Nomula Narasimhaiah died of a heart attack after suffering from post-Covid-19 complications at Apollo Hospitals in Hyderabad in the early hours of Tuesday, his family members said. He was 64. He is survived by a son and two daughters. Narasimhaiah, who represented Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency in Telangana’s Nalgonda district, suffered from Covid-19 and was in hospital for over a month. Though he tested negative for the virus later, he was still suffering from breathing problems. At about 3 am on Tuesday, he complained of chest pain and was immediately shifted from his residence at Old MLA Quarters to Apollo Hospitals at Hyderguda. He breathed his last while undergoing treatment in the hospital at around 5.30 am, the family members said. Born in an agriculturists’ family at Palem village of Nakrekal mandal of Nalgonda district, Narasimhaiah had been associated with Communist Party of India (Marxist) since childhood because of the party’s influence in the area. While doing his under-graduation and masters in law at Osmania University, Narasimhaiah actively took part in the Student Federation of India (SFI) activities and later became a member of the CPI (M). He practised as an advocate in Nakrekal and Nalgonda. Later, Narasimhaiah entered active politics and was elected president of Nakrekal block parishad. He got elected as an MLA twice on CPI (M) ticket from Nakrekal assembly constituency in 1999 and 2004 and was the party floor leader in the assembly in the combined Andhra Pradesh state. Differing with his party, Narasimhaiah took active part in separate Telangana movement and in 2013, he came out of the CPI (M) to join the TRS. He lost to Congress candidate Kunduru Jana Reddy from Nagarjunasagar in 2014, but won the seat against the same leader in 2018 assembly election with a margin of over 7,771 votes. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed grief over the death of Narsimhaiah. He said the senior MLA would be remembered as leader who worked for the welfare of the people. Stating that Narasimhaiah’s s death was a big loss to the TRS as well as the people of Nagarjunasagar asembly Constituency, the chief minister conveyed his condolences to the members of the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-lawmaker-nomula-narasimhaiah-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-after-post-covid-19-complications/story-uzByle8xJiTJ1tjUmS6CiK.html
01-12-2020||India||Four sites in India get World Heritage Irrigation Structure tag||Four sites in India have received the World Heritage Irrigation Structure (WHIS) tag this year. The sites are Cumbum Tank, Kurnool-Cuddapah Canal, Porumamilla Tank (Anantharaja Sagaram) in Andhra Pradesh and 490-year-old Dhamapur Lake in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district. In 2018, Pedda Cheru Tank in Kamareddy district and Sadarmat Anicut in Nirmal district, both in Telangana, were named as WHIS sites.The International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID), a global network of irrigation, drainage, and flood management experts, annually recognises irrigation structures of international significance on the lines of World Heritage Sites recognised by the UNESCO.Rishi Srivastava, director, Central Water Commission (CWC), said they were notified earlier this month about the declaration. “It is a prestigious moment for India as these structures are now of international significance. These structures, when they were built, were ahead of their times in terms of their technology. State governments will get more incentive and motivation to maintain them and ensure they are functional for years to come based on this recognition.”Also read | Goa leader calls international cultural community for help to save UNESCO Heritage SiteOther recognised sites this year globally included four structures in China, two from Iran, three in Japan.So far, Japan (42) has the highest number of WHIS sites followed by China (23). India, Iran and Sri Lanka have 6 each.Every country has a national committee and they share the information about their sites with ICID, which then passes it to an international jury. “Major criteria for WHIS entails that a structure should be more than 100 years old, should be functional, achieving food security and have archival value. Each site is evaluated based on its merits first by the state government. The proposal is then sent to the Centre and a team from CWC carries out an on-ground survey to verify details. Findings are presented before the national committee, which finally submits the proposal in the prescribed format (with Central government inputs and on-field photographs) to the international jury,” said Srivastava.The Dhamapur Lake irrigates 237 ha land every year. There are 64 streamlets that feed it. Two outlets emerging from Kavadewadi dam and Guramwadi dam also feed water to it. The site was built in 1530 by villagers of Dhamapur and Kalse.“Size of these lakes or dams is not a criteria for WHIS as Dhamapur is much smaller than other dams that have been awarded this recognition this year or in the past but what is most astonishing is this lake is almost 500 years old. It was and continues to be a technology marvel that stood through time,” said Srivastava.Sachin Desai, a local resident, said the Dhamapur Lake stands as an example of community participation in the past and present. “It displays the wisdom of our ancestors. The recognition saves the area from unplanned development and also creates history. This shows that learned citizens should come forward for documentation of heritage and natural assets of our country.”The CWC plans to nominate more sites this year. “For 2021, we have written letters to all state principal secretaries to identify and propose such ancient structures before the next meeting scheduled this time next year. Owing to Covid-19, the entire process was slightly delayed this year. However, we want at least 8-10 worthy proposals if not more by early 2021, so that we have time to evaluate them on the field,” said Srivastava.Nomination forms are to be submitted to ICID by June 30 every year.Srivastava said countries like Pakistan were earlier awarded WHIS for structures built well over a 100 years back. “While those structures might be located in present-day Pakistan, they were actually built in India. This is when we began the process and wrote to various states asking them to propose such structures showcasing our rich heritage,” he said.The Dhamapur Lake is one of the top 100 wetlands in India identified by the Union government for rapid restoration and improvement. It is expected to be proposed as a Ramsar site (wetland of international significance) by the Maharashtra government. There are 193 floral and 247 faunal species in this wetland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-sites-in-india-get-world-heritage-irrigation-structure-tag/story-n8P4HNaHuPdQQXT8VKQGyJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Voting begins for 11 Uttar Pradesh legislative council seats||The polling for biennial elections to 11 seats of the Uttar Pradesh legislative council, including six teachers’ and five graduate constituency seats, started on Tuesday. The votes will be counted on December 3.Officials said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, voters will be thermal scanned before they are allowed to vote.The Election Commission has said no more than 1,000 voters be allotted in each polling booth. It has ensured availability of PPE kits, face masks and face shields at all polling centres, where social distancing protocols would be in place during voting hours.As many as 1,269,817 voters for five graduate seats would vote at 1,808 voting centres. There are 206,335 voters eligible to vote for six teachers’ seats at 813 voting centres.A total of 199 candidates are in the fray.A majority of candidates are contesting as independents, many of whom are giving sleepless nights to candidates of prominent political parties. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expelled one of its leaders in Western Uttar Pradesh for contesting as an independent.In Lucknow, an independent candidate pledged support to the BJP at the last minute.The elections to the 11 seats were due this summer but were deferred due to Covid-19.In teachers’ constituencies, government teachers of class 10th and above register themselves as voters. For graduate seats, all those who have graduated three years before the poll-date are voters.Eleven observers have been deployed for the polls along with 952 sector magistrates, 413 zonal magistrates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-begins-for-11-uttar-pradesh-legislative-council-seats/story-xD4QdtcXR7owQLtmoH9EyI.html
01-12-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count drops to 31,118, active cases further down||India on Tuesday recorded 31,118 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the nationwide tally to 9,462,809, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases dropped further, to 4,35,603, while 88,89,585 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed. The number of recovered patients has now reached.The country recorded 482 new fatalities due to the infection in the past 24 hours, the ministry said. With this, the death toll has reached 1,37,621.India has conducted 140 million tests to detect Covid-19 in the past 11 months, of which 10 million tests were performed during the past 10 days alone, government data shows.The first test to diagnose Covid-19 in the country was performed on January 23, and on Monday, India performed about 900,000 tests in a single day.India’s coronavirus tally had crossed the 9.4 million-lakh mark after 38,772 new infections were reported on Monday, as per the health ministry data.On Sunday, the ministry had said that the national recovery rate stands at 93.71 per cent. It also said that India continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population globally (presently 99).Though the number of daily cases has declined in the last few weeks, the Centre is concerned about the states which have high caseload of the infection. The Union home ministry has framed a set of guidelines to check the further spread of the disease which came into effect from December 1. These guidelines will remain in place till December 31.The health ministry has also released measures to ensure compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour in markets.The ministry has recommended imposing fines for not wearing masks or not following physical distancing, opening markets on alternate days and closing them if large number of coronavirus cases are reported along with other measures.The SOPs outlined that market places in containment zones shall remain closed. Shop owners and employees living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-drops-to-31-118-active-cases-further-down/story-EieNTpjx9Dxg78d69KCw7I.html
01-12-2020||India||Jharkhand logs nearly 60% decline in detection of Covid-19 cases in November||Jharkhand has registered a sharp decline of nearly 60% in Covid-19 cases in November in comparison to the previous month, amidst fear of another surge post the festive season and approaching winter. The Covid-19 growth trajectory, which had taken a sudden turn in August and attained its peak in September, bent southward beginning October. Since then, the number of cases has been declining significantly. According to the latest data released by the health department, the monthly detection of cases in November declined to 7,390 from 18,110 detected in October. This accounts for a 59.19% dip. Covid-19 testing too declined to over 26.56% in November in comparison to the previous month. While 11,11,955 samples were tested in October, as many as 8,16,521 samples were tested in November.The disease’s positivity rate--the number of cases reported among the total samples tested--in these two months, however, indicated that the spread of the infection slowed down further in November. It dropped to 0.90% in November from 1.62% in October.According to health experts, the fewer detection of cases in November was due to a decline in testing.State epidemiologist Dr Praveen Karn said that overall testing in the state dropped in November due to festivals and some technical snags developed in one of the laboratories. “But, it will be improved further in coming weeks,” he said.Karn explained that the declining positivity rate was good news for Jharkhand“The state’s overall positivity rate at present is 2.43% meaning thereby that out of 100 samples tested, 2.43 positive cases are detected. However, if we see the monthly positivity rate of the last four months, we can notice a continuous decline. From 4.85% in August, it came down to below one percentage in November. Besides, Jharkhand reported a recovery rate as high as 97.26%,” he said.Earlier in August, the monthly detection of cases stood at 30,455. It went further up with the discovery of 41,882 cases in September.The state, however, heaved a sigh of relief only from the beginning of October when the daily detection of Covid-19 cases gradually declined. According to the health department’s bulletin of November 30, Jharkhand has so far reported 1,09,151 positive cases including 2016 active cases, 1,06,171 recoveries and 964 deaths. These cases were discovered after testing over 4.17 million samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-logs-nearly-60-decline-in-detection-of-covid-19-cases-in-november/story-yFlAByvXlZ9Gm5kNWW36WJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Ahead of Bengal assembly polls, TMC government launches its biggest outreach drive today||With an eye on the 2021 assembly polls, the Trinamool Congress-led government in West Bengal is launching one of its biggest outreach drives to connect with people over the next two months, starting Tuesday. “The Duare Sarkar scheme will highlight around a dozen government programmes and address grievances of those left out,” said a senior official of the state government. At least four camps would be set up in every village and civic body across all 344 blocks in the state between December 1 and January 28. At these camps, officials would help people with various government facilities, like MGNREGA job cards, health cards, caste certificates and ration cards. The Mamata Banerjee-administration has already directed the district administration to stress on the Bangla Sahayata Kendra, a chain of centres at the grass root level for free information about various government schemes. Also read | TMC MPs, MLAs ready to join us, say BJP leaders in Bengal“The state government has deployed more than 6,800 people across 3,400 such centres to provide information to the people about government projects and facilities and help them access those,” said a senior official. People can get information of around 240 public services from around 38 departments from these centres, free of cost. The Bharatiya Janata Party has criticised the state government over the Duare Sarkar scheme, asking it to clarify if it is a government programme or an outreach programme of the TMC ahead of the elections. The ruling TMC is likely to face a stiff challenge from the BJP which won 40% of the vote share in 2019 Lok Sabha elections and bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bengal-assembly-polls-tmc-government-launches-its-biggest-outreach-drive-today/story-TUAg1sBQmOP4Oj95mK2UCL.html
01-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi presides over meetings to discuss Assam, Tamil Nadu polls||When Rahul Gandhi presided over meetings regarding the Tamil Nadu and Assam elections on Monday, he made it clear at the outset that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had assigned him the task. He said he was there to listen to what the party functionaries had to say and convey that to Sonia Gandhi. People aware of the matter said the message was clear that Rahul Gandhi was only carrying out Sonia Gandhi’s orders and his return as Congress president after he resigned from the post last year was not to be taken for granted.Speculation about Rahul Gandhi’s return as the Congress chief has renewed since Sonia Gandhi left for Goa on the advice of her doctors for health reasons because of growing pollution in Delhi. The party is also committed to conducting elections for the post of the party president by January. The announcement was made after a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in August when 23 leaders wrote a letter asking for internal polls.Also read | Congress launches social media campaign to garner support for agitating farmersKC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik, Ambika Soni, and Randeep Surjewala, who are part of the team set up to assist Sonia Gandhi, attended Monday’s meetings. AK Antony, another member of the team, is recovering from Covid-19 and could not attend them. CWC member P Chidambaram, Dinesh Gundu Rao, and Manickam Tagore were among others who attended the meetings.A functionary, who attended the meetings, said they lasted for two hours and Rahul Gandhi emphasised how the Congress’s relationship with Tamils differed from that of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). “While the RSS is repressing the Tamil culture, the Congress believes in bridging it with the rest of the country,’’ the functionary quoted Rahul Gandhi as saying.The functionaries assessed Congress’s alliance with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu and noted how 5-7% vote share can be contributed in the state. “He [Rahul Gandhi] told us to play a positive role and work hard in our seats,’’ said another leader. Rahul Gandhi warned of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s attempts to polarise voters ahead of next year’s assembly polls in Assam. In his meeting with the leaders from Assam, he asked the state unit to be prepared to face the ruling BJP head-on. “We were told that the BJP would try to muddy the scenario by polarising voters on communal lines and instructed to be prepared for it in the coming weeks leading to the polls,” said a third Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-presides-over-meetings-to-discuss-assam-tamil-nadu-polls/story-RldaPn9CE47ajkM7XgdXBI.html
01-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Air quality in Delhi remains in very poor zone and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi AQI rises to 339, continues to be in very poor zoneAir quality in Delhi remained in the very poor zone on Tuesday morning with the air quality index (AQI) at 339. The average AQI on Monday was 318. Government agencies have forecast a deterioration in air quality over this week due to dipping temperature and reduction in wind speed. Read moreIndia performed 140 million Covid-19 tests in past 11 months, says government dataIndia has conducted 140 million tests to detect Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past 11 months, of which 10 million tests were performed during the past 10 days alone, government data shows. The first test to diagnose Covid-19 in the country was performed on January 23, and on Monday, India performed about 900,000 tests in a single day. Read more2nd phase of Jammu and Kashmir’s DDC elections todayPolling for 43 constituencies in the second phase of election for District Development Council (DDC) in Jammu and Kashmir will be held on Tuesday. The contest is between the newly launched People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari. Read moreFake news on Covid-19 vaccines a ‘second pandemic,’ says Red Cross chiefThe head of the world’s largest humanitarian network is urging governments and institutions to combat “fake news” about Covid-19 vaccines which has become “a second pandemic” and start building trust in communities around the world about the critical importance of vaccinating people. Read moreA fast bowler won’t rectify Kuldeep and Chahal’s problems, India need a spin bowling coach: Maninder Singh -ExclusiveA little more than six months after starting their India journey together, wrist spinners – albeit of different kinds - Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal sneered 32 wickets between them to help India blank South Africa 6-0 in their own backyard in an ODI series in 2018. Read moreAudi to get real dirty, announces entry in Dakar Rally with electric SUVAudi has announced it is ready to kick up a dust storm, quite literally, and will take part in the famous - and challenging - Dakar Rally in 2022 for the first time. The company states that it will compete with an ‘innovative prototype’ and that it will make use of a high-voltage battery. Read moreMalaika Arora shows how to improve your posture, amid work from home, with Yoga’s DhanurasanaThe backbending or bow pose exercise of Yoga increases and regains spinal strength and flexibility and this week, Malaika Arora was seen teaching fitness enthusiasts how to do that with Dhanurasana to improve your posture amid work from home. Read moreWhy this man is roaming around Delhi with a mask attached to a can filled with a plantA few people from different parts of the country have stepped up to do their part to spread awareness among the masses about the increasing pollution. Among them is Pankaj Kumar from Bihar. An Instagram video of Kumar in which he is seen wearing a mask attached to an old water can filled with plants has grabbed the attention of netizens. Read moreWatch: Covid | ‘Need to find virus origin, don’t politicise probe’: WHO chief Tedros||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-air-quality-in-delhi-remains-in-very-poor-zone-and-all-the-latest-news/story-H4HdFLfb8Pg6JkciDnFGsO.html
01-12-2020||India||India performed 140 million Covid-19 tests in past 11 months, says government data||India has conducted 140 million tests to detect Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past 11 months, of which 10 million tests were performed during the past 10 days alone, government data shows.The first test to diagnose Covid-19 in the country was performed on January 23, and on Monday, India performed about 900,000 tests in a single day.On average, at least a million tests are conducted each day from across the country in 2,165 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved laboratories for Covid-19 testing, with a capacity of testing at least 1.5 million samples daily.India started its Covid-19 testing facility with just one laboratory: ICMR- National Institute of Virology in Pune, using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and now also performs TrueNat and CBNAAT tests that were used for tuberculosis testing originally, but have been repurposed and approved for Covid-19 testing in the country by ICMR.ICMR, country’s top biomedical research body, has been spearheading the Covid-19 testing initiative in the country, and has been able to significantly increase the testing laboratory network across the country in such a short span of time, to meet the country’s testing needs.Also read | Centre’s new Covid-19 guidelines come into effect today: Here’s what’s allowed, what isn’tAs a result, the testing numbers went up exponentially -- from 10,000 Covid-19 tests at the end of April, 5 million in June, 10 million in July, and 50 million in September, to 100 million in October and 140 million till November-end. The quicker Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) has also been deployed in a big way, especially at places that require mass testing that has helped in increasing India’s overall daily Covid-19 testing capacity.“At places where large scale testing is required with quick results, RAT is recommended. However, there are certain conditions that need to be met, like getting a confirmatory test done though RT-PCR in cases of symptomatic RAT negatives etc. Because of its ability to accurately detect true positives, it is an effective tool in quickly picking up early infections,” said an ICMR official, requesting anonymity. The Centre has asked states to conduct saturation testing to detect Covid-19 in places where people are likely to gather in large numbers, such as workplaces, religious places and markets etc. Saturation testing, where everyone is tested for the disease, will augment random testing being done to control the spread of the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-performed-140-million-covid-19-tests-in-past-11-months-says-government-data/story-hjOLka4LP3lXQ7r4nMXlJN.html
01-12-2020||India||NMC member writes to chief, criticises nod to Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries||National Medical Commission (NMC) member Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh has written to its chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma, protesting against the permission to Ayurveda graduates to perform different surgical procedures. In his letter dated November 28, released to the media on Monday by the Bihar chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Singh urged Dr Sharma to “consider the gravity of the matter and rectify the above decision”. “You being an ENT surgeon know it well that performing cataract surgery is not Ayurvedic graduates domain. Even other surgeries need proper training, expertise, infrastructure and a surgical setup. Most of them need anesthesia, which is delivered by qualified doctors. You know about the scarcity of anesthetists in India. Under the circumstances, permitting Ayurvedic graduates for surgery is detrimental to public health,” said Dr Singh in his letter. He called for a “proper consultation and consideration by all NMC members in an actual emergency meeting (not virtual)”. The IMA-Bihar, meanwhile, praised Singh for the bold step he had taken to decry the recent guidelines to allow Ayurvedic practitioners to perform certain surgeries. It is well known that none of the Ayurvedic medical colleges have facility to teach and train its graduates about surgery and they were not doing them in college. Under the circumstances, it will be harmful to the people if an “untrained and uneducated” Ayurvedic graduate performs various surgical procedures, IMA-Bihar secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said in a statement issued on Monday. “All the doctors are now optimistic that there will be a relook into this aspect and proper rectification in the above clause will be done at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nmc-member-writes-to-chief-criticises-nod-to-ayurveda-doctors-to-perform-surgeries/story-Ugwhyh0Zcmw0YQg5CICxDJ.html
01-12-2020||India||From RTGS to PNB’s cash withdrawal, new rules that will come into effect from December 1||The commencement of a new month brings with it a set of new rules. The beginning of the month of December on Tuesday also brings with it some new rules which will directly impact the common man. From new Real-time Gross Settlement (RTGS) guidelines to Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinder price revision, here are some new rules that will come into effect from December 1, 2020:1. RTGS to be available 24x7: RTGS is a popular online fund transfer system to transfer money from one bank account to another. Before December 1, the facility was available for use between 7am and 6pm on all working days except second and fourth Saturdays, and Sundays. However, in his monetary policy announcement in October, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das announced that starting December 1, the RTGS facility would be available round-the-clock on all days of the year.2. PNB’s OTP-based cash withdrawal: The Punjab National Bank (PNB) will launch its one-time password (OTP)-based ATM cash withdrawal facility on Tuesday. This facility can be used between 8pm and 8am for transactions above Rs 10,000. PNB account holders will thus need to carry their mobile phones as the OTP will be sent on their registered mobile phone number.3. LPG cylinder price revision: The prices of LPG cylinders are reviewed on the first of every month. These may be increased, decreased or kept constant. As of November 2020, the price of a 14.2 kg LPG cylinder stood at Rs 594 in Delhi and Mumbai, Rs 620.50 in Kolkata and Rs 610 in Chennai.4. More trains to commence operations: From December 1, Indian Railways will run some more trains. Train services were suspended in March when the first nationwide lockdown was announced in March to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, since then, several special trains have been pressed into service. From Tuesday, trains like 01077/1078 Pune-Jammu Tawi-Pune Jhelum Express and 02137/2138 Mumbai Ferozepur Punjab Mail special trains will be run everyday.5. Insurance policy to continue: If one has not been able to pay their instalments, their insurance policy will not get lapsed. Under new rules, which will come into effect from Tuesday, policy holders will be able to reduce premium by 50% and continue the policy with half the instalment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-rtgs-to-pnb-s-cash-withdrawal-new-rules-that-will-come-into-effect-from-december-1/story-W5mAx6FPOdLGbR8B38MZZN.html
01-12-2020||India||Centre’s new Covid-19 guidelines come into effect today: Here’s what’s allowed, what isn’t||As the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to rise across the country, the Centre has issued a fresh set of guidelines which will come into force from today. These guidelines will remain in force till December 31.Though the spread of the infection has slowed down, the Union home ministry is still concerned about states where Covid-19 is still posing a challenge. It issued a set of protocols for states and union territories to check the spread of the disease.Additionally, the Union health ministry too has released a list of recommended measures to ensure compliance to Covid-appropriate behaviour in markets.Here is the list of Covid-19 guidelines released by home ministry which comes into effect from December 1:• The Centre has allowed states and union territories to impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, based on their assessment of the situation. However, they cannot impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Centre.Also Watch l How long to control Covid-19 pandemic? Top doctors respond on #HTLS2020 • The home ministry also said that state governments can consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures in cities where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10 percent so that the number of employees attending offices at the same time can be reduced.• It said that local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed.• The Centre has also given freedom to the state governments to take administrative action against people not following the basic Covid safety measures. These actions include imposition of appropriate fines on persons not wearing face masks or following social distancing in public and work spaces.• The home ministry guidelines said that there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movements.• The latest set of rules emphasise on “surveillance, containment, and caution”. Hence, the home ministry order said that in containment zones, surveillance teams will conduct intensive house-to-house surveillance and quick isolation of Covid-19 patients shall be ensured in treatment facilities or home.• Covid-19 rules and containment measures prescribed by the health ministry strictly need to be followed in demarcated containment zones. There shall be strict perimeter control to ensure that there is no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services, the home ministry guidelines said.The fresh guidelines come at a time when India’s Covid-19 tally has surpassed 9.4 million. Apart from the home ministry, the health ministry too has released its set of guidelines for behaviour in crowded places like markets. Here’s a look at those guidelines:• The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for markets issued by the health ministry on Monday stated that online booking of groceries and doorstep delivery of those must be encouraged while incentives or discounts for those who shop during non-peak hours may be considered.• The SOPs further outlined that market places in containment zones shall remain closed. Shop owners and employees living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces, it stated.• Covid-appropriate behaviour in marketplaces may be regulated by market associations through a number of measures, including creation of a sub-committee for each market to facilitate and monitor implementation of such behaviour in marketplaces, the ministry said.• It also suggested setting up mask dispensing kiosks at government-approved rates at entry points of markets and parking lots, establishing hand washing stations in public utility areas while recommending use of foot operated taps and contactless soap dispensers.• Mass thermal screening at the entry and access points to the market, thermal guns, sanitisers and placement of signages regarding Covid appropriate behaviour at prominent locations are the other measures mentioned by the health ministry in its guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-new-covid-19-guidelines-come-into-effect-today-here-s-what-s-allowed-what-isn-t/story-I44VbVzQSV268umGWKN4MI.html
01-12-2020||India||2nd phase of Jammu and Kashmir’s DDC elections today||Polling for 43 constituencies in the second phase of election for District Development Council (DDC) in Jammu and Kashmir will be held on Tuesday. The contest is between the newly launched People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari.Also Read: J&K goes to DDC polls, first time after Article 370 abrogation. All you need to know“Of the total 280 DDC constituencies in J&K, 25 will go to polls in Kashmir and 18 in Jammu in the second phase of the election,” election commissioner of the union territory KK Sharma said. As many as 7.90 lakh voters are eligible for voting in this phase and 142 polling stations have been set up across the union territory.The first phase of polling, also for 43 seats, was held on Saturday. As much as 51.76% voting was recorded in this phase, official figures showed.“The first phase of DDC polls was held in 43 constituencies in all the 20 districts of the UT. No untoward incident was reported from anywhere barring a minor incident where a child threw a stone at a polling station in Kulgam. Police took cognizance,” Sharma had earlier said.Also Read: Tight security for second phase of polling in DDC election in J-KThe election, for which 2,146 polling stations have been set up, will be held in eight phases and will go on till December 19. Counting of votes will take place on December 22. As many as 1,427 candidates are in the fray and over seven lakh are eligible for voting. These elections are the first being held after the abrogation of Article 370 and the reorganisation of erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and adequate security arrangements have been made for the polling. Sharma said 169 companies of central forces would be deployed at polling stations and during the de-induction of the staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-phase-of-jammu-and-kashmir-s-ddc-elections-today/story-BBxZEOx0V8eqx7kQlEifwJ.html
01-12-2020||India||Singhu and Tikri borders closed for traffic due to farmers’ protest, Delhi Traffic Police issues advisory||The protest by farmers near Delhi is showing its impact on traffic movement at the border areas. The Delhi Traffic Police posted a tweet early on Tuesday morning which said that both Singhu and Tikri borders, where these farmers are protesting, are closed for any traffic movement.“Tikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement. Badusarai and Jhatikara Borders are open only for two wheeler traffic. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam vihar and Dundahera,” the Delhi Traffic Police said on Twitter. Traffic AlertTikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement.Badusarai and Jhatikara Borders are open only for two wheeler trafficAvailable Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders Jharoda,Dhansa ,Daurala,Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera,Palam vihar and Dundahera“Singhu Border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road. Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & Vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu border,” it said in another tweet. Traffic AlertSinghu Border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini &Vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu borderThe farmers are protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders (both on the Haryana side) after rejecting Centre’s offer to move to Burari. The protesters had asked for a location in central Delhi.Though the sit-in, which entered in its sixth day on Tuesday, has been peaceful, it has affected traffic movement in both these areas. Long queues of vehicles choked the roads as the Delhi Police kept the Singhu and Tikri borders closed.Tractor-trolleys have occupied over a 10-km-long stretch along the Ambala-Delhi national highway.Many protesters have cushioned their trolleys with layers of straw and laid mattresses over them to protect them from the cold. Night temperatures over the last few days have been settling at around 9 degrees Celsius.Among the protesters are men and women aged over 70 years.Flags of various farmers’ outfits from Punjab and Haryana can be seen fluttering atop the tractors, some of which are fitted with loudspeakers and used by the leaders of peasants’ bodies to address the gatherings.Experts have warned that the agitation could turn into a Covid-19 superspreader event as there have been few signs of social distancing during the protests that started last week with the farmers, banded under various organisations, leaving their homes and moving towards Delhi.The farmers are protesting against the three laws - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - that took effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. It has also invited farmer unions for talks on December 1, two days ahead of a scheduled meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singhu-and-tikri-borders-closed-for-traffic-due-to-farmers-protest-delhi-traffic-police-issue-advisory/story-WNfl9UPAD3cckCegWe2H2O.html
01-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE updates: Key route connecting Uttar Pradesh and Delhi closed||The farmers agitation against the three new farm laws has entered its sixth day. The Centre has invited representatives of farmer groups for the next round of talks on Tuesday. The talks were initially scheduled for Thursday but they got preponed after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Union home minister Amit Shah met twice on Monday to discuss the issues. The representatives during a press briefing on Monday had said that they have come to the national capital for a ‘decisive’ battle and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to listen to their ‘Mann ki Baat’. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Varanasi visit targeted opposition parties for misleading farmers and termed the newly framed farm laws as ‘historic’. Meanwhile, the situation on Monday was peaceful as famers from Punjab and Haryana continued their protests at the Singhu and Tikri borders with no untoward incident reported. The Delhi Police had tightened security and placed concrete barriers at all border points connecting the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Follow live updates on farmers’ protest here: Avoid Singhu, Tikri borders to enter Delhi: Haryana police issue advisory for travellersAfter Uttar Pradesh, Haryana Police issued a traffic advisory asking travellers to avoid Singhu and Tikri borders to enter Delhi from the state.The advisory said in view of the disruption at entry points on national highways from Sonipat and Jhajjar districts to Delhi borders where farmers’ organisations are protesting against the recent agricultural legislations, the travellers should avoid using these two border points to enter the national capital.Key route connecting Uttar Pradesh and the national capital closedChilla border, a key route connecting Uttar Pradesh and the national capital, has been closed for daily commuters as hundreds of farmers gather to protest against the farm laws.The traffic police of Delhi and Noida advised commuters to take alternative routes.Farmers from Gwalior to march towards Delhi tomorrowFarmers from Gwalior rural area will march towards Delhi to join the farmers’ movement against farm bills tomorrow.“The farmer’s organisations have decided to leave for Delhi tomorrow. I urge fellow farmers joining us to carry essential items,” reported ANI while quoting a farmer. Bhartiya Kisan Union to submit draft of issues tomorrow: Chief Naresh Tikait“We’ll submit a draft of our issues related to Farm laws tomorrow. Govt has started a conversation with Punjab, UP, Uttarakhand, Haryana & Delhi farmers. So, till the next meeting on December 3, govt has time to brainstorm over the issues raised by all,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait. We’ve told Tikait Kisan Union to give their issues in writing, we’ll discuss it: Tomar“We also had a discussion with leaders of Tikait Kisan Union over the Act and other agriculture issues. We’ve told them that they should give their issues in writing to us and we’ll discuss it. Talks with Tikait union were held in a very good environment,” said Union Agriculture Minister. Meeting with farmers unions’ representatives was meaningful: Tomar“Our meeting with Farmers unions’ representatives was meaningful. We told leaders to form a smaller group and discuss the act clause by clause. Govt has no objection over any discussion. Fourth round of talks will take place on December 3,” said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh TomarFarmers should flag specific issues, govt ready to look into them: TomarAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has asked farmers to come with specific issues in the new farm laws and the government is ready to discuss and address their concerns.“We have asked them to come with specific issues in the laws and we are ready to discuss and address their concerns. If they have any specific issue with any clauses, let them point out. Let them put their views, we will look into them,” news agency PTI quoted Tomar as saying.Meeting with farmers’ leaders from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand underwayAfter meeting with farmers’s leaders from Punjab, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal are now holding meeting with farmers’ leaders from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand, at Krishi Bhawan.Few trains diverted, short terminated: Railways‘Due to Kisan agitation in Punjab, train movement has been affected and hence, few trains have been diverted and certain trains have been short terminated and accordingly short originated,’ news agency ANI quoted CPRO, Western Railway as saying.Protest to continue, will tell govt their laws not pro-farmer: All India Kisan Federation chiefPrem Singh Bhangoor, president of All India Kisan Federation on the talks with centre said, today’s meeting was good & some progress was made. During our next meet on 3rd Dec with govt, we’ll convince them that no clause of Farm law is pro-farmer. Our agitation will continue, reports ANI.‘Bullets or peaceful solution’: Farmers’ union member on discussion with govtChanda Singh, member of farmers’ delegation who met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Delhi today said, “Our movement will continue and they will definitely take back something from the govt, be it bullets or peaceful solution.”Singh added that the delegation will come for more discussions with the government again. The meeting was good and we have decided that the talks will be held on 3rd December. We wanted a small group to be constituted but farmers' leaders wanted that the talks should be held with everyone, we do not have problem with it: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/73zml1sb0r pic.twitter.com/9pm3kMgfLkGovt’s talks with protesting farmer unions remained inconclusive: BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) PresidentBKU (Ekta Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the meeting scheduled by the government with protesting farmers’ leaders remained inconclusive. Farmers meet with govt at Vigyan Bhawan concludes, next round on Dec 3 Delhi: Meeting between the farmers' leaders and the government concludes; another round of talks to be held on 3rd December. https://t.co/n9x6rxPTy0Union Minister says Opposition behind protest, farmers don’t have problem with lawsMany of the people in pictures do not appear to be farmers. What is in the interest of farmers has been done. It's not the farmers who have a problem with this (farm laws), but others. Besides opposition, people who get commission are behind it (protest): Union Minister VK Singh pic.twitter.com/qQIg5bh8oy“A dialogue with farmers’: Kamal Haasan suggests to Centre amid stirActor-turned politician and Makkal Needi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said that the centre should have a dialogue with the farmers protesting in the capital.Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) closed for traffic movement, says Delhi Traffic PoliceDelhi Traffic Police has issued an advisory requesting people commuting to Noida to take a U-turn from Ghazipur/Akshardham flyover and take Sarai Kale Khan route as the Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) has been closed due to the farmers’ protest in Delhi to UP Link Road. Centre proposes to form committee to discuss new farm lawsGovernment asks farmers’s leader to give names of 4-5 people from your organizations and constitute a committee in which there’ll be representatives from govt as well as agricultural experts to discuss new agricultural laws, during the ongoing meeting at Vigyan Bhawan, reports ANI.Centre details presentation to farmers’ leaders on MSP, APMC ActDelhi: Government is giving a detailed presentation to the farmers' leaders on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act.Meeting underway at Vigyan Bhawan. https://t.co/mMd5On5RSHWhat is the problem in incorporating MSP in the bill, asks Jannayak Janta Party founderAjay Chautala, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) founder on farmers’ protest asks what is the problem in including Minimum Support Price (MSP) in the bill if the government leaders are saying that they will continue MSP, reports ANI.Police prevents Bilkis Dadi from protesting as she reaches Singhu border We all want final decision on the matter, says Naresh Tikait, President BKU at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad Government has called the Punjab delegation at 3 pm. Later, the government will hold meeting with delegations from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi at 7pm today. We all want final decision on matter: Naresh Tikait, President BKU at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border. pic.twitter.com/53rCZyqYTWMany former sportsperson to return awards in support of farmers’ protestSeveral former sportspersons including Padma Shri and Arjuna awardees have extended their support to the agitating farmers and said they will return their awards in protest against the “force” used against the peasants en route to Delhi, reports PTI.Delhi Cabinet minister visits farmers’ protest site, says Centre should accept all demandsDelhi Cabinet Minister Kailash Gehlot during a visit to Burari protest site said, there should be a proper dialogue & Centre should accept all demands proposed by farmers as they’re are genuine. My purpose of visiting protest sites is to ensure basic facilities for protesting farmers, reports ANI.Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal hold talks with farmers’ leaders  Delhi: Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal hold meeting with farmers' leaders at Vigyan Bhawan.#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/zL4PNsQHtZUnion agriculture minister arrives at Vigyan Bhawan for meeting with the farmersSom Parkash ji, Piyush Goyal ji & I will be present in the meeting. The options which we will offer to them will depend on the exact demands which they present, said Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Agriculture Minister on the meeting with farmers’ leaders that will begin shortly.Bilkis Dadi of Shaheen Bagh to join the farmers’ agitation todayWe are daughters of farmers, we’ll go to support farmers’ protest today. We will raise our voice, the government should listen to us: Bilkis Dadi, Shaheen Bagh activistFarmer leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan for talks with govt to resolve standoffDelhi: Farmer leaders reach Vigyan Bhawan; Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called them for talks.#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/ZeygQ7ErZoBhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad reaches Ghazipur borderDelhi: Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad joins farmers' protest at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border. pic.twitter.com/swTxbVbiwt500 farmers from Uttar Pradesh to join ‘Dilli Chalo’ protestOver 500 farmers coming from Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand will be joining the farmer’s agitation against the new agri laws at Delhi borders on Thursday, reports PTI. Vimal Sharma, Bundelkhand Kisan Union (BKU) national president confirmed about the preparations and instructions for participation in the peaceful protest. Punjab Kisan Union state president agrees to attend talks with CentreRS Mansa, State President, Punjab Kisan Union has said that he will attend the meeting called by the Centre at 3pm. On the other hand Punjab-based farmers’ body Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has declined to participate in the talks called by the Centre, reports PTI.I will attend the meeting called by the government at 3 pm today: RS Mansa, State President, Punjab Kisan Union#FarmerProtest pic.twitter.com/O39DVzu20uFarm leaders invited for talks with union ministers at 3pm today The government is ready for talks said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The meeting with the farm leaders is scheduled at Vigyan Bhawan.Delhi: Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar arrive at the residence of BJP President JP Nadda, to hold a meeting over farmers protest pic.twitter.com/ZZriac7vE5Singhu border still closed from both sides, says Delhi Traffic PoliceDelhi Traffic Police said that it has diverted traffic from Mukarba Chowk and GTK road as SInghu border is still closed from both sides in view of ongoing farmer’s agitation.Farmers call for meeting to deliberate on Centre’s offer to talkFarmers protesting against the agri laws at Delhi borders have called a meeting later in the day to deliberate on the Centre’s offer to hold talks on Tuesday, the meeting was earlier scheduled for December 3, reports PTI. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the meeting has been at 3pm on December 1 at Vigyan Bhawan in the capital.Over 500 groups in India, govt has only invited 32 for talks, say farmersSukhvinder S Sabhra, joint secretary of the Punjab Kisan Sangarsh Committee in Delhi told news agency ANI that there over 500 famer groups in the country but the Centre has only invited 32 of them for talks. “The rest haven’t been called by the govt. We won’t be going for talks till all groups are called,” he added.  There are more than 500 groups of farmers in the country, but the Govt has invited only 32 groups for talks. The rest haven't been called by the govt. We won't be going for talks till all groups are called: Sukhvinder S Sabhran, Jt Secy, Punjab Kisan Sangarsh Committee in Delhi pic.twitter.com/jYGQlEMKSkTikri border closed for any traffic movement, say Delhi Traffic PoliceThe Delhi Traffic Police on Tuesday said that the Tikri border is closed for any traffic movement adding that Badusarai and Jhatikara Borders are open only for two-wheeler traffic. Available open borders to Haryana are - Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam vihar and Dundahera, it said. Delhi Police registers FIR over clash between famers, security personnel at Singhu BorderThe Delhi police on Monday registered an FIR against unknown people in connection with the clashes between farmers and security personnel at the Singhu Border last week. The FIR has been registered at Alipur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-kwHGH6ptbrdvgJbieGKrsK.html
01-12-2020||India||November was coldest in 71 years, shows IMD data||November 2020 was Delhi’s coldest in 71 years, with global weather phenomenon such as La Nina and the absence of western disturbances, as well as local ones such as less rain in September and the absence of cloud cover, contributing to a mean minimum temperature of 10.2 degrees Celsius. Typically, mean minimum temperatures in November are around 12.9 degrees, according to the India Meteorological Department. It wasn’t just November, though — Delhi also experienced its coldest October in 58 years with the mean minimum temperature dipping to 17.2 degrees Celsius. To find a lower October mean temperature, one will have to travel back in time to 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius, according to IMD data.And it will likely get worse, with IMD’s seasonal forecast on Sunday predicting a colder winter (“below-normal minimum temperatures”) in New Delhi, and parts of north and north-west India. Monday was the coldest day in Delhi in November with the minimum temperature falling to 6.9 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC), attributed the colder November to “ a combination of factors including global conditions such as La Nina” and local ones such as “an absence of cloud cover ...; whenever there are clear skies, the minimum temperature drops.” He added that the minimum temperature will remain between 7 degrees and 8 degrees over the next few days, a degree or two degrees below normal — but that the maximum temperatures would be marginally higher than normal. La Nina is a climate phenomenon that sees cooler ocean temperatures in the Pacific — which has a strong correlation with wetter monsoons and colder winters in India. It also has a significant correlation with the number and strength of cyclones in the Bay of Bengal. Cyclone Nivar crossed the Tamil Nadu coast last week, bringing widespread rain to the region and causing some damage. IMD has predicted that another cyclone is set to cross the Sri Lankan coast in early December, bringing more rain to Tamil Nadu. The Capital has also experienced four cold waves this month — on November 3, 20, 23 and 24. The last time Delhi saw multiple cold waves during November was in 1964 when three such occurred. Significantly, the last time Delhi saw a cold wave in November was back in 2014. The all-time low mean minimum temperature in November was recorded in 1930, at 8.9 degrees Celsius.DS Pai, climate head of climate research and services, IMD Pune, said that in addition to La Nina and other factors, the absence of western disturbances too resulted in a variation in temperature. He explained that these disturbances — storms originating in the Mediterranean — usually result in a rise in temperature. IMD director-general M Mohaptra said that while global factors like La Nina have previously made their effect felt, this is magnified when local and regional factors also contribute, resulting in extreme weather such as what Delhi has seen this November. He also pointed to the dry September the capital saw this year as another reason. “... means there was less moisture and the atmosphere was mostly dry resulting in clear sky conditions. Clear skies allow more radiative cooling, which means the heat dissipates fast making the night cooler, which leads to a dip in minimum temperature.” Meanwhile, lower minimum temperatures and a slight reduction in wind speed resulted in air quality deteriorating to the “very poor” zone on Monday. The average air quality index (AQI) was 318, up from Sunday’s 256. There’s bad news in store on that front too. “The winds will turn calm from December 4-5 and the air quality may deteriorate further, as both low temperature and absence of winds will not allow dispersion of pollutants,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/november-was-coldest-in-71-years-shows-imd-data/story-O5gohBY8vkTiylJWcOYoiM.html
01-12-2020||India||‘Love jihad’ law goes against freedom of choice: Lokur||A recently passed ordinance in Uttar Pradesh outlawing forced conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement is unfortunate because it puts freedom of choice, dignity and human rights on the back seat, former Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur said. Delivering a public lecture on Sunday, Lokur said that laws punishing interfaith marriages violated jurisprudence developed by the Supreme Court protecting freedom of choice and human dignity. “Giving a back seat to freedom of choice, dignity and human rights, a stringent ordinance related to marriage and forcible conversion has recently been passed in Uttar Pradesh…Are we as a society prepared for this,” Lokur said. “What happens to the law declared by the Supreme Court in 2018 in the Hadiya case?” he asked, referring to the top court’s verdict recognising an adult woman’s choice to convert to Islam and marry a man of her choice.His comments came days after Uttar Pradesh promulgated the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance-2020 that outlawed religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement, and prescribed up to 10 years imprisonment for those found guilty. The law includes a provision to void a marriage if it is solemnised primarily to convert a woman’s faith. The burden of proof is on the person who converted, and those who performed the conversion. The former judge, delivering the Sunil Memorial Lecture, recalled that in 2018, a similar law was introduced by Uttarakhand legislature, called the Freedom of Religion Act, where marriages performed with the sole purpose of religious conversion were declared null and void. “The purpose of these laws is to prohibit what is commonly known as ‘love jihad’ which has no clear definition…The carefully drafted dignity jurisdiction assiduously developed over the years by the Supreme Court is slowly being given an undignified cremation of the Hathras kind and might reach a point of no return if so called anti-love jihad laws are passed or extended to other communities,” he said, referring to the forced cremation of a Dalit woman, a rape victim, by local authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-jihad-law-goes-against-freedom-of-choice-lokur/story-Y07QJ3XfMYrCYxl272CmMO.html
01-12-2020||India||Polio, BCG infra to power vaccine plan||India plans to use the expansive network of its 42-year-old universal immunisation programme to manage the logistics of administering Covid vaccines next year. Officials involved in the planning process said on condition of anonymity that the existing infrastructure and human resources will be sufficient to vaccinate the first 30 million Indians, primarily health care workers and first responders, when the country starts vaccinating people early next year. “Out of the 2.39 lakh-strong force of vaccinators of the existing immunisation programme, at least 1.5 lakh workers will be used for administering Covid vaccines to the first two priority groups tentatively from January to March 2021,” said one of the officials, a top government official. “The existing 29,000 cold storage facilities should be enough to store and distribute 60 million doses required for the priority groups during this period,” he added. The universal immunisation programme comes under the health ministry, and covers 25 million children every year, vaccinating them against a range of diseases including measles, polio, and tuberculosis. “For us, Covid vaccines will be an extension of our routine duty. Our universal immunisation programme started in 1978 and every year we vaccinate 25 million children in India for pulse polio, BCG, Hepatitis B, MMR, and other diseases,” said a second officer overseeing the infrastructure and logistical preparation related to the Covid vaccines.The Union health ministry has also written to all states and Union territories to identify people who can be utilised for the mass Covid-19 vaccination drive. “As you are aware, government of India has initiated preparations for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, upon its availability. As part of the preparations, one of the activities is creation of database of health care workers (HCWs) who will be prioritised for Covid-19 vaccine… It is reiterated that the potential vaccinators amongst the HCWs need to be identified for support during the Covid-19 vaccination drive,” said the letter sent on November 23 by Vandana Gurnani, additional secretary, ministry of health.The first vaccine available in India will likely be the one developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford, and manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). While late-stage trials are on in India, interim data from Phase 3 trials elsewhere has already shown that the vaccine is effective (62% on one dosage regimen, and 90% on another). SII’s Adar Poonawala said on Sunday his company would apply for emergency regulatory approval for the vaccine. While three other vaccines (developed by Moderna, Pfizer/BioNTech, and Russia’s Gamelaya Institute) have also shown efficacy in Phase 3 trials, India doesn’t have agreements yet with any of these companies. Two Indian vaccines are in Phase 3 of clinical trials. To be sure, as the vaccination coverage expands — the first to be covered after the priority groups will be the elderly — the government will have to substantially enhance capacities beyond its universal immunisation programme. There are around 260 million Indians who are over the age of 50 – a demographic segment considered especially vulnerable to the disease. The expert group on vaccine development and procurement headed by Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul and co-chaired by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has identified four priority groups. The first comprises doctors, nurses and other medical staff; the second includes front-line workers such as the police, municipality staff, and others directly involved in the country’s war against Covid. The third group comprises people above 50 while the fourth group is of people under 50 years of age but with co-morbidities.The second official cited above confirmed that while the vaccine programme will be tightly controlled by the Union government, the premises of private hospitals will also be used for administering vaccine. “Private hospital officials or their people will not be allowed to give vaccines but their premises will surely be used as it is done now.” The government does not want to use the entire workforce of its immunisation programme because it does not want any disruption in the ongoing vaccine programmes. The big challenge, officials acknowledged, would come when India needs to give Covid vaccines to the next priority group – the 260 million above the age of 50. “Around March or April, we will need more vaccinators to cater to the third priority group. But we will wait and see what needs to be done for that period,” said the first official, hoping that there may be a sharp fall in infections by then. The recent concession to corporates allowing them to use CSR funds for supporting vaccine programme may come in handy at this stage. The government hopes that many companies will fund additional capacity in storage chains and freighters. The Union health ministry has already sent the specifications of cold storage and deep freezes required to the ministry of corporate affairs and a few other ministries so that companies interested in spending CSR funds appropriately can do so. Indian rules require companies to spend their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds on research and development (R&D) for finding vaccines, medicines and medical equipment to combat Covid-19 pandemic. The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of ₹500 crore or more, or turnover of ₹1,000 crore or more, or net profit of ₹5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polio-bcg-infra-to-power-vaccine-plan/story-04qYO8wawfaQylWPr3AGBN.html
01-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||In the first 29 days of November, India recorded 1,248,778 (approximately 1.25 million) Covid-19 cases and 15,020 deaths. Both numbers are low enough to be comparable to those in July – when the country saw 1,109,138 (approximately 1.1 million) cases and 19,140 deaths. In fact, even the June deaths (12,081) are comparable to the November number, and they came on the back of far fewer cases (only 394,867). With the caveat that deaths in a particular month do not always correspond to cases that month – the norm, globally, has been to assume a two-week lag, but even this is an approximation because sometimes people succumb to the disease in days, and sometimes hang on for months – this is a good indication of how progressive case fatality rates have declined in India, much like they have in other parts of the world. India’s stated objective, articulated by the health ministry, is to reduce this number (a proportion of those who die from Covid to those infected) to below 1%. Since June, when it was 3.06%, the monthly case fatality rate has declined – to 1.73% in July, 1.45% in August, 1.26% in September, 1.25% in October (September and October were the months when India saw the peak of the first wave of the coronavirus disease), and 1.2% in November.With the trajectory of the pandemic remaining flat (for now), it is likely that December – at least the first half of the month – will see a further fall in the case fatality rate. The number of active cases, as on November 29, was under 450,000. The corresponding figure, at the end of October (on October 31) was around 570,000, and it was around 940,000 on September 30. In two months, India has halved the number of active cases, something that has also been reflected in the easing of some of the strain on hospitals – other than in Delhi, where a sudden surge in cases during the third wave (which the Capital seems to have put behind it) saw a shortage of critical care or intensive care unit (ICU) beds. As I’ve previously written, if India manages to go through this week without showing an appreciable increase in cases on account of the festivities and celebrations two weeks ago, it can expect the coronavirus disease trajectory to settle into a long plateau as the second wave begins.That means the central government as well as state governments can start considering the resumption of more activities and easing some of the restrictions that remain. It is important that governments prioritise what is important. India has prioritised agricultural and industrial activities, political activities (replete with large-scale public meetings and rallies), and recreational activities. It is time it looked seriously at education in terms of ensuring that admissions to colleges for the 2020 academic year are complete (they still aren’t in some states); resuming school education; and planning for admissions to colleges in the 2021 academic year. The 2020 academic year has already been disrupted significantly, and if the Centre and states do not act soon, 2021 could see some disruption too.Many states have started discussing a large-scale reopening of schools (currently, some states have reopened schools for high-school students). Some want to do this in January, others as early as December. This is understandable, but there is need for an overarching plan, and protocols on how schools and colleges (and the cities and districts where they are located) will deal with the localised outbreaks that will likely follow a reopening. Unfortunately, India does not seem to have a plan yet, and this is an area on which it comes off very poorly in a global comparison. In many other countries, schools were the last to shut during lockdowns, and the first to reopen – and even many of these countries have been criticised for prioritising industrial, economic, and recreational activities over education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-efT6P8i2gPxXo6IfNIHpxO.html
01-12-2020||India||Oppn rallies behind farmers, slams govt||The Congress has lodged a campaign called Speak Up for Farmers, that aims to mobilise workers in solidarity with those protesting on the streets. As part of the campaign, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked his party workers to ensure that they should help protesting farmers and provide them with food in their own areas. “Farmers are the strength of the country and yet why are they on the streets having walked so far? If these farm laws are in their favour, why is the farmer so angry? These laws are for 2-3 friends of Narendra Modi. These laws aim to rob farmers,’’ he said in a video message.Meanwhile, his colleague and Lok Sabha MP Adhir Chowdhary wrote to the Prime Minister proposing that farmers who have taken Kisan Credit Card loans should be allowed to renew on payment of interest and not of principal too. “These feudal mindsets of bankers which are putting stumbling blocks for securing the farmers’ financial assistance should be abdicated,’’ said Chowdhary in the letter.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, attacked the Centre’s handling of the crisis. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said, “Modi government has spoilt the Diwali of the farmers -- the farmers are scared for the prices that their produce will get... the farmer is braving cold water jets and police action. Meanwhile the Prime Minister is marking Dev Dipawali....’’The BJP’s Amit Malviya said the AAP government already implemented the farm laws in Delhi. “Now that the Khalistanis and Maoists have stepped in to oppose. It was never about farmers. Just politics,’’ he tweeted. AAP responded by saying: “The notification by Delhi government allows farmers to sell their crops anywhere... we have not dismantled mandis...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-rallies-behind-farmers-slams-govt/story-yHQNBOOdgn0sZjSsp84XhK.html
01-12-2020||India||New storm may hit south coast||A low pressure system over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a depression by Monday night and a cyclone by the next morning with winds gusting up to a speed of 80 km per hour, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Once it intensifies into a cyclone, it will be named Burevi. The cyclone comes on the heels of the severe cyclonic storm Nivar that made landfall in Karaikal, Puducherry on November 25. It was the third named cyclone to hit the Indian coast in 2020 -- the first was super cyclonic storm Amphan in May and severe cyclonic storm Nisarga in June. The storm is located 680 km southeast of Trincomalee in Sri Lanka and 1,090 km to the east of Kanyakumari. The IMD has forecast that the cyclone will continue to move northwestwards and cross the Sri Lankan coast in the evening or night of December 2. It is likely to continue its Westwards movement to reach the Indian coast the next morning. “Currently, we are focussing on the impact of the cyclone in Sri Lanka, we have not yet predicted where the cyclone will make landfall in India. However, the system will bring rain to some southern states and the seas will be rough. The fishermen have been advised to suspend fishing activities for now,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre, IMD. Squally winds will reach speeds of up to 65 km per hour on the Tamil Nadu and Kerala coasts on December 2 as the system nears India. According to the forecast, the system will bring heavy to very heavy rainfall to Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadweep over the next two days. It is likely to bring extremely heavy rainfall to parts of south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala on December 3 when it is likely to reach the Indian coast. A Red alert has also been issued for four southern districts in Kerala as chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged people to be extremely vigilant.The sea conditions will be rough to very rough from Monday through December 4, with the government advising a complete suspension of fishing in the region. The fishermen have been advised to return to the shores by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-storm-may-hit-south-coast/story-A0Vw8laMASqOjGlicImHoM.html
01-12-2020||India||Prof Emeritus Vishwa Nath Datta dead at 94||Well-known historian Vishwa Nath Datta, Professor Emeritus, Kurukshetra University, and former General President of the Indian History Congress, passed away at his residence on Monday.He was 94 and is survived by his wife and three daughters.Datta was a visiting professor to a number of universities including Moscow, Leningrad, and Berlin, and Resident Fellow of Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge. Born in 1926 into an illustrious family of Amritsar, he was the son of a leading businessman and renowned Urdu-Persian poet and Padma Shri awardee Brahm Nath Datta ‘Qasir.’ Author of several pioneering works on modern India, Dutta’s well-known works include Jallianwala Bagh, which was the first work on the massacre of 1919; Amritsar: Past and Present; Sati: A Historical, Social, and Philosophical Enquiry Into the Hindu Rite of Widow-Burning; Maulana Azad, Gandhi and Bhagat Singh; and a biography of the revolutionary, Madan Lal Dhingra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prof-emeritus-vishwa-nath-datta-dead-at-94/story-w8vVQK4xiMeIAPlFMurqwM.html
01-12-2020||India||After pitched campaigns, Hyderabad local body polls to be held today||Following a high- decibel campaign over the last 12 days, elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was set to get underway on Tuesday.The polling for the fifth largest metropolitan city area in the country will begin at 7 am and close at 6 pm. As many as 7,467,256 voters will vote, with 1,122 candidates in the fray for 150 seats, each representing one division of the GHMC.Unlike the previous polls, the traditional ballot papers have replaced the electronic voting machines. “The counting of votes will take place on December 4 and the results would be declared by the same evening,” state election commissioner C Parthasarathy said on Monday. As part of Covid-19 measures, authorities have sanitised polling stations and made it mandatory for voters to use sanitiser before entering the booths. Authorities have also marked the area at the polling stations to ensure social distancing in queues.The local body polls have become a prestige battle for major political parties contesting the elections. The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is contesting in all the 150 divisions, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 149, Congress in 146, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in 106 and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in 51 divisions. In the 2015 elections, the first after the formation of Telangana, the TRS had won 99 out of the 150 seats, dislodging the Congress which won only two seats. AIMIM, which contested the elections in alliance with the TRS, had won 44 seats, while the BJP-TDP alliance won five seats.The BJP, buoyed by its recent victory in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly seat, is hoping to emerge as a major contender before the 2023 state assembly elections. The party brought in senior leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, to campaign, prompting AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi to say, it seemed the “people are going to pick a new wazir-e-azam (Prime Minister).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pitched-campaigns-hyderabad-local-body-polls-to-be-held-today/story-kguK2TN16xQfd0leQZdm8O.html
01-12-2020||India||Baba Amte’s kin dies by suicide||Social activist Sheetal Amte-Karajgi, 42, granddaughter of legendary social activist Baba Amte, died allegedly by suicide at her Anandwan residence in Chandrapur district, around 125km from Nagpur, on Monday. A medical doctor specialised in disabilities, Amte-Karajgi was the chief executive officer and board member of one of India’s leading non-profit groups, Maharogi Sewa Samiti, Warora. The samiti, founded by Baba Amte, has created livelihood opportunities for several marginalised people, especially for those afflicted with leprosy, orthopedically handicapped, vision and hearing-impaired individuals and primitive tribal populace since 1949. “We are in deep shock. There was a disagreement among trustees of Anandwan ashram. But we had come up with a solution, which was also agreed upon by Sheetal. Her taking the extreme step is unfortunate,” said Magsaysay award winner and Amte-Karajgi’s uncle, Dr Prakash Amte. Amte-Karajgi had recently raised some questions about the functioning of Anandwan ashram and levelled allegations about the certain “irregularities” in Maharogi Sewa Samiti, controlled mostly by her family members, particularly her father, Dr Vikas Amte, and Dr Prakash Amte. She had uploaded a video on Facebook last week talking about the “irregularities”, but removed it within two hours. A few days ago, the samiti’s trustees removed her from the board. According to people in the know, the members were opposed to Amte-Karajgi’s and her husband Gautam Karajgi’s ideas of “bringing in a corporate culture”. Last week, trustees of Maharogi Sewa Samiti — Dr Vikas Amte, Dr Prakash Amte (both sons of Baba Amte) and their wives — issued a clarification, saying all allegations levelled by Amte-Karajgi were baseless and misleading. They also claimed that Amte-Karajgi was “mentally stressed and frustrated”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-amte-s-kin-dies-by-suicide/story-c0QXjrObmQyZV1diNG48dM.html
01-12-2020||India||MPs want more checks on govt||Several MPs cutting across political lines want the government’s powers under the proposed data privacy law to be curtailed, recommending in a joint parliamentary committee that principles of necessity and proportionality – part of the draft released by an expert committee but dropped in the bill introduced in Parliament – be restored under sections in which the government can access personal data without a person’s consent.Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari and Gaurav Gogoi, Trinamool’s Derek O’Brien and Mahua Moitra, Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab and Amar Patnaik, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Ritesh Pandey, and Shiv Sena’s Shrikant Shinde, are in favour of limiting the government’s access to personal data. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajeev Chandrasekhar, on the contrary, wanted new grounds to be added for the government to process such personal data. The concerns relate to clause 35 of the bill, which allows the central government, where it “is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient” to access people’s data over reasons such as safeguarding national security. This section drew a large number of amendments, HT has learnt. A total of 228 amendments, mostly by Opposition members, have been submitted to the joint panel reviewing the bill. These include renaming the bill as Protection of Privacy of Personal Data Bill, a timeline for enacting the law, and keeping anonymised personal data out of the purview of the bill. Some of the key concerns raised by the members relate to Clause 35 of the bill, which lays down the ground for powers to the government to access people’s data over reasons such as safeguarding national security. This section drew a large number of amendments, HT has learnt. According to this clause, no other part of the law – which deals with how personal data should be handled, the rights of the individual over this data and the punishment for violators -- shall apply, and the Centre can process personal data “in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order” and other related reasons. Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi proposed that amendments be such that the Centre can process personal data “...where (it) is satisfied that it is necessary for, and proportionate to, achieving, the security of the State, it may, by order, for reasons to be recorded in writing.” Ramesh, too, said the government’s processing of personal data shall be “proportionate and least intrusive”. He also said “the public interest in granting the exemption outweighs, to a substantial degree, any interference with the right to privacy of data principals that could result from such exempted processing, PROVIDED THAT no processing can be exempted from Section 4 and 5 of Chapter II and Section 24 of Chapter VII of this Act.” The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 will underpin India’s first legal framework to protect privacy after it was held as a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017. But there have been differences over clauses such as those that exempt government agencies and mandates companies to share anonymised data with authorities. The bill was sent to a JPC over these differences. The bill is based on a draft prepared by an expert committee headed by retired justice BN Srikrishna.In the amendments recommended by BJD’s Amar Patnaik, the exemption should be allowed in cases “where the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary, proportionate and legitimate”. O’Brien and Moitra proposed that processing in the interests of the security of the State “shall not be permitted unless it is authorised pursuant to a law, and is in accordance with the procedure established by such law, made by Parliament and is necessary for, and proportionate to, such interests being achieved” be substituted.” Congress’s Tewari said there should be no such exemption for the government “till the time it is judicially determined by the Appellate Tribunal” and any person shall have the right to access the Tribunal. “The said exemption must be vide a reasoned order and duly notified so as to ensure that the remedy available under Clause 75 can be exercised by the concerned,” Tewari’s amendment said. BJD’s Bhartruhari Mahtab demanded that ‘public order’ as a ground for government’s access should be omitted. BSP’s Ritesh Pandey says it must be a “clearly defined purpose, which is just, fair, and reasonable.” Mahtab also recommended that the word “irreversible” be added to sections that allow anonymised data to be accessed by the government. Shortly after the bill was introduced, experts said the law gives the government a wide berth on surveillance. “The new draft appears to remove the ‘fair and reasonable processing’ obligation in the Srikrishna Committee draft that applied when personal data is accessed for purposes such as national security and to comply with court orders. In the new version, the government can process personal data on the grounds of national security (Section 35), or for purposes relating to crimes or court orders (Section 36), and the only obligation that would apply would be that it needs to have a specific, clear and lawful purpose,” Rahul Matthan, a partner-lawyer in technology and media practice at the law firm Trilegal, told HT at the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-want-more-checks-on-govt/story-QEJ8kKjkAekKv6DIUeTa9J.html
01-12-2020||India||India condemns terrorism in all manifestations: Naidu||India on Monday launched a thinly veiled attack on Pakistan for using terror as an instrument of state policy during a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s (SCO) council of heads of government, calling for collective efforts to combat the menace. Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, who chaired the virtual meeting, indirectly criticised Pakistan for attempting to use SCO to raise bilateral matters and said this went against the grouping’s charter, which safeguards the sovereignty and territorial integrity of member-states. In his opening remarks, Naidu pointed to the importance of efforts to boost economic recovery amid the Covid-19 pandemic and took a tacit swipe at China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), saying trust alone determines sustainability of global trade and countries must demonstrate their compliance with the rules of multilateral trade.  The council is SCO’s second-highest body and is responsible for handling the economic agenda and approving its annual budget. This was the first time India hosted a meeting of the body since it was admitted into the grouping in 2017. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan didn’t join the virtual meeting. Pakistan’s participation was at the lowest level – it was represented by parliamentary secretary for foreign affairs Andleeb Abbas – and Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan were represented by their prime ministers. Naidu said trade can flourish only in an environment of peace and security, and the most important challenge faced by countries in the region is cross-border terrorism. He described terrorism as “the enemy of humanity” that needs to be combated collectively. “India condemns terrorism in all its manifestations. We remain concerned about threats emerging from ungoverned spaces and are particularly concerned about states that leverage terrorism as an instrument of state policy,” he said, without naming Pakistan. Naidu said SCO is key to cooperation based on universally recognised norms, rule of law, openness, and it is “unfortunate ...that there have been attempts to deliberately bring bilateral issues into SCO and blatantly violate the well-established principles...safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of SCO member states”. Secretary (West) Vikas Swarup of the external affairs ministry told a news briefing after the meeting that it is up to Pakistan to join initiatives proposed by India, but the SCO charter includes a provision that one country cannot hold up cooperation, and also allows other members to take cooperation forward “with the exclusion of the country which is opposing it”. “If SCO member-countries have the will, I’m sure we can all find common ground and that is why the SCO charter specifically prohibits bilateral issues from being raised in SCO forums,” he added. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said, “When India joined as an observer in 2005, there was optimism about India-China ties, Today, we are de-coupling with China. Pakistan and China have an unholy alliance that will thwart Indian initiatives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-condemns-terrorism-in-all-manifestations-naidu/story-sWDogEt6fJcp1vHKqRg7LK.html
01-12-2020||India||PM discusses Covid-19 vaccine development, delivery with three teams||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held virtual meetings with teams from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd in Pune, Biological E Ltd, and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd which are working on vaccines for Covid-19.“The PM appreciated the efforts being taken by the scientists in these companies to come out with a vaccine solution to tackle Covid-19. The potential of various platforms for vaccine development was also discussed,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office said.The Prime Minister also discussed matters related to regulatory approvals of the vaccine candidates, the statement said. He also suggested that the companies conduct vaccine outreach initiatives to dispel myths about the vaccine. The statement added that matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc in respect of delivering the vaccines were also discussed.Currently, all the vaccine candidates are at different stages of trials. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has tied up with the Russian Covid-19 vaccine developers to conduct phase 2/3 clinical trials for their Sputnik V in India.Biological E also recently started phase 1/2 clinical trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.Gennova Biopharmaceuticals is also ready to test its m-RNA vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-discusses-covid-19-vaccine-development-delivery-with-three-teams/story-evZDgSe89Ehhnc8bbCR6IL.html
01-12-2020||India||India giving befitting reply to expansionist forces: PM Modi||India has given a befitting response to expansionist forces, infiltrators and those trying to break the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday in Varanasi where he attended Dev Deepawali celebrations and inaugurated infrastructure projects.For the PM’s visit, 84 ghats on both sides of the Ganga were lit with 1.1 million earthen lamps and ornamental lights to mark the beginning of celebrations for Kartik Purnima. Modi, who is also the local MP, delivered two speeches through the day, took a boat ride, lit an earthen lamp and ended the day by watching a laser show. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath accompanied him. “Be it attempts of infiltration from across border, the audacity of expansionist forces or conspiracies for attempting to break the nation, India is giving a befitting reply to all,” the PM said at Raj Ghat. Paying tribute to martyrs, he added, “I bow to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives.”He said that the country lit the lamps of transformation to end the “darkness of poverty, injustice and discrimination” and hailed the return of an old sacred idol from Canada to India. “Today is another special occasion for Kashi. The idol of Mata Annapurna that was stolen from Kashi more than 100 years ago is now coming back....For us, heritage means the country’s heritage, while for some people, inheritance means their family, their family name, idols and photos of their family,” he said.Modi hailed Guru Nanak and said the founder of Sikhism was the biggest symbol of reform. “We have seen when changes begin in the interest of the nation and society, voices of unintentional opposition arise. But when the significance of those reforms comes to the fore, everything goes well. This is the lesson we get from the life of Guru Nanak Devji,” he said. Earlier in the day, while inaugurating a six-lane section of National Highway 19, PM said UP could now be referred to as Express Pradesh because the pace of infrastructure projects had picked up since Yogi Aditynath became the CM in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-giving-befitting-reply-to-expansionist-forces-pm-modi/story-mvZUIM1ZSnLO1OJhYt6FRO.html
01-12-2020||India||Paper argues against censorship||A policy paper authored by Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) chief Shekhar Kapur and censor board member Vani Tripathi Tikoo has argued against censorship of content on over-the-top (OTT) platforms, and instead advocated industry-led benchmarks to preserve creative freedom.The paper, published by Delhi-based think tank Esya Centre, comes roughly three weeks after the Centre brought news and entertainment websites, including platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime, under the purview of the Union Information & Broadcasting ministry. The move was seen as paving the way for regulation of online content and bring it on par with print and electronic media that are regulated by established bodies under law.“We need to promote creative freedom, which can be done through industry-led standards, as is the practice in countries around the world. This will require active and continued engagement by the industry, as well as recognition and support from the state,” read the 30-page report, also authored by lawyer Akshat Agarwal and public policy expert Vivan Sharan. Currently, there is no direct body or mechanism for online content regulation. The authors clarified that their paper had nothing to do with the government but aimed to provide an understanding of the OTT space.Kapur, an internationally acclaimed director, took over as the FTII chief in September. Tikoo, a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is a board member of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). “You can’t put the lens of film certification on OTT platforms,’’ said Tikoo, who felt that the traditional role of a censor board was over. “Understanding of the space is important for everyone. If we don’t step up, technology will take over,” she added. The report titled “Embracing Non-Linearity: The Future of India’s Entertainment Industry” also recommended that Indian content makers focus on “telling our own stories’’ and highlight Indian values. “Its [India’s] cultural heritage is ancient and diverse, and remains underrepresented on the world stage. It is also well suited to the non-linear entertainment of future, as it contains many traditions of oral storytelling that yield multiple threads from a common recognisable narrative,” the report said. In a section titled Creative Freedom, the authors emphasise on the content creators’ freedom to tell stories in whatever manner they wish, resulting in an ecosystem with great diversity of content. “In the context of OTT, the industry should be encouraged to come together and standardize, to ensure consumers have all the information and technological controls they need, for making informed decisions about the content they consume,” the report said. At present, the Press Council of India looks after print media, television news channels come under purview of News Broadcasters Association. The Advertising Standards Council of India regulates advertisements and CBFC certifies films. The Supreme Court last month sought the Centre’s response on a PIL for regulating OTT platforms by an autonomous body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paper-argues-against-censorship/story-Uw4Tz16cC9scZKfKR5W0WP.html
01-12-2020||India||PM Modi to chair all-party meet on Covid on Dec 4||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to chair an all-party meeting on December 4, to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry is coordinating the meeting and has extended invitation to all parties, the people cited above said.Floor leaders of all parties from Lok Sabha as well as Rajya Sabha have been invited for the meeting, which will be held virtually on Friday from 10.30 am onwards, news agency PTI quoted officials as saying.This will be the second all-party meeting called by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation since the Covid-19 outbreak. The first meeting was held on April 20 amid a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the virus.The meeting comes close on the heels of the Prime Minister‘s meeting with a group of chief ministers on November 24, at which the PM had underlined the need to curb Covid-19 transmission and bring the positivity rate under 5%. During the virtual meeting, the PM is also likely to take up the issue of the government’s preparation for the rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine. The PM has, so far, interacted with six companies involved in the preparation of the vaccine. On Monday, over video conferencing he interacted with teams from Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s. On Saturday, he visited Zydus Cadila in Ahmadabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad, and Serum Institute of India in Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-all-party-meet-on-covid-on-dec-4/story-c4E05DxNVChfyfpg8zit6L.html
01-12-2020||India||Govt to hold talks with farmers today as protests intensify||The Union government has invited farmers’ representatives for the next round of discussions on Tuesday (December 1), as farmers protesting a set of laws enacted recently to liberalise the farm sector intensified their agitation. The next round of talks was originally scheduled for December 3. The decision to advance the talks came after home minister Amit Shah and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met twice in a span of 24 hours on Monday to discuss course of action. Thousands of farmers, who are marching from various states toward the national capital to protest against new farm legislation they say will hurt their interests, appeared to harden their stand. They threatened to block all entry points to New Delhi, demanding a repeal of three farm laws. “On November 13, during our last meeting, we decided to conduct next round of talks on December 3. However, farmers have continued their protests and with the Covid situation and the cold wave, we decided that we needed to talk before December 3,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after sending the invitation late on Monday evening. The discussions will be held at the capital’s Vigyan Bhawan at 3 pm. The agriculture ministry has prepared a fresh set of presentations and videos on the farm reforms, an official said. The government is expected to have a few economists from the Niti Aayog to join the discussions. “We have not closed our doors for discussions. The talks should be without any condition, sincere and inclusive. We are not interested in going left or right, we are saying ‘repeal these laws’. At least, the government should make clear that it will rethink the laws,” said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, one of the leaders spearheading the farmers’ agitation. On Sunday, farm leaders had rejected an offer from home minister Amit Shah to advance the date of talks scheduled for December 3, saying they would not accept the government’s condition that farmers first move to their allotted protest site in Burari on the capital’s outskirts. Monday was the fifth day of farmers protesting a set of laws, approved by Parliament in September, to allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farm leaders say the new changes will leave them at the mercy of private buyers and vulnerable to exploitation. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Varanasi, slammed Opposition parties for misleading farmers and defended his farm laws as “historic”. He said the opposition has created unfounded fears in the minds of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-hold-talks-with-farmers-on-december-1-as-protests-intensify/story-caNKEKvCJIfmPXrBkChBoI.html
01-12-2020||India||My soul still inside Bihar govt, says former Deputy CM Sushil Modi||Bihar’s former deputy chief minister and BJP nominee for the Rajya Sabha, who will file his nomination papers on December 2 has said that his soul dwells inside the Bihar government despite not being a part of it. Modi, who was replaced by Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi as two deputy chief ministers of state, opened up for the first time since his removal from the post and said, “Our party BJP is like one-way traffic, you can come here but can’t go from here. Those who leave BJP never live in peace. Though I’m not part of the Bihar government, my soul dwells inside the current government. We shouldn’t let our party become weak ever,” the BJP leader said while speaking at an event held late Sunday evening. Modi went on to say that the NDA government in Bihar will last full term. “Those challenging that the government won’t last five years, I challenge them that nobody can topple this government and there is no possibility of a mid-term poll either,” he said. “I will not take any step that will weaken the party,” he added. Modi, who was instrumental in formation of NDA government in Bihar in 2005, had earlier served as deputy chief minister in the Janata Dal (United)-BJP government till the assembly polls. However, BJP has decided to field Modi for the Rajya Sabha bypoll in the state. The seat fell vacant following the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan in October. The bypoll is scheduled for December 14 and counting of votes will be done on the same day. The last date to file nominations is December 3. The JD (U), in the meantime, extended its full support to Modi for his candidature for Rajya Sabha. “Our good wishes are with him. Even if opposition fields a candidate, he will be elected. Wherever he will be, he will excel,” said JD (U) state president Bashistha Narain Singh, who went on to laud one of the trusted friends of the JD (U). “He has done wonderful work as deputy CM and has a very good knowledge of financial aspects,” he added. Sushil Modi is likely to win the Lok Sabha election uncontested since the Opposition has not yet fielded its candidate. If the Opposition fields its own candidate, the elections will be held on December 14. The opposition Grand Alliance is still to decide on the candidate but a section of its leaders indicated that it was not willing to give a walkover to the NDA. In a statement, the RJD’s spokesman Shakti Yadav had said “Had the late Ram Vilas Paswan’s party been allowed to contest, we would have considered supporting their candidate even though his party is not our alliance partner”. Meanwhile, sources in the Grand Alliance said the feelers have been sent to Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan that he consider fielding his mother Reena Paswan from the seat and assured him of its “full support”. On Saturday, Chirag had said that it was for the BJP to decide a candidate for the Bihar Rajya Sabha elections 2020. “The seat belonged to the BJP and it is for the party to decide which candidate from which party to field in the bye-election,” the 37-year-old leader told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-soul-still-inside-bihar-govt-says-former-deputy-cm-sushil-modi/story-IAnVxG9lltzILfJEbR3lyM.html
01-12-2020||India||Prasar Bharti orders 15-min Sanskrit bulletins, Tamil Nadu leaders slam Centre||Political parties in Tamil Nadu condemned a directive from Prasar Bharati to regional satellite channels to run a daily Sanskrit bulletin for 15 minutes.“The Government of India has a great responsibility to ensure the unity of a diverse country by giving equal status to all 22 languages, including classical Tamil, in the eighth schedule of the Constitution,” DMK president MK Stalin said in a statement.“The BJP, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, since the day it has came to power in the Centre, has been imposing Hindi, Sanskrit. Dominating other languages and undermining unity at all levels,” said Stalin, slamming imposition of a particular language on a plural society.DMK’s ally Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) demanded that the order be revoked.“It is evident that the order is aimed at implementing the agenda of the Sangh parivar,” said VCK founder-president and MP Thol Thirumavalavan. “It is not only against the Tamil language but also against speakers of other languages.”According to the 2011 census, only 24,000 people claim Sanskrit as their mother tongue, he added.Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) leader S Ramadoss and Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) leader also spoke out against the order.The directive from the Indian public service broadcaster was issued on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharti-orders-15-min-sanskrit-bulletins-tamil-nadu-leaders-slam-centre/story-QyoihQ7FaHnfshuQRzjJuJ.html
