02-12-2020||India||Disruptive forces don’t want solution to farmers protest: MP Home Minister||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Wednesday a meaningful dialogue was going on between the central government and farmers representatives but there were certain disruptive forces who did not want a solution on the issues raised by farmers.Responding to journalists questions on farmers protest in Delhi against the new farm laws, the minister during his visit to Jabalpur said, “A meaningful dialogue is going on with farmers. I feel solution will be there after talks with farmers. But there are certain disruptive forces who have reached there without any invitation and they don’t want a solution. They are trying to cause disruptions.”He said, “These are the forces which were behind the protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) at Shaheen Bagh. But our farmers are intelligent enough to identify such elements. Hence, I am sure we will see a solution on the issues raised by farmers.”Meanwhile, a large number of farmers in 50 tractors and trolleys from Gwalior left for New Delhi to join farmers protest against the farm laws. Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Singh said, “We tried to convince farmers against proceeding to Delhi but they didn’t listen.” (With input from Mahesh Shivhare in Gwalior)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disruptive-forces-don-t-want-solution-to-farmers-protest-mp-home-minister/story-W17TwVgMz2fypBiYHoyEzI.html
02-12-2020||India||Most samples of honey found adulterated with modified syrup: CSE||New Delhi: At a time when honey is being touted as an immunity booster against Covid-19, the New Delh- based advocacy group Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) claimed on Wednesday that 77% of samples from 13 top honey brands in the country were found to have been adulterated with a modified syrup to beat safety tests.Only three of 13 brands --- Saffola, Markfed Sohna and Nature’s Nectar --- passed the internationally accepted Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR) tests conducted by a German lab, considered the gold standard to detect modified syrup adulteration of honey, CSE’s director general Sunita Narain told reporters.Narain, who released the findings of a four-month-long investigation, said honey samples of leading brands such as Dabur, Patanjali, Baidyanath, Zandu, Hitkary and Apis Himalaya failed the NMR tests. Three of these companies -- Dabur, Patanjali and Emami -- said in separate statements that the honey they produce and market complies with all food safety requirements and their products were 100% safe. A Dabur spokesperson termed the CSE’s report “malicious.” Patanjali said the report was aimed at promoting processed honey. The others didn’t respond. The findings dovetail with practitioners of traditional Indian medicine recommending honey, turmeric, ginger, garlic, coriander, cumin and other foods for their immunity boosting properties as the coronavirus disease pandemic rages.Narain said the findings of the NMR tests were worrying because such products could compromise human health in Covid-19 times. “We know that the households are consuming more honey because of its intrinsic goodness --- antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties. Our research has found honey is adulterated with sugar, which could add to risk of Covid-19. Sugar ingestion is linked to obesity and obese people are more vulnerable to life-threatening diseases,” she said. CSE had 22 samples of the honey brands tested first at the Centre for Analysis and Learning in Livestock and Food (CALF) at the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) in Gujarat. Almost all the top brands passed the tests of purity; a few samples of the smaller brands failed the tests to detect cane sugar. Narain said some Chinese companies had developed a syrup containing fructose, or fruit sugar, that can go undetected in Indian tests for the purity of honey. “The Indian tests failed to track the marker for sophisticated rice syrup, which has high sugar content, but was found through NMR,” Narain said, adding that CEC can provide test reports from the German lab to regulatory authorities if they wanted. The rice syrup could be made of fructose which, the CSE found, was being produced by a company in Uttarkhand’s Jaspur town and sold at Rs 60 to Rs 68 per kilogram. The syrup was also available for import by Chinese companies, which claimed that it can beat food safety tests in India. The syrup was also available on the Chinese website of e-commerce giant Alibaba and was sent to CSE through Hong Kong as a paint pigment to evade the import license conditions necessary to import syrup. Narain said the Chinese companies wrote to a CSE employee saying that 50-80% fructose adulteration can remain undetected in food safety tests conducted in India. To test the claim, CSE got pure honey mixed with fructose tested at NDDB. Honey mixed with up to 50% fructose remained undetected. “Raw honey adulterated with 75% fructose was detected by NDDB, showing how easy it was to adulterate honey with the Chinese product,” Narain said. Around 11,000 million tonnes of fructose has been imported into India from Chinese firms since 2014-15, the CSE said. According to the National Bee Board, which oversees and coordinates bee-keeping, honey production in India increased to 105,000 tonnes in 2017-18 from 35,000 tonnes in 2005-06. Honey exports year-on-year increased by 13% in 2019-20; Punjab, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were the leading honey producers, the board said.The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), the regulatory body for food safety in India, has not prescribed NMR tests for honey. FSSAI acted as a whistleblower for the CSE’s investigation by writing to all states governments to look for adulteration of honey using golden sugar, invert sugar syrup and rice syrup, Narain claimed. “Fructose is developed in a way to escape Indian tests which looks for sugar syrup,” she said. “It remains unclear how much does the food regulator really know about this murky business. The three imported sugar syrups named by FSSAI in its directive – golden syrup, invert sugar syrup and rice syrup -- are either not imported in these names or are not indicted for adulteration. Instead, Chinese companies are mostly exporting this syrup as fructose to India. So, why did FSSAI put out what is clearly an erroneous order? We are not certain,” she said. A spokesperson for FSSAI said the regulator was waiting for the publication of the results of the tests and would “provide our response accordingly.” Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director of internal medicine at Max Hospital in Delhi, said: “If it’s only sugar syrup that is being added to honey, it is not harmful as such. But if diabetic patients are taking it unknowingly, then it is a cause for concern as sugar levels will shoot up. It can also lead to weight gain if people are consuming {adulterated honey} regularly. More importantly ,the purpose of building immunity with natural honey is not served if its sugar syrup,” he said. Narain said that because of the adulteration the prices of raw honey has fallen from Rs 150 per kilogram a year ago to Rs 60 per kilogram and the business of honey collection was becoming unsustainable even though the Central government has pumped in Rs 500 crore to improve their livelihood in recent years. “Most honey collectors in Punjab and Haryana say there are no buyers as producers are getting Chinese honey, not knowing exactly what it was,” she said.Honey collectors of Punjab and Haryana said the adulteration was one reason for falling honey prices despite an increase in demand.“Increasing adulteration has now become a major challenge for the beekeepers as this has led a fall in prices,” said Gurbax Singh, a honey trader in Haryana’s Karnal, adding that beekeepers were unable to even recover cost of production.A Dabur spokesperson said the report seemed motivated and aimed at maligning the company’s brand. “We assure our consumers that Dabur Honey is 100% pure. It is 100% indigenous, collected naturally from Indian sources and packed with no added sugar or other adulterants,” the spokesperson said, adding that Dabur is the only company in India to have an NMR testing equipment in its own laboratory.Acharya Balkrishna of Patanjali said the company sells 100% natural honey which complies with FSSAI standards. “It seems to be a plot to defame Indian natural honey industry and manufacturers in a bid to promote processed honey and promote German technology for testing. “ he said.An Emami spokesperson said the company’s Zandu Pure Honey “conforms and adheres to all the protocols and quality norms/standards laid down by the Government of India and its authorised entities such as FSSAI.”(With inputs from Neeraj Mohan in Karnal and Aneesha Bedi in Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-samples-of-honey-found-adulterated-with-modified-syrup-cse/story-7wqjPxvCESPw8XA47BfssK.html
02-12-2020||India||Old Parrikar video threatens to derail railway line doubling project in Goa||Even as Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant insists that the doubling of the Goa stretch of South Western Railway line is not being done to ferry more coal and that his predecessor Manohar Parrikar wasn’t opposed to the doubling, an old video in which the former chief minister is seen speaking against the double tracking of railway line has gone viral in the state. On Monday, Sawant had categorically stated that his predecessor was not opposed to the projects he is now pushing for. The video, dating back to the year 2013, when Parrikar was the chief minister and the UPA -II government was on its last legs, shows Parrikar alleging corruption and private benefit behind the doubling project. “South Western Railway wants to double the railway line. The Goa government does not want the double tracking. We are very clear, we will not give any permission for double tracking. I’m very clear,” Parrikar is heard saying “It is basically being double tracked because of MPT’s coal. There, through fraud, they have given 2-3 companies coal berths to handle coal... they have eaten money. Through privatization, they have given berths for handling coal at MPT. To shift that coal, this double tracking is proposed. Those industries are asking for it. I don’t need double tracking. Single tracking can be efficiently used,” Parrikar had said. Parrikar’s words have come to haunt Sawant, who has staunchly defended the project in the face of rising opposition and protests claiming that the doubling is in national interest and is not being done for coal transportation, something that people opposing the projects are refusing to believe.The Mormugao Port Trust has leased out three berths -- 5A and 6A to(SWPL), a subsidiary of JSW Infrastructure and berth 7A to Adani Mormugao Port Terminal Private Limited (AMPTL). Berths 6A and 7A are exclusively used for coal handling by JSW and Adani, which then shift the coal via rail to steel mills in north Karnataka.“We are not permitting to double the track. We have refused permission. I’m not going to allow [it]. Double line will not be permitted in Goa, we don’t need it,” Parrikar had said. For his part, Parrikar as the chief minister and chairman of the State Board for Wildlife had rejected a proposal from the South Western Railway, albeit a proposal different from the one being currently pursued to the extent that it was proposed along a different alignment. The Goa State Wildlife Board had earlier in the year 2013 rejected a proposal to construct a separate railway line through a different alignment, one which had an easier gradient, but would involve fresh disturbance in an entirely virgin area of forest.The railways then submitted a fresh proposal to the state wildlife board to double the track along the existing route which was processed during the tenure of former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and finally approved by Pramod Sawant earlier this year.In 2010, the ministry of Railways sanctioned the doubling of the existing Hospet-Tinaighat-Vasco railway line in the states of Karnataka and Goa. The first phase between Hospet and Tinai ghat involved easier terrain atop the largely flat Deccan plateau and has already been completed. It’s the second phase between Tinaighat and Vasco da Gama that involves crossing the steep slopes, raging rivers and the thick forests of the Western Ghats as well as densely populated areas of coastal Goa that’s being contested fearing destruction to the fragile Western Ghats ecology as well as pollution resulting from increased coal transportation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-parrikar-video-threatens-to-derail-railway-line-doubling-project-in-goa/story-WfMPpwLw5gpMZo3vVmSTtK.html
02-12-2020||India||Now, Naga Hoho calls Nagaland Governor’s statement abusive||Nagaland Governor RN Ravi’s recent statement glorifying the controversial Naga Peoples’ Convention (NPC) and the creation of Nagaland state continued to draw flak from different sections of Nagas. Close on the heels of condemnation of Ravi’s remarks by the Isak-Muivah led National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) and the Naga Students’ Federation, the Naga Hoho, an apex tribal body, on Wednesday accused the governor of making an abusive statement. “We had the notion that Ravi was unlike other interlocutors in the past and had great hope that during his tenure something could be worked out and he had wisely understood the Naga political problem and its history of more than seventy years. We never expected such antagonistic statement from a brilliant, intelligent and self respecting Interlocutor who is supposed to be a harbinger of peace,” the Naga Hoho said in a statement.It alleged that the governor’s utterances were aimed to create division among the Nagas in line with regional and artificial territory.Asserting that no governor in the past had resuscitated the 16 point agreement on which Nagaland was formed, the organization asked what prompted him (Ravi) to take keen interest on the contentious issue after 57 years of statehood when the government of India and Naga negotiators are trying to resolve the Naga political issue above the 16 point resolution.The Naga Hoho also shot a barrage of questions at the governor: “Why did GoI sign another ceasefire Agreement in 1964 and 1997 if the 16 Point Resolution/proposal is final settlement?” it asked the governor and accused him of being divisive.“Indeed, Naga political issue belongs to the Naga people alone and not outsiders. Which single entity is claiming the sole franchise over it? Who are the primary stakeholders on Naga issue? Are you not the one who created primary and secondary stakeholders?” the Naga HoHo said . While a separate Constitution and separate flag that the NSCN (IM) is pushing for becoming sticking points in the Naga peace talks, the Naga Hoho backed the demand.“The Indian National Flag and Constitution are the pride of the people of India, so also Nagas do have our own flag and constitution. Who is talking contrary and peddling preposterous lies? Are you not the one who misinterpreted the Framework Agreement?” it went on to say.The organisation also said the Naga issue would remain unless an amicable solution is arrived at and a logical conclusion is brought about with sheer political will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-naga-hoho-calls-nagaland-governor-s-statement-abusive/story-CF2IdifRG3TYoPclQd6M4N.html
02-12-2020||India||Small J&K hamlet near LoC protests eviction notices, alleges injustice||The residents of a small hamlet in Jammu and Kashmir named Rangwar village, displaced by the 2005 earthquake and forced to settle three kilometers down on the Chowkibal -Tangdhar main road as mark of protest, have been served with eviction notices while the threat of demolition hangs over their heads.The new settlement, raised after the 2005 quake, is mostly made up of tin and wood sheds on a vacant plot of more than one hectare in size on the roadside.The new place was named Rangwar in remembrance of the old. The original Rangwar village, surrounded by icy mountains and forests, was always on the edge due to frequent natural disasters. Villagers say that it had been declared ‘dangerous’ in a survey by the geology and mining department.First, the floods in August 1992 washed away the houses and close to three years later in March 1995, a landslide damaged over a dozen houses in the village before it was struck by another flood. In 2005, in one of the worst earthquakes to hit J&K, most of the houses in the original Rangwar village were damaged.The villagers say they were directed by the officials to settle on a vacant plot close to forests.“Our village was always at risk due to landslides, floods so we started pursuing a vacant plot of around 119 kanals which the government agreed to give us, since our land was washed away by floods in the village. As we were planning to settle there, the army established a big camp there. When the earthquake struck our village, causing devastation, we came down along with families from our village and began our protest. The officials came and asked us to construct temporary sheds till they could find an alternate piece of land for us,” said Afsar Khan, panchayat member of the Halqa panchayat. “The floods in the Khemil stream washed away almost all the plain land of the village and the land that was meant for us was taken over by the army. Either government should get us an alternate land or it should shift the army from the place which was actually meant for us. Till then we won’t leave this place.”The villagers are a worried lot after witnessing the eviction of tribal people from forest areas in various parts of J&K following the scrapping of the Roshni Act. The administration says the evictions were carried out as part of an anti-encroachment drive meant to retrieve forest and state land under the directions of the high court.Imran Ahmad was six years old when he came to this place along with his family comprising eight members.“We trekked down along with families and held protest with the hope that the government will do something for us. The officials gave us tents and asked us to settle down,” he said, adding that since the place witnesses subzero temperature, some non-governmental organisations (NGO) and locals provided them with tin sheets to construct sheds or small shelters to escape from chilling winters.“Since then we are settled here and waiting for rehabilitation. Instead of rehabilitation, the forest department has issued us eviction notices,” said Ahmad.Holding the eviction notice in his hands, Ahmad said the officials came and threatened to bulldoze the temporary houses.“Where will we go in this cold winter? We will die here but won’t allow anybody to touch our shelters. We are poor people and we work with the army as porters. That’s the only work we have got. This is great injustice,” Ahmad added.Saleema Begum, a widow who lives alone is equally worried.“I came to this place and constructed this small makeshift shelter along with my husband. Two years ago my husband died, now I am living alone here. Where will I go if they dismantle my shelter, which is now my only asset along with two goats?” She asks.Most of the residents of Rangwar village are Gujjars, who either work with the army as porters or in farms in neighbouring villages.“We have occupied around one hectare of land while the army has occupied six to seven hectares of plain land and nobody dares to ask them to vacate that land. The threat of eviction looks real now as we saw the government dismantling huts of people in different parts of J&K. We are dwellers of forests, how can they throw us out without rehabilitation,” said Sajjad, a young man from the village.Interestingly the government has made these 98 houses a part of Marsari Panchayat.Another villager, Alam Khan, said that even this place is not safe for the residents as it becomes a frequent target of indiscriminate shelling by Pakistan. “In August, three persons sustained injuries when shells fired from across the LoC landed close to houses. We will move out from this place but give us an alternate land.” Divisional forest officer, Khemil division, Mohammad Ayub, confirmed that notices have been served to the people who have set up shelters on the forest land. “They (villagers) have occupied two hectares of the forest land. The notices have been served to them and the department is waiting for the orders from higher authorities about these people. The area is already under snow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/small-j-k-hamlet-near-loc-protests-eviction-notices-alleges-injustice/story-gMmwY8ioK4ssX08tXNSfpN.html
02-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand farmers to join anti-farm laws protests in Delhi, ready for long siege||Farmers from Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district are leaving for Delhi with ration and some other essentials to join the protest against the three contentious farm laws. The farmers say they will camp in Delhi till the laws are withdrawn by the Central government and they are ready for laying a long siege on the capital.“Farmers are heading to Delhi in batches of small groups due to Covid-19 outbreak. Some of them have already arrived in Delhi, some are camping near the Delhi border with ration and other necessary materials, while others are on the way,” said Prem Singh Sahota, district president, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU). A large batch of farmers from US Nagar had proceeded to Delhi on Saturday after UP police allowed them to move ahead from Rampur district, where they had been stopped. They held a sit-in for 48 hours before police gave them permission to go ahead, said a farmer. Another batch of farmers carrying ration and other essential supplies in tractor trolleys left for the national capital on Monday. “Government is playing in the hands of capitalists and its decisions are ruining the agriculture sector. Farmers are being forced to leave agriculture since they can’t bear the brunt of the newly introduced farm laws,” said Malook Singh Khinda, a farmer from Nanakmatta.Also Read: UP, Uttarakhand, MP farmers to hold mahapanchayat at Delhi-UP border on ThursdayBKU of the district unit has planned to send 2,500 farmers from US Nagar to Delhi to join the stir. “Around 1,500 farmers have left for Delhi and 300 more farmers were sent to Delhi on Wednesday,” Sahota claimed. US Nagar is considered the grain bowl of Uttarakhand and farmers here are not happy with the farm laws, prompting their march to Delhi to participate in the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-farmers-to-join-anti-farm-laws-protests-in-delhi-ready-for-long-siege/story-UCICCZ08KaYqjMi1VItwpO.html
02-12-2020||India||Woman Maoist who guarded senior rebel leader surrenders to Odisha police||A 23-year-old woman Maoist of Malkangiri district who was a bodyguard of senior Maoist leader Ramakrishna surrendered to the Odisha police on WednesdayRame Madkami, who was an Area Commander Member (ACM) of the protection party of Maoist central committee member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna surrendered before the Koraput’s superintendent of police Mukesh Kumar Bhamoo. She carried a bounty of Rs 4 lakh on her head.A resident of Kurub village of Malkangiri district, Madkami had joined the “Sanskrutika Gana Natya Mandali” the cultural troupe of CPI (Maoist) seven years ago at the age of 16. She was given military training and was armed with a .303 rifle by the rebels. She worked in different areas of Koraput and Malkangiri district and also involved in large number of incidences of violence. After being promoted to the rank of ACM she was armed with an INSAS rifle.Police officials said Madkami was fed up with the anti-social attitude of the party and with their indiscriminate and unjustified violence against her own people. She was also disgusted with the civilian killings by the Maoists even after protests by local people. She also resented Telugu and Chhattishgarh cadres gaining an upper hand in the outfit and not treating those from Odisha well.She had suffered a bullet injury during an encounter in July in a forest in Andhra Pradesh but the Maoists did not provide proper medical treatment allegedly because she belonged to Odisha.“She realized that Maoist leaders are using innocent tribals of the region for their own vested interests. For that they are making innocent tribals to fight amongst themselves and once their utility is over, they are being branded as police informers and being killed mercilessly,” said a police official.Apart from the Rs 4 lakh bounty that the government had put on her, she will now get monetary assistance as according to per the Surrender and Rehabilitation Scheme of Government of Odisha. She will also get financial assistance for building house, pursuing studies and getting training in a trade/vocation of her will.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-maoist-who-guarded-senior-rebel-leader-surrenders-to-odisha-police/story-oIUlia4HvUUqhkPXCJcojO.html
02-12-2020||India||Odisha caps Covid 19 RT-PCR test price at Rs 400, cheapest in the country||The Odisha government on Wednesday capped the price charged by private laboratories for RT-PCR Covid-19 tests to Rs 400 from Rs 1,200, making it the lowest among all the states in the country.A notification issued by the health and family welfare department said the new maximum price cap would be inclusive of the GST (goods and services tax). Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra, said the cost of the test was reduced due to the lowering of price of testing kits and other accessories from Rs 1,200 to Rs 46.Earlier, the price of RT-PCR test by private labs and hospitals was capped twice on July 3 and August 25, bringing it down to Rs 2,200 from Rs 4,500 and then to Rs 1200 respectively.The government is also planning to bring down the price of rapid antigen tests from Rs 450.Recently, states like Bihar, UP, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi reduced the maximum price of RT-PCR tests. While Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Bihar brought it down to Rs 800, UP has fixed it at Rs 700.The reduction in prices of the tests came after the Supreme Court issued notice to the Center, States, and Union Territories, seeking reply on a petition demanding the capping of the price of the RT-PCR test across the country at Rs 400.Also Read: Expelled BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahy allegedly stayed in hotels that cost Rs 2.7 lakh a dayCovid-19 cases in Odisha are on a downward spiral since October with daily positivity rate hovering at less than 1.5%. Of the 40,000-odd tests done daily, around 6,000 are RT-PCR tests. The death rates have also come down to a single digit in the last 4 days, raising hopes that the state is on its way to control the pandemic. Till now, 319,583 people in Odisha have tested positive for the virus including 1,781, who succumbed to the infection.“The scene looks encouraging. But we can’t be complacent as winter is yet to settle fully in Odisha. If the positivity rates remain like this and deaths don’t go up by January 15, we can be sure that the pandemic is on its way out,” said Shalini Pandit of National Health Mission.Also Read: Ninth edition of International Sand Art Festival begins in Odisha’s PuriEnthused by the decline, the Odisha government on Wednesday withdrew its directive to put up posters at houses of Covid-19 positive patients. It has now asked district collectors and municipal commissioners to discontinue the practice. The Supreme Court had earlier said that Covid patients are being treated as untouchables if posters are put up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-caps-covid-19-rt-pcr-test-price-at-rs-400-cheapest-in-the-country/story-e762Qk6wqhxYY01nl7f10N.html
02-12-2020||India||Religious, political groups in Leh, Kargil hold joint meeting, decide to continue talks||Representatives of two alliances of religious, political and social organisations based in Ladakh’s Leh and Kargil held their first joint meeting here and said they will oppose any law that is against the interests of the people of the union territory.The Leh-based People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) discussed various issues, including demands for full statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule, during the meet.“We discussed threadbare all issues concerning Ladakh in the three-hour long meeting including the demand for Sixth Schedule and statehood. The meeting ended in a cordial atmosphere, and it was decided that we will oppose and fight jointly any law which is considered against the interests of the people of the region,” KDA co-chairman Asgar Ali Karbalai said.Karbalai said both sides presented their view points on all issues and decided to continue talks in the larger interest of Ladakh.“We agreed on various issues but there were also difference of opinion on some issues. Such type of a meeting had taken place for the first time, and we welcome it,” he said, expressing hopes that they will together usher in a new era in Ladakh.Veteran politician and former Lok Sabha MP Thupstan Chhewang, who is the leader of the People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule, said, “This is most probably happening for the first time in the history of Ladakh that all segments of society from both the districts, including political and religious leaders, social activists and youth leaders, met to discuss the safeguards, security and opportunities.” The meeting discussed all the issues concerning the interests of Ladakh in a conducive atmosphere, and the leaders were unanimous to fight together any move which would be against the interests of Ladakh, Chhewang said.“We will fight together for the rights of the people of Ladakh,” he added.Referring to the apex body’s meeting with the Union home minister in September over its demand for inclusion of Ladakh in the Sixth Schedule of Constitution, Chhewang said they are yet to receive a fresh invitation from the home ministry but would like representatives of Kargil to join them in the meeting as well.“We will like to go together but if they (people of Kargil) get a separate invitation, they can meet the home minister separately as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-political-groups-in-leh-kargil-hold-joint-meeting-decide-to-continue-talks/story-okvyupJysUWpJ7N7lOBRYN.html
02-12-2020||India||Amit Shah, Amarinder Singh to meet tomorrow before talks with farmers||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday ahead of the Centre’s much-awaited meeting with the representatives of the agitating farmers. The Shah-Singh meeting will take place at 9.30am. Wednesday’s meeting between farmers and the Centre is crucial as this is the fourth such meeting — all previous meetings being fruitless — over the grievances against the three farm bills passed recently by Parliament. Reports said Amarinder Singh will hold deliberations with Shah in an effort to work out an amicable solution to the deadlock. Amit Shah, on Wednesday, held deliberations with agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal on ways to dispel concerns over the farm laws.On its 7th day, the farmers’ protests got a shot in the arm as transporters have also come forward calling for a nationwide strike from December 8 onwards. All-India Motor Transport Congress, the body that has called the strike, represents about 10 million truckers, which will massively hit the movement of essential goods across north India.The protesting farmers on Wednesday demanded the central government call a special session of Parliament to repeal new farm laws. With traffic in the Capital being thrown out of gear on Wednesday because of the protest, they have also threatened to block other roads of the national capital if their demands are not met.The ongoing protests led to several divisions and disagreement so far. Brickbats were being exchanged between Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart ML Khattar over the “use of force” by the Haryana Police on the protesting farmers. On the other hand, Khattar demanded that he wanted to talk to Punjab CM over the farmers’ issues as he didn’t want the protest amid Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, Singh and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal got engaged in a verbal face-off over the ongoing protests. Meanwhile, one of the farmers’ organisations — Krantikari Kisan Union — alleged that the Centre was dividing farmers’ organisations by projecting the ongoing protests as Punjab-centric.Thousands of farmers representing over 30 farmers’ organisations have been agitating in the national Capital since Saturday, responding to the “Delhi Chalo” call against the agri-marketing laws enacted at the Centre in September.Thursday’s meeting will be the fourth meeting on the issue and the second meeting amid the ongoing protest. Over 35 farmer leaders had held a three-hour meeting on Tuesday at Vigyan Bhavan with the ministerial delegation. Though their first round of talks on Tuesday did not yield a breakthrough but both sides agreed to hold the next round of talks on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-amarinder-singh-to-meet-tomorrow-before-talks-with-farmers/story-KR0ZZrdyf6uJOcTSTFcVmI.html
02-12-2020||India||After HC reprimand, ex-Guj minister held for violating Covid-19 norms||Former Gujarat minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kanti Gamit was arrested on Wednesday for violation of Covid-19 guidelines, a day after a video showing an estimated 6,000 people at an engagement ceremony of his grand-daughter went viral.The arrest happened hours after the Gujarat high court pulled up the BJP led state government over shoddy enforcement of rules pertaining to wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing and expressed its surprise that the former MLA could invite 2,000 people with the authorities turning a blind eye to it. This is the first such tough action against a politician of the ruling BJP in Gujarat, which came after a strong reprimand by the high court. Earlier too, in the wake of political rallies by the BJP and the Congress in the run up to the recent assembly by-elections, the court had observed that the politicians in the state should behave responsibly to send the right message to the people. In this case, the event was organised by Kanti Gamit on November 30 at Doswada village in Tapi district. The video showed hundreds of people dancing, throwing all Covid-19 guidelines to the winds. He was arrested under Section 308 of the Indian Penal Code.Also Read: Travel agents get enquiries from Indians keen on going to UK for Covid-19 vaccineHe admitted it was a mistake to allow such a large gathering at the function. “I apologise for the mistake. We had organised Tulsi Vivah and my granddaughter’s engagement ceremony together but didn’t invite anyone personally. We’d prepared food for 2,000 people and also organised dance. Someone made the video & it went viral,” he told reporters on Wednesday. Gujarat has more than 2.11 lakh positive cases and the death toll has crossed 4,000. Four cities of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot are under an indefinite night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hc-reprimand-ex-guj-minister-held-for-violating-covid-16-norms/story-Kl86wQ09bsWoHY5f3otC4K.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Is Pfizer approval hasty? Can Indians get vaccinated in UK? All you need to know||Britain on Wednesday raced past the United States and Europe as its regulator cleared Pfizer vaccine candidate for emergency use. The vaccine will be rolled out from early next week in Britain. The approval in a record time has led to some suspicion as well as curiosities. Here is all you need to know:1. The vaccine is about 95 per cent effective at preventing Covid-19.2. From January onwards, some 60 million to 70 million doses of the vaccine could be available per month. 3. The World Health Organization is reviewing the vaccine for possible listing for emergency use.4. The European Union criticised Britain’s rapid approval of Pfizer. Pfizer is a US company and BioNTech is a German company. Neither the US nor Germany has yet approved the vaccine.5. The vaccine makers, however, have assured that no corners have been cut and the vaccine shot has not been developed in a short span of time. It is the cumulative results since SARS and MERS outbreaks.6. The vaccine, as it was claimed, needs a temperature of minus 70 degrees Celcius for long-time storage.7. However, it can be stored in normal refrigeration for a shorter period of time.8. India didn’t conduct any trial of Pfizer vaccine. Talking about the vaccine, top officials earlier said that India may not need to procure Pfizer. Even if it does, it would not happen immediately.9. A report said Indian travel agents are receiving enquiries for UK trip as several Indians want to get the benefit of the mass vaccination drive.10. It might not be that easy for tourists from India to get the vaccine shot. Boris Johnson, who might take the vaccine shot on television to show it is safe, has warned people of the UK that there are several logistical challenges. He has urged UK people to not be carried away with over-optimism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-is-pfizer-approval-hasty-can-indians-get-vaccinated-in-uk-all-you-need-to-know/story-UcFcPn2ONYpnItdzMnUMRL.html
02-12-2020||India||Travel agents get enquiries from Indians keen on going to UK for Covid-19 vaccine||Travel agents have started receiving enquiries from Indians who want to travel to the UK as soon as possible to get the Covid-19 vaccine that was approved on Wednesday by the British government.One travel agent is planning to launch a three-night package for the Indians who want to get the benefit of the mass vaccination drive in the UK that is likely to begin as early as next week.The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19 after “rigorous” analysis by its independent regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). A Mumbai-based travel agent told the PTI that some people on Wednesday raised queries on “how and when and if” they can travel to the UK to get the Covid-19 vaccine. “I have told them it is too early to say (whether Indians can get vaccine in UK). Anyway, the first in line to the get the vaccine would be the elderly and health workers in the UK who are most vulnerable to the coronavirus,” the agent added.Nishant Pitti, Co-founder and CEO, EaseMyTrip.com said while this is an offbeat season for travel to London, after Wednesday’s announcement about the Pfizer vaccine he has already received queries from some Indians who have got UK visas and can afford to go to London.He said his company was waiting for clarity from the UK government on whether there would be compulsory quarantine requirements for travellers who want to get vaccinated and whether Indian passport holders are eligible for vaccination there or not.Pitti said his company is planning to launch a three-night package for those interested in travelling to the UK for the purpose of vaccination only. “We are dealing with an airline to offer fixed price seats. We already have deals with London hotels. And we are planning to do some deal with a hospital over there so that we can generate a package for that,” he explained.The recent UK government rules state that from December 15, every international arrival in the UK would have to remain in self isolation for five days and then get the RT-PCR test done on the sixth day. The passenger can leave isolation on the sixth day if found COVID-negative in the test. On Wednesday, a Bengaluru-based travel company said Indians are asking if a short trip, without quarantine, to the UK to get the Pfizer vaccine was possible.However, Jyoti Mayal, President, Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) told PTI that people are right now “waiting and watching” as they want to know what the vaccine is going to be like. “Though the government has said there would be no side effects of the vaccine, people want to watch all this before getting the shot,” Mayal noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-agents-get-enquiries-from-indians-keen-on-going-to-uk-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-YSLgogGaZWHUy7I0e2pMIK.html
02-12-2020||India||AP govt withdraws law for speedy trial in rape and murder cases after Centre’s objections||Nearly a year after enacting a legislation to expedite trial and sentencing in rape and murder cases within 21 days, the Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday withdrew the law following queries raised by the Centre. State home minister Mekathoti Sucharita introduced a bill in the assembly on Wednesday seeking to withdraw the Andhra Pradesh Disha Bill – Andhra Pradesh Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children Bill, 2019. It was named after a Hyderabad-based veterinarian who was raped and killed by four youths on November 28 last year and was given a pseudonym Disha. The legislation, which was passed by the state assembly on December 13 last year, sought to complete investigation into alleged rape and murder cases, conduct of trial in special courts and awarding of sentences to the accused within 21 days. The legislation was later sent to the Centre for Presidential assent, since it required certain amendments to the Indian Penal Code and Criminal Procedure Code. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to the Centre several times and even took it up personally with Union home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visits to New Delhi.An official in the Andhra Pradesh home ministry familiar with the development said the Union home ministry and law ministry which examined the state legislation raised certain objections, since it required a lot of amendments to the IPC and CrPC. “The Disha Act suggested changes in certain sections of the IPC and CrPC with a view to making them applicable only in Andhra Pradesh. The Union law ministry objected to it, saying it might not be possible to accept it in its present form, as changes cannot be made only for a particular state. If it has to amend the IPC and CrPC, it has to do for the entire country,” the official said.As a result, the state government withdrew the bill. “A fresh legislation would be introduced in the assembly after incorporating suggestions given by the Centre,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-govt-withdraws-law-for-speedy-trial-in-rape-and-murder-cases-after-centre-s-objections/story-CHZrmc6dPpyPthgDgHB53N.html
02-12-2020||India||After Suvendu Adhikari, another disgruntled TMC MLA fans speculation||Hours after rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker Suvendu Adhikari told the leadership that it is not possible for him to work for the party, Silbhadra Dutta, the legislator from Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district, fanned speculations on Wednesday afternoon with an intriguing one-liner posted on Facebook. “Bondhu dekha hobe…..” (we will meet my friend), Dutta wrote in bold Bengali script, keeping the sentence incomplete and using a saffron template as background. Since Dutta recently became vocal against I-Pac, the company owned by election strategist Prashant Kishor, and declared that he will not contest the assembly polls due early next year, his post immediately drew attention. Most of Dutta’s followers on social media concluded that he would join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said he had taken the right decision. There was not a single adverse reaction on his post till 6.45 pm. Dutta could not be contacted. TMC district president and food and supplies minister Jyotipriyo Mullick said, “He is aggrieved with certain decisions of the party. If he joins the BJP, it will be his personal decision. He is a nice man. I don’t want him to leave.” “We will certainly welcome Dutta if he joins us,” Arjun Singh, the BJP’s Barrackpore Lok Sabha MP, told HT. “The way Mamata Banerjee is running the party, using the police administration and projecting her nephew Abhishek Banerjee as the future leader, it is only natural that all the good people in the TMC will leave,” he added. Singh left the TMC and wrested Barrackpore in 2019 when the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. Incidentally, Mihir Goswami, the TMC lawmaker from the Cooch Behar South assembly seat in north Bengal, resigned from the party and joined the BJP in Delhi on Friday. Suvendu Adhikari, the lawmaker from Nandigram in East Midnapore district, resigned from the cabinet the same day. He was in charge of three important departments, including transport. Also Read: Cannot work with the party, says TMC rebel Adhikari after talks A representative from I-Pac met Dutta on Tuesday morning in an apparent bid to bridge the differences but it had no impact on the senior lawmaker. Mullick, too, fixed an appointment and went to his residence in the evening but Dutta was not home. The minister waited for more than an hour and left. “The talks should have taken place long ago. It is too late now. I have announced that I will not contest the polls. I don’t change my stand once I take it,” Dutta had said two days ago. On November 1, he told the media that he was feeling obsolete in the TMC. “I do not believe that political decisions can be taken by a hired commercial agency. The agency cannot lecture me on politics. I feel obsolete here,” he said. Also Read: Oxford Union debating society postpones Mamata Banerjee’s virtual address at last minuteOn Wednesday afternoon, Adhikari informed the leadership that it was not possible for him to work for the party. He wrote in a text message to Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy that the problems he was having in the TMC were far from over. This happened less than 14 hours after the TMC said that Adhikari told top leaders at a discreetly held meeting on Tuesday evening that he would not leave the party. Roy had called up chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the middle of the meeting and handed over the phone to Adhikari. “She told him that we all must work together and he agreed,” Roy said on Wednesday. Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor were present at the meeting along with Roy and Lok Sabha member Sudip Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-suvendu-adhikari-another-disgruntled-tmc-mla-fans-speculation/story-QwA6UYK8O203LOkdK3WZvN.html
02-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Nepal foreign minister Gyawali to visit India to restore normalcy to bilateral ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nepal foreign minister to visit India this month to restore normalcy to bilateral tiesNepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali is set to visit India this month for a meeting with his counterpart S Jaishankar aimed at boosting efforts to restore normalcy to bilateral ties hit by a border row earlier this year. Read more‘Praying for the safety and well-being,’ PM Modi assures help to Kerala, Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclone BureviPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and assured all assitance from the Centre ahead of Cyclone Burevi which is likely to cross the two states on December 3 and 4 after crossing Sri Lanka coast on Wednesday night. Read moreRJD begins probe into poll defeat, focus on Kosi & seemanchal routAfter the defeat in the recently concluded Bihar Assembly polls 2020, the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has begun examining the reasons behind the party’s loss on 69 seats out of the 144 it contested in alliance with the Congress and three Left parties. Read moreVivo V20 Pro 5G vs V20 vs V20SE: We compare and tell which is the best for youVivo has just launched its V20 Pro 5G smartphone in India with an aim to bring the camera prowess and 5G connectivity in a single device to the masses. The phone has already been out in China and has three camera lenses at the back like its slightly weaker models – V20 SE and V20. Read moreKiara Advani recreates Urmila Matondkar’s Rangeela, Sharmila Tagore’s Kashmir ki Kali, other retro Bollywood looks for Indoo Ki Jawani song Dil TeraKiara Advani has been flooding social media with looks, songs and sneak peaks of her latest silver screen offering, Indoo Ki Jawani, in which she is starring alongside Aditya Seal in the lead role, as well as actors Mallika Dua, Rajesh Jais, Manish Choudhary, among others in supporting roles. Read more‘Vibing cricketers, vibing cat’: ICC wins meme game with latest tweet. WatchUnless you’re staying light years away from the Internet, you must be aware of the viral vibing cat meme. In case you’ve achieved the amazing feat of keeping yourself away from the online world, allow us to explain. Read moreImran Khan’s estranged wife Avantika Malik’s cryptic post about ‘valued personal relationships’ going silent: ‘Anger isn’t the end of the story’Former actor Imran Khan’s estranged wife, Avantika Malik, has shared a cryptic post on social media, about the importance of not shutting doors on relationships, based on assumptions and anger. News of problems in Imran and Avantika’s marriage first came to light last year. Read moreCovid: As UK clears vaccine, what’s status of made-in-India Covaxin’s trials?Phase 3 human trials of a Covid vaccine candidate were launched in Karnataka on December 2. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa virtually inaugurated the trials of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on the same day that the United Kingdom cleared the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for use. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nepal-foreign-minister-gyawali-to-visit-india-to-restore-normalcy-to-bilateral-ties-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qV0IBc9obWrYPUqy9eQ11O.html
02-12-2020||India||Sasikala applies for early remission and release from Bengaluru prison||Sasikala Natarajan an aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa may be released earlier than January 27, 2021 from Prappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, when she complete her four year sentence in a disproportionate assets case if her application for remission is accepted, a senior prison official said Wednesday.Remission is considered for good behavior and is at the discretion of the officials, the prison officer said.“We had applied for remission and an early release on November 19 itself. I have pointed out precedents in similar cases where the person has been released earlier. I want similar consideration for my client,” Sasikala’s lawyer Raja Sendoor Pandian said.In November, Sasikala had also deposited Rs 10 crore which was the fine amount ordered by the court and was a condition for her release.The senior prison official who did not want to be identified as he is not authorised to speak on ‘politically sensitive cases’, said the application for remission and early release has been forwarded to higher authorities. ‘There is no time binding on when the remission application should be considered,’ he said.The prison authorities are supposed to take into consideration allegations of special benefits which Sasikala was apparently receiving as alleged by the then deputy inspector general of police (prisons) Roopa Moudgil in 2017 which created a furore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-applies-for-early-remission-and-release-from-bengaluru-prison/story-KJiG9UXoFr0bA9f9kvy0gO.html
02-12-2020||India||China plays down concerns over ‘super’ dam impacting water security in northeast India||China on Wednesday said that any hydropower project on the Yarlung Zangbo river, which is known as the Brahmaputra in Assam, will be planned with full consideration for the interests of downstream countries such as India. The spokesperson of the Chinese embassy, Ji Rong, outlined Beijing’s position in response to reports that a planned “super” dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo, close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibet, could have far-reaching consequences for water security for India’s northeastern states. The trans-border Yarlung Zangbo, which originates in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), flows into Arunachal Pradesh, where it is called Siang, and then to Assam as the Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh. Chinese state media reported on Sunday that the dam would be built in Medog county of TAR, close to India’s Arunachal Pradesh state, and its hydropower generation capacity could be three times that of central China’s Three Gorges Dam, which has the world’s largest installed capacity. China has already built several smaller dams on the Yarlung Zangbo. Also Read: China ‘planned’ Galwan Valley clash, US commission says in report to CongressResponding to concerns that new projects on the Yarlung Zangbo will impact downstream countries, spokesperson Ji said in a statement: “Any project will undergo scientific planning and demonstration with full consideration for the impact on the downstream areas and the interests of both upstream and downstream countries. “At present, the downstream development of the Yarlung Zangbo river is still in the stage of preliminary planning and demonstration. There is no need to over-interpret it.” Also Read: Indian Navy ensured deterrence against any misadventure by PLA navy: Vice Admiral ChawlaJi also said China had “always taken a responsible attitude towards the development and utilisation of cross-border rivers” and has a policy whereby “protection goes together with development”. Chinese state media had reported that initial work on the “super” dam had begun with Power Construction Corporation of China, or Powerchina, signing a cooperation agreement with the TAR government on October 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-plays-down-concerns-over-super-dam-impacting-water-security-in-northeast/story-Q4mrm5ashecNkYzlk6s00M.html
02-12-2020||India||RT-PCR tests to cost Rs 400 in Odisha||The Odisha government on Wednesday capped the price of RT-PCR tests, the best available so far for detection of COVID-19, in private laboratories at Rs 400, the lowest in the country.According to a notification issued by the health and family welfare department, anyone undergoing the RT-PCR test at private laboratories within the state will now have to pay a maximum of Rs 400 including the GST.The decision followed a reduction in the cost of testing kits and other accessories, a senior official said.The cost of an RT-PCR kit now stands at Rs 46 instead of Rs 1,200 earlier, while that of the RNA extraction kit has also come down, and laboratories have to spend a maximum of Rs 200 towards the cost of the kits and accessories, he said.The official hoped that reduction in the price of the test will lead to an increase in testing.The price of RT-PCR test at private laboratories and hospitals which was initially pegged at Rs 4,500, was capped at Rs 2,200 in July and Rs 1,200 in August.The tests will be conducted by private laboratories under the supervision of Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneswar, following the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) guidelines, the notification said.The state has four ICMR approved laboratories where RT-PCR tests can be done.The state government is also planning to reduce the price of rapid antigen tests from the current Rs 450.Both the tests are conducted at government laboratories and hospitals free of cost.The RT-PCR tests at private laboratories in Uttar Pradesh were recently capped at Rs 700 and Rs 800 in Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rt-pcr-tests-to-cost-rs-400-in-odisha/story-yRnqVVXqCR0NRNShktAHVO.html
02-12-2020||India||Nepal foreign minister to visit India this month to restore normalcy to bilateral ties||Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali is set to visit India this month for a meeting with his counterpart S Jaishankar aimed at boosting efforts to restore normalcy to bilateral ties hit by a border row earlier this year. Gyawali will be the senior-most Nepalese leader to visit India since ties were derailed in May, when Kathmandu issued a new political map that included Indian territories. The map was issued in response to India opening a strategic road to the Lipulekh border region, which is claimed by Nepal. After months of rancour, Nepal signalled its intention of resetting ties when Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli reached out to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on telephone on August 15 to exchange greetings on Independence Day. Back-to-back visits to Nepal by Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) head Samant Goel, Indian Army chief General MM Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had prepared the grounds for Gyawali’s trip to India in the later part of December, people familiar with developments in New Delhi and Kathmandu said on condition of anonymity. “Foreign minister Gyawali is expected to visit New Delhi to chair a meeting of the India-Nepal joint commission. The dates are yet to be announced,” said one of the people cited above. During Shringla’s visit to Nepal last month, the two sides underscored the importance of respecting each other’s sensitivities and handling the boundary issue under appropriate bilateral mechanisms, while at the same time taking forward cooperation on connectivity and development projects. The meeting of the joint commission is expected to be preceded by consultations between officials of the two sides on a range of issues, including trade and transit, and water resources. Prakash Dahal, spokesperson of Nepal’s commerce ministry, was quoted by The Kathmandu Post as saying that the two sides are close to finalising the amendment of the bilateral transit treaty and the agreement on railway services. Nepal is also keen on concessions for its agricultural products and trans-shipment of goods shipped from third countries via India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-foreign-minister-to-visit-india-this-month-to-restore-normalcy-to-bilateral-ties/story-UScSFWHQZBgvTUBwSzVYAM.html
02-12-2020||India||Install CCTV cameras in offices of CBI, ED and NIA: Supreme Court to Centre||The Supreme Court directed the Centre on Wednesday to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment at the offices of investigating agencies, including the CBI, the ED and National Investigation Agency (NIA), which conduct interrogations and have the power of arrest.A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said that states and Union Territories (UTs) should ensure that CCTV cameras are installed at each and every police station, making them imperative at all entry and exit points, main gate, all lock-ups, all corridors, lobby and reception area as also areas outside the lock-up room.The apex court, which had earlier ordered installation of CCTV cameras in police stations to check human rights abuses, said that as most of the probe agencies including Narcotics Control Bureau, Department of Revenue Intelligence and Serious Fraud Investigation Office carry out interrogation in their offices, CCTVs be “compulsorily installed” in all offices where such questioning takes place and accused are kept.It said the CCTV systems must be equipped with night vision and have audio as well as video footage and it shall be mandatory for the Centre, states and UTs to purchase such system which allows storage of data for maximum period possible, and in any case not below one year.“In addition, the Union of India is also directed to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment in the offices of: Central Bureau of Investigation, National Investigation Agency, Enforcement Directorate, Narcotics Control Bureau, Department of Revenue Intelligence, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), any other agency which carries out interrogations and has the power of arrest,” said the bench, also comprising Justices K M Joseph and Aniruddha Bose.“As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all offices where such interrogation and holding of accused takes place in the same manner as it would in a police station,” the bench said in its order.The top court said that in September this year, it had impleaded all the states and UTs in the matter to find out the exact position of CCTV cameras in each police station as well as constitution of Oversight Committees in accordance with the April 3, 2018 order.The apex court, while dealing with a matter related to custodial torture, had in July this year taken note of a 2017 case in which it had ordered installation of CCTV cameras in all the police stations to check human rights abuses, videography of crime scene and setting up of a Central Oversight Committee and such a panel in every states and Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/install-cctv-cameras-in-offices-of-cbi-ed-and-nia-supreme-court-to-centre/story-OfsGtcNSBiKkQm4xSITNVO.html
02-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi: PM speaks with Tamil Nadu, Kerala CMs, assures all support from Centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Wednesday and discussed the situation prevailing in parts of the states due to cyclone Burevi while pledging all possible support from the Centre.The cyclone is likely to hit Tamil Nadu on December 4, the Cyclone Warning Division of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. The IMD has issued a red alert for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala for December 3.Tweeting about his telephonic conversation with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Modi said, “We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected.” On his talks with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he said he spoke on the conditions prevailing due to cyclonic storm Burevi in the state and assured all possible support from the Centre to help Kerala. “Praying for the safety and well-being of those staying in the affected areas,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-pm-speaks-with-tamil-nadu-kerala-cms-assures-all-support-from-centre/story-k4TcEI3XTPguQ59Yu5tlnL.html
02-12-2020||India||Western Railway cancels change of timings of local trains after commuters block tracks||The Western Railway has decided to cancel the proposed restoration of the timings of Dahanu-Churchgate local trains from Thursday till further notice following a wildcat 45-minute blockade by commuters, mainly essential services employees, at Palghar, Kelwe Road and Saphale railheads just after 5 am Wednesday morning.The WR will now continue the Dahanu Special 2 local from Dahanu to Churchgate in the Up section at 4.40 am. The train’s timing was to be changed to 5.40 am from ThursdayThe essential services employees were protesting the proposed restoration of Dahanu suburban train services with effect from December 3. Both Up and Down traffic was held up before the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and WR staff convinced protestors to clear the tracksCurrently, local trains carry only essential service employees like staff civic nurses, technicians, ward boys, medicos, pharmacists, besides employees of Mazgaon dock, BMC, Mantralaya, police and other services and with the change in the timings the employees would reach the workplaces late.The WR was to restore the timing of Up section, and except for the Dahanu Special 2 local which will continue to depart Dahanu at 4.40 am to reach Churchgate at 7.04 am, while Dahanu Special 1 which departs Dahanu at 5.40 am to reach Andheri at 7.34 am was to be restored as DRD 93001 with a departure time of 7.05 am at Dahanu that would reach Virar at 8.25 am. In the Down section, Dahanu Special 1 which used to depart Virar at 4.10 am to reach Dahanu at 5.25 am was scheduled to depart Virar at 5 am to reach Dahanu at 6.15 am as DRD 93001,while DRD 93011 which used to depart from Churchgate at 7.45 am and reach Dahanu at 10.35 am was scheduled to depart from Virar at 9.10 am and reach Dahanu at 10.35 am as train number DRD 93011 according to the December 1 notification which has now been cancelled, Sumit Thakur, WR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) said on Wednesday.During the run of special suburban services at the gradual opening of lockdown, timings of Dahanu Road trains had been changed temporarily and with effect from December 3 the timings have been restored, Thakur said in a statement.Sarita Sankhe, a nurse at the Shatabdi Hospital, Kandivli said the WR should continue to run the local at the current timings. “Earlier I used to reach my workplace at around 6.30 am and the night duty staff would be relieved and now with the timing change unless I reach the hospital, the night duty staff will have to stay put,” said Sankhe who stays in Boisar and has been commuting daily for the past decade.“Earlier there was no bio-metric attendance system at my workplace but from mid-December the biometric attendance will begin and I will reach late for work and face the ire of my superiors. The Nair hospital has already resumed the bio-metric attendance system and soon all civic hospitals will have the same shortly, said Sankhe.The government Railway Police (GRP) in Palghar has registered a FIR against unidentified protestors under Sections 142,143,149 (unlawful assembly) of IPC, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and State Covid-19 Regulation Act,2020 and also Section 174 (obstructing running of train) of Railway Act,1989 said police sub inspector Vishwasrao Mudavatkar of Palghar GRP. “We are going through the video clips of the accused who were protesting at the railway station and we will arrest them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-railway-cancels-change-of-timings-of-local-trains-after-commuters-block-tracks/story-II4R9Gb73qYl3OGTHXgpTP.html
02-12-2020||India||Two adults can live together without interference from families: Allahabad HC||Two adults in a live-in relationship have the right to cohabit peacefully, the Allahabad High Court has observed while directing the SSP Farrukhabad to provide security to a couple that lives together and has been facing harassment by family members.  “Hon’ble Apex Court in a long line of decisions has settled the law that where a boy and a girl are major and they are living with their free will, then nobody including their parents has authority to interfere with their living together,” a bench comprising Justice Anjani Kumar Mishra and Justice Prakash Padia said in an order passed on Monday. The bench was hearing a writ petition filed by Kamini Devi and Ajay Kumar of Farrukhabad. The petitioners contended before the court that both of them are adults and in love with each other. They have been living together as a couple for the last six months but Kamini’s parents were harassing them as they want her to marry another man. The couple said they made a complaint to the SSP, Farrukhabad in this regard on March 17 but their application was still pending.  The bench while allowing the petition observed, “We are of the view that the petitioners are at liberty to live together and no person shall be permitted to interfere in their peaceful living, as Right to Life is a fundamental right insured under Article 21 of the Constitution of India in which it is provided that no person shall be deprived of his right to life and personal liberty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-adults-can-live-together-without-interference-from-families-allahabad-hc/story-YUYEzuAe102zPDWb1EFIaO.html
02-12-2020||India||Statue of Unity ticket sale case: FIR registered against officers for not depositing Rs 5.24 cr||Police have registered a case against some employees of a cash collection agency in Gujarat for allegedly cheating a bank by not depositing the amount of Rs 5.24 crore during November, 2018 to March, 2020 which was generated from the sale of tickets for the Statue of Unity, an officer said on Wednesday.The bank, in which the Statue of Unity management held two accounts, had hired an agency to collect cash daily from authorities at Kevadia in Narmada district and deposit it the next day, Deputy Superintendent of Police Vani Dudhat told reporters.“However, some staffers of the agency prima facie didn’t deposit an amount of Rs 5,24,77,375 into the bank accounts of the statue management between November 2018 and March 2020,” said Dudhat.The officer said an FIR was lodged by manager of the private bank against unidentified persons working with the cash collection agency at Kevadia police station on Monday night.Police have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Dudhat said, adding that police are yet to make any arrest in the case.Meanwhile, the Statue of Unity management said the issue lies between the bank and the cash collection agency concerned. A senior official of the management said the bank has deposited Rs 5.24 crore into their accounts.The imposing monument of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, called as the Statue of Unity (SoU), is located at Kevadia in Narmada district. The statue has been a major tourist attraction since it was inaugurated in October 2018.A Children Nutrition Park and a Cactus Garden are among other attractions, including river rafting, located in the vicinity of the monument.Before the lockdown, people had the option to buy tickets online or over the counter in cash at the spot.In December last year, Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel informed the Legislative Assembly that the statue management earned a revenue of Rs 82.51 crore between November 1, 2018 and November 16, 2019.Data of revenue from November 2019 to March, 2020 was not released by the government.As per the FIR, the bank has been using services of the agency since 2003 for cash collection and deposition.The bank had appointed the same agency to collect cash generated from the sale of tickets at the Statue of Unity and other connected tourist attractions and deposit it into the two bank accounts of the State of Unity authorities, Dudhat said.“In a recent audit, the State of Unity officials found a mismatch in the amount mentioned in cash deposit slips, given by the agency staff after collecting the cash, and the actual cash deposited into the bank accounts between November 2018 and March 2020,” she said.After it was informed by the statue management about the mismatch, the bank conducted a probe which revealed that some staff members of the agency allegedly did not deposit Rs 5.24 crore, following which the bank authorities lodged the FIR, the dySP said. “We need to check several records of the agency to find out who were involved in the cash collection exercise at Kevadia,” the officer said, adding that no one has been identified or arrested yet.The monument was shut for tourists for almost seven months since March due to coronavirus-induced lockdown, before it was reopened for visitors from October 17 with staggered timings. Limited tickets are sold online.Offline sale of tickets at the counter has been stopped, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statue-of-unity-ticket-sale-case-fir-registered-against-officers-for-not-depositing-rs-5-24-cr/story-gEfVMbzE3t1dPD5R8O0AoN.html
02-12-2020||India||Indigenous Covaxin phase-3 trial results in November 2021, says NICED||The results of the phase-III trial of indigenously developed coronavirus vaccine candidate, Covaxin, will be available in November 2021, top officials of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) in Kolkata have said. They added that the interim report may be available by May 2021 at the earliest. “The analysis will take a year. An interim analysis may be done after six months. If it is found that the vaccine has sufficient protective efficacy, the results would be shared with the policy makers. The government will take the final call thereafter,” Shanta Dutta, director of NICED, told media persons on Wednesday. The phase-III trial of Covaxin was launched at NICED on Wednesday by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. Dhankhar and the State urban development minister Firhad Hakim have expressed their interest in volunteering for the phase-III trial. “In phase-III trial, we would primarily test the protective efficacy of the vaccine. Safety and immunogenicity have already been tested in phase I and II,” Dutta added. Covaxin – the first indigenously-developed anti-coronavirus vaccine -- is being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Around 350 people have applied to become volunteers. NICED is looking for around 1000 volunteers to conduct the phase-III clinical trial. “The applicants would be invited one by one for interviews and tests. If they are eligible they can become volunteers. The enrolment of 1000 volunteers for trial would have to be completed by February 2021,” said a senior official of NICED. Also Read: UK approves Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine; roll-out from next weekThe ICMR-NICED in Kolkata is one of the institutes selected to conduct the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)-approved regulatory trials. It would be conducted in around 25 sites across 10 states. The trial has already started at a few sites. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the scientists at Bharat Biotech facility at Hyderabad for the progress made by them in manufacturing Covaxin vaccine trials. Also Read: Vaccine candidate safe and immunogenic: SII On Monday, he held virtual meetings with teams from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd in Pune, Biological E Ltd, and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd which are working on vaccines for Covid-19. Currently, all the vaccine candidates are at different stages of trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-covaxin-phase-3-trial-results-in-november-2021-says-niced/story-ebKEptE6bCekVk0EogduFJ.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Praying for the safety and well-being,’ PM Modi assures help to Kerala, Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclone Burevi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and assured all assistance from the Centre ahead of Cyclone Burevi which is likely to cross the two states on December 3 and 4 after crossing Sri Lanka coast on Wednesday night.“Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on the conditions prevailing due to Cyclonic Storm Burevi in the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre to help Kerala. Praying for the safety and well-being of those staying in the affected areas,” PM Modi tweeted. He also spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswami on the cyclone situation. “Had a telephone conversation with Tamil Nadu CM Thiru @EPSTamilNadu Ji. We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” PM Modi tweeted. Had a telephone conversation with Tamil Nadu CM Thiru @EPSTamilNadu Ji. We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected. Spoke to Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on the conditions prevailing due to Cyclonic Storm Burevi in the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre to help Kerala. Praying for the safety and well-being of those staying in the affected areas.For Tamil Nadu, this will be the second cyclone in a week after Nivar. Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday said all precautionary measures are in place to minimise the possible damage that could be caused by the weather system and urged people to stay indoors. The chief minister appealed to people, particularly those in the southern districts, not to step out unnecessarily between December 1 and 4.Also Read: IMD issues red alert in four Kerala districts for December 3The chief minister directed the monitoring officials of districts including Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin to oversee the precautionary measures there. Palaniswami, who chaired a high-level meeting to assess the cyclone’s impending impact, called upon the public not to panic over the new cyclonic storm as all precautionary measures have been taken on war-footing.“I request you to follow the instructions of the government and extend your full cooperation,” Palaniswami said in a statement on Tuesday.National disaster response teams have been stationed in Madurai, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin.Deep-sea fishermen from the coastal Kanyakumari district who have ventured into the sea have been warned to return to the shore.Permission has been sought from appropriate authorities to facilitate a safe landing for the Tamil Nadu fishermen in Karnataka, Kerala, Goa and Lakshadweep.The IMD on Wednesday issued a red alert in four districts of Kerala — Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha — for December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-pm-modi-speaks-to-kerala-tamil-nadu-cms-assures-support/story-w6DvNoybxDa3Kbg3cmqIbK.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi riots: Court extends judicial custody of Umar Khalid by 14 days||A Delhi court on Wednesday extended the judicial custody of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid for 14 days in a case of north east Delhi riots, while denying him an opportunity to oppose the police’s plea seeking further remand.The court said an accused can move a bail application if his/her counsel was of the opinion that there was no need of further custody and then the accused can be heard by it.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar said at the time of fresh arrest, the accused and his/her counsel can oppose the prayer of the investigating officer for sending the accused to judicial custody or granting police custody remand.It extended the judicial custody of Khalid till December 16 saying there were sufficient grounds for the extension.It dismissed his counsel’s request seeking permission to oppose the remand application as no bail application has been moved before the court.Also Read | ‘Not in footage, call records do not match’: Delhi High Court grants bail to man in Delhi riots caseThe court said there was no scope of hearing the counsel of the accused and giving him/her an opportunity to oppose the remand application whenever the remand was to be extended.“No doubt remand of an accused should not be extended mechanically. However, there is no scope of hearing the counsel of the accused and giving him/her opportunity to oppose the remand application whenever the remand is to be extended.“At the time of fresh arrest, the accused and his/her counsel can oppose the prayer of the IO (investigating officer) for sending the accused to judicial custody or granting police custody remand of the accused. However, an accused can move a bail application if the accused or his counsel is of the opinion that there is no need of the custody of the accused and therefore, there is no requirement of extension of judicial custody remand,” it said in its order.Khalid was arrested on October 1 in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area. He was also arrested in September in a separate case related to larger conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-extends-judicial-custody-of-umar-khalid-by-14-days/story-3ycV83iNor1BvrkW2B0pqI.html
02-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi: IMD issues red alert in four Kerala districts for December 3||Cyclone Burevi, the second cyclone formed in the southwest region of the Bay of Bengal within a week after cyclone Nivar, is likely to cross Sri Lanka coast tonight. The Indian Meteorological Department has issued a red alert in four districts of Kerala — Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha — for December 3 in the view of Burevi.Here are the latest updates on Cyclone Burevi1. As of 2.30pm on Wednesday, the cyclonic storm remained about 110km east-northeast of Sri Lanka, 330km east-southeast of Panban (Tamil Nadu) and 520 km east-northeast of Kanyakumari (Tamil Nadu), the IMD said in its bulletin.2. It is likely to move nearly west-northwestwards thereafter, emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area in the morning of December 3.3. Around noon on December 3, the storm with a wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph would be centred very close to Pamban.4. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards across Pamban area by afternoon and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari during December 2 night and December 4 early morning with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph.5. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over south Tamil Nadu (Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai) on December 2 and 3; over south Kerala (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha) on December 3 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 4 December and south Kerala on December 3 and 4.6. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe, Karaikal and north Kerala on December 2 and 3 and heavy rainfall is likely over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh on December 2 and 3 and over Lakshadweep on December 3 and 4. 7. Thiruvananthapuram district administration has issued a special alert in 48 villages in the wake of cyclone Burevi that has taken form in the Bay of Bengal.8. Burevi is unlikely to be as intense as Nivar, IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.9. On Wednesday, PM Modi spoke to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswami and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and assured all possible support.10. In Kerala, 697 people from 175 families have been shifted to relief camps, Vijayan said adding that 2,489 other camps have been identified. Eight NDRF teams have reached the state. The Air Force and the Navy are ready for rescue and relief operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-live-updates-imd-issues-red-alert-in-four-kerala-districts-for-december-3/story-OXUK4AId2oi4iXt66K6DwN.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Ready to address farmers’ concerns’: Govt ahead of 2nd meet with farm union leaders amid deadlock||As the farmers’ protest entered its 7th day, the government on Wednesday reiterated its intent to address the concerns raised by farm union leaders, who are representing protesting farmers of Punjab and Haryana, on December 3 at Vigyan Bhawan.“I appeal to the farmers that the laws are in their interest and the reforms have been done after a long wait, but if they have any objection to it then we are ready to address their concerns,” Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a day before the second round of talks with farmers is slated to take place in the national capital. Also read: With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protestsTomar also said that they will see to what extent issues can be resolved as they hold discussions with farmers’ leaders tomorrow. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has found itself in a tight deadlock with raging farmers who are objecting to the three farm laws cleared by the Parliament in September this year.The farmers have alleged that these laws will reduce their earnings in the market and give more power to corporations. The farmers, hailing from Punjab and Haryana, in their “Delhi Chalo” march had demanded the ruling dispensation agrees to hear their objections on the clearance of farm laws which, collectively, have paved way for agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Also read: No agreement between farm unions, govt: Who said what during meetingAfter days of protest along Delhi border and within the national capital, the government on Monday initiated talks with the representatives of farm union organisation leaders but the dialogue remained inconclusive, without any sign of resolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-address-farmers-concerns-govt-ahead-of-2nd-meet-with-farm-union-leaders-amid-deadlock/story-sQxSS81far8sE8J6NIc6zL.html
02-12-2020||India||Maharashtra cabinet clears proposal to rename all residential colonies having caste-based names||Caste-based names of localities in the state will be changed, the Maharashtra government announced on Tuesday.The decision was taken during the cabinet meeting, said a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office.Names such as Mahar-wada, Bouddh-wada, Mang-wada, Dhor-vasti, Brahman-wada, Mali-galli are commonplace but they are unbecoming in a progressive state like Maharashtra, it said.Such names generally indicate that members of a particular community live in the area.The decision to rename these localities was taken to maintain social harmony and national unity, the CMO statement said.These localities will be given new names such as Samata Nagar, Bhim Nagar, Jyotinagar, Shahunagar,Kranti Nagar.Earlier, the state government had renamed the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Dalit Mitra Puraskar (award) as Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Samajbhushan Puraskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cabinet-clears-proposal-to-rename-all-residential-colonies-having-caste-based-names-reports-ani/story-yltyM8280ahM4OtATcX8TN.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine updates: Punjab CM to take first shot of vaccine in state||Even though Covid-19 cases continue to dip across the country, Centre is busy in drawing a roadmap to ensure last mile vaccine delivery to every citizen of the nation. The prime minister held a meeting with Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr. Reddy’s on Monday. These three pharmaceutical companies are involved in developing an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. PM Narendra Modi had also visited Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley at Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) campus at Pune on Saturday to review India’s preparedness. Here are the latest updates on India’s Covid-19 vaccine development plans and its rollout - • Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will take the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine in Punjab, ANI reported. Singh made this announcement on Wednesday when he was holding a virtual cabinet meeting. He will become the second lawmaker after Haryana minister Anil Vij who was administered a trial dose of Bharat Biotech’s vaccine in November. • ICMR-NICED on Wednesday started the phase III regulatory trials of Bharat Biotech’s coronavirus vaccine candidate Covaxin in Kolkata. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who inaugurated the beginning of the Phase III trials, expressed hope that the trials will be conducted smoothly. The trial will involve 26,000 volunteers from all over the nation. • The health ministry on Tuesday said that the ministry never said that it is not planning to inoculate every single person in the country. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday said that there were no discussions on vaccinating the entire country. • ICMR director Balram Bhargava said that the Covid-19 vaccine drive will primarily aim to ‘break the chain of transmission’, as reported by news agency PTI. He said, “Our purpose is to break the chain of virus transmission. If we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the chain of transmission, then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population.”• Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met health secretaries, chief secretaries and other senior officials of the states and union territories to discuss the rollout of vaccines when available. He has also asked officials to develop a database of groups of people who will be prioritised for inoculation once the vaccine is made available. Government is planning to inoculate an estimated amount of 1 crore frontline health workers with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-updates-punjab-cm-to-take-first-shot-of-vaccine-in-state/story-uftvuqklbCfZgtm5IBH67K.html
02-12-2020||India||UP, Uttarakhand, MP farmers to hold mahapanchayat at Delhi-UP border on Thursday||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by its president Naresh Tikait, will hold a mahapanchayat at the Ghazipur border of Delhi on Thursday to discuss the strategy for the ongoing agitation against three contentious farm laws.Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and other parts of the country, along with the heads of different khaps, would participate in the mahapanchayat, said Gaurav Tikait, a young farmer leader and son of Naresh Tikait.Another round of talks between the protesting farmers and the government was scheduled on December 3, he said. The mahapanchayat would keep a close watch on the outcome of the talks and a decision on the next course of the agitation would be taken accordingly, he added.Farmers from western UP and Uttarakhand are camping at the Ghazipur border under the leadership of BKU’s Rakesh Tikait.Social activist Medha Patkar, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar Party’s Paapu Yadav were among the leaders who met the protesting farmers at Ghazipur border. They demanded that the government withdraw the contentious farm laws.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Choudhary visited the protesting farmers at Singhu border on Wednesday. After interacting with them, he served food to the farmers at a langar.“I have come here to earn punya by serving farmers who are protesting for the past seven days in the open, braving the cold and other difficulties. I have no intention to share the farmers’ dais and (I am) getting satisfaction in serving them,” he said.Also Read: Kejriwal accuses Amarinder Singh of ‘low-level’ politics, says he is under pressure from EDThe RLD leader said the farmers’ demands were genuine and the government should withdraw the contentious farm laws without delay, instead of “buying time” in the name of a dialogue.The talks between the Central government and the umbrella body of farmers’ unions was inconclusive on Monday. The farmers had rejected the government’s proposal to set up a panel comprising experts and farmers’ representatives to hold negotiations.Also Read: Withdraw support to Haryana govt: State Congress chief Selja to JJP, IndependentsThe farmers are demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by the Parliament earlier this year and have expressed apprehension that they would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.The government has maintained that the new laws will provide farmers with better opportunities. It has also accused the opposition parties of misleading farmers.Ahead of the second round of talks scheduled for tomorrow, Union home minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday to find ways to dispel the farmers’ concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-uttarakhand-mp-farmers-to-hold-mahapanchayat-at-delhi-up-border-on-thursday/story-MYJ4muJdfBR1SGvFu2exQO.html
02-12-2020||India||Kejriwal accuses Amarinder Singh of ‘low-level’ politics, says he is under pressure from ED||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday lashed out at Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh for criticising him for notifying one of the three farm laws passed by Centre. The Delhi government on November 23 notified the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday lashed out at the Delhi government and accused it of “working behind the farmers’ backs”, ANI reported.Kejriwal in response to these allegations said, “Punjab CM has made allegations against me that I’ve passed the black laws in Delhi. How can he do such low-level politics in this fragile situation? It’s not up to the state govt to implement it. Had it been so, why would farmers of the country hold talks with the Centre?”Kejriwal asked Singh if he is accusing the Delhi CM in a bid to form a friendship with BJP. He said, “So, is it the pressure of these people that you are putting allegations against me? Are you doing it for friendship with BJP or are you under pressure as the Enforcement Directorate has filed a case against your family?”Kejriwal defended the Delhi government’s decision to notify the farm law by saying that the state government cannot repeal them. Only, the Centre can roll back these laws since they had introduced them, he said.More than 30 farmers’ groups have gathered at the several locations across the Delhi-Haryana border protesting against the three farm bills passed by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. They have demanded that the Centre rollback the farm laws, claiming that the new laws will affect the procurement of grains under the minimum support price system and will pave the way for corporate farming.The protests which began on November 25 saw clashes between Haryana police and the farmers. Haryana Police officials on November 25 fired tear gas shells and water cannons at the agitating farmers but the farmers managed to break barricades and enter New Delhi. While most farmers are protesting near the Singhu border, some farmers have continued their protests at DDA ground in Burari. On November 29, farmers groups rejected to talk with the Centre over the issues concerning the new bills and demanded that a high-level committee should listen to their grievances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-accuses-amarinder-singh-of-low-level-politics-says-he-is-under-pressure-from-ed/story-w8xYvl8yWL0LlE1fNZqiDL.html
02-12-2020||India||Man attacks wife and minor daughter with acid in Kerala||A woman and her teenage daughter suffered burn injuries after her husband allegedly poured acid on them following a family feud in south Kerala’s Kollam on Tuesday night, police said. Both were rushed to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital for treatment. The condition of the woman is reported to be serious.Police said K Jayan, a driver, used to have fights with his wife as he suspected her of infidelity. On Tuesday after an argument he threw acid on his wife and his 14-year-old daughter was injured while trying to save her mother. Police said two other children in the neighbourhood also suffered minor burns when they rushed to the house after hearing cries for help.Neigbours said Jayan, an alcoholic and drug addict, used to attack his wife and daughter quite often. After she made a complaint, he was summoned to the police station a couple of times and counselled. They said after a brief pause he would resort to violence. Police said Jayan is absconding and efforts are on to nab him. According to the crime records bureau, Kerala stood fourth in the country in acid attack cases last year. Out of 252 acid attacks UP topped with 60, West Bengal 54, Delhi 17 and Kerala 13 cases. Last year the Kerala police had decided to hand over acid cases to an all-women team headed by a women’s cell superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-attacks-wife-and-minor-daughter-with-acid-in-kerala/story-MaYNJKelniYTyfGGeKYszJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Indian Navy ensured deterrence against any misadventure by PLA navy: Vice Admiral Chawla||The Indian Navy did play a crucial role in preventing any misadventure by the Chinese Navy in the Indian Ocean Region during the peak of the border standoff between the two countries, a top Navy officer said on Wednesday.Vice Admiral AK Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in- Chief, Southern Naval Command, told a press conference here the Indian Navy ensured “deterrence” against any misadventure by the PLA navy in Indian Ocean Region at that time.“I think the message has gone across to them very unambiguously that do not mess with us at sea and also at land for that matter,” he said.The vice admiral was responding to a query on whether there was a clamour for India to assert itself in seas during the tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh involving the troops of the two countries.Asked whether India continues to remain alert and collaborate with friendly neighbours and other navies operating in the region, he said, “the answer is very simple.We are very strong.” “I don’t think that anybody can play a mischief at sea against India,” he said.He said the Indian Navy is concentrating on further building its capabilities.“Our forces have operational capabilities. We remain strong. We remain prepared...,” he said.India and China have held eight rounds of high-level military talks till November during the over six month long tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh which also saw a bloody clash that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, with the Chinese side also reportedly suffering casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-ensured-deterrence-against-any-misadventure-by-pla-navy-vice-admiral-chawla/story-y3c3By8qxYR8d7qA7i8pPI.html
02-12-2020||India||Bodies of all 6 fishermen who died in boat capsize off Mangaluru recovered||The bodies of four of the six fishermen who died at sea after their fishing boat capsized off the Ullal coast in Manguluru were recovered on Wednesday, the Coast Guard said. Two bodies were found on Tuesday. The boat ‘Sri Raksha’ had set off on a deep sea fishing expedition with 22 men on board on Monday morning and was scheduled to return with the catch in the early hours of Tuesday.But when they did not reach, owners of the boat alerted authorities. By then on Tuesday, 16 of the 22 men had been rescued by a dinghy. The fishermen said their boat had capsized due to high winds.On Tuesday, the Coast Guard and the local district authorities working in tandem had managed to recover the bodies of Pandurang (58) and Preetam (25) said to be residents of Bokkapatna, of Dakshina Kannada district. On Wednesday, the bodies of four more fishermen Chintan Bokkapatna, Hasnair Bengre, Ziaul Bengre and Ansar Bengre were recovered.The state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs six lakh to the family members of each of the fishermen who lost their lives. Mangaluru district in-charge minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary who also holds the Fisheries portfolio tweeted condoling the death of the six fishermen and said that he would request chief minister BS Yediyurappa for additional compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-all-6-fishermen-who-died-in-boat-capsize-off-mangaluru-recovered/story-kC84XPVWBXSiZ0WYx57xNK.html
02-12-2020||India||Congress leader in Uttarakhand blames ‘BJP sleeper cells’ for differences in party||Amid infighting in the Congress unit in Uttarakhand over the leadership under which the party will fight 2022 assembly elections, deputy leader of Opposition and MLA Karan Mahra has alleged that “sleeper cells of BJP in Congress are creating differences in the party”. Mahra who is a one of the most vocal and influential Congress MLAs made the allegation days after a controversy rocked the party following a meeting of some MLAs and MPs in Haldwani where they announced that the upcoming Assembly elections would be fought under Congress national general secretary and former chief minister Harish Rawat. Following the announcement, the Congress headquarters had to issue a statement the next day saying that the party has not taken any decision on the matter and state unit chief is still Pritam Singh who would lead the members. Mahra who is considered close to Rawat said Tuesday night, “There are some people within the party who are conspiring against it. They are working as BJP’s sleeper cells to create indifferences between the state leadership.” Continuing his attack without taking any name he said, “These people haven’t fought even ward level elections but are busy passing statements against senior leaders. All senior leaders should identify such elements around them and oust them from the party.” “Complaints should also be lodged against them in the party high command,” he said. The BJP rubbished Mahra’s “sleeper cells” charge and said the Congress was directionless.“There are different factions in the Congress led by their senior leaders including Harish Rawat, Pritam Singh and Indira Hridayesh. They all go in different directions which is an open secret. Why are they coming up with fiction like BJP sleeper cells?,” said Devendra Bhasin, BJP state vice-president. He went on to say, “It seems that Congress has lost its mental balance. Instead of blaming us for the issues in their party, they should put their house in order.” Political expert MM Semwal said until the Congress resolves its differences it would be difficult for them to win the 2022 elections. “It is an open secret that there are different factions in the Congress led by Harish Rawat, Pritam Singh and Indira Hridayesh. All of them are vying for the state leadership,” said Semwal. He said, “Apart from this, there are leadership issues in their national unit also. Unless the Congress leaders get united, it will be difficult for them to fight against BJP in 2022 who are already in poll mode.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-in-uttarakhand-blames-bjp-sleeper-cells-for-differences-in-party/story-2t10nFWUKwGFaXbfduFwaL.html
02-12-2020||India||It’s an open competition, not stealing investment from any state: Yogi on film city project||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that he is not “stealing” any business from Maharashtra. Adityanath, who was on a one-day visit to Mumbai to attract investors, said the setting up of a film city in the state an “open competition”. The UP CM’s statement comes a day after his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray said that he will not allow anyone to take business out of Maharashtra.There’s a tussle between the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and the Bharatiya Janata Party government in Uttar Pradesh over the alleged plot of the latter to move the film industry out of Mumbai. Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Wednesday asked if UP CM is going to visit other cities where the film industry is big or is he targeting only Mumbai.Speaking to press at the end of marathon meetings with business leaders, investors and film personalities, the UP CM said that his government is building a “world-class” film city in Noida, which will be well-connected by road and air with Delhi, Lucknow, Agra, etc.“The new film city will be built on a 1000-acre plot 6km from the proposed Noida international greenfield airport in Jewar. It will be connected to Delhi, Mathura-Vrindavan, Agra and state capital Lucknow. The interest shown by the people associated with the film industry is a good sign,” he said.Earlier in the day, Raut said, “It is not easy to move the film city out of Mumbai. Attempts have been made earlier also, but how will you recreate the atmosphere of Mumbai in UP and Bihar. Is he going to visit other cities in south India, West Bengal as they have big film industry or is he only locking horns with Mumbai?” Raut also asked Yogi Adityanath on the prospect of film city in Uttar Pradesh.“How can anybody take away anything from somebody. It is not a wallet to steal. This is an open competition and whoever can give a secure atmosphere, better facilities and most importantly, social security in which all people can work… The film city in Mumbai will continue to work. A film city in UP will be built as per the requirement, in a new atmosphere,” said Yogi.Responding to Raut’s question through the media, Adityanath said, “We have not come to take anything. We are building a new [film city]. Why are you so worried? We are giving a world-class infrastructure.” He also held meetings with companies interested in investing in his state, including N Chandrasekaran, chairman Tata Sons, Niranjan Hiranandani, CMD Hiranandani group, and Baba N Kalyani of Kalyani Group. “I also met with companies who are interested in investing or have invested in the defence manufacturing corridor, including Adani Defence, L&T Defence, Mahindra Defence, Hinduja, Seimens etc. Their suggestions have been taken. For the film city, we spoke to personalities from the industry about their requirements,” he said.The chief minister also listed Rs 200 crore bond of Lucknow Municipal Corporation, the first civic body in north India. “Uttar Pradesh has the highest municipal bodies in the country. Nearly 80 million population lives in urban areas. In a bid to provide better infrastructure and facilities we have listed bond for Lucknow Municipal Corporation, the first civic body in north India. After Lucknow, we will inspire Ghaziabad to do the same. This move will help bring in transparency and financial discipline in their workings, along with creating healthy competition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-an-open-competition-not-stealing-investment-from-any-state-yogi-on-film-city-project/story-MqMZsQlIUDMXKTUvfXWOXI.html
02-12-2020||India||Former HC judge C S Karnan arrested for insulting SC judges, women||The central crime branch (CCB) in Chennai on Wednesday arrested C S Karnan, a former judge of the Madras and Calcutta high courts for passing defamatory remarks against women and several judges of the Supreme Court and high courts in his online videos. He had first appeared before the CCB on November 26 for an enquiry. The CCB has registered a case against Karnan under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including Section 228 (intentional insult or interruption to public servant sitting in judicial proceeding), Section 509 (word or gesture intended to insult the modesty of any woman) and Section 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot). A division bench of the Madras high court is hearing the case against Karnan. The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have sought criminal action against the former judge. The court, on Monday, had summoned the Chennai city commissioner of police and director general of police to be present for the hearing on December 7.His interrogation began after the Madras high court directed the director-general of police to supervise the investigation and the city commissioner to monitor the probe into the case.During the recent hearing in November, the state informed the court that they have blocked his videos from YouTube and are taking steps to block more content.Also Read: Cyclone Burevi to cross Tamil Nadu coast on Friday: All you need to knowThe court had observed that Karnan’s “repeated utterances would undermine the dignity, reputation, honour and majesty of the Institution.”Karnan is the first serving high court judge to have been found guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court in 2017 for allegations against judges. He served six months in a Kolkata jail and was released in December 2017.Justice Karnan had previously denied any wrongdoing, saying he was just highlighting the upper caste bias in the higher judiciary in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-hc-judge-c-s-karnan-arrested-for-insulting-sc-judges-women/story-w6TZS2WATU91lEiojH737M.html
02-12-2020||India||Cannot work with the party, says TMC rebel Adhikari after talks||Rebel legislator Suvendu Adhikari on Wednesday informed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leadership that it was impossible for him to work for the ruling party, people aware of the matter said. Adhikari sent a text message to TMC leader Saugata Roy saying his problems with the TMC were far from over. He did respond to calls and text messages for comments.Adhikari’s response came a day after TMC said the legislator told top leaders at a meeting that he would not leave the party. Roy called up chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the middle of the meeting and handed over the phone to Adhikari. “She told him that we all must work together and he agreed,” Roy said on Wednesday.TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant kishor were present at the meeting along with Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay.TMC leaders told HT last month that Adhikari was specifically unhappy with Banerjee and Kishor’s organisational decisions. TMC roped in Kishor after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 out of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019.Adhikari, who was earlier appointed TMC’s election observer, had demanded that leaders of his choice be fielded next year from around 65 assembly seats. This was unacceptable to the leadership.Adhikari, who resigned from the state cabinet on Friday, and Abhishek Banerjee even took pot shots at each other.The people cited above said Adhikari has expressed unhappiness that the leadership briefed the media about the talks since it was decided that he would do so at a press conference a few days later.Adhikari texted Roy about the problems he has had with the party and offered an apology. “I communicated to you [the media] truthfully whatever happened at the meeting last evening and whatever emerged in the presence of five people present there. If there is any change of mind on the part of Suvendu, it is for him to decide and communicate to the media,” Roy said. “I will not say whether I talked to him after last night’s meeting. Yes, I received his message.”Asked whether there was a scope for more discussions, Roy said, “I do not see that happening right now if someone has changed his mind.”On Tuesday, Roy said the talks went extremely well. “Suvendu said he is very much with the party. I invited Abhishek Banerjee and Adhikari to sit for talks. Adhikari will make his position public. I had been saying all along that he would not leave the TMC.”Roy and Bandopadhyay have been holding talks with Adhikari over the past two weeks on the instructions of Mamata Banerjee.There has been speculation that Adhikari might join the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-work-with-the-party-says-tmc-rebel-adhikari-after-talks/story-OLSmFgqefymirtSnuKg3JI.html
02-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Transporters call for nation-wide strike in support of farmers’, threaten to halt essential goods supply and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Farmers’ protest: Transporters call for nation-wide strike in support, threaten to halt supply of essential goodsAn apex body of transporters on Wednesday threatened to halt the movement of essential goods across North India and subsequently the entire country if the demands of the farmers protesting against three farm laws passed in September to liberalise the sector are not met. Read moreDelhi high court seeks Centre’s response in plea against surveillance systemsThe Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre on a plea claiming that the government is carrying a 360-degree survelliance of citizens through Centralised Monitoring System (CMS), Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) and National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID), thus “endangering” their privacy. Read morePhase 3 trial of Covaxin launched in Kolkata; Bengal Governor, minister offer to volunteerWest Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, 69, and state minister Firhad Hakim, 61, have expressed their willingness to volunteer for the phase 3 trial of Covaxin, the government-backed Covid-19 vaccine. Read more‘Nobody taking anything away, new film city being developed in UP’: Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that Bollywood will work in Mumbai but a new film city will be built in UP. Read more India vs Australia: Pandya, Jadeja put on 150 runs for 6th wicket to break 21-year-old recordTeam India were desperate to put in a good performance with the bat in the 3rd ODI against Australia in Canberra, but things went pear shaped for the team after a bright start that saw skipper Virat Kohli and young opener Shubman Gill put together a good stand. Read moreApple reveals 15 best apps of 2020 you should download on iPhones, iPads and MacsApple is out with its ‘App Store Best of 2020’ winners, revealing 15 apps that made your life easier healthier, and more connected in 2020. These apps are also chosen on the basis of their design, usability and innovation. Read more Kia Sonet beats Venue, Vitara Brezza, takes crown in sub-compact SUV segmentKia Sonet SUV’s rising popularity continues unabated as the Korean carmaker sold 11,417 units of the sub-compact SUV in November.The numbers were enough to help Kia Sonet take the crown in the fiercely competitive segment for the first time since its launch barely three months ago. Read moreWorkout Wednesday: Check out these 5 Yoga exercises best for pregnant women as you gush over Anushka Sharma’s headstandThe feeling of having a life growing inside you is unmatched and all the mommies-to-be out there can vouch for our claim as they glow with enthusiasm one moment while being overcome with emotion the next. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-transporters-call-for-nation-wide-strike-in-support-of-farmers-threaten-to-halt-essential-goods-supply-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dPRThQgnOPQcxwZjql1bXN.html
02-12-2020||India||NGT extends ban on sale, use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR, other cities amid decline in air quality||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday extended the ban on the sale and use of all firecrackers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) and other cities, where the air quality is in the poor and above category.It said during Christmas and on the New Year, the use of green crackers will be allowed between 11.55pm and 12.30am but only at places where air quality is in the moderate zone or better.A bench headed by NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel said its direction to restrict the use of firecrackers will continue.“There will be a total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the poor and above category,” the bench said.The NGT also directed district magistrates to ensure that firecrackers are not sold in Delhi-NCR and ordered strict compliance with the ban.Also read | Ban on firecrackers an example of judicial overreach, says NaiduLast month, ahead of Diwali, the NGT imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight in Delhi and NCR, as well as in places which had recorded poor air quality levels in 2019.The NGT then attached a list of 122 places across the country, which had recorded poor air quality levels in November 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-extends-ban-on-sale-use-of-firecrackers-in-delhi-ncr-other-cities-amid-decline-in-air-quality/story-4OfP8kFFdOLHioUOI8htsJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Demolition row: Kangana Ranaut moves Supreme Court, files caveat||After the Bombay high court set aside Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) notice to actor Kangana Ranaut regarding “illegal construction” at her office premises and called it “nothing but malice in law”, the actor on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court and filed a caveat in the case. In her application, she asked the apex court to not pass any order without hearing her side of the case — in case the BMC moves the apex court challenging the high court’s order. A division bench of the Bombay high court, on Friday, struck down a September 9 order issued by the BMC to demolish several unauthorised alterations made by actor Kangana Ranaut at her Pali Hill bungalow in Bandra (West).The bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla held that the civic action was “actuated by malafides” and accepted the actor’s claim seeking compensation for damage caused by the illegal action. The bench said that the actor is justified in claiming damages in view of the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the Sunbeam Hightech Developers case, where the court held that it can award compensation where demolition was carried out illegally, even if the structure was unauthorized.In the 166-page judgment, the high court bench said that it does not approve unauthorized construction, and also does not approve of loose and irresponsible statements (as made by Ranaut) against any individual, authority or Government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-moves-supreme-court-in-demolition-row-files-caveat/story-m3U7XUFz9Ac01zrsIEKi3J.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Transporters call for nation-wide strike in support, threaten to halt supply of essential goods||An apex body of transporters on Wednesday threatened to halt the movement of essential goods across North India and subsequently the entire country if the demands of the farmers protesting against three farm laws passed in September to liberalise the sector are not met.The All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), an umbrella body of goods’ vehicles operators representing about 10 million truckers, called for a strike from December 8 in support of the farmers’ protest.“From December 8 onwards, we will shut all our operations across North India and stop all our vehicles across North Indian states and UTs [Union Territories] including Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Himachal, and Jammu [& Kashmir]. We have decided that if the government still does not agree to the demands of the protesting farmers, then we will call for a Chakka Jam all across India and stop all our vehicles,” said AIMTC president Kultaran Singh Atwal.Also read | Protesting farmers occupy one more border point, supplies running short in CapitalRoad transport accounts for about 60% of the freight traffic in India and 87% of its passenger traffic, according to the Union road transport and highways ministry.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying say will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming, and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.In a statement, the AIMTC said the transporters are extending unstinted support to the farmer agitation. “They are fighting for their legitimate rights. Like the road transport sector of India, the farm sector is indeed the backbone and lifeline of the nation…Over 70 percent of the rural households depend on agriculture. Entire North India is affected and thousands of trucks carrying food, vegetables, and other perishable and non-perishable items coming from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, J&K [Jammu & Kashmir] are impacted and we still support them as 65% of the trucks are engaged in carrying farm produce,” the statement said.“...it is the season of apples, which are getting wasted, apart from that potatoes, onions and other fruits and vegetables as well as other essential commodities like medicines, milk, etc as their movement is disrupted, which is leading to their shortage in Delhi and in other northern states. The situation will get acute in days to come unless the government takes prudent and pragmatic steps to resolve farmers’ concerns... [The farmers] are fighting their lone battle.”The farmers have been protesting for a week over the laws that allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system. The laws permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farm leaders say the laws will leave them at the mercy of private buyers and vulnerable to exploitation.Thousands of farmers, who are marching from various states towards the national capital to protest against the laws, have blocked all major entry points to New Delhi, demanding a repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-transporters-call-for-nation-wide-strike-in-support-threaten-to-halt-supply-of-essential-goods/story-MmMM75KNxhKjq6LPNAxKuM.html
02-12-2020||India||81 Telugu NRI organisations push for Bharat Ratna for PV Narasimha Rao||As many as 81 Telugu Non-Resident Indian organisations across the world have launched a joint campaign for mobilising public support to request the Government of India to confer the country’s highest civilian award - Bharat Ratna - on former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao, whose birth centenary is being celebrated this year. Under the banner of Mythri International, USA, these organisations including Association of Physicians of Indian Origin, Telugu Association of North America (TANA), North American Telugu Association (NATA), American Telugu Association (ATA) etc, started a signature campaign in October through various for appealing that Rao be conferred with Bharat Ratna. The campaign will conclude in the first week of December. In a statement on Wednesday, Mythri International executive committee member Prasad Swarna said many NRI organisations had been conducting events with the theme: “Remembering PV on his centenary birth anniversary” from October to December. Many organizations had also participated in TV shows with topics pertaining to PV’s stupendous achievements for the nation and people of India at large, Swarna said. “As part of that, they have been mobilising the support of NRIs from various states of USA and across the globe and intelligent individuals who know the prowess of late Rao in requesting the Government of India to confer Bharat Ratna on him,” he said. A separate YouTube channel – BharatRatna4PV and a Facebook page were also created to spread the message apart from popularising the activities and programmes being done by the Telugu NRIs, he added. He requested the general public to join the campaign on these social media platforms and see that the former Prime Minister is conferred the highest civilian award on his birth centenary year. Rao died in New Delhi on December 23, 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/81-telugu-nri-organisations-push-for-bharat-ratna-for-pv-narasimha-rao/story-i5IeuRLKbowpxmH0TJQAHL.html
02-12-2020||India||November records least number of Covid-19 cases in J&K yet||November recorded the least number of Coronavirus (Covid-19) cases and deaths since August in Jammu and Kashmir, official data has revealed.While there has been a 26% decrease in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in November in comparison to October, the number of fresh cases also dipped by 21% in the same month.The daily health data provided by the government revealed that there were 15,434 cases in November as compared to 19,619 in October. September had recorded a steep rise in cases to reach 37,372 from 17,339 in August.Also read | New single dose vaccine shows protection against Covid-19: StudyBreaking down the numbers, November recorded an average of 514 daily cases against an average of 632 daily cases in October, 1,245 daily cases in September and 559 daily cases in August.“The overall prevalence of the disease is reducing now in comparison to the past months. There are fewer deaths as well,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, nodal officer, Covid19, and head of the department of community medicine, Government Medical College Srinagar.In terms of fatalities, November saw the least number in the past four months. In the UT, 216 people lost their lives due to the virus in November, a notable decrease from October’s 293 deaths. The highest monthly death count was recorded in September with 478 people succumbing to the virus as against 326 in August.Seven deaths a day were recorded daily on an average in November, 10 in October against 16 in September.Khan said the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies in 39% of the population of Kashmir, as revealed in a study, was a major reason for the decline. “In context of serum prevalence, our at-risk population is getting lower. It obviously affects disease transmission, lowering the number of new cases,” he said. Kashmir’s first ever district wise sero-survey of Covid-19 done by the government revealed antibodies of the disease in about 39% of the population in the Valley.“It was done in mid-October, now there will be more people with antibodies. In our hospitals also, mortality has reduced to a large extent,” he said.The number of recoveries was also higher in November than the fresh cases in the month to settle at 16,677 bringing the active cases down to below 5,000 and recovery rate to 93.95% on November 30.As on December 1, the total Covid-19 count in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 110,678 and death toll to 1,702 of which 1,107 fatalities were reported from Kashmir and 595 from Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/november-records-least-number-of-covid-19-cases-in-j-k-yet/story-W9NiqcacukMW14LIiHflnM.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate dips to 5% in third wave: All you need to know||Signalling a glimmer of hope, Delhi on Wednesday recorded its lowest positivity rate at 5 per cent since the third wave of Covid-19 disease hit the national capital. This decrease in positivity rate comes on the day Delhi boosted its testing significantly and carried out 78,949 tests.This is the highest number of tests conducted in a day by the authorities in the national capital. Out of these, 36,370 tests were carried out with RT-PCR kits and 42,579 were rapid antigen tests.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said that the government sees the prospects of Covid-19 positivity rate going down to 5% in the next few days.“Positivity rate has declined below 7%. It is expected to go below 5% in the next few days. Currently, more than 1600 ICU beds are available in hospitals in Delhi,” Jain said. Delhi’s positivity rate, which had crossed 15% on November 15, is hovering in the 6-8% mark in the last few weeks.Delhi on Wednesday recorded 3,944 cases, pushing the cumulative tally to 5,78,324 and 82 fatalities were recorded. The death toll in the city due to the viral contagion has reached 9,342.Active cases in Delhi on Wednesday stood at 30,302, out of which 18,423 are being treated in home isolation.The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rose to 5,772. The containment zones were logged at 5,669 on Tuesday and 5,552 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-dips-to-5-in-third-wave-all-you-need-to-know/story-WDHOBCbUyayZsdpIgqXRcK.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi high court seeks Centre’s response in plea against surveillance systems||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre on a plea claiming that the government is carrying a 360-degree survelliance of citizens through Centralised Monitoring System (CMS), Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) and National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID), thus “endangering” their privacy.A bench of chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of home affairs, information technology, communications, defence and law and justice for their stand on the plea filed by Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) and Software Freedom Law Centre (SFLC) through advocate Prashant Bhushan.Appearing for the Centre, its standing counsel Ajay Digpaul accepted the notice for all the ministries and said a reply would be filed. The matter would be now heard on January 7.Also read | HC dismisses plea challenging several questions of Delhi Higher Judicial Service examThe plea claimed that the three surveillance systems allow Central and state law enforcement agencies to intercept and monitor all telecommunications in bulk which is an infringement of the fundamental right to privacy of individuals.While CMS is a surveillance system under which all forms of communications, like telephone calls, WhatsApp messages and emails, are intercepted and monitored, NETRA has been developed by the Centre for Artificial Intelligence (CAIR) to monitor internet traffic for the use of keywords such as attack, bomb, blast or kill in tweets or status updates on social media platforms, emails or blogs, the plea has said.NATGRID, the plea said, is “a counter-terrorism initiative to be undertaken on public-private partnership that will utilise technologies like Big Data and advanced analytics to study and analyse huge amounts of data and metadata’’ related to individuals from various standalone databases belonging to various agencies and ministries of the Indian government”.Under the NATGRID system, tax and bank account details, credit card transactions, visa and immigration records and itineraries of rail and air travel would be monitored, the plea has said.During the proceedings, Bhushan submitted that even though the apex court has held that financial details and travel plans of citizens cannot be intercepted or monitored except in larger public interest and in accordance with the laws, an RTI reply said 7,500 to 9,000 permissions were being routinely granted every month for intercepting and monitoring communications of citizens and the committee which is to review such permissions sits only once in two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-centre-s-response-in-plea-against-surveillance-systems/story-GRTYTGIzLSnwglnoXSckNK.html
02-12-2020||India||36 years on, Bhopal gas tragedy survivors battle obesity, thyroid disorders||A clinic run by a trust for treatment of Bhopal gas tragedy survivors has claimed that they are suffering from obesity and thyroid disorders that are also responsible for a host of other ailments.Sambhavna Trust Clinic made the claim on Tuesday ahead of the 36th anniversary of the tragedy, which falls on December 3. “Our analysis of data on body mass index and diagnosis of thyroid malfunction of 27,155 persons under care for the last 15 years at the clinic, shows that persons exposed to Union Carbide’s poisonous gases were 2.75 times more likely of being overweight or obese and that they were 1.92 times more likely to suffer from thyroid disease compared to those who had not been exposed to gas.” said Dr Sanjay Shrivastav, physician at the clinic. Satinath Sarangi, managing trustee of Sambhavna Trust, said, “Higher obesity due to gas exposure is likely to have made survivors vulnerable to various diseases like diabetes, hypertension, coronary heart disease, osteoarthritis and cancers of the liver, kidney, breast and ovary etc. Survivors having thyroid diseases at almost double the usual rate, indicate that in addition to several other systems in human bodies, the endocrine system has also been damaged due to exposure to Union Carbide’s gases.” Chingari Trust, another organisation organised a candle light march in Bhopal on Tuesday to pay homage to those killed in the tragedy. Meanwhile, four organisations working for justice to survivors of the tragedy have demanded that Union Carbide and its owner Dow Chemical pay additional compensation for the long term injuries caused to the survivors who were exposed to the gas as evidenced during the current Covid-19 pandemic. “Official records suggest that Covid-19 death rate in the gas exposed population is 6.5 times more than that of the non-gas exposed population of the Bhopal district,” four organisations including Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha, Bhopal Group for Information & Action and Children Against Dow Carbide said in a joint statement.“The pandemic has exposed the official lie that 93% of those exposed to Union Carbide’s poisonous gases had only temporary injuries. We have official records that show that the gas exposed population, that is 17% of the district’s population of 2.8 million, has contributed to 56% of the Covid-19 deaths in the district so far. It is time the Indian government present these data and other hospital records before the Supreme Court that is yet to hear the Curative Petition for additional compensation for damage caused by the December 1984 disaster,” said the statement. As per a state government affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in 2006 the tragedy had killed 3,787 people and affected more than 5.58 lakh other people in the state capital after toxic gas leaked from erstwhile Union Carbide factory which was closed after the tragedy, on the night of December 2, 1984. However, the organisations fighting for the cause of victims claim the tragedy had killed more than 15,000 people. A report released in April, 2019 by International Labour Organisation (ILO) dubbed the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy as one among the world’s “major industrial accidents” of the 20th century. The report stated at least 30 tons of methyl isocyanate gas released from the Union Carbide pesticide plant had affected more than 600,000 people including workers and nearby inhabitants. Despite efforts minister for Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Vishwas Sarang and additional chief secretary of the department Mohd Suleman could not be contacted for their comments. The ruling BJP said that its government has undertaken a number of measures to provide relief to the survivors.“The BJP government has not only been sympathetic to the Bhopal gas tragedy victims but also it has undertaken a number of measures to provide them relief like strengthening health facilities in the state capital for them inter alia. The government is always open to accepting the suggestions and demands from the organsiations working for the survivors,” BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36-years-on-bhopal-gas-tragedy-survivors-battle-obesity-thyroid-disorders/story-4YewWUpdXK42S7UVORzC5I.html
02-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin: List of states which have started phase 3 trials of Covid-19 vaccine||Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin is among various Covid-19 vaccine candidates currently undergoing trials in India. Developed by the Hyderabad-based firm in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Covaxin is India’s first indigenous vaccine candidate against the coronavirus disease. On November 16, Bharat Biotech announced the commencement of phase 3 trials of Covaxin, making it the largest Covid-19 vaccine trial being conducted in India as well as the first to reach the third phase.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSince then, Covaxin’s phase 3 trials have commenced in several states, including Karnataka and West Bengal on Wednesday, and many other states are expected to begin soon. Here are some of the states where the third phase trials of the anti-coronavirus vaccine have started:1. Haryana: On November 20, Haryana started Covaxin phase 3 trials, with the state home minister Anil Vij being the first volunteer to be administered a trial shot. In fact, Vij, who also holds the health portfolio, had volunteered to become the first person in the state to be administered a trial shot.Also Read | Haryana health minister Anil Vij takes trial shot of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine2. Gujarat: Phase three trials of the vaccine commenced in Gujarat on November 26 at Ahmedabad’s Sola Civil Hospital, the only site in the state where the exercise will be carried out.3. Madhya Pradesh: People’s University in Bhopal is the site for phase 3 trials of Covaxin in Madhya Pradesh. The trial vaccination here started on November 27.4. Karnataka: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday virtually inaugurated phase 3 trials at Bengaluru’s Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre. This is where the third phase trials of Covaxin in Karnataka will be conducted.5. West Bengal: Kolkata’s ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) will host Covaxin phase 3 trials in West Bengal. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar, who inaugurated the trials on Wednesday, as well as state minister Firhad Hakim, have expressed willingness to volunteer.Also Read | Phase 3 trial of Covaxin launched in Kolkata; Bengal Governor, minister offer to volunteerAdditionally, Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) started phase 3 trials of the vaccine on November 26, with Dr MV Padma Srivastava, chief of the neurosciences centre here, taking the first shot. Trial shots were administered to three other volunteers as well.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-list-of-states-which-have-started-phase-3-trials-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-6vG7xbqUL38D8Luhq8lXaI.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Nobody taking anything away, new film city being developed in UP’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday that Bollywood will work in Mumbai but a new film city will be built in UP.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Adityanath said, “Nobody is taking anything away. This is an open competition. Whoever can give social security and a conducive atmosphere for working will get business.”“Bollywood will work in Mumbai but a new film city will be built in UP. We will build a world class film city with all facilities. I spoke to filmmakers and people related. We are not stealing any state’s investment,” the UP chief minister added.Adityanath said that there are many factors that drive investments, including stability of the state government.“Uttar Pradesh has a population of 24 crore. The state is the biggest job creator with 1.25 lakh jobs,” the chie minister said, highlighting the achievements of his government.Adityanath is in Mumbai for the listing of Lucknow Municipal Corporation bonds on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE). He said it is a matter of pride for UP that the Lucknow Municipal Corporation has raised Rs 200 crore through its bonds.“It is the trust of the investors, which UP has earned during the last three-and-a-half years. It will augment our effort to improve infrastructure in urban areas. It shows the improvement in the industrial climate of the state and the trust the investors have reposed in the machinery,” said Adityanath.Also Read: After Lucknow, Ghaziabad to raise money through municipal bonds, says AdityanathAccording to UP Chief Minister’s Office, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation has become the first civic body in north India to issue bonds, even as the process of issuing municipal bonds by civic bodies started in the country in 1997.Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh.But the ruling Shiv Sena hit back, saying it is not easy to shift Mumbai’s film city elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it.“What is the status of Noida film city now? Can you create Mumbai’s Film City in Lucknow and Patna?” said CShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut.“Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai’s film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past,” Raut added.Raut noted that South and Bengal also have huge film industries. Southern superstars Rajinikanth, Nagarjuna, Chiranjeevi have worked in Hindi movies also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-taking-anything-away-new-film-city-being-developed-in-up-yogi-adityanath/story-ehRIs8Dxopdh1FR1sYwFnM.html
02-12-2020||India||Video of crowd at engagement ceremony in Gujarat goes viral, Ex-BJP minister says it was a mistake||After the video of a swelling crowd celebrating at the engagement ceremony of the granddaughter of Gujarat’s former minister Kanti Gamit went viral for violating Covid-19 rules, the former minister on Wednesday said it was a mistake. Only a few people were invited and food for 2,000 people was prepared, Gamit said. “I apologise as it was a mistake. We had organised Tulsi Vivah and my granddaughter’s engagement ceremony together but didn’t invite anyone personally. We’d prepared food for 2000 people and also organised dance. Someone made the video & it went viral,” Gamit said after Gujarat police said they were taking action against the organisers.  Gujarat: Police say they've acted against organizers for not following #COVID19 norms after a video went viral showing hundreds dancing at the engagement ceremony of Ex-BJP Minister Kanti Gamit's granddaughter at Doswada village in Tapi district(Viral Video from 30/11/20) pic.twitter.com/J2IkemUUp1The event took place on November 30 at Doswada village in Tapi district. It went viral as several people could be seen milling around, dancing, celebrating throwing all Covid-19 caution to the wind. Recently, the Gujarat government imposed a 57-hour curfew in Ahmedabad and night curfew has been brought back in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Only 100 guests are allowed at wedding events with strict adherence to Covid-19 rules, including mandatory social distancing, wearing of masks etc.However, the viral video shows that those who attended the event were neither maintaining social distance nor wearing masks.On Tuesday, the Covid-19 caseload in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad district rose to 50,409, after 332 persons tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-crowd-at-engagement-ceremony-in-gujarat-goes-viral-ex-bjp-minister-says-it-was-a-mistake/story-juxWaI0mTz1W3RX3XppjdJ.html
02-12-2020||India||BJP goes full steam for J&K DDC polls; Smriti Irani among star campaigners||Even as the Opposition parties cry foul, the BJP is going full throttle in the ongoing district development council (DDC) elections across Jammu and Kashmir by roping its ‘star’ campaigners to bolster chances of electoral success.The party on Wednesday released another list of its ‘star’ campaigners for the third and fourth phases of the ongoing DDC polls. They include Union textile minister Smriti Irani, MP and Punjabi singer Hansraj Hans, former MP Surendra Nagar, MP Ramesh Bidhuri and party national secretary Vijay Rahatkar. Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh and Anurag Thakur, who is also the election in-charge for J&K, Seh Prahbhari or party co-in charge J&K, Ashish Sood and J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina, have already been touring and canvassing for party candidates. Polling for the 280 DDC constituencies are being held in eight phases-- Nov 28, December 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and December 19. The polling hours are from 7 am to 2 pm. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the National Conference (NC), besides other Kashmir centric parties, have been accusing the administration of not providing a level playing field in the DDC polls and handing out an initial advantage to the BJP. However, the J&K administration including lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and state election commissioner KK Sharma have rejected the allegations. Two days ahead of DDC polls in November, LG had told HT that there was complete freedom in Jammu & Kashmir for political activities, but not for anti-national activities. Election commissioner Sharma had also refuted reports of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s detention and stated that no candidate was being stopped from canvassing. Also Read: Gautam Gambhir to campaign for BJP in Jammu & Kashmir for DDC polls“She wanted to travel to Pulwama and due to security reasons she was advised not to go there. She is not under detention. Police have also clarified,” he had said on Friday. In the first phase, the UT had recorded 51.76% polling followed by 48.62% in the second phase across Jammu and Kashmir. Office bearers in the BJP said that cricketer turned BJP MP Gautam Gambhir will also campaign for the party for the ongoing DDC polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-goes-full-steam-for-j-k-ddc-polls-smriti-irani-among-star-campaigners/story-S9KezDrSyeQ7Jw2Rq0NrRP.html
02-12-2020||India||Bihar caps cost of Covid RT-PCR test at Rs 800, down from Rs 1,500||The Bihar government on Tuesday revised the maximum cap on real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, a confirmatory test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), by private laboratories at Rs 800 per test in the state. It also brought down the rate of rapid antigen detection tests to Rs 250. Both, RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests are used to detect Covid-19 though experts say that the latter has a probability of giving up to 40% false negative result. It continued to allow an additional charge of Rs 300 for home collection. People used to pay Rs 1,500 for RT-PCR and Rs 400 for rapid antigen tests earlier. These tests are done free of cost at government facilities. Bihar has 74 testing centres for Covid-19 of which around 80% laboratories are under government sector. “This is the third price revision for RT-PCR tests. We began with Rs 4,500 per test and gradually reduced it to Rs 2,500, Rs 1,500 and now Rs 800,” said Dr Naveen Chandra Prasad, director-in-chief disease control, health services, Bihar. The test rates had been revised following a downward revision in other states, the order said. Delhi and Gujarat are among some states which have reduced charges of RT- PCR test. Around 84% of the 1,47,94,415 samples tested in Bihar so far till Tuesday have been through rapid antigen while RT-PCR accounts for 12%, TrueNAT 3.5% and CBNAT 0.1%, said government officials requesting anonymity. Till Tuesday, Bihar reported 2,36,098 Covid-19 cases and 1,268 deaths since the first fatality to the pandemic in the state on March 21. It had 5,464 active cases, with 97.15% recovery and 0.5% mortality rates. The bed occupancy in dedicated Covid hospitals, dedicated healthcare care centres and Covid care centres was around 1.04% out of the 38,710 beds available in the state. The state’s case positivity rate was 1.6% even as Patna reported 18% positivity rate last week, the highest among 38 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-caps-cost-of-covid-rt-pcr-test-at-rs-800-down-from-rs-1-500/story-BHgJliy7sFn2v8YCUNITyI.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmer protest updates: Delhi-Noida border opens||Delhi Traffic Police has opened the Kalindi Kunj border for traffic movement on Wednesday evening.The traffic movement was prohibited at both carriageways of the border in wake of the farmers’ protest. Earlier, this afternoon Noida police had shifted the farmers coming from different areas of Uttar pradesh protesting on the Mahamaya flyover road to the Dr Ambedkar Memorial Park as it was causing long traffic jams. “Since protesters were sitting on road causing traffic jam, we’ve to shift them here,” Noida DCP Rajesh Kumar Singh told ANI.Delhi’s border with Uttar Pradesh in Noida was earlier opened for traffic - though partially - on Wednesday afternoon after remaining shut for most part of the day due to protest by farmers against Centre’s farm laws.The farmers had gathered at UP border on Tuesday demanding that the newly-enacted laws should be scrapped. The police then placed barricades at the border and deployed additional personnel which affected the movement of traffic.On Wednesday afternoon, the carriageway from Delhi to Noida at Chilla border was opened after protesting farmers agreed to shift themselves on the other carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida.Also Read | Farmers reject govt’s offer on panel, talks deadlockedThe Delhi Traffic Police had earlier issued an advisory to commuters travelling to Noida, saying the Chilla route was closed. The police had asked commuters to instead use NH-24 and Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) flyway for commuting.Due to the raging protest, police have also closed Delhi-Haryana border points at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda and Jhatikra. Commuters are advised to use Badusarai Border, which is open for two-wheelers only.Other open borders for commuting to Haryana, as alerted by the Delhi Traffic Police, include Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.People are facing huge inconvenience due to the protest as it has caused heavy traffic jams, leading to trouble in entering or exiting Delhi. The traffic police said there is very heavy traffic in the capital and has asked commuters to avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders.Also Read | Four key aspects of the farmers’ protestThe police in a tweet alerted that the traffic movement has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GTK road.One of the senior police officers told PTI, “Cemented barriers and multi-layered barricades have been put up besides heavy security personnel at Ghazipur border near UP gate where many farmers have been protesting since Saturday.”The Centre tried to end the protest by inviting farmer leaders for talks on Tuesday. But, the farmer leaders rejected the offer of the government panel which included agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash.The two sides will be meeting for the talks again on Thursday. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-protest-updates-delhi-noida-border-opens-partially/story-59B16cqksyPWTxRzHsbW9M.html
02-12-2020||India||India forms high-level committee to implement Paris Agreement targets||The Centre has constituted a high-level ministerial committee for the implementation of the targets under the Paris agreement on the climate crisis.“In another move that re-affirms India’s seriousness to ‘walk the talk’ on climate change, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) has constituted a high-level inter-ministerial Apex Committee for Implementation of Paris Agreement (AIPA) under the chairmanship of Secretary, MoEFCC,” the ministry said in a statement issued on Wednesday.“The purpose of AIPA is to generate a coordinated response on climate change matters that ensures India is on track towards meeting its obligations under the Paris Agreement including its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC).”Also read | India inches towards first marine ‘designated area’ off Maharashtra coastSigned in 2016, the agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change deals with greenhouse gas emissions mitigation, adaptation, and finance. It sets out a global framework to avoid climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2°C and pursuing efforts to limit it to 1.5°C. It also aims to strengthen countries’ ability to deal with the impacts of the climate crisis and supports them in their efforts.India is also one of the signatories.The high-level committee of senior officials from 14 ministries will oversee the progress in the implementation of India’s NDC and receive periodic information updates to monitor, review and revisit climate goals to fulfill the requirements of the agreement.Another key function of AIPA would be to operate as a national authority to regulate carbon markets in India under the agreement.It will also formulate guidelines for the consideration of projects or activities, issue guidelines on carbon pricing, market mechanism, and other similar instruments that have a bearing on climate change and NDCs.The committee will engage with the private sector as well as multi, bi-lateral agencies in the field of climate change and provide guidance for aligning their actions with national priorities.“The year 2021 would mark the beginning of the implementation of the Paris Agreement and constitution of AIPA is central to strengthening the national systems and institutional arrangements for implementation and monitoring of climate actions. It will also ensure that India maintains its climate leadership as one of the few countries in the world whose climate actions are consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement,” the environment statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-forms-high-level-committee-to-implement-paris-agreement-targets/story-6PDJ2PyUXp5sZCuS0jw6iK.html
02-12-2020||India||3 women among 4 arrested for beating, stripping woman in Madhya Pradesh||Four people, including three women, were arrested for stripping and beating a woman in Tikamgarh district on Tuesday, said police. The video of the incident has since gone viral on social media. All arrested are residents of Kundeshwar area of Tikamgarh. “The video of the woman being stripped and beaten by a man and three women on the road has gone viral on Tuesday. In the investigation, we found that there was a dispute between two families in the Kundeshwar area. On Monday, the woman and the accused’s father Balchand Rajak lodged complaints against each other at the police station after a dispute over property,” said Sunil Sharma, town inspector, Kotwali police station. “On Tuesday, the victim was standing outside her home and passed a comment on accused Balchand Rajak. Three women of Rajak’s family, who were crossing by, started fighting with the victim. Later, Monu Rajak, son of Balchand Rajak, came and stripped the woman while beating her up. Three women also joined him,” said the police officer. An FIR was registered against Monu Rajak under section 354 (intent to outrage woman’s modesty) of IPC while three women were booked under section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene comments) and 506 (criminal intimidation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-women-among-4-arrested-for-beating-stripping-woman-in-madhya-pradesh/story-fGsPJB1xS9dLuoyhBzeK2M.html
02-12-2020||India||Sexual assault charges cannot be slapped under POCSO Act unless sexual intent proved: Bombay HC||Sexual assault charges cannot be slapped under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act unless it is shown that the act was committed with sexual intent, the Bombay high court said last week. The court made the observation while granting anticipatory bail to a Pune resident accused of tearing off a minor’s clothes and touching her inappropriately while physically assaulting her.Justice Bharati Dangre granted the bail saying the First Information Report filed against the accused on October 20 did not indicate that he committed the acts with sexual intent. The complainant in the case alleged her family had a dispute with the accused over a shop and they had exchanged legal notices over it. The accused allegedly barged into their house along with his wife and two others and started assaulting her parents. The complainant said the accused also assaulted her and her younger 17-year-old sister and ripped off their clothes. She alleged the attacker also touched both of them inappropriately.Also read | Rise in crimes against women, children in Mumbai in 2019-2020, says report“Prima facie, the offence under Section 7 and the punishment under Section 8 of the POCSO Act would not be attracted unless and until the sexual intent is specifically proven,” said Dangre. “This is a matter of trial since the FIR does not make out any sexual intent.”Dangre said prima facie in absence of the sexual intent and in the backdrop of the discord between the two parties, the applicant is entitled to protection in anticipation of his arrest. In case of arrest, he has been ordered to be released on furnishing a personal bond worth Rs 25,000 and one or two sureties of the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-assault-charges-cannot-be-slapped-under-pocso-act-unless-sexual-intent-proved-bombay-hc/story-sKGCm1tyqnVyHNivZQfVpO.html
02-12-2020||India||Goa govt blinks first, shows willingness to auction iron ore mines||The Goa government has signalled a change of heart and a willingness to auction dormant leases in a bid to restart mining in the state, halted since March 2018 after the Supreme Court cancelled Goa’s mining renewals. On return from Delhi, where he held a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah, also attended by the ministers of mines and petroleum, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that a ‘solution’ through auctions was being considered. “We will come out with a solution through auctions. We want the mining activity to resume once again. So thinking of all this we have arrived at a consensus that we can work out a similar solution,” Sawant told reporters. Sawant’s announcement is a marked departure from the State government’s policy which, till date, has resisted auctions owing to what former chief minister Manohar Parrikar described as ‘inviting unknown business interests, who are often referred to as mining mafia, to carry out and undertake mining activities.’Mining in Goa is stuck in a deadlock with the Supreme Court directing that the state issue fresh leases and the MMDR Act in its current form mandating that any grant of fresh leases should be through a process of auction. Auctions could throw open Goa’s mines, hitherto held by a handful of family run companies, to bigger players from across the country. Sawant admitted that the Goa government was reluctant to opt for auctions, but hastened to add that it was only because of the interests of the mining workers, truckers, etc who he feared might be offloaded with new players entering the industry and not to protect the interests of the existing mine owners. “We were worried about the local workers, truck owners, machinery owners, farmers, etc. If tomorrow someone from outside wins a bid then would these people who were onboard with the existing operators, be left behind? Hence we were trying for a different solution (than auction),” Sawant said. Also Read: One time power bill settlement scheme launched in GoaGoa’s mining industry lobby, the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association, mainly consisting of family-owned businesses which were granted the mining concessions by the erstwhile Portuguese colonial regime and has run the mines since then has remained guarded while responding to the change of stance. “We are awaiting a joint meeting being scheduled by the Union of India with the state government and the industry in order to find a legally prudent solution considering legal and technical aspects of Goa mining,” the GMOEA said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-blinks-first-shows-willingness-to-auction-iron-ore-mines/story-gACvnaX4mO6kQrXK0ipb2M.html
02-12-2020||India||SpiceJet to provide logistical support for Covid-19 vaccine delivery||Low cost carrier SpiceJet will be giving logistical support for delivery of Covid-19 vaccine.The airline’s dedicated cargo arm, SpiceXpress, will be transporting the vaccine through a specialised service called Spice Pharma Pro.SpiceJet spokesperson said the airline has tied up with global leaders in cold chain solutions offering active and passive packaging with dedicated equipment to perform seamless cold chain operations. “SpiceXpress has the capability to transport extremely sensitive drugs and vaccines in controlled temperatures ranging from -40°c to +25°C. SpiceXpress is ready for the enormous task of distributing sensitive goods both domestically and internationally including Covid-19 vaccines that require stringent transportation conditions,” the spokesperson added. Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet said, “We have been preparing for the humongous task of transporting medicines, vaccines, blood samples and temperature-sensitive cargo by developing end-to-end cold chain logistics solutions. With a dedicated fleet of 17 cargo aircraft, SpiceXpress is capable of flying cargo to both domestic and a wide list of international destinations.” “The airline also offers a plethora of other benefits such as a network of warehouses equipped with deep freezers to enable change of cool packs and ground vehicles and containers to help transport sensitive cargo,” he added. SpiceJet has transported 85,000 tonnes of cargo since the lockdown in March and the airline’s international cargo network now spans over 50 international destinations||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-to-provide-logistical-support-for-covid-19-vaccine-delivery/story-QC5cZajwuATytnAK9peFjM.html
02-12-2020||India||NGT extends ban on sale and use of firecrackers during Covid-19 in NCR and cities where AQI falls under ‘poor’ or above categories||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday banned the sale and use of firecrackers in the National Capital Region and in cities across the country where ambient air quality levels fall under ‘poor’ or above categories. The National Green Tribunal in its statement said, “NGT says total ban on sale, use of all firecrackers during COVID-19 pandemic in NCR and all cities/towns where air quality is ‘poor’.”NGT permitted using green crackers during Christmas at places where ambient air quality levels remain above ‘moderate’ or better between 11:55 pm to 12:30 pm. In its directive NGT has also asked the district magistrates to ensure that there is no sale of banned firecrackers. It also instructed the District Magistrates to recover compensation from people violating the NGT’s order. NGT said if individuals face problems due to burning of firecrackers they can consult the district magistrate for compensation. It said, “Any victim of pollution, apart from other remedies, can approach the District Magistrate for compensation.”The air quality in New Delhi remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the air quality levels are likely to remain in this category throughout the week.The Central Pollution Control Board which is implementing the GRAP protocols in the city said that pollution levels in November were higher than last year. CPCB on Tuesday shared the results of their findings and pointed out that the monthly average air quality index (AQI) this November was 327.9, as compared to 312.2 in November 2019. Several states like Delhi had imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers before Diwali. West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan and Sikkim had imposed a blanket ban on firecrackers owing to pollution and it leading to poor air quality. Haryana, Maharashtra and Karnataka had not imposed a blanket ban but asked citizens to exercise restraint while burning firecrackers. Punjab and Haryana designated specific timings for citizens to burn crackers while Karnataka allowed the sale of green crackers during Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-firecracker-sale/story-0m7RMkAgIYOk2EA0NJgOCM.html
02-12-2020||India||6 of family killed as car collides with truck in Telangana||Six members of a family were killed and five others sustained injuries when a car they were travelling in collided with a truck on the Hyderabad-Bijapur national highway near Chevella in Telangana’s Ranga Reddy district in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The deceased were identified as Asif Khan (50), Nazia Begum (45), Nazia Bano (36), Sania (17), Arshad (28), Asra Bano (6). Five others, including Syed Ali, Begum, Nausheer and Anwar Khan, besides an infant, sustained injuries. All of them are from Tadbund area in Secunderabad. “Two of the injured, Syed Ali and Begum, whose condition is critical, have been shifted to a private hospital in Hyderabad and the remaining two are being treated at Chevella government hospital,” Chevella inspector of police Balakrishna told reporters. According to the inspector, all the 11 members of the family left for Gurmatkal in Yadgir district of Karnataka in a Toyota Innova car early in the morning. “As they crossed Kandawada village on the outskirts of Chevella town, the driver of their SUV, in a bid to overtake another vehicle in front of him at a road turning, failed to notice a truck carrying a borewell rig coming in the opposite direction, and rammed it,” he said. The SUV got mangled completely and six members of the family were crushed to death on the spot. “The bodies of the deceased were shifted to the mortuary of the government hospital Chevella and the case is being investigated,” Balakrishna said. The accident severely affected the movement of vehicles on the Hyderabad-Bijapur highway and caused a nearly two-kilometre long jam. The police cleared the vehicle that met with the accident and cleared the way an hour later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-of-family-killed-as-car-collides-with-truck-in-telangana/story-xpvy1vNC06DbxrgyhoTLjM.html
02-12-2020||India||‘No option left’: Labourers from Bundelkhand on the move again for jobs||Despite the grim Covid situation, the Bundelkhand region, spread across districts in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, is witnessing a massive migration of labourers to mega cities in the country in search of jobs, say villagers and social activists in the region. The Madhya Pradesh government claims to have undertaken a number of measures to provide jobs to the labourers.The migration is reported to have increased post-Diwali. What has added to the migration is want of employment opportunities, damage to the kharif crop due to below average rainfall and no hope for good yield of rabi crops too. As per social activists, more than 40% of the labourers who had returned to their native places during the lockdown have returned to the cities like Delhi, Ghaziabad, Agra, Gurugram, Chandigarh, Indore, etc from the region.Biharikheda and Udaipura are two neighbouring villages of Sagar district situated about 30 km from the district headquarters. These villages wear almost a deserted look these days. The situation is such that even increasing Covid cases in these cities have not deterred the migrant labourers from getting back to these cities, as per villagers.These two villages have a population of around 2,500 each and more than 50% of people have once again migrated to big cities for employment.These villages are not alone in the district or the region witnessing massive migration. Similar situation prevails in other districts of the region whether it’s Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna, Niwari or Damoh.Satu Ahirwar, 83, a resident of Biharikheda, said, “I have three sons and all of them with their families left for Indore after Diwali looking for a job at building sites. There is no employment here and it’s difficult to sustain life with almost no employment and earning. Whatever savings they had was spent during this period. I have just one acre of agriculture land which is hardly enough to provide food to all of us.”He said, “When I came to know about the alarming increase in Covid cases in Indore I called up my sons and urged them to return but they didn’t listen to my advice and said there was no point in staying here with no job and income. Now I can only pray to God to protect them.”Kalu Ahirwar, 63, a resident of Udaipura, was sitting outside his house alone. He said, “My son Jhalkan stayed here for four months but he returned to Delhi after Diwali. I talked to him on the phone a couple of days back. He said there was a talk of lockdown in Delhi. If it happens then he would move to Gurugram but at least he would have some job and earning.”Kalu said, “I have three acre of agricultural land which is not irrigated. My younger son helps me in farming. When the kharif crop was destroyed we sowed seeds of wheat and gram but we have no adequate water for irrigation. I don’t know what would happen to my Rabi crop. Future looks bleak.”Tulsi Ahirwar of the village with his family has once again returned to Delhi leaving his house locked and so have Bhaiyaram, Ram Kisan and Santosh.Bhagwat Gond, 26, a tribal, with five other youths from this village is planning to go to Chennai.Gond said, “We mainly do whitewash work. We had some jobs till Diwali but don’t have any work now to earn money. That’s why we don’t have any other option left but to migrate again.”Udaipura village’s ex-sarpanch Vinod Yadav said, “MNREGA was of some help to migrant labourers but this is not enough to provide a good income to them. While they earn Rs 300 to Rs 400 per day in big cities they get Rs 190 per day under MNREGA and that too subject to availability of work. In our village the river dries up as winter comes. If some stop dams are constructed here for irrigation purposes then agriculture itself can provide them good employment opportunities. It’s dangerous to migrate to other cities during the pandemic situation but how long can they wait for the situation to improve?”Prem Choudhary, a resident of Srinagar village in Tikamgarh district, who returned to Gurugram said over the phone, “During the lockdown I could not get much work under MNREGA as sarpanch and panchayat secretary offer work to only those whom they want to favour. I got 20 kg of rice through the public distribution system (PDS). We have about 1.5 acre agricultural land which my father cultivates. These are hardly enough to help us sustain our life particularly when I have six children.”Chintaman Ahirwar, a resident of Durgapur village in Tikamgarh district, has a similar story to tell.He said, “I could not have waited for long. Since there is Unlock everywhere and there is availability of jobs which can give good income to me it’s no use wasting my time here when there is hardly any good job available here.”Superintending engineer, Water Resources Department, Anil Agarwal said, “The water bodies which consist of dams, ponds, etc are filled below their level this year. In Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh and Panna these are filled up to only 50% of the capacity while in Sagar and Damoh it’s around 70%. The irrigation for the rabi crop through the water bodies may not be available as much as was witnessed last year.Khajuraho railway station manager Man Singh Meena said, “Khajuraho-Delhi-Kurukshetra express these days is carrying migrant labourers from Bundelkhand. After Diwali the number of passengers has increased manifold. On an average around 400-500 tickets are being sold for this train and about 95% of the tickets are taken by the labourers only. At nearby Harpalpur station, the Sampark kranti express is also carrying a good number of migrant labourers from various parts of Bundelkhand.”Chhatarpur Bus Association spokesman Arvind Goswami said, “About 10 buses are going almost daily with migrant labourers from Chhatarpur, Bada malehra, Gadi malehra, Nowgaon towns, etc. In the neighbouring Panna district the situation is the same.Social worker Gyanendra Tiwari said, “In Bundelkhand migration has always been a big problem despite the tall claims made by respective governments. Even amid Covid pandemic time people are migrating to big cities in search of employment. More than 50% migrant labourers have returned to the big cities so far while the trend is only increasing by the day.”He said, “There is not a single village in this region from where migration has not taken place. During lockdown the central government and state government had allocated huge sums for MNREGA jobs but implementation of the same was hardly visible at the ground level due to malpractices and corruption.”Another social worker Rajkumar Ahirwar from Tikamgarh said, “The Kharif crop was destroyed in Bundelkhand and till now no compensation has been given to the farmers and due to less rainfall the Rabi crop prospects too don’t look good. In such circumstances poor people have no option but to migrate to big cities for employment. By creating employment opportunities, more irrigation facilities and curbing corruption in implementation of the government schemes the government can reduce the level of migration.”Divisional commissioner of Sagar Mukesh Kumar said, “The state government is trying to provide job opportunities to migrant labourers through MNREGA and other government schemes. I will further talk to district collectors in this respect and will try to provide livelihood means to them here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-option-left-labourers-from-bundelkhand-on-the-move-again-for-jobs/story-vQ7wkovB7w5ZbLVfyjbAzK.html
02-12-2020||India||‘No hugs, group photos’: Bhopal draws up ground rules for weddings||The district administration in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal has listed a set of ground rules that it wants people to follow at weddings to minimise the risk of spread of coronavirus disease. The advisory, released by the district administration on Tuesday, asks guests at weddings in the city to opt for online gifts and bless the newly-wed from a distance.“Avoid talking aloud and laughing and also talking in groups as these attract others to follow the suit. Avoid any contact like embracing and shaking hands with others”, the advisory issued by Bhopal district collector Avinash Lavania says.“Collector has made an appeal to people attending the wedding functions to stay for a short while in marriage functions, park their vehicles on their own and carry their own face masks and sanitisers. They shouldn’t touch their face repeatedly and maintain a distance of at least six feet from others. They should also avoid using their mobile phones and keys repeatedly and sanitise the same properly. Instead of serving food (in plates) on their own by touching the spoon, they should ask others to do so. Instead of opening the return gift immediately, they should keep it in an open space for a few days”, the advisory says.The administration has also asked people to avoid holding music programmes that involve a larger number of people.“There is a custom regarding dance and singing songs with friends and relatives. In such a situation, people should avoid sharing the same microphone. People should not remove masks for photos and avoid group photographs. Return gifts should be packed and distributed by a particular person. Gifts should be kept at a place from where guests can lift their gift. Gift (shagun) should be sent electronically. If it’s not possible, then there should be a fixed point where gifts should be delivered. Such gifts should be opened after certain days,” says the advisory.The government wants people to prefer an open and airy venue for the ceremony with arrangements for washing hands and sanitisation. Covid-19 guidelines should be displayed at various points. Covers of chairs, sofa etc should be changed regularly and the same should be disinfected. The wedding should be shown live on the internet and on screens at the venue to ensure that people don’t crowd at any spot in the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hugs-group-photos-bhopal-draws-up-ground-rules-for-weddings/story-EcWpHqKdgaMJ5VSiEEO2wI.html
02-12-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut gets legal notice over ‘misidentifying’ Shaheen Bagh activist Bilkis Bano||A Punjab-based lawyer has sent a legal notice to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly misidentifying an old woman at the farmers’ protest in the national capital as Bilkis Bano, famously known as the ‘Shaheen Bagh dadi’.Advocate Harkam Singh, in the legal notice dated November 30, suggested Ranaut should have authenticated information before posting it on social media and demanded an apology over her tweets, in which she allegedly misidentified the woman.Also Read: ‘For her own safety’: Delhi Police on why Shaheen Bagh Dadi was stopped at Singhu border“I sent a legal notice for a tweet misidentifying Mohinder Kaur as Bilkis Bano with an insinuation that she (Kaur) was available as a hired protestor for Rs 100. The notice gives Ranaut seven days to issue an apology failing which a defamation case will be pursued,” Singh told ANI here on Wednesday.The legal notice said Ranaut, in her tweet, claimed that Bilkis Bano was present at the farmers’ protest and was available in Rs 100.“It is to inform you that the said lady is not a fake lady. Her name is Mahinder Kaur and she belongs to Bathinda. She is the wife of farmer Labh Singh Nambardar. She in her life, has always remained connected with fields and filed work and she is the wife of a farmer,” the notice said.It said by using such remarks, Ranaut has not only lowered down the prestige and image of the lady but has also lowered down the image and prestige of each lady as well as of each person who takes part in protests for a noble cause and for fighting for their rights.Also Read: Farmers protest: Shaheen Bagh’s Bilkis Dadi turned away from Singhu border“That by tweeting in such a manner, the same also points out towards the fact that the protest which is being conducted by the farmers, is being conducted by bringing persons on rent. Such low thinking from you, who herself is lady and celebrity, is not acceptable,” the notice said.“That you have further made a mockery of the farmers who, by putting their life to risk, have been protesting for their rights. It is known to one and all that in the said farmers’ protest, a number of farmers have already lost their lives,” it added.Notably, Ranaut had deleted her tweet allegedly misidentifying the woman after she was slammed for the same on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-gets-legal-notice-over-misidentifying-shaheen-bagh-activist-bilkis-bano/story-SFwvDvrOJo9LJflwOFk3aP.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate expected to go below 5%: Health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the government sees the prospects of Covid-19 positivity rate going down to 5% in the next few days. “Positivity rate has declined below 7%. It is expected to go below 5% in the next few days. Currently, more than 1600 ICU beds are available in hospitals in Delhi,” Jain said. Delhi’s positivity rate, which had crossed 15% on November 15, is hovering in 6-8% mark in the last few weeks.The health minister had previously stated that the positivity rate in the national capital has fallen by a margin of nearly 55 per cent since early November and it should reduce further in the next two weeks.Also read: Delhi government caps price of RT-PCR test by private labs at Rs 800Delhi battled a severe rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths last month. The recent surge in the virus cases was seen during the festive season and rising pollution level, experts said.In order to fight the rising cases, authorities ramped up the Covid-19 testing strategy and increased the tests to over 60,000 a day-mark. The government has also slashed the prices of RT-PCR tests in private labs to aid people who want to get their tests done in private labs.Adopting an aggressive approach of contact tracing and testing, the Delhi government has carried out RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test to detect novel coronavirus in the national capital. Both tests are done free at government testing centres and hospitals.Signalling the need to ramp up medical infrastructure, the National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently warned that the national capital needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-expected-to-go-below-5-health-minister/story-scqYJx3O8SJ6pX5EsetH7H.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Not easy to shift Film City from Mumbai’: Sanjay Raut on Yogi Adityanath’s visit||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said it is not easy to shift Mumbai’s Film City elsewhere even though attempts have been made for it.Raut was talking to reporters amid Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s ongoing two-day visit to Mumbai where he is meeting film personalities and industrialists.Adityanath had earlier unveiled an ambitious plan to set up a film city and rolled out an open offer to film fraternity to come to Uttar Pradesh.The UP government earlier approved a proposal for setting up a film city in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway in Gautam Buddh Nagar.“What is the status of Noida film city now? Can you create Mumbai’s Film Cityin Lucknow and Patna?” Raut asked.“Earlier, attempts were made. It is difficult to replicate Mumbai’s film industry elsewhere. Mumbai has a glorious film history and past,” the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson said.Raut noted that South and Bengal also have huge film industries. Southern superstars Rajinikanth, Nagarjuna, Chiranjeevi have worked in Hindi movies also.“Is Yogiji going to those states or only targeting Mumbai?” the Rajya Sabha member asked.“Speak of unemployment, falling GDP and the economy, instead of Shiv Sena’s Hindutva,” he said, referring to BJP’s claim that the Shiv Sena has given up its core ideology.Raut alsosaid the central government should take steps to resolve the farmers’ protest against the new farm laws going on at the Delhi borders since last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-easy-to-shift-film-city-from-mumbai-sanjay-raut-on-yogi-adityanath-s-visit/story-S1PnsRyawoWa4XHUtmatEP.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Compulsory community service’ at Covid-19 centres for those not wearing masks, rules Gujarat high court||In a bid to control the Covid-19 situation in Gujarat, the high court on Wednesday ordered that those not found wearing masks will have to serve a “compulsory community service” at Covid-19 care centres, news agency ANI has reported. The Gujarat high court, the agency further said, directed the state government to pass a notification in this regard. Gujarat High Court orders compulsory community service at COVID19 care centres for those who do not wear masks, directs State Government to issue a notification pic.twitter.com/7EMYx1kKbZIn recent days, the Gujarat government has announced a series of measures to curb the pandemic in the state. On Tuesday, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel announced that the price of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test by private labs will be reduced to Rs 800. If the patient wants to be tested at home, Patel said, he/she will have to pay Rs 1,100. Before the government’s announcement, private labs were charging Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 for conducting RT-PCR tests.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe government has also put the state’s four largest cities-Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara-under night curfew. A 57-hour “complete curfew” was announced in Ahmedabad from 9pm on November 20 to 6am on November 23. At the end of the “complete curfew,” the government announced that a daily night curfew, from 9pm to 6am, would remain in force in the city till the situation is brought under control. The night curfew for Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara, meanwhile, was announced on November 21.Also Read | Ahmedabad imposes night curfew from 9pm To 6am amid rising Covid- 19 casesGujarat had also postponed reopening of schools and colleges in the state, which were scheduled to reopen from November 23, in the wake of its current coronavirus situation.The state has thus far recorded a total of 211,095 cases of Covid-19, as per the government’s official Covid-19 portal. This includes 192,209 recovered cases, 14,885 active cases and 4,001 deaths. With well over 50,000 cases-50,409-Ahmedabad is the worst-hit city in Gujarat and among the worst-affected cities in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compulsory-community-service-at-covid-19-centres-for-those-not-wearing-masks-rules-gujarat-high-court/story-u5mX7yJJu4YVXBGd49nP8K.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Vital for army’: Centre asks SC to review Char Dham road project order||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the High Powered Committee (HPC), formed to assess environmental damages to the Char Dham road project, presently under construction, to examine the Centre’s objections against reducing the road width within two weeks.The 900-km long project will connect four important Hindu pilgrimage sites: Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, all in Uttarakhand.On September 8, the apex court upheld the recommendation of the minority members of the HPC and asked the implementing agencies to reduce the width of the road to 5.5m for the whole project. This order was based on a March 2018 circular released by MoRTH laying down guidelines for road construction in hilly terrains in the country.Both the ministry of defence and road transport have urged the top Court to review its earlier order, citing road safety and requirements of the army. A three-judge bench, headed by justice RF Nariman, asked the committee to examine all aspects pending before the court in the petition filed by Citizens for Green Doon as well as an application moved by the ministries. In addition, there were two letters addressed to the top court by the HPC chairman, which will also be gone into.The application by the defence ministry, presented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, said, “The roads should have capacity to facilitate movement of heavy vehicles carrying troops, self propelled artillery and various machinery required by the army. For this purpose a double lane road having a carriageway width of 7m (or 7.5m where there is a raised kerb) is necessary to meet requirements of the army. The very security of the nation is involved and it has become necessary to seek modification of the September 8 order.”The road ministry had claimed that a substantial reduction in the width of the road to 5.5m in terms of the 2018 circular at this stage will result in non-uniform carriageway width varying from 10m to 5.5m in short stretches.“This sudden change in road width in a short road length is not desirable from road users’ safety perspectives and may lead to the formation of black spots and spurt in road accidents,” said the ministry.The top court asked the committee to supply a copy of its report to ministries and petitioner counsel Colin Gonsalves. The Centre will give its comments on the report and submit an affidavit in court in the third week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vital-for-army-centre-asks-sc-to-review-char-dham-road-project-order/story-tJo29BaRNDmCzCIj2EvQmN.html
02-12-2020||India||Government plans technological road map for Covid immunisation||The government is planning a detailed technological road map to optimise the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine, officials aware of the matter said. The plan will include the use of more regional languages for creating awareness, addressing challenges of last-mile vaccinators and generating alerts about fake vaccines.The officials said health workers will be at the forefront of the immunisation drive while information technology (IT) experts will be in charge at the back end. The experts are working to develop requisite software to ensure the vaccine is properly distributed across the country.An inter-ministerial team for the purpose has members from the ministries of IT, health and as well as the United Nations Development Programme.Also read | 36,604 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to nearly 9.5 millionThe government is expected to roll out the COVIN app to track the procurement, supply and distribution of the vaccine to the last mile, the officials cited above said. The app is likely to be a bolstered version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (e-VIN) used for the polio eradication programme in India.The government also plans to rope in start-ups to create additional resources that can be integrated into the network to plug any gaps in the logistical systems.“The attempt is to create an integrated IT platform that will track the vaccine from the cold supply chain, its allocation, prioritisation of doses,” said an official, who did not want to be named.The Covid-19 vaccination will cover everyone. Earlier India’s largest immunisation programme against polio included only children under five. “Realtime ground-level information will be available on the portals,” the official cited above said.The IT ministry also plans to introduce value-added services, which will include interventions to address the technological and regional language challenges for the last mile workers. “For the last-mile workers to provide accurate data on the number of doses administered, the applications will have to be tailored accordingly,” said a second official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. “The focus will be on increasing the [use of] number of languages available and introducing temperature trackers to monitor the vaccine centrally.”The second official said the technological solutions will help pick the ideal routes, to immunise all priority patients and ensure that the list is not violated. “The idea is to optimise supply and delivery and all possible solutions to that end will be worked out.”The first official said an integrated portal will also contain warnings against fake vaccines that are likely to become available as the immunisation programme starts. The technology has been showcased to other countries as well in case they require help in creating their own systems, the first official added.HT on Tuesday reported that the government is planning to mobilise the same resources used to conduct the polio immunisation programme for Covid-19 vaccination. The e-VIN technology is currently active in 32 states and Union Territories and the government plans to roll it out in the remaining ones immediately.“... 23,507 cold chain points across 585 districts of 22 states and 2 UTs [Union Territories] routinely use the eVIN technology for efficient vaccine logistics management. Over 41,420 vaccine cold chain handlers have been introduced to digital record-keeping by training them on eVIN. Nearly 23,900 electronic temperature loggers have been installed on vaccine cold chain equipment for accurate temperature review of vaccines in storage,” the government said in a statement in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-plans-technological-road-map-for-covid-immunisation/story-8gxOpA1hEEyB6AR4t5TXXP.html
02-12-2020||India||Right to marry person of choice a fundamental right, says Karnataka high court||The Karnataka high court has said that the right to marry a person of choice is a fundamental right. The court judgement came on Monday on a habeas corpus petition filed by a resident of Bengaluru.“It is well settled that the right of any major individual to marry the person of his/her choice is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution of India and the said liberty relating to the personal relationships of two individuals cannot be encroached by anybody irrespective of caste and religion,” the bench said.Also Read |  In defence of the right of women to chooseWajeed Khan, a software engineer by profession, had approached the high court last week for the release of his lover Ramya G from home confinement. Ramya is also a software engineer and Khan’s colleague at the company where he works.The woman was produced before the court during the hearing, where she told the bench of justices S Sujata and Sachin Shankar Magadum that her right to liberty was being infringed by her parents who were against her marriage to Khan.However, Khan’s mother claimed no objections to the matrimony.Ramya told the court that she has been staying at an NGO after a complaint filed by her at a family dispute resolution forum named Janodaya Santwana Kendra. The forum is set up by the department of women and child welfare development.Also Read |  UP makes ‘love jihad’ a punishable offenceThe court ordered that Ramya should be released.The judgement comes in the backdrop of two similar judgements by Allahabad high court and Delhi high court. The Allahabad high court had earlier held the right of a person to live with the individual of their choice irrespective of the religion practised by them, and constituted it as intrinsic to the right to life and personal liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-marry-person-of-choice-a-fundamental-right-says-karnataka-high-court/story-ZVpvG8hpXeeWxKDb3JUxFK.html
02-12-2020||India||Right to privacy: Delhi High Court seeks Centre’s stand on PIL against surveillance systems||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a PIL claiming that citizens’ right to privacy was being “endangered” by the execution and operation of surveillance systems like the Centralised Monitoring System (CMS), Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) and National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID).A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of Home Affairs, Information Technology, Communications and Law and Justice, seeking their stand on the plea by an NGO and listed the matter for hearing on January 7, 2021.The plea by NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), has claimed that these surveillance systems allow central and state law enforcement agencies to intercept and monitor all telecommunications in bulk which is an infringement of the fundamental right to privacy of individuals.The plea, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, has contended that under the existing legal framework there is an “insufficient oversight mechanism” to authorise and review the interception and monitoring orders issued by the state agencies.The NGO has sought directions to the Centre to “permanently stop the execution and the operation of the surveillance projects, CMS, NETRA and NATGRID, which allows for bulk collection and analysis of personal data.It has also sought constitution of a permanent independent oversight body, judicial or parliamentary, for issuing and reviewing lawful interception and monitoring orders/warrants under the enabling provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and the Information Technology Act, 2000. PTI HMP DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-privacy-delhi-high-court-seeks-centre-s-stand-on-pil-against-surveillance-systems/story-6Pcitq50ppYBgfrRgEUAmO.html
02-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi to cross Tamil Nadu coast on Friday: All you need to know||South Tamil Nadu and Kerala coasts braced for Cyclone Burevi as the storm hovered over southwest Bay of Bengal on Wednesday morning. It is expected to cross the Sri Lanka coast on Wednesday and the Tamil Nadu coast on Friday.“Cyclonic Storm ‘Burevi’ over southwest Bay of Bengal about 240 km east-southeast of Trincomalee (Sri Lanka), 470 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 650 km nearly east-northeast of Kanniyakumari (India) at at 0530 hrs IST of today, the 02nd December 2020m” the India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted.Here is all you need to know about the Cyclone Burevi:1. The storm will bring with it heavy to very heavy rainfall over areas in South Tamil Nadu including Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga. 2. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Puducherry, Mahe, Karaikal, north Kerala and south Coastal Andhra Pradesh on December 2 and 3. Lakshadweep will experience heavy rainfall on December 3 and 4.3. The storm is likely to move westwards and emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area on December 3 morning. It would then cross south Tamil Nadu coasts between Kanyakumari and Pamban around early morning of December 4, IMD said.4. According to the IMD, the storm will cross Sri Lanka coast close to Trincomalee on December 2 evening or night and will emerge into Gulf of Mannar on December 3 morning. It will cross south Tamil Nadu between Kanyakumari and Pamban on the early morning of December 4.5. IMD has issued a red alert in four south and central Kerala districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta and orange alert in three other districts, in the view of the storm.6. Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Bay of Bengal, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off east Sri Lanka coast from December 2 to 3, Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala and west Sri Lanka coasts from December 2 to 4, over Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea from December 3 to 4, IMD said.7. Cyclone Burevi is the second storm to hit Tamil Nadu in less than a week. Last week, “very severe cyclonic storm” Nivar had hit the state. 8. Cyclone Nivar made landfall on November 26, brought heavy rainfall and flooded several parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry but did not cause any large-scale damage to life or property.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-to-cross-tamil-nadu-coast-on-friday-all-you-need-to-know/story-7IGr14FlHji0XOED5fQr8J.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality inches closer to ‘severe’ zone||Delhi’s air quality was in the upper end of the “very poor” category Wednesday morning, while pollution levels have already entered the “severe” zone in the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida.The city’s air quality index (AQI) was 381 at 9 am. The 24-hour average was 367 on Tuesday. It was 318 on Monday and 268 on Sunday.Ghaziabad and Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 430 and 410, respectively.  An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The maximum wind speed is expected to be 12 kmph on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature was 8.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday and the maximum is expected to settle around 27 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.The minimum temperature this season has remained 2-3 degrees Celsius below normal in the absence of a cloud cover on most days, according to IMD officials.Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground.The predominant wind direction remained westerly-north-westerly on most of the days. These winds blow from snowcapped western Himalayas towards the plains.Also Read |  Delhi AQI rises to 339, continues to be in very poor zoneAnother reason for the below normal temperatures is La Nina, a phenomenon associated with the cooling of Pacific waters and an antithesis to El Nino.  Calm winds and low temperatures trap pollutants close to the ground, while favourable wind speed helps in their dispersion.  The central government’s Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the “very poor” category due to unfavourable meteorological conditions.There is a possibility of the air quality reaching the “severe” category between December 4 and December 7, it said.The city’s ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed – was 2,500 m2/s on Tuesday and is likely to be 6,000 m2/s on Wednesday.Mixing depth is the vertical height in which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed.A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for dispersal of pollutants.The contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring states to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels was 4 per cent on Tuesday, 7 per cent on Monday and 6 per cent on Sunday, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-inches-closer-to-severe-zone/story-ZvqJea6sQYfS4igWdV3esM.html
02-12-2020||India||Woman’s neck slit, man killed after iron pipe crashes into moving bus||A woman and a young man were killed when an 80-feet iron pipe pierced through a moving bus near the highway in Sanderao police station area of Pali district on Tuesday evening.According to police, the rod slit the woman’s neck, cracked a youngster’s head and also left 13 passengers injured. Three people are said to be critical.“It was revealed that a company was laying a gas pipeline in the area. The pipe was hanging in the air on a pipe-burning hydraulic machine. According to the company’s manager, the pipe picked up from the hydro machine was under control, but in order to save the bulls crossing the road, the driver accidentally threw the pipe, which caused it to crash into the bus,” said a police official from Pali.He added that the driver was also riding the bus at a very high speed. “The major reason behind the accident was the negligence of the firm laying the gas pipeline because it is not possible to control the 80-feet long pipe by simply lifting it with a hydraulic machine. The company should have taken safety measures,” the police officer said.Six days ago, the police had seized a JCB and tractor of the company due to negligence and lack of safety equipment. The company’s manager was called and instructed to improve the security system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-s-neck-slit-man-killed-after-pipe-crashes-into-moving-bus/story-Dc0KH2KvWOw3hLqr8kzULP.html
02-12-2020||India||As ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests enter day 7, Rahul Gandhi fires ‘suit-boot’ jibe at Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been vehemently criticising the central government over the three contentious farm laws passed by it in September, on Wednesday once again fired a ‘suit-boot’ jibe at it as the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests against the legislations entered day seven.Also Read | Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protests“What the government said: farmers’ income will be doubled. What the government did: increased income of its cronies four times and will halve farmers’ income. This is a government of lies and a ‘suit-boot’ government,” Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.ALSO WATCH | Farmer protest: What happened at meeting with govt? Union minister reveals  कहा- किसान की आय दुगनी होगी।किया- ‘मित्रों’ की आय हुई चौगुनी और किसान की होगी आधी।झूठ की, लूट की, सूट-बूट की सरकार। pic.twitter.com/anSiQ8ZirdIn the last few days, Gandhi has been vocal on the anti-farm law protests which have only intensified despite government’s efforts to stop them. “While the country’s food providers are protesting on the roads, the liars are giving speeches on national television. Farmers’ hard work is a debt on all of us. This debt can only be paid back by giving them justice and not by lathi-charging them or firing tear gas at them. Wake up, put your ego aside and give the farmer what he deserves,” he had tweeted on Tuesday. अन्नदाता सड़कों-मैदानों में धरना दे रहे हैं,और‘झूठ’ टीवी पर भाषण!किसान की मेहनत का हम सब पर क़र्ज़ है।ये क़र्ज़ उन्हें न्याय और हक़ देकर ही उतरेगा, न कि उन्हें दुत्कार कर, लाठियाँ मारकर और आंसू गैस चलाकर।जागिए, अहंकार की कुर्सी से उतरकर सोचिए और किसान का अधिकार दीजिए।Farmers, majority of whom are from Punjab - a state where Gandhi’s Congress is in power - have been protesting, against what they call “black laws,” since these were passed. Initially, they blocked railway tracks in Punjab and later announced the ‘Dilli Chalo’ march towards Delhi. They began their march on November 26 and reached Delhi, despite attempts by the Haryana police to stop them. While a section of farmers is protesting at the capital’s Nirankari grounds in Burari, majority are camping at various borders of the city and have vowed not to leave till the laws are taken back.Also Read | Delhi-Noida border closed due to farmers’ protestA meeting between the government and farm union leaders on Tuesday was inconclusive. The farm leaders rejected the government’s proposal to set up a panel to discuss the laws and said that the protests will continue.The next round of talks between the two sides will take place on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-dilli-chalo-protests-enter-day-7-rahul-gandhi-fires-suit-boot-jibe-at-centre/story-cShugsE44qRbw7jKkDUKAP.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Daily testing dropped in Maharashtra in November||Even as the authorities are anticipating a second Covid-19 wave by December-end, the daily testing in Maharashtra dropped significantly in November to 63,166. It was 70,393 in October and 88,209 in September, according to the official data.After the second peak of the first wave in September, the daily caseload started receding gradually. In November, the cases and deaths dropped by 50% compared to October and September. From 293,960 Covid-19 cases and 7,249 deaths in October, they dropped to 14,5490 and 3,240. The monthly positivity rate also came down to around 7.5%. The recovery rate went past 90% in November.Also read | 36,604 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to nearly 9.5 millionExperts have advised the government to keep up the aggressive testing. During Diwali, between November 11 and 17, the daily average testing dropped down to 44,470. It went up to over 80,000 tests in the last 10 days of November.“The drop in the tests was the result of holidays and also complacency that had come with the dip in the number of the caseload, which dropped to as low as 2,535 on November 16. We have increased the testing now,” a state health department official said.Pradeep Awate, a state surveillance officer, said the testing is done as per requirements and without aiming at any daily figure.Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed Covid-19 Task Force, said that the government has been advised to keep the testing rate high and track suspected patients early to keep the mortality low. “The number of testing has increased over the last few days. The aggressive testing will help in treating people early and keep the spread and mortality rate in check,” he said. “The local bodies have been told to track the suspected contacts aggressively at the ratio of 1:20 so that they are treated early. Our aim is to bring the positivity rate below 5%...”Joshi said they expect a gradual rise in the Covid-19 cases over the next few weeks and a peak or second wave between December 25 and January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-daily-testing-dropped-in-maharashtra-in-november/story-SRaBjNyQewYr0XVpyE8ASP.html
02-12-2020||India||Bihar mulls conducting panchayat polls via EVMs to bring transparency||The Bihar government is actively considering giving the State Election Commission (SEC) the go-ahead to hold the panchayat polls, to be held early next year, through electronic voting machines (EVMs). If okayed, this will be the first electronic voting exercise in the state for filling up 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier panchayat election.The estimated cost in holding the elections through EVMs will be Rs 392 crore, which will be Rs 142 crore higher than the expenditure made in 2016 panchayat polls. Sources said the state government in 2016 panchayat polls had incurred a cost of Rs 250 crore.Sources said recently the SEC had sent a proposal to the panchayati raj department to hold the polls through EVMs, reasoning it will help in bringing transparency, checking counting anomalies and rigging.Kerala, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh are among few states where the EVMs have been used to conduct panchayat polls in the last several years, an official said.“We have received the proposal from the SEC and it is in active consideration,” said additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena. He said the proposal will be sent to the cabinet for approval.Till now, the panchayat polls in the state have been conducted through ballot papers. The panchayat polls in the state are not held on party lines though a large number of candidates get backing of major political parties, especially for posts like mukhiya and district board members.Meanwhile, sources said the panchayati raj department has started working on the modalities in connection with the requisition of EVMs from the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL), Bengaluru.“We will get the EVMs from ECIL once the proposal is approved. It suits our needs because we have six posts in the panchayats and the EVMs have multiple voting options,” said a government official.In Bihar, elections in three-tier rural local bodies are held for six posts, namely ward member, mukhiya, panchayat samiti member, district board member, panch and sarpanch.The voters get six sets of ballot papers during the voting to choose their nominees. Now, if the EVMs are used, voters will have to press six buttons on the EVMs to vote against six posts, the official said.There are a total of 8,387 gram panchayats (the bottom level of three-tier local bodies), 534 panchayat samities and 38 district boards. Total posts in the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in the state stand at 2.58 lakh with at least 1.15 lakh ward members in the gram panchayats.“The panchayat elections in Bihar is one of the biggest poll exercises in terms of posts, number of candidates and booths. This is why we are in favour of using the EVMs so that the process is less time consuming, transparent and less cumbersome,” said an SEC official, pleading anonymity.Digitising detailsIncidentally, the SEC this time is also contemplating putting nomination papers of candidates on the SEC’s website and uploading affidavits having details of the candidates’ income, assets and personal profile as done in the legislative and parliamentary elections so that more information is available in the public domain.Sources said the SEC is planning to hold the elections to the PRIs from April onwards and extend till May in a phase-wise manner in 2021. The process of nominations by candidates will start from March onwards.The 2016 panchayat polls were held in ten phases in April-May with the counting process continuing till mid June, an official said. The total number of polling stations for panchayat election standing at 1.19 lakh is also expected to increase this election with possibility that maximum number of voters in each booth could be capped at 700.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-mulls-conducting-panchayat-polls-via-evms-to-bring-transparency/story-pfm7rfF5dBbhBxNL1qTReK.html
02-12-2020||India||Delhi-Noida border closed due to farmers’ protest||Farmers protesting against Centre’s farm laws continued their sit-in at the Noida-Delhi border for the second day on Wednesday, leading to closure of a key route that connects Uttar Pradesh with the national capital. The Delhi Traffic Police has advised commuters travelling to the national capital to avoid using the Chilla route and instead take the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) or Kalindi Kunj road.Also Read: With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests“The Chilla border on Noida-link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead for Noida,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.ALSO WATCH | ‘Those who take commission...’: Union minister VK Singh slams farmer protest Hundreds of farmers affiliated to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and other groups had gathered at UP border on Tuesday evening. Heavy security was deployed to prevent them from proceeding towards Delhi to join farmers of Punjab and Haryana in their protest.Also Read: PM Modi seeks to quell concerns on farm lawsFarmers are protesting against the three agricultural laws passed by Parliament in September. The three laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.However, the government has stuck to its stance that the laws are beneficial for the farmers. On his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “New dimensions are being added to agriculture and its related activities in India. The agriculture reforms in the past few days have also now opened new doors of possibilities for our farmers.”“These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” he added.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-noida-border-closed-due-to-farmers-protest/story-FFWH8lgj0fYR2yWfGoPOTP.html
02-12-2020||India||Yogi lists Lucknow Municipal Corporation bond at Bombay Stock Exchange||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is on a visit to Mumbai, listed Rs200 crore Lucknow Municipal Corporation bond at the Bombay Stock Exchange on Wednesday morning. Later, he is scheduled to meet prominent people from the film industry and industrialists to seek investment in the northern state.Lucknow now becomes the ninth city in India to have raised municipal bonds and the first city to issue such a bond after the launch of Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme.Adityanath arrived on Tuesday evening in the commercial and entertainment capital and met actor Akshay Kumar at a hotel in South Mumbai over dinner. On Wednesday, he is expected to meet filmmakers and studio heads at the hotel and discuss the UP government’s plan of setting up a film city in Noida. Also read | Yogi Adityanath inaugurates projects worth Rs 204 cr under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak YojanaThe CM will be meeting industrialists and film personalities from 10.30am till 2pm. He is expected to speak to the press afterwards, said a senior UP official who is accompanying him in Mumbai. Meanwhile, ahead of Adityanath’s visit to Mumbai, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said he will not let anybody “forcibly” take businesses away from the state.“We are not jealous if someone progresses, we do not have any problem with someone’s progress if one competes. But if you are going to forcibly take anything away, then, of course, I won’t let it happen and you (industrialists) will not be willing to go,” Thackeray said at an event organised by IMC Chamber of Commerce in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-lists-lucknow-municipal-corporation-bond-at-bombay-stock-exchange/story-GjEK2os2GHz6HVDdTGMvPK.html
02-12-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to address Oxford Union debate today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will address the Oxford Union debate on Wednesday afternoon. “She received the invitation in July this year and had accepted it. Banerjee will be highlighting some of the projects of the state government...,” said an official.The Oxford Union was founded as a debating society in the early 19th century. Eminent personalities like the Dalai Lama, Stephen Hawking, Albert Einstein and Mother Teresa have addressed the debate.Also read | ‘I never show off’: Mamata Banerjee on PM Modi reciting Bengali verseThe Union urged students to register online and submit their questions by December 1. Some of the selected questions were sent to Banerjee, which she would answer in her speech.In 2010, when Banerjee was the railway minister, she received an invitation from Cambridge University to deliver a lecture. She had declined then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-address-oxford-union-debate-today/story-SrrBwGfFoVlaTByIxQdT2N.html
02-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: A month since inauguration, Bhandup bird habitat overtakes Airoli marine centre in revenue||Almost a month after the Maharashtra forest department began regulating the entry of visitors to the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) from Bhandup Pumping Station (BPS) in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs, the area received more visitors than the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre (CMBC) at Airoli in November.This was identified on the basis of revenue collected at Bhandup, which overtook Airoli’s in the first month.According to the monthly report compiled by the department, Bhandup collected a revenue of Rs105,650 between November 5 and 30. Rs 101,416 revenue was collected at the CMBC from November 1 and 30.“Bhandup is displaying all features of a birders’ paradise that are being appreciated by visitors. The idea was never to focus on revenue but to regulate and protect this zone, which has now begun. Now we exactly know how many people are going and at the same time nuisance activities [open drinking or unregulated entry] have stopped completely,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell).The 11-hectare BPS is a satellite wetland of the flamingo sanctuary. “The main aim is to concentrate on this part of TCFS with the sole purpose to protect, conserve and create awareness among masses about birds and other biodiversity,” said Tiwari. He added a plan was being prepared on how the area could be further developed. Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, an NGO, said BPS has the potential to be the best forest tourism spot in Mumbai. “It can showcase the wetland biodiversity like no other place in Thane creek. We are continuously working to improve the ecological and aesthetic value of this zone, which is expected to see a massive facelift over the next six months to a year.”In August 2016, Maharashtra declared the northern part of Thane creek as a flamingo sanctuary across 1,690 ha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-a-month-since-inauguration-bhandup-bird-habitat-overtakes-airoli-marine-centre-in-revenue/story-EsRiogxo3eZ2WrHYuKqrqO.html
02-12-2020||India||36,604 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to nearly 9.5 million||India recorded 36,604 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry data showed at 8 am on Wednesday. With this, the nationwide tally has reached 9,499,413.The number of active cases continue to remain below the five lakh-mark - on Wednesday, the number was 4,28,644. So far, 89,32,647 patients have been cured of the disease, the health ministry data showed.The country recorded 501 new cases of Covid-19-related fatalities which pushed the death toll up to 1,38,122.India has been recording less than 50,000 daily Covid-19 cases for more than 10 days, the health ministry said on Wednesday morning.Addressing a press meet yesterday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, “Cumulative positivity rate has decreased in India from 7.15% to 6.69% during November 11 to December 1 period. In November 2020, the number of recoveries has been more than the number of new Covid-19 cases.”More than 14.13 crore tests for the detection of coronavirus infection have been conducted so far, while the cumulative positivity rate has declined from 7.15 per cent on November 11 to 6.69 per cent on December 1, Bhushan further said.The average daily positivity rate last week has been 3.72 per cent. In the month of November, more than 10.55 lakh tests were conducted daily, while on an average 43,152 new cases and 47,159 recoveries were recorded each day, he added.The top health official said that India still figures among the countries having the lowest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population.The Union health secretary also informed the press briefing that the top five states that have shown a decline in active cases during last month are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.The top five states showing a rise in active cases during the same period were Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36-604-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-to-nearly-9-5-million/story-eBvbohMeWJoNd8fv7N4QtK.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir enters Day 7: Here’s all you need to know about the anti-farm law protests||Protests against the three contentious agricultural laws have entered day seven as third round of talks between the government and farmers’ unions remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Farmers, who have been calling for a repeal of what they term as “black laws” since these were passed in September, have been camping on the outskirts of Delhi. While majority of the protesters are from Punjab, in recent days small groups of farmers from neighbouring states, including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too, have joined them.1. Tuesday’s talks between the government and farmers’ unions were not able to break the impasse as the unions didn’t accept the government’s suggestion of setting up a panel to discuss these legislations. After the meeting, farmers’ leaders told media that the stir would continue and the next round of talks will take place on December 3, as originally suggested by the government.Also Read | Meeting between farmers’ leaders, govt inconclusive; next round on Dec 32. A total of 32 farm unions participated in the talks on Tuesday. The government, which was represented by Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railway minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, also held a separate meeting with leaders of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).Also Read | With govt’s pro-farmer image under fire, BJP wants amicable end to farm protests3. Initially, there were reports that Union defence minister Rajnath Singh would lead government’s talks with the farmers’ unions but instead it were central ministers Tomar, Goyal and Prakash who met the farm leaders.4. India also issued a strong rebuttal to Canada PM Justin Trudeau who became the first international leader to speak up on the ongoing farmers’ protest. “We’ve seen some ill-informed comments by Canadian leaders relating to farmers in India. These are unwarranted especially when pertaining to internal affairs of a democratic country. It’s also best that diplomatic conversations aren’t misrepresented for political purposes,” the ministry said in a statement.5. Trudeau, whose country has a large Indian diaspora, including Sikhs, had on Tuesday, on the occasion of Gurpurab, said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends.”6. 82-year-old Bilkis Bano, popularly known as the “Shaheen Bagh Dadi,” was stopped by the Delhi police on Tuesday while on her way to support the protesting farmers at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, however, joined the protest at the Delhi-Uttar Ghazipur border yesterday.7. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march on November 26 to protest against the three laws. However, on their way to the national capital, they were met with tear gas and water cannons of the Haryana police but were able to cross the state.8. On November 27, upon arrival at the Delhi-Haryana border, they faced resistance from the Delhi Police but were later allowed to protest at the Nirankari grounds in Burari as against their demands of protesting at either Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Grounds.9. While some of the farmers are camping at the Nirankari grounds, others have refused to move. On Sunday, farmers had rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s offer of talks, calling it “conditional.”10. The protesters say they intend to block all five highways leading to Delhi until their demands are met. They claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to “lay siege to the national capital for months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-enters-day-7-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-anti-farm-law-protests/story-qB3Ta810YDfEsdhCtaVPJM.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19: West Bengal among top five states to register drop in active cases||West Bengal is among the top five states, where active Covid-19 cases have declined over the past month, the Union health ministry has said. While the number of active cases in the state was 36,761 on November 1, it dropped to 24,298 on December 1, according to the state health department data.The other states, which have registered a drop in active cases during the same period, are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The number of active cases in Maharashtra dropped from 125,672 to 91,623. In Karnataka, it dropped from 50,611 to 23,298 between November 1 and December 1. Also read | Eastern Railway to resume 54 non-suburban passenger services from todayThe positivity rate, or the proportion of people testing positive out of those tested, in West Bengal also dropped from 8.9% on November 1 to 7.6% on December 1. “One of the major factors behind the rise in positivity rate in November was the festive season. We got an increasing trend since the festive shopping started just before the pujas. Now that the festive season is gone, it has started to decline one again. It is for the same reason that the active cases have also gone down,” said an official.The positivity rate was 6.7% on September 1 and 7.4% on October 1. While the number of active cases on September 1 was 24,822, on October 1, it had increased to 26,552. West Bengal has till date registered 486,799 cases and 8476 deaths. On Tuesday, 33,15 new cases and 52 deaths were reported. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas continued to register the maximum cases. While Kolkata recorded 807 cases on December 1, North 24 Parganas reported 796. According to the Union health ministry, the top five states that have registered a spike in active cases are Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. The number of cases in Punjab has shot up from 4,195 to 7,842 over the last month. In Madhya Pradesh, it has shot up from 85,38 to 14771 during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-west-bengal-among-top-five-states-to-register-drop-in-active-cases/story-AYw0LECSQiApGvX030zAFP.html
02-12-2020||India||Akshay Kumar calls on Yogi Adityanath in Mumbai for UP film city||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who arrived in Mumbai on Tuesday, will be meeting a host of industrialists, bankers and film personalities regarding the film city in Noida, a state government spokesperson said. Actor Akshay Kumar was the first to call upon the chief minister last night. The CM discussed the potential for film production in UP and how the state government was providing facilities to film producers. CM Adityanath also praised Akshay for his films, making a special mention of ‘Toilet Ek Prem Katha’ that carried a social message, said a statement from the chief minister’s office. The CM will also witness the listing of Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s (LMC) bonds on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Watch: Akshay Kumar meets Yogi Adityanath, discusses film shooting in UP “Meetings with film personalities are important in regard to the setting up of a hi-tech film city in Noida. He (Yogi) is going to meet 41 celebrities of the film world. The CM already met several film personalities regarding the infotainment city to be built on 1,000 acres of land in Sector 21 of Yamuna Authority of Noida,” the state government spokesperson said. The UP government, said the spokesperson, has already selected Ernst & Young as an advisory agency for preparing the detail project report (DPR) of the Infotainment City.During the meeting with the CM, Bollywood celebrities will discuss the film city. Many investment proposals are also expected for the film city.A government statement said Yogi might meet UP Film Development Council chairman Raju Srivastava, Gorakhpur MP and artist Ravi Kishan, Dinesh Yadav ‘Nirhua’, Randeep Hooda, Arjun Rampal and Satish Kaushik.Also, film personalities like Boney Kapoor, Manmohan Shetty, Anand Pandit, Subhash Ghai, Madhur Bhandarkar, Rahul Mitra and Ajay Rai, T-Series head Bhushan Kumar, among others, will meet the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akshay-kumar-calls-on-yogi-adityanath-in-mumbai-for-up-film-city/story-LwsqLA5mfmvxMEk30L1jjK.html
02-12-2020||India||8 killed after truck overloaded with sand topples over and falls on car in UP’s Kaushambi||Eight people were killed after a truck overloaded with sand toppled over and fell on a car on Tuesday night in Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi on Wednesday.The accident took place at Deviganj intersection under Kadhadham Kotwali police station of the district. Two people sustained injuries in the accident and are undergoing treatment at a local hospital, police said. The deceased, including six women and two children, were returning after attending a wedding ceremony, police added.All possible help will be provided to the family of the victims, District Magistrate Amit Singh said. “Initial reports suggest the truck driver lost control after one of its tire burst. The tragic mishap is being further investigated,” he added. The deceased have been identified as Shashi Gupta (35), Om Gupta (10), Prakashani Gupta (50), Richa Gupta (28), Poonam (40), Sneha Gupta (15), Soma Tiwari (16 ) and Shivraj (24).UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences to the families of the deceased and directed officials concerned to provide all possible relief to them and survivors. “He (CM Adityanath) has expressed condolences to the bereaved families and prayed for the peace of the departed souls,” the chied minister’s office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-after-truck-overloaded-with-sand-topples-over-and-falls-on-car-in-up-s-kaushambi/story-LUW4ah8qv46EcB1xqMDkUI.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Five states reporting rise in active cases, says govt data||Five states are reporting increase in active cases in the country, which is the actual disease burden of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), shows data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The top five states showing a rise are Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan. The month on month comparative data compiled by the health ministry has shown that since November 1, the active case load of Punjab has increased by 3,585 cases; Himachal Pradesh’s case load is up by 5,4069, Madhya Pradesh saw a jump of 5,842, and Haryana and Rajasthan saw an increase of 6,171, and 13,551 respectively. The current active case load of these states is Punjab (138, 685), Himachal Pradesh (8,918), Madhya Pradesh (17, 705), Haryana (20, 200), and Rajasthan (30, 305). “These are the states where the Centre has rushed expert teams so that they can help the state government on ground in disease management and other issues that may be hampering outbreak control,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary for health and family welfare. However, there also good news from certain states which for a long time had been showing a rising trend, but are now seeing a decline in active cases. The five top states that have registered a decline, meaning those that have shown a significant improvement, are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and West Bengal. The country has performed at least 140 million Covid-19 tests, with a cumulative positivity rate of 6.69%, and average daily positivity rate of 3.72% during the past week. There has been a continuous decline in the cumulative positivity rate in past 3 weeks, with 7.19% positivity rate having been reported on November 11. The average daily new cases are 43,152, and average daily recoveries stand at 47,159. “The trend of average daily recoveries outnumbering average daily new cases continues even in the month of November, which is positive news for country’s Covid-19 situation as overall active case load is decreasing steadily,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-five-states-reporting-rise-in-active-cases-says-govt-data/story-iZiruBUPUSxlmhUsmlkkbJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Asthma patients less likely to contract Covid-19, claims study||A recent study has claimed that asthma patients are less likely to contract the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The study was published on November 24 in The Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.According to researchers, the objective of the study was to observe Covid-19 susceptibility in patients with bronchial asthma. The scientists used data from a large nationwide health maintenance organisation in Israel.“The enrollees who had been tested for COVID-19 from February to June 2020 were included,” said the study.Further describing the results of the study, the researchers said that 37,469 subjects were tested for Covid-19 RT-PC test and results for 2,266 of them were positive. This constituted just above six per cent of 6.05% patients who tested positive.Asthma was found in 153 (or 6.75 per cent) subjects of the Covid-19-positive group, the study said. “We observed lower Covid-19 susceptibility in patients with pre-existing asthma,” said the authors of the study.They, however, pointed out that more research is needed on the subject.A study in October on the similar group (asthma patients) in the United States had said that these patients who become infected with Covid-19 appear to have no higher risk of hospitalisation or need for mechanical breathing assistance compared to Covid-19 patients without asthma.The October study had also said that asthma patients are less likely to die from the disease.Researchers at a Boston healthcare system had studied 562 asthma patients with Covid-19 and 2,686 similarly-aged Covid-19 patients without asthma for the study. The two groups were hospitalised at similar rates and had similar need for mechanical ventilation.But the asthma patients were 70 per cent less likely to die from the virus, researchers reported. None of the 44 patients with severe asthma died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asthma-patients-less-likely-to-contract-covid-19-claims-study/story-u5rPRzrWkFPqkK92r3BwyN.html
02-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Eastern Railway to resume non-suburban passenger trains in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Eastern Railway to resume 54 non-suburban passenger services from todayThe Eastern Railway (ER) is set to resume non-suburban passenger services in West Bengal from today with 54 trains in operation. The non-suburban services were disrupted in the last week of March due to the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic in the country. Read moreMumbai: Commuters stage rail roko in Palghar, Kelwe, and Saphale as WR changes timingsCommuters, mainly essential services employees, resorted to a 30-minute rail roko protests at Mumbai’s Palghar, Kelwe Road, and Saphale railheads on Wednesday morning over the change of timings of Dahanu suburban train services from Thursday. Read moreSC rejects plea seeking action against JaganThe Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a petition seeking action against Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who accused a senior judge of the apex court of trying to interfere in and influence the functioning of Andhra Pradesh high court. Read moreNeera Tanden has shown bad judgment in the past, says Republican Nikki HaleyRepublican politician Nikki Haley Tuesday said Neera Tanden’s nomination as the Director of Office of Management and Budget is “deeply concerning”, as she has shown “bad judgment” in the past. Read moreSunny Deol tests positive for coronavirus, asks those who recently came in contact with him to get tested as wellActor and politician Sunny Deol has tested positive for Covid-19. On Wednesday morning, he took to Twitter to share the diagnosis with his followers. Read moreHyundai announces dedicated EV platform, new-age cars to boast 500km rangeHyundai Motor Group has announced a dedicated electric vehicle (EV) platform called E-GMP which will be the foundation on which its future battery-operated vehicles will be rolled out. The Korean car maker claims that this new platform will allow the next lineup of EVs to offer a mammoth per-charge range while some of the higher-end products from it also offering performance capabilities to match those of renowned sports cars. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘They have to pick that fight’, suggests Zaheer Khan as on-field rivalry turns friendlyIndia’s tour of Australia in the past years had always been hyped for the intense rivalry between both sides. Be it the infamous ‘Monkey Gate’ episode in 2008 or the rift between Virat Kohli and former quick Mitchell Johnson in 2014, India-Australia cricketing history is full of numerous anecdotes. Read moreWhere’s dark matter? NASA’s post is about the scaffolding of our universeWhat better way to start one’s morning than by learning a bit more about this wondrous world that we reside in? If you’re someone who believes in that notion, then here is a post by NASA that may tickle your fancy. Shared on the official Instagram account of NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope, this image was shared on December 1. Read moreWatch: ‘Those who take commission...’: Union minister VK Singh slams farmer protest||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-eastern-railway-to-resume-non-suburban-passenger-trains-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LiFCxTetx0seA5jZvOhVxK.html
02-12-2020||India||Farmers reject govt’s offer on panel, talks deadlocked||Farmers protesting against a set of laws they say will hurt their incomes agreed, at a meeting led by three Union ministers on Tuesday, to continue discussions with the government later this week, but rejected a proposal from the Centre for a five-member committee of officials, economists and farmers’ representatives to hold future negotiations. Farm union leaders from 35 organisations based in Punjab and Haryana met agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash for over three hours at the capital’s Vigyan Bhawan, as protests by thousands of farmers on Delhi’s borders entered the sixth day. The government and the farm leaders agreed to meet again on December 3 to for discussions, the government said in a statement. Behind the scenes, the talks were facilitated by several rounds of phone conversations between Union home minister Amit Shah and key farm union leaders over the course of the past two days, which led to the government advancing the date of the talks, initially scheduled for December 3. “We were initially reluctant for another round of talks. Home minister Amit Shah talked to us several times by telephone. We agreed on the ground that the government should rethink the three farm laws,” said Jagmohan Singh, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and working committee member of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), the platform spearheading the agitation. The farmers did not agree to the government’s proposal for a committee to carry out future talks because “all 35 farmers’ leaders will have to be present in all future discussions”, said Balbir Singh Rajewal, a farm leader who leads the Rajewal faction of the BKU. “During the deliberations, the Union agriculture and farmers welfare minister proposed to constitute an expert committee to put forth the issues of farmers so as to resolve them with mutual consent but the representative of the farmers’ union suggested that all the representatives will attend further round of discussions with the government to resolve the matter amicably,” an official statement at the end of the talks said. Agriculture minister Tomar started Tuesday’s discussions by spelling out the government’s “seriousness to deal with farmers’ problems” as well as the resolve to “listen to farmers and their demands”, an official said, requesting anonymity. Agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal also outlined the government’s initiatives in the farm sector. The agriculture minister suggested that farm leaders identify specific issues related to the three farm reform laws and share these with the government on Wednesday for consideration. “These issues will be discussed during the fourth round of meeting to be held on December 3,” the official cited above said. Darshan Pal, a farm leader representing the Krantikari Kisan Union, said the farmers were ready with their key demands. “We are still saying we don’t want these laws. However, the government insisted that the laws were in the interest of farmers. We will discuss the outcome of today’s meeting when we go back,” Pal said. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. These laws are The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Varanasi, slammed Opposition parties for misleading farmers and defended his farm laws as “historic”. He said the opposition had created unfounded fears in the minds of the farmers and insisted that support prices and procurement of staples by the government would continue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-reject-govt-s-offer-on-panel-talks-deadlocked/story-q1I6vpUtdrnvVN5MmRXnJM.html
02-12-2020||India||Manesar Land case: Court orders framing of charges against Hooda||The special CBI court here has ordered framing of charges against former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 other accused charged by the federal agency in 2018 in the Rs1,500 crore Manesar land case. The court of Jagdeep Singh, special judge, CBI also issued summons to five additional accused including Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, home, and health and family welfare, Haryana, who was at the time of the land fraud managing director, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) . The others summoned are former chief town planner, HSIIDC, Surjit Singh; former chief town planner of town and country planning department, Dhare Singh; the then deputy superintendent, town and country planning, Kulwant Singh Lamba; and the then director, industries DR Dhingra.Interestingly, most of these accused were originally prosecution witness. The court observed that there is prima facie evidence against them under Prevention of Corruption Act, cheating and criminal conspiracy.The next hearing is on December 17. Meanwhile, the CBI has been directed to take sanction for prosecution from government, if any of the additional accused is working.The case dates back to 2004. The Haryana government issued a notification to acquire 912 acres and seven marlas of land under section 4 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, on August 27, 2004 in Manesar, Lakhnaula and Naurangpur villages. 1 marla is roughly 272 sq ft/ 30 square yards . Worried that this would reduce the value of their land, owners sold at throwaway rates, resulting in wrongful loss of Rs 1500 crore.On August 24, 2007 , the director industries passed another order releasing the land in violation of government policy, in favour of the people who had bought the land, instead of the original landowners, claims CBI. In 2018, the CBI had filed a chargesheet against 34 accused including Hooda. When contacted by HT, Hooda said, “It is a part of the process. I have got full faith in judiciary. As far as this case is concerned, it is politically motivated.” Rajiv Arora didn’t respond to HT’s calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manesar-land-case-court-orders-framing-of-charges-against-hooda/story-iX1RQritzSkhgkIlEpcmqJ.html
02-12-2020||India||SC rejects plea seeking action against Jagan||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a petition seeking action against Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who accused a senior judge of the apex court of trying to interfere in and influence the functioning of Andhra Pradesh high court. The petition was filed by two Supreme Court lawyers — GS Mani and Pradeep Kumar Yadav — against Jagan’s decision to write a letter to Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde against Justice NV Ramana, who is the senior most judge of the SC t after the CJI. The petition accused the CM of misusing his office and attacking the independence of the judiciary. A three-judge bench — headed by Justice SK Kaul and also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy —held that a prayer to gag the CM from making allegations or seeking action against him was “not maintainable”. The bench told the petitioners that another SC bench recently lifted a gag order by the HC in a dispute arising out of an FIR lodged by the Andhra government in the Amaravati land case against relatives of Justice Ramana. “Since the dispute is pending consideration before that bench, whatever consequences have to follow will also be gone into by that bench,” the court said. On another prayer for a judicial probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation against Justice Ramana, the bench said, “...If you are wanting an in-house inquiry that will be looked into by the CJI. Why should we direct an inquiry?” The court dismissed the PIL by Mani and Yadav, as well as a separate one filed by one Anti-Corruption Council of India Trust over similar demands. It, however, agreed to send a third PIL seeking examination of whether a CM should refrain from making unfounded allegations in open against a judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-action-against-jagan/story-2N3FPtVSV8sbDZz4S5Ur6K.html
02-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi to cross Sri Lanka coast tonight, TN coast on Friday||Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely to begin over south Tamil Nadu, including in Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga begin today as cyclonic storm Burevi is brewing over southwest Bay of Bengal.It moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 12 kmph during the past six hours and lay centered at around 2am about 300 km east-southeast of Trincomalee (Sri Lanka), 530 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 700 km nearly east of Kanyakumari (India).It is very likely to intensify further during the next six hours, move west-northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka coast close to Trincomalee during evening or night of December 2 as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 75-85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph.Burevi is likely to move westwards thereafter, emerge into Gulf of Mannar and adjoining Comorin area on December 3 morning. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards and cross south Tamil Nadu coasts between Kanyakumari and Pamban around early morning of December 4, said India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also read | Kerala braces for cyclone Burevi, IMD sounds red alert in four districtsHeavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over south Tamil Nadu (Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai) on December 2 and 3; over south Kerala (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzah) on December 3 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 4 December and south Kerala on December 3 and 4.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe, Karaikal and north Kerala on December 2 and 3 and heavy rainfall is likely over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh on December 2 and 3 and over Lakshadweep on December 3 and 4.Squally winds reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph is very likely over Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and along and off south Tamil Nadu coast (Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts) and south Kerala coast (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzah districts) from December 2 forenoon. It will gradually increase becoming 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph from December 2 evening and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph from evening of December 3 for subsequent 12 hours and decrease thereafter.Fishermen are advised not to venture into southeast Bay of Bengal, southwest Bay of Bengal and along & off east Sri Lanka coast from December 2 to 3; Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala and west Sri Lanka coasts from December 2 to 4, over Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea from December 3 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-to-cross-sri-lanka-coast-tonight-tn-coast-on-friday/story-IiP61DEINrn3aUyvRhaQQO.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Can be sold for profit’: Sitaram Yechury warns on postal ballots for NRIs||Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday told Hindustan Times that the Election Commission’s proposal to extend postal ballot facilities to overseas electors is an exercise fraught with large-scale manipulation, suggesting to the poll body to set up a polling station in their missions abroad, a practice followed by other countries. “In the Gulf countries especially, many Indians are taken by managers who even impound their passports,” Yechury told Hindustan Times. “The people working there will be under immense pressure, their postal ballots can easily be manipulated and sold for profit.”Yechury was referring to the EC proposal sent to the law ministry on November 27 to expedite an amendment to the People’s Representation Act, which will allow non-resident Indians to vote remotely using the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (EPTBS) in the upcoming elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal. The amendments, if approved, will have far reaching ramifications as they will not require the nod of Parliament.“When this question was first raised in 2014, we said it was not feasible,” Yechury said. “Then the BJP introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha that wasn’t passed by the Rajya Sabha.”The veteran leader added that the top poll body was increasingly bypassing the deliberative process, wherein it would consult all political parties before taking such a decision, that had been its modus operandi since Independence.“Increasingly, decisions are being taken without consultation,” Yechury said. “The same happened when it came to expanding the ambit of postal ballots during the Bihar elections, a decision that the EC eventually did not implement.”According to Yechury, the ideal method to enable non-resident Indians (NRIs) to vote in polls would be to set up a polling station in their missions overseas to enable physical voting.“The practice is followed world over and this way a free and fair exercise of one’s voting rights can be ensured,” he said. “Diplomats, businessmen who come to India from abroad often use this means to cast their vote.”At present, voters living outside India can only cast their vote in their respective constituencies. The amendment proposes that overseas voters send an intimation in Form 12 to the Returning Officer within five days following the date of the said election. In return, the RO shall issue a postal ballot paper to the elector.There are 12.6 million non-resident Indians (NRIs), those holding an Indian passport but ordinarily residing outside the country, spread across more than 200 nations, according to the government. The number could make a significant difference in the states which have a large population overseas such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Telangana and Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-be-sold-for-profit-sitaram-yechury-warns-on-postal-ballots-for-nris/story-nm4uHaW3kL4rcvlB7w7gbL.html
02-12-2020||India||Sunny Deol tests Covid-19 positive, says Himachal Pradesh health secretary||Bollywood actor and BJP MP from Gurdaspur Sunny Deol has tested positive for Covid-19, the Himachal Pradesh health secretary said on Tuesday.Deol have been staying in Kullu district for some days, Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthi said.The health secretary told PTI that according to information received from the district chief medical officer, the MP and his friends were planning to leave for Mumbai, but his Covid-19 test result came out positive on Tuesday.The 64-year-old bollywood actor had undergone a shoulder surgery at Mumbai and was recuperating at a farmhouse near Manali in Kullu district. PTI CORR DJI NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunny-deol-tests-covid-19-positive-says-himachal-pradesh-health-secretary/story-n8h1HaBGIv68XJW4lJbYEJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Four key aspects of the farmers’ protest||The ongoing stand-off between the Union government and protesting farmers does not show any signs of a resolution at the moment. Farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three agriculture laws enacted by the central government. The argument is that these reforms will abolish middlemen and enhance farmers’ incomes, but farmers maintain that this is a precursor to the largescale withdrawal of government support from farming, and will only replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.These bills essentially pave the way for a greater role for market forces and the private sector in agricultural value chains by allowing contract farming, removing restrictions on movement and storage of food items, and allowing trade in food items to take place outside government-controlled markets.The protests have now escalated to a stage where thousands of farmers are threatening to block all road routes to the national capital. Interestingly, some aspects of the debate between the pro-farm bills and anti-farm bills groups merit clarification.1 India is not a food-surplus countryThe roots of state intervention in agriculture, from government procurement to rationing and restrictions on private traders, which is what the current reforms seek to abolish, are to be found in recurring food shortages in the period after Independence. The Green Revolution, which entailed widespread use of high yielding varieties of seeds, became successful because the state gave dual incentives – input subsidies and remunerative prices via Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) – to farmers to adopt this technology.  Many commentators believe that these incentives are not needed today because India is a food-surplus country now. The sharp rise in India’s agriculture exports is often cited as evidence of this fact. However, when read with the fact that average nutritional intakes in India are much lower than not just developed countries but even China and Vietnam, the purported food surplus seems to be the result of inadequate food consumption by the local population.Also Watch l Farmer protest: What happened at meeting with govt? Union minister reveals 2 Most Indians don’t eat enough; they can’t afford toWhy are Indian diets poor when there is no scarcity of food? Most of them cannot afford good diets. A recent paper by Kalyani Raghunathan of the International Food Policy Research Institute and others, the findings of which were reported in these pages, found that 63.3% of people in rural India could not afford what the authors describe as the Cost of a Recommended Diet (CoRD).  This share increases to 76.2% if one were to assume that a third of their spending would go on non-food items. CoRD has been calculated for a food basket which includes broad categories of cereals, proteins (pulses, meat, fish and eggs), dairy, fruits, vegetables, dark green leafy vegetables and oil and fats.3 Farmers in Punjab, Haryana are better off than the restThe farmers who are protesting outside Delhi’s borders are among the richest among their peers in India. Data from a 2013 survey carried out by the National Statistical Office (NSO) shows that farmers from Punjab and Haryana had the highest incomes in the country. A disproportional share in government procurement at MSP plays an important role in this.  In 2019-20, 65% of wheat and 30% of rice was procured from Punjab and Haryana. The share of these two states in wheat and rice production in the country was 28.7% and 15.9% in 2017-18, the latest period for which data is available for all states. States where there are no large-scale MSP operations tend to have lower prices in private markets as well. That incentivises the richer farmers to lobby for the continuation of the status quo.4 Richer farmers inflicted greater environmental damageThe skewed nature of MSP procurement, especially for rice, has not been an unambiguous blessing for Punjab’s agriculture. The state is not in an agro-climatic zone suited for cultivation of rice, which is a water-intensive crop. Large-scale rice cultivation has resulted in farmers sinking private tube wells, which has led to a drastic depletion of ground water levels.  A 2011 Economic and Political Weekly paper by Anindita Sarkar found that richer farmers in Punjab were a bigger reason for depletion of water tables as they sank deeper tube wells everywhere including in villages which were already facing ground water problems. Because resorting to environmentally harmful farming practices promise monetary rewards in the short term, it is difficult to get the farmers to abandon them. Even the roots of the stubble burning in Punjab that chokes Delhi for a few weeks every winter can be traced back to water management.PRESENT STAND-OFF WILL WIDEN TRUST DEFICIT BETWEEN FARMERS AND THE STATEEven though Punjab and Haryana are not as critical to the country’s food security as they were a few decades ago, they are extremely important in India’s farm economy. Decades of high farm earnings also mean that the peasantry in these two states has much more in terms of material wherewithal to fight for its interests. Therefore, the fact that the government’s attempts to undermine their interests by enacting the recent farm laws have triggered a sharp political backlash is hardly surprising. No matter what the outcome of the present conflict, the trust deficit which will result from this confrontation is likely to erode the state’s credibility to persuade the farmers to shift to more environmentally sustainable practices in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-key-aspects-of-the-farmers-protest/story-UKuhPOVY7N3nAs1OZXBU0L.html
02-12-2020||India||Daily new cases of Covid-19 remain below 50,000, million tests conducted daily: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Wednesday said that the number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India have remained below 50,000 for more than 10 days now.It shared a graph along with the tweet that showed the number of cases from November 21 to December 1. The ministry also said that the number of tests have also gone up - to more than a million daily. #IndiaFightsCorona #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/wwCgIKCD0tIndia recorded 31,118 cases of the disease on Tuesday, a snapshot of the Covid-19 situation in the country in last 24 hours showed. The health ministry data also showed that India’s active cases stood at 4,35,603, much below the 5-lakh mark.“Cumulative positivity rate has decreased in India from 7.15% to 6.69% during November 11 to December 1 period. In November 2020, the number of recoveries has been more than the number of new Covid-19 cases,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters on Tuesday.While the tally of Covid-19 cases stood at 94,62,810, a net decline of 11,349 cases was recorded in the total active cases in the last 24 hours (till Tuesday). As many as 41,985 new recoveries were reported in the last same period.Sharing the data of the entire month of November, Bhushan said that more than 10.55 lakh tests were conducted daily, while on an average 43,152 new cases and 47,159 recoveries were recorded each day.He also said that India still figures among the countries having the lowest number of Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population.The Union health secretary further informed the press briefing that the top five states that have shown a decline in active cases during last month are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. The top five states showing a rise in active cases during the same period were Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-new-cases-of-covid-19-remain-below-50-000-million-tests-conducted-daily-health-ministry/story-mRTsNro0zXjEv4Fqt3zExN.html
02-12-2020||India||SC judge looks to fix delays in filing cases, hold govt accountable||For this judge, a note by Supreme Court officials is curiously the single most important document in any case before him. This note, however, has nothing to do with the facts of that case, or the kind of people involved; not even arguments by the big guns make a difference to the final outcome.Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul has his eyes fixated just on one thing -- how long did it take for the case to be filed. He seems to have taken it upon himself to fix the recurrent practice of huge delays by governments in filing cases, and make public authorities accountable. In the last seven months, Justice Kaul has issued almost 100 orders, reproaching what he has frequently called the ‘can’t care less’ attitude of legal departments of various states. Some of these orders contained strictures with monetary penalties while some others even suggested revamping the entire legal department of that particular state.Interestingly, Justice Kaul has even coined a term for these cases filed belatedly — “certificate cases”. His orders have defined a certificate case as one which has been filed by the officials only to get certificates of dismissal from the apex court. While there is demonstrably no effort involved to either file such cases in time, or have them listed for hearing as quickly as possible, a final order of rejection by the Supreme Court is to only help save the skin of officials responsible to file appeal against an adverse order by a high court.These cases are filed way beyond the period mandated under the law of limitation only to let officers go back and tell their superiors that nothing can be done since the Supreme Court has refused to entertain a case.The judge has repeatedly come down heavily on this practice, saying certificate cases can’t clog boards of the Supreme Court at the sheer convenience of the government officers.“Supreme Court cannot be a place for the government to walk in as and when they feel like,” Justice Kaul responded when being requested to take a liberal view since a government is involved. When change of guard in a state is cited as a chief reason for delay, the judge has asserted that “governments may come and go” but a litigation must follow the requirements of the law. The submissions of “administrative lapses and red tape” have elicited even stronger comments: “This Court is not here to protect the administrative inefficiencies and incompetence of the officials of the state governments.”When some states tried to take refuge under the present pandemic, justice Kaul was quick to note that Covid-19 was a sheer pretext because the orders being challenged were passed by high courts in 2019.Justice Kaul has maintained that the government may change the law to give itself more time to move appeals if its officers are incapable of timely filings, but they cannot expect the top court to accord any special treatment. These body of orders have invariably imposed fines on the government departments, with a direction to recover the monetary losses from the officers whose negligence and ineptitude caused this. For some states such as Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the judge had to further make it clear every subsequent case filed with an inordinate delay will only increase the quantum of fine.Around 100 orders on, some of the states have learned enough to immediately ask for withdrawing a case when it comes up for a hearing. Given the apparent determination of justice Kaul to change what has become a custom, the lawyers’ attempt to wriggle out still fails most of the time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-looks-to-fix-delays-in-filing-cases-hold-govt-accountable/story-yLi99o1N43ImvIBzwgyx0M.html
02-12-2020||India||The other side of the Covid pandemic: Some idealism||When the new dawn breaks, as it inevitably must, it will reveal a tired world. A world in which millions will be struggling to pick up the threads of their lives, in body and in spirit, surrounded by the debris of livelihoods and the devastation of disease. Many will have to live on without a loved one. Many more will find that in this one year, they have grown old and weak and tired or simply, irrelevant. Some people will never leave their village again. Others will never unlock that shop front. Yet others will find that they are no longer required by those who once employed them.The pandemic has brutally brought us face to face with the eggshell fragility of our industrial and post-industrial lives. It has exposed the perverse nature of our priorities. It has hit us in the face with the uncaring vanity of our over-stretched lifestyles. It has shone the spotlight on the cracks that man has forced in his pact with nature, and given a dark warning of the kind of vengeance that nature can wreak.The future, without making it sound too dire, remains unpredictable. The virus has not run its course. The news on the vaccine offers hope but not a full solution. For that, nations will have to go back to the drawing board, consciously or willy-nilly. Budgetary priorities, social security nets, energy and industrial policy, environmental regulations, consumption patterns all need serious reassessment. Denial of these imperatives is always an option, but then so is suicide.The international landscape is in disarray, reflecting the disorder within. The withdrawal of the US from global leadership roles, the decline of globalisation, the arrogant rise of China and the emasculation of alliances and international organisations have brought us to a point when the centre no longer seems to hold. The pandemic has exacerbated these trends and added its complicating impact on global health, international trade and supply chains, migration, tourism, financial burdens and so on.An immediate rescue effort does not seem forthcoming from the usual quarters. Biden’s good intentions are unlikely to translate immediately into a silver bullet. He has internal problems: a galloping pandemic with nearly 12 million cases and fatalities fast reaching the numbers lost in World War II needs handling. A tanking economy has put more than 20 million on unemployment benefits. That this should happen in the richest, most developed country in the world is bad enough; that it should have been worsened by misgovernance is damning. This, along with the deep racial divides in society and the flagrant disavowal of democratic traditions by a sitting President, have badly dented America’s credibility as the leader of the free world.The biggest beneficiary of America’s withdrawal is China. It has steadily increased its grip on the international system, even as it sets up its own parallel systems. Four of the 15 specialised agencies of the UN are headed by Chinese international civil servants. The WHO is not one of them, but its all-too-obvious bias towards China shows that country’s reach even in other organisations. China has also subsumed the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals within the rubric of its Belt and Road Initiative. The system that was built on post World War II idealism, to secure peace and development around the globe, is now being cynically subverted to meet China’s illiberal objectives. China disregards rules when it wants, even as it forces, as recently the case with Australia, to make other play by its rules.But this is not about taking sides, or grabbing opportunities. In these dark days, human beings – and nations – need a vision, a hope, a light. The idiom in which nations deal with each other needs softening: idealism needs to replace the usual gruel of realpolitik, generosity must overcome reciprocity. The pandemic must be turned into an opportunity to repair human discourse. It will take time before America can recover its credibility, or Europe overcome its self-obsession or China be able to project trust. It is for India to once again occupy the moral high ground: let us recall that India’s non-violent freedom struggle inspired several other freedom movements.The immediate human concern that needs a different approach is health care. India, while taking care of its own people, should also think of others. We should not be satisfied with our ability to produce vaccines but spearhead the campaign for equitable access for all countries, beginning with our neighbours, thus building on the 15 million dollar pledge by the PM to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; this alliance needs another 5 billion dollars, and 2 billion doses for equitable access to vaccines by 92 eligible economies. A non-commercial outlook by our pharmaceutical giants will be critical; dividends need not always be immediate or in money terms.Climate change is the other looming global risk. A mass movement in India, led from the top – say to ban plastic, or protect forests, or reduce fossil fuels – can catch the world’s imagination and take us beyond Paris. Biden’s ambitious plan aims to take the US to net zero emissions by 2050. Climate change, as clear from the high-profile appointment of John Kerry, is going to be embedded in policies across the government. But internal headwinds, including a possible Republican senate, will not make Biden’s progress easy; India’s partnership, in the form of a mass movement of 1.3 billion people, will be valued. Biden plans to hold a summit meet on climate in his first 100 days, where India needs to unveil an imaginative climate vision, not to please Biden or anybody else, but out of genuine concern for humanity. A battered world, tired of transactional one-upmanship, will pay heed.Navtej Sarna is former Ambassador of India to the US and High Commissioner to the UK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-other-side-of-the-covid-pandemic-some-idealism/story-UOa2rqOFiHigWss4tWlIJM.html
02-12-2020||India||Covaxin phase 3 trial in Kolkata from today, TMC minister may get first shot||The phase 3 trial of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine candidate Covaxin will start at the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Disease (NICED) in Kolkata from Wednesday.State Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim, 62, is likely to take the first shot of the vaccine if he is found to be fit in the medical tests, a senior official of the institute told news agency PTI on Monday.Also Read: Covid-19: Patna AIIMS to enrol 1,000 volunteers for Covaxin phase 3 trial“The phase III trials of Covaxin will be starting on December 2. We have requested some of the applicants, including Hakim, to appear for the trials on that day. They will be administered the vaccine only after they test fit for the trials. They cannot have any comorbidities. Following satisfactory results, the shots will be administered to them,” the official said, adding that the institute was happy to enrol the minister as a volunteer.“It is a great feat that he has expressed his willingness to be a part of the programme and we will be happy to enrol him. He requires to take a few screening tests, following which the next step will be decided,” the official added.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSince the phase III trial of Covaxin is a double-blinded placebo- controlled study, neither the volunteer nor the investigator will be able to know whether the senior Trinamool Congress leader will be receiving the vaccine or the placebo, the official said. The Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the ICMR. As many as 1,000 people have volunteered and half of them will be receiving the vaccine while the other half will be given placebos, that does not contain the active substance that affects health. Another shot will be administered to all volunteers after four weeks of the first one.In the first phase of trials, the placebo-vaccine ratio was 1:3. It was not given in the second stage, but would be given in 1:1 ratio in the third stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-phase-3-trial-in-kolkata-from-today-tmc-minister-may-get-first-shot/story-fm0nJcGRsOY6m1J6yAaNPO.html
02-12-2020||India||AG nod to contempt case on cartoonist||Attorney General KK Venugopal has granted consent for initiating contempt against artist Rachita Taneja for depicting the Supreme Court as biased towards the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in successive tweets published soon after the top court granted bail to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami last month. A law student Aditya Kashyap brought these tweets to the notice of the top law officer of the country for grant of consent under the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, before lodging a contempt petition against her. Venugopal examined the three tweets by Taneja, the creator of the webcomic Sanitary Panels, and found them to be in contempt of SC. The first tweet depicts Goswami asking the SC if it knows who his father is (the tweet shows figures purportedly representing Goswami, the court, and the BJP). “The clear implication (of the tweet) would be that SC is biased towards the ruling party BJP and would tailor its judgments for benefit of the ruling party.” The second tweet depicted the SC as “Sanghi Court of India”, an apparent reference to the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) with the flag of the BJP in place of the tricolour atop the court building. The Attorney General found this to be a gross insinuation against the top court of the country to the effect that “Supreme Court has ceased to be an impartial organ of the state” He said, “The tweet is calculated to undermine public confidence in the independence and impartiality of the Supreme Court of India.” Taneja’s third tweet made a reference was made to the Ayodha title suit judgment delivered by Supreme Court in November last year with the insinuation that this was delivered in favour of BJP in exchange for a favour. The AG said, “This is a clear attempt to turn the minds of the people against the then Chief Justice of India, and in the bargain against the judiciary as a whole. It is deliberately intended to shake the confidence that people have in the apex court of the country and to lower the authority of this institution.” On November 12, AG Venugopal gave consent to initiate contempt proceedings against standup comic Kunal Kamra. Kamra in a series of tweets lampooned the Supreme Court as the supreme “joke” of India and even put out a tweet showing the Supreme Court draped in saffron and replacing the Indian Tricolour with the party flag of the BJP. Those tweets too were in the context of the Goswami case. The TV journalist was granted bail by the apex court which said that states should not use the law to “harass citizens” and that high courts need to protect the liberty of individuals (the Bombay high court had denied bail to Goswami in the case, which involved charges of abetment of suicide). Terming the tweets as “gross insinuation” against the Supreme Court and its judges, Venugopal held the tweets to be in “bad taste” and found Kamra guilty of having crossed the line between humour and contempt. “Under the Constitution, the freedom of speech is subject to the law of contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1972,” he said at the time. Following this , a contempt petition has been filed in Supreme Court against Kamra which is yet to come up for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-nod-to-contempt-case-on-cartoonist/story-6N9DZsdtlai6m93GL4gK7L.html
02-12-2020||India||After SC rebuke, Centre orders end to home isolation posters||The practice of putting up home isolation posters outside houses of Covid-19 patients may end very soon. Nudged by the Supreme Court, the central government has written to all states and Union territories to stop the practice.In a letter dated November 19, the government has maintained that Union health ministry guidelines never contemplated pasting of such posters or other signage outside residences of those who tested positive for Covid-19. “MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare) Guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found Covid- positive,” stated the letter, addressed to additional and principal home secretaries of states and UTs.It added that July 2 guidelines are clear regarding home isolation of Covid-19 patients and that states must comply with them in letter and spirit and demonstrate “unscrupulous adherence” to only these mandates.The Centre’s clarification will help in allaying concerns of several people who, despite having symptoms of the coronavirus disease, have been reluctant to come forward for tests, fearing posters will be pasted outside their homes, causing social stigma.Recently, the Supreme Court had shared similar concerns with Solicitor General Tushar Mehta when a public interest litigation (PIL) by lawyer-petitioner Kush Kalra sought a directive to stop the practice.The bench had commented that Covid patients can face stigma because of such posters, and may not be willing to come forward to get tested. Citing the Delhi government’s decision to stop this practice, the bench had last month said the central government should come up with guidelines dealing with the matter for the entire country.The Centre has now filed its affidavit in the matter, referring to the letter sent to states and UTs on November 19. It pointed out there are no guidelines by the health ministry to put up any such poster. “There was never any such directive from the centre to paste slips outside the residence of a quarantined person as part of community surveillance. It probably was done at the local level but not asked [for] by the centre,” said a government official with knowledge of the matter, who did not wish to be identified. Representing the Centre, Solicitor General Mehta, however, submitted his personal opinion that these posters were to do more with sounding caution to others, who may inadvertently enter a premises where Covid-19 patients were residing.He said that while states are at liberty to pass appropriate directives in this regard, it is his opinion that these posters have a logical purpose.At this, the bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, replied that this practice may make patients feel as “untouchables” and hence, the issue requires consideration. But the detailed arguments in the case could not proceed because the bench had received the Centre’s affidavit late. The petitioner too wanted some time to go through the response and the matter was adjourned to Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-rebuke-centre-orders-end-to-home-isolation-posters/story-UAdTrMUlVi3choUfNkUerL.html
02-12-2020||India||Local emissions, weather push air to ‘very poor’ zone||While the farm fires in neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab have drastically reduced — it contributed just 4% to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Tuesday, according to System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research — the national capital’s air quality plunged further to the upper end of the very poor zone of the air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday. According to government agencies, it is likely to remain there throughout the week owing to the wind speed calming down and wind patterns changing in the coming days.As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI on Tuesday was 367, even worse than Monday’s 318, though both are in the very poor category. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and those above 400 are considered severe.The air quality continued to deteriorate further Tuesday evening, with most of the hot spots slipping into the ‘severe’ zone. By 9pm, 11 of the 35 monitoring stations recorded severe air quality — Anand Vihar (414), Ashok Vihar (437), Bawana (413), DTU (409), Jahangirpuri (443), Mundka (413), Nehru Nagar (404), Patparganj (410), Punjabi bagh (405), Rohini (414) and Vivek Vihar (425).The CPCB, which is in charge of implementing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), said it is taking measures to control local pollution levels.“We are monitoring the situation closely. Measures under the very poor zone are already being enforced. Patrolling teams are carrying field inspections regularly,” said a senior CPCB official. Despite repeated attempts, MM Kutty, chairperson of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas, could not be reached for a comment.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the average wind speed during the day reduced to 7-8 kmph from 10-12 kmph on Monday. “The wind speed will further reduce from December 4 or 5 and the direction is likely to change to easterly, from the present north-westerly. Whenever there is a change in pattern, winds turn calm and trap pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He said easterly winds are also likely to bring in moisture, which when combined with calm winds allow pollutants to accumulate. There is also a forecast of shallow fog on December 4 or 5. “Besides, the change in wind pattern will also lead to a rise in minimum temperature between December 4 and 7,” Srivastava further said.On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory — the official marker for the city’s weather — recorded a minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal. The maximum settled at 27.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT-Delhi, said, “In October and November, farm fires contribute about 25% to the overall pollution in Delhi. In December, we record the same pollution level even without stubble burning because of reduced dispersion of pollutants,” Dey said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said at present, the only factors at play are meteorological and local pollutants. “Even though there has been a declining trend in the overall pollution levels since 2017, Delhi still has to reduce its PM 2.5 concentrations at least by 60% to mitigate these peak episodes. Also, on-ground monitoring of waste burning and emissions from illegal industries need to be stepped up to have some real impact,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-emissions-weather-push-air-to-very-poor-zone/story-WHUh9GCAxqlcPc5fKKvjjM.html
02-12-2020||India||‘Adverse event’ won’t delay Serum vaccine plan: Centre||Initial assessments after a volunteer’s illness suggested the trial of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine did not need to be halted and the incident will not affect the time lines for the emergency approval process in the country, top officials said on Tuesday — the first reaction from the government on a controversy that had appeared to dampen hopes for an early coronavirus inoculation. The remarks were made by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Indian Council of Medical Research head Dr Balram Bhargava at a weekly government briefing on Covid-19. The officials also indicated that the country may not need to vaccinate all of India’s population to contain the spread of the disease. “I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It’s important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only,” secretary Bhushan said while responding to a question on when a vaccine can be provided to everyone in the country.Explaining the remark, Bhargava, the ICMR director general, said vaccinating the entire population may not be required if “critical mass of people” is vaccinated and the chain of virus transmission is broken.Earlier in the briefing, both the officials addressed the controversy triggered by allegations by a Chennai-based man that the clinical trials – sponsored by Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine – left him with serious neurological symptoms. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate is largely believed to be the first that could be cleared for use among people, with an emergency approval expected in the next couple of months. India is targeting shots for 250-300 million health care workers and essential services staff in its first phase of vaccinations, which it targets to be over by June, 2021. “This event will not affect timelines in any manner whatsoever. But since there is now a court case, so we will not comment on specifics relating to the case,” Bhushan said, before enumerating five safeguards that are a part of clinical trials in India. These, according to him, include monitoring by two independent groups of experts, a process of informed consent and detailed vetting of data and review of such incidents by India’s regulators. “The drugs controller has the authority to not allow vaccine trial to proceed to the next level if the data produces a doubt regarding the vaccine candidate. Currently, Serum Institute’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate has entered the phase 3 stage of the clubbed phase 2/3 trials after receiving necessary approvals post review of all relevant documents. Similarly, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine candidate has also entered the phase 3 clinical trial stage after review of all data they submitted,” said Bhushan.The volunteer who took ill has sued SII for ₹5 crore in damages, drawing a legal notice by the Pune-based vaccine maker seeking ₹100 crore. SII issued a new statement on Tuesday, reiterating the vaccine was safe and produced an immune response and said that its notice was meant to protect the company against attempts to malign it. Adverse effects, as they are referred to technically, are when trial volunteers develop any serious illness following an inoculation and during the period for which they need to be monitored – usually, this is two months. In this case, the side effects experienced by the volunteer has been said to not have been connected to the vaccine – although the detailed data is being studied. “All serious adverse events do not need to be informed to every participant. Let us be very clear that many serious adverse events are coincidental. In fact, that is more often the case than causally related serious adverse events, for which, of course, information must be shared,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of the prominent researchers in the field of vaccines in India. “A trial that we did for illustration, we had 1,462 serious adverse events of which three were considered possibly related (and none of the three were hospitalized), with similar serious adverse events rate in intervention and placebo recipients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adverse-event-won-t-delay-serum-vaccine-plan-centre/story-C93dn5U6uBBKM9fHdGpj0H.html
02-12-2020||India||48.62% voting recorded in Phase 2 of DDC polls||In the second phase of the district development council (DDC) polls, 48.62% people exercised their franchise in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday.The voting percentage has dipped in Kashmir while it increased marginally in Jammu division as compared to Phase 1. While only one-third of the total electorate cast their votes in Kashmir, it was two-thirds in the Jammu division.State election commissioner KK Sharma said overall 48.62% electorate voted in the second phase in J&K. “The polling percentage was 33.34% in Kashmir and 65.54% in Jammu division,” he said. In the first phase on Saturday, 51.7% voting was recorded – 40.65% in Kashmir and 64.2% in Jammu.The voting was held in 43 seats across the UT to decide the fate of 321 candidates in fray in the second phase – 196 in Kashmir and 125 in Jammu. As many as 2,142 polling stations were established across the UT. The main competition is between People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Apni Party.The SEC said the polls were conducted peacefully across the region. “Overall, the situation in all 20 districts was fine. There was no untoward incident reported in Jammu or Kashmir. Only a single incident of an argument over validity of the identity proof of a person took place in Jammu,” he said.In Kashmir, the highest polling was recorded in Bandipora where 69.66% electorate voted, followed by Kupwara at 58.69%. Sharma said Pulwama recorded lowest of 8.67% polling in Kashmir– a terse higher than 6% of Phase 1.In Jammu, the highest voting was in Poonch at 75.07%, followed by Jammu at 69.97%. The lowest percentage in Kathua district at 60.1%. Of the 7.90 lakh voters eligible for voting in the second phase, 1,35,990 casted their vote in Kashmir and 2,41,411 in Jammu.In Kashmir Division, the polling percentage recorded in Budgam was 43.51%, Srinagar 33.78%, Kulgam 29.90%, Baramulla 28.95%, Shopian 17.28%, Anantnag 16.09%, and Pulwama 8.67%. Similarly, in Jammu division, poll percentage of 61.64% was recorded in Kishtwar, 64.80% in Doda, 66.23% in Ramban, 62.51% in Udhampur, 66.38% in Samba and 69.27 in Reasi% and 60.21% in Rajouri. The DDC elections are the first major electoral exercise taking place in Jammu and Kashmir after the revocation of Article 370 in August last year and the bifurcation of the former state into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The eight-phase election will end on December 19 and the counting will be held on December 22. The third phase of elections will be held on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-62-voting-recorded-in-phase-2-of-ddc-polls/story-ZT24FnN1asmaXdgTfJqTyM.html
02-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, former US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) chief Scott Gottlieb said in an interview to CNBC that his estimate is that by the end of the year 30% of Americans would have been infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease. That’s almost one in three Americans who will have some sort of immunity against the virus. I know there is a lot of confusing research on this, especially when it comes to those asymptomatic patients who have low viral loads, but I am going to go with the most comprehensive research – Dispatch 207 on November 19 covered it – that most infected people have at least six months of protection (of some sort) against Covid-19, with a not insignificant probability that this protection could actually last for years. Gottlieb went on to add in the interview that he believes some states may have an infection rate of up to 50%. INFECTION ESTIMATEFormer US FDA chief Scott Gottlieb said in an interview to CNBC that his estimate is that by the end of the year, 30% of Americans would have been infected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus. This bodes well for 2021, he suggested – and it’s easy to see why. If a third of the population is protected against the virus, there is a high chance of the chain of infection being broken before too many people are infected. “You are getting to levels where this virus is not going to circulate as readily,” he told CNBC. The US ended November with 13.6 million recorded cases of Covid. It could end the year with anything between 17 million and 18 million, at the current rate of growth of recorded cases. If Gottlieb’s assessment is accurate, this number, in reality, should be 100 million – which means that for every infection recorded, the US is missing around six. That seems plausible, and also highly probable. For the purposes of this column, I have assumed it to be true.WHAT NEXT?If a third of the population is protected against the virus in the US, there is a high chance of the chain of infection being broken before too many people are infected.India has seen almost 9.5 million cases of the coronavirus disease to date (it is second in terms of the number of cases after the US). A direct extrapolation of Gottlieb’s constant (if it can be called that) might not make sense for a variety of reasons. India and the US are both large and have high population counts, but the differences between them on these two parameters are still stark. The US has a population of 330 million; India, 1.3 billion (1,300 million). The US has a land area of 9.8 million square km; India, 3.3 million square km. The US’s population density, based on these numbers, comes to 34 per square km; India’s almost 394 people per square km. Some of these factors point to the constant being higher in India; others, lower. There are also other factors at play – populations in some parts of India, like populations in parts of Africa, may have some protection against the coronavirus disease on account of previous infections by other coronaviruses; and the BCG vaccine, which almost all Indian children have received for decades now, may offer some cover against the infection or, at the least, the intensity of infection.In Dispatch 158, on September 15, I had put forth assumptions that around 15% of the urban population in India and 5% to 7.5% of the rural population may have been infected by the virus. That number was based on antibody prevalence surveys carried out in many parts of the country. Those numbers are sure to have moved north. It is likely that the metropolitan cities, such as Delhi and Mumbai, have infection rates of around 20%; other Indian cities, 15%; and rural India 7.5%. India’s top 10 cities have a population of around 110 million. At a 20% infection rate, they would have seen 22 million cases. India has a rural population of around 850 million people, and an infection rate of 7.5% translates into around 64 million cases. The remaining 340 million urban population would have seen 51 million infections at a 15% infection rate. That works out to a total of 137 million cases – which means that for every infection recorded, India is missing 15, which too is plausible. At an aggregate level, this translates into an overall infection (or exposure) rate of approximately 10%, although the number is likely to be far higher in some large cities, and much lower in some remote rural areas.Interestingly – and I did not assume numbers with this end in mind, although it may now seem like that – at 137,000 dead (the current death toll in India), and 137 million infections, India’s infection fatality rate works out to 0.1%, which some experts believe to be a reasonable estimate of the Covid-19’s fatality rate. Sure, it is likely (very likely) that India’s actual death toll is higher, but it is just as likely that the number of cases is as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-8asZFrTHpXfxKnAmjeHagN.html
02-12-2020||India||SC angered after man appears shirtless during online hearing||Upset by a bare-chested lawyer adjusting the camera during a hearing by videoconferencing on Tuesday, the Supreme Court remarked that lawyers cannot afford to be so reckless because it has already been eight months since the apex court has been hearing cases in the virtual mode amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The incident happened in the Supreme Court virtual courtroom presided over by justice LN Rao. The judge was hearing a suo moto {of its own accord} petition on the condition of Child Care Homes during the pandemic when suddenly an image flashed on the screen of a bare-chested person adjusting the camera of the standing counsel for the Kerala government, G Prakash.The bench called out to the lawyer appearing on the screen, “Someone is standing beside you who is shirtless.” There was no response from the other end and the next moment, the link with the lawyer could not be established. The bare-chested person was also a lawyer, ML Jishnu, who is related to Prakash.Upset by the behaviour of the lawyer in question, the bench, also comprising justice Hemant Gupta ,said: “Even after seven to eight months of telling lawyers to be careful during videoconferencing, you (advocates) are so reckless.”“I was not able to hear or see the courtroom. Before the hearing started, the link was connected but later it disappeared. It was during that time somebody was helping to fix the system for me. But I was fully dressed up in my advocate robe and because my device faced technical glitch I was unable to hear or see what happened in the court,” Prakash told HT.This is the second instance in two months of a lawyer appearing without a shirt during a virtual hearing at the Supreme Court. On October 27, another lawyer appeared shirtless during the hearing of a case before a bench presided over by justice DY Chandrachud. The judge had then remarked, “Some decorum has to be maintained by lawyers while appearing before us. Caution must be taken in future.” Even solicitor general Tushar Mehta called the behaviour “unpardonable”.The lawyer who was involved then was MS Suvidutt who wrote to th solicitor general snd the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association president that he was attending the Vidyarambam (initiation of education) ceremony of his niece with his camera off. He expressed regret and apology for his inadvertent act. Since the videoconferencing proceedings started in March this year, lawyers across high courts too have been caught eating food and appearing casual dressed, lying on the bed, and even chewing gutka. In May this year, the Supreme Court secretary general Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar issued a notification allowing lawyers to shun their long robes and coats while appearing before the court through videoconferencing. The notification said, “The advocates may wear plain white-shirt/white-salwar-kameez/white saree, with a plain-white neck band’ during the hearings before the Supreme Court of f India through Virtual Court System till medical exigencies exist or until further orders.” A lawyer found smoking in the car during a virtual hearing before the Gujarat high court was fined Rs 10,000 for his conduct. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan faced an embarrassing moment when he was found smoking a hookah during the hearing of an important case before the Rajasthan high court. He escaped the eyes of the judge, though. In June, the Supreme Court hauled up a lawyer for appearing in a T-shirt, lounging on his bed. A bench remarked: “Minimum court etiquette in terms of what can be considered a decent dress, background, etc should be followed given the public nature of the hearings.” The lawyer was let off on offering an unconditional apology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-angered-after-man-appears-shirtless-during-online-hearing/story-wAbcpcx8A2n4o20AvyXCEP.html
02-12-2020||India||Devotees can avail Sabarimala Prasadam at their doorstep via Speed Post||Department of Posts has decided to deliver Sabarimala ‘Swami Prasadam’ to devotees across the country at their doorstep.According to the official press release on Tuesday, “Keeping in view devotees across the country, Department of Posts conceptualized and developed a comprehensive booking and delivery package for the delivery of “Swami Prasadam” of Sabrimala Temple at the doorstep of the devotees using the vast network of postal department covering every nook and corner of the country.”“Kerala Postal Circle entered into an agreement with Travancore Devaswom Board for this purpose creating a tailor-made product. The devotees can now book the Swami Prasadam from any post office in India by paying only Rs 450 for each packet of prasadam. The packet contains one packet of Aravana, Aadiya Sishtam Ney (ghee), Vibhooti, Kumkum, Turmeric and Archana Prasadam. A devotee can book up to ten packets at a time.”“As soon as Prasadam is booked under Speed Post, a message with the Speed Post number will be generated and intimated to the devotee via SMS. The devotee can track the movement of the Prasadam by logging in to India Post website”, the release added.The release mentions, “This service was launched all over India with effect from November 6. There has been a tremendous response from the public for this service. Around 9000 orders have already been booked all over India till date and the same is increasing day by day. ““Sabarimala Temple has been opened to the devotees, for this year’s “Mandalam season pilgrimage” from November 16. Due to the prevalent Covid-19 pandemic situation, the pilgrims had to follow strict protocols for visiting the shrine. Only a very limited number of devotees were allowed per day to visit the shrine this season. A substantive number of devotees were not able to fulfill the Covid-19 protocols for getting the darshan of Lord Ayyappa due to the strict restrictions imposed for pilgrimage during this season.”, the release further stated.Around seven months after it was closed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the doors of Sabarimala temple were thrown open for devotees from October 16, albeit with certain restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-can-avail-sabarimala-prasadam-at-their-doorstep-via-speed-post/story-63tc0gwiohK9Y06aiE5PBP.html
02-12-2020||India||Gautam Gambhir to campaign for BJP in Jammu & Kashmir for DDC polls||Cricketer turned BJP MP Gautam Gambhir will campaign for the party in the ongoing district development council polls in Jammu and Kashmir, likely next week, a source in the party said on Tuesday.He may also campaign for the BJP “in a big way” during the West Bengal Assembly elections next year.“Gambhir will participate as a star BJP campaigner in the DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir elections expectedly on December 7-9,” said a source.The eight-phase DDC polls started on November 28 and will conclude on December 19. Counting of votes will be done on December 22.BJP leaders in West Bengal also have shown interest in Gambhir as a campaigner, who has a “huge” fan following in the state as he was the captain of the Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL, the source said.“The party is exploring options how to cash in on Gambhir’s persona and his popularity in the campaigning for the high-stakes West Bengal Assembly elections,” he said.Last year, Gambhir had campaigned for a few party candidates during Haryana Assembly polls which included former hockey star Sandeep Singh.Gambhir joined the BJP ahead of Lok Sabha polls last year. He defeated former Delhi Congress president Arvinder Singh Lovely on East Delhi seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-gambhir-to-campaign-for-bjp-in-jammu-kashmir-for-ddc-polls/story-SZg0g1Lp4XVXlE0WqmVr5I.html
02-12-2020||India||Villager in Bihar’s Siwan hacks 4 children to death||A man, in his forties, Monday night allegedly hacked his three sons and a daughter to death in Belha villagein Bihar’s Siwan district, police said on Tuesday.His wife and another daughter managed to escape but were injured in the incident, said police.Police said the incident took place when accused Awdesh Chaudhry returned home from the market and suddenly took a sharp-edged weapon and attacked his three sons, Abhishek Kumar (14) , Mukesh Kumar, (10) Bhola Kumar (12), two daughters, Jyoti Kumar (18), Anjali Kumari (14) and wife Rita Devi.Police said Chaudhay’s three sons and a daughter died on the spot while his wife and Anjali managed to escape from the spot. They are undergoing treatment at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH).Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Shashi Bhushan Kumar said, “I came to know about the incident around 12.15 am, following which I took Awdesh in custody.”The police officer said during investigation, it came to the fore that the accused had recently discontinued the medicines he had been taking for a mental illnessIn his confessional statement to the police, the accused said, “On my way back to home, it felt like something entered my body and forced me to kill my family. When I came to senses, I didn’t even realise that I have murdered them.”The accused also claimed to have “dialled up the district magistrate and superintendent of police” after committing the crime and he was overcome by guilt but “nobody picked up the phone”.Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Meanwhile, the house has been sealed and forensic experts have been summoned from Muzaffarpur for further investigation, said the police.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villager-in-bihar-s-siwan-hacks-4-children-to-death/story-3qIXLMgytDrRAh3me7zJUJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Doctor killed, 6 others injured after vehicle ploughs into wedding procession in Uttarakhand||A 25-year-old ayurvedic doctor died and six others were persons injured after a pick up vehicle rammed into a wedding procession in Rampur Road in Haldwani area on Monday night, said police Tuesday. The incident happened when the guests were dancing on the road. Sanjay Kumar, inspector at Haldwani police station said, “Property dealer Amit Upreti was getting married on Monday in Haldwani.The wedding was being held at a banquet hall at Rampur Road in Haldwani. His relatives had come from Meerut to attend his marriage. When his friends and family members were dancing in the wedding procession, a speeding pick up vehicle suddenly rammed into the procession”. Kumar said seven persons were injured in the incident. “All injured persons were rushed to Dr. Susheela Tiwari government hospital in Haldwani, where doctors declared one person brought dead. Five of the injured injured are being treated, while one was referred to a higher health facility”, he said The deceased has been identified as Aryan, 25-year-old resident of Sanjay Nagar in Uttar Pradesh. He was a BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) doctor. The injured person who was referred to a different facility has been identified as Ansh, an 18-year-old resident of Meerut. “The five other injured include Lovely, Somi, Bobby, Amit Upreti, and Hema Joshi “ he said. “The footage of CCTV cameras installed on Rampur Road is being scanned to identify the vehicle driver. We will arrest him soon” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-killed-6-others-injured-after-vehicle-ploughs-into-wedding-procession-in-uttarakhand/story-3U76nPnLw695Zzzkgx4IgJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Sariska’s tiger population rises to 21 with new cub||Amid coronavirus pandemic, there is good news for wildlife lovers from Sariska where a tigress has given birth to a cub. Field Director, Sariska Tiger Reserve, RN Meena said tigress ST-14 gave birth to a cub two months ago. The reserve has six tigers, 10 tigresses and four sub-adults. The new cub takes the tiger population to 21.In May, tigress ST-12 was camera trapped with three new cubs in the reserve. This was the second litter of three cubs of 6-year-old ST-12. The cubs were three months old. In 2018, she had given birth to three cubs which dispersed after they became adults. In March 2020, after a two-year wait, Sariska tigress ST-10 and her cub were spotted in the Talvriksh range. Sariska Tiger Foundation,’s secretary Dinesh Verma welcomed the news of the new cub. “Sariska Tiger Reserve is certainly a potential habitat and can support a good number of big cats. The current number of 20 can increase up to 35 but for that we need to reduce grazing in and outside the reserve,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sariska-s-tiger-population-rises-to-21-with-new-cub/story-p7UjzRNIf11ejpMiOOctbL.html
02-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahy allegedly stayed in hotels that cost Rs 2.7 lakh a day||Expelled BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahy stayed at luxury hotels in Delhi and Mumbai that cost as much as Rs 2.71 lakh a day and had spent about Rs 84 lakh while staying in Hotel Taj in Mumbai during lockdown, investigators probing the disproportionate assets case of senior Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak said.Panigrahy, who was expelled from BJD on Sunday for “anti-people activities” is under the scanner of both vigilance department as well as state CID over his suspected financial transactions with the tainted IFS officer as well as in the job scam in which several youths of Gopalpur were allegedly defrauded in the false promise of getting employment in of Tata Motors. Abhay Pathak’s son Akash had allegedly conned several youths by promising them jobs in Tata Motors.Vigilance officials who raided the house of the IFS officer again on Tuesday said they were trying to find out if the officer had any illegal financial transaction with the MLA. Pathak has been accused of amassing Rs 9.3 crore of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.The Biju Janata Dal has accused Panigrahy of flying in chartered planes and enjoying luxurious accommodations in cities like Mumbai, Delhi and Pune when the Covid-19 situation was grave in Ganjam district. “He was cheating people of his own constituency and taking bribes promising the unemployed youth to provide them jobs through Akash Pathak. He also broke people’s trust by leading a lavish lifestyle while people of Ganjam suffered during Covid. That’s why Naveen Patnaik took the strongest action against him,” said BJD spokesman Lenin Mohanty.“CM consciously used the word anti-people as Panigrahy was like Nero playing music when the whole Rome was burning. It is a very insensitive inhuman display of power and arrogance that is characteristic of an anti-people attitude by Pradeep Panigrahy,” Mohanty said.A defiant Panigrahy asked why the government did not stop him when he travelled in chartered flights during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Why now? I have travelled with due permission of DGCA and AAI. There is nothing wrong in it,” he said.Panigrahy alleged he was being made scapegoat to divert public attention from issues like the murder case of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh and famers’ suicide. “There is no official complaint registered against me. Yet police are picking my relatives and family members at midnight and using third degree torture in order to coerce them to lodge FIR against me,” he said.Panigrahy said he has written a letter to Naveen Patnaik in which he has accused police of torturing his relatives and forcing them to give statements against him.“Government is misusing its agencies to harass me and my family members. I don’t know whether the CM knows about these motivated conspiracies against me. However, I tried to reach out to Naveen Patnaik through phone call, but they didn’t allow me to talk to him. I urge the media to stop ‘media trial’ against me. I still trust the Chief Minister. He had affections towards me. I just want to know if he is aware of the harassments I have been facing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-bjd-mla-pradeep-panigrahy-allegedly-stayed-in-hotels-that-cost-rs-2-7-lakh-a-day/story-9ByFYvT7DsyloA1hMGuolL.html
02-12-2020||India||TMC staves off crisis, says rebel leader Suvendu Adhikari not leaving party||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday night avoided a major crisis before the crucial assembly polls when its heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari told top leaders at a discreetly held meeting that he will not leave the party. Adhikari had been maintaining a distance from the TMC for more than two months. He stopped attending office, triggering rumours that he might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Going a step further, he resigned from the cabinet on Friday. He was in charge of three important departments, including transport. The most significant part of Tuesday’s meeting, held at an undisclosed location in north Kolkata, is that the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant kishor were present at the meeting along with two senior Lok Sabha members, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay. Senior TMC leaders told HT last month that Adhikari was unhappy with organizational decisions taken by Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor, who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Adhikari and Banerjee even took potshots at each other without taking names at recent public meetings. Significantly, senior TMC leaders said that Adhikari, who was earlier appointed election observer for several districts, including Murshidabad, had demanded that people of his choice be fielded next year from around 65 assembly seats. The leadership did not accept this. “The talks went extremely well. Suvendu said he is very much in the party. I invited Abhishek Banerjee and Adhikari to sit for talks. Adhikari will make his position public. I had been saying all along that he would not leave the TMC,” said Roy after the two-hour talks. “I informed the chief minister what emerged at the meeting,” Roy told HT. Roy and Bandopadhyay had been holding talks with Adhikari over the past two weeks under instructions from Mamata Banerjee. On Friday, the disgruntled legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore district dealt a blow to the TMC and Mamata Banerjee by resigning from the state cabinet. He also quit the Haldia Development Authority and the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners. He was chairman of both the bodies. “This is a good development. What was happening was not good for the party,” said Adhikari’s father and the TMC’s seniormost Lok Sabha member Sisir Adhikari. The former minister’s elder brother is also a Lok Sabha member from East Midnapore. “The TMC has shown great maturity by dealing with the crisis through talks,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.The BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh described the developments as the TMC’s internal matter.“This is an internal matter of the TMC. A lot of leaders from the TMC have joined us. Many more will come in the future,” Ghosh told a local news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-staves-of-crisis-says-rebel-leader-suvendu-adhikari-not-leaving-party/story-5VTggxSm1CrJ8HLvx0UJlK.html
02-12-2020||India||Asked to comment on Kangana Ranaut, Shiv Sainik Urmila Matondkar responds||Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar on Tuesday joined the Shiv Sena, nearly a month after her name was proposed by the party for one of the 12 nominated seats in the Maharashtra legislative Council, and one among the several questions put to her was about actor Kangana Ranaut, who had called her a “soft porn star”.Matondkar declined to speak on the war of words between actor Kangana Ranaut and Shiv Sena leaders, underscoring she is not Kangana’s “fan”. “I think much has been spoken on Kangana. No need to give her that much importance now. Everybody has the right and freedom to criticise, she is free to do it. I wish to clear this today that I never responded to her [Kangana] in my interview [earlier],” she said.Senior Sena leaders said that the party leadership was impressed with the manner in which Matondkar took on actor Kangana Ranaut when the latter and the Sena were locked in a war of words after Ranaut equated Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Also Watch l Actor & former Congress leader Urmila Matondkar joins Shiv Sena The former Congress leader, who had quit the party after contesting the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, said she was impressed by the work undertaken by Uddhav Thackeray and his government. Thackeray’s wife Rashmi tied the ‘shiv bandhan’ (a saffron thread) to formally induct Matondkar in the party. Held at the CM’s residence Matoshree, the event was attended by Thackeray and other senior leaders like Subhash Desai, Anil Desai, Aadesh Bandekar, among others.“It has been 14 months since I quit Congress and not 14 hours. There is a huge difference when people quit a party and immediately join another. But I think Maha [Vikas] Aghadi government has done a praiseworthy job in the state. They got only three months of normal working [before pandemic]. Uddhav ji has steered the state very well. He shows strength where needed and speaks to us like a family member when required,” said Matondkar while speaking to a posse of reporters after joining the party. The actor defended her switch from Congress to a hardline Hindutva party and said that she has been close to Hindu religion but never needed to “tom-tom” it. “Hindutva doesn’t mean hating other religions. I am a Hindu by birth and my actions. I can speak a lot about religion as I have studied it. Never needed to speak about it,” she said.Responding to a question on how long will her new political stint last, considering she joined and quit the Congress party within a few months in 2019, she said, “When I quit the Congress party, I quit the party but not politics. See my letter [written to the party], I had said that I will continue to work for the people. I will continue working for the people from the grassroots,” he said.Speaking about Thackeray recommending her name as one of the 12 nominated members, she said, “Uddhav ji called and told me a beautiful thing that he wanted to uphold the social and cultural standard of Vidhan Bhavan. He said that he needed people like me. I consider myself fortunate.” She said that she was offered an MLC seat by the Congress but she declined it.Matondkar had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mumbai North constituency on a Congress ticket. In September 2019, she quit the Congress, stating that her efforts to work for the betterment of the party did not find support.Matondkar will help the Sena spread its message on a national platform, say party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asked-to-comment-on-kangana-ranaut-shiv-sainik-urmila-matondkar-responds/story-ow0TOU1AiJMffwleV0O8HL.html
02-12-2020||India||A trip to the holy land of Varanasi is healing and enlightening||From the ancient waters of the Ganges to the thousands in search of spiritual awakening along with flocks of migratory Siberian birds seeking refuge -Varanasi is one of the most enchanting showcase of the mystic of India. A trip to this holy land at this time of the year is an enlightening experience. With the ghats all lit up with thousands of lights and tiny diyas that are set afloat down river in honour of Kartik Poornima, also called Dev Deepavali or the Deepavali of gods, has pilgrims from across the world flock this landscape for contemplation in order to find the light within.Swami Ramnareshacharya who heads the Shri Math, credited for reintroducing the festival of Dev Deepavali in the 1980s and giving it the shape that we recognise says, “The festivals in India start from Sharad Purnima and Dev Deepawali is the culmination of all festivals. Diyas are lit along the banks to welcome the gods and mark their descent on earth.”Narrating the legend, he says, “Dev Deepavali, is celebrated to mark the victory of Lord Shiva over demon Tripurasur.” Roshani Yadav, a rangoli enthusiast whose work can be seen dotted along the ghats, says, “ Rangoli is made to welcome gods on this auspicious occasion, a gesture specially designed to welcome Goddess Lakshmi.”She adds, “Rangoli is coined from two words, ‘Rang and Aavali’ which means row of colours. The patterns are usually made using marble dust, rice powder and crushed limestone.”This time around, Sumit Singh with Kashiyana Foundation lighted organic diyas made of cow dung. He says, “ These diyas once lit can be used to enrich the soil as manure. It is through the initiative of each one of us that we can bring about awareness and celebrate eco-friendly festivals for years to come.”What seems common to all civilisations all across the world is the act of bringing light to dispel darkness, fear and avarice. And as Ramnareshacharya says, “The tradition of lighting earthen lamps is to banish the evil within us. It is symbolic of the victory of good over evil, light over darkness, injustice over justice and peace over unhappiness.”Dev Deepavali is the time to kill the demons existing inside of us and in our society. There are demons in society who kill people, harm the innocents. But we all have some demons like anger, greed, jealousy, anxiety, depression are our inner demons, which harm us mentally and emotionally.On a stroll along the series of wide stone platforms descending to the river, it is revealed that along with religion, this land has been called home by the likes of Buddha, Jain Tirthankars, Kabir, Tulsi, contemporarily art lovers and historians such as Rai Krishnadasa, musician Gopal Mishra, Omkarnath Thakur, Ravi Shankar, Bismillah Khan, Girija Devi have kept this city relevant in the spheres of fine arts.The historic temples, the yogi babas and the monuments of Banaras are intriguing but you can’t miss the delectable street food. Jalebi and Dahi, samosa and dahi with green chutney, Kachori, Tamatar chaat with a piping hot cup of tea is an unforgettable food journey. From Malaiyo to Rabri Malai Lassi to thandai, one requires more than a lifetime to indulge in all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-trip-to-the-holy-land-of-varanasi-is-healing-and-enlightening/story-4E8g6xMsxWnAhJhIFqMKmJ.html
02-12-2020||India||Dolphins spotted along Mumbai coast earlier than usual this year||Dolphins may have made an appearance along Mumbai’s coastline earlier than usual this year.Conservation biologist and Malabar Hill resident Darshan Khatau, who has been documenting the movement of the Indian Ocean humpback dolphin annually for the last four years, said sporadic sightings of dolphins were usually seen from the second or third week of December annually up to last week of May (just before the monsoon season).“This year, they arrived unusually early during the third week of November,” said Khatau. He spotted three individuals off Malabar Hill from November 15 and 16 onwards and has been regularly photographing them since. “In the previous years, the maximum number of individuals has been 12 in one pod. The early arrival could be due to shifts in ocean currents leading to more prey availability along the Mumbai coast.”Last Wednesday, a video was circulated on social media by environmentalist Zoru Bhathena of an Indian Ocean humpback dolphin spotted off Juhu beach.Also read | Maharashtra CM reviews Mumbai coastal road work; tunnelling to begin in JanuaryMarine biologists concurred with Khatau’s finding but said it cannot be verified as no official survey or study to monitor the population or behaviour of this species was carried out along Mumbai so far. “The Mumbai coast is used by Indian Ocean humpback dolphins (Sousa plumbea) for biologically important activities. Darshan has been observing foraging, socialising and mating in the area he observes. It is possible that their early arrival is related to oceanographic characteristics - currents, productivity, and prey availability,” said Dr Dipani Sutaria, senior research fellow, who has undertaken extensive research in cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises) along the west coast of India.Dr Baban Ingole, visiting scientist, National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research under the Ministry of Earth Sciences and former chief scientist, National Institute of Oceanography, said, “Since these are observations over four years, I certainly support it, and this may be happening across other areas along the west coast too, but we must understand the specific reason why this might be happening.”Ingole explained that from April onwards till early November, fishing activities had been at its lowest due to the Covid-19 pandemic and associated lockdown followed by the southwest monsoon (when the annual fishing ban is in place). “2020 was lean for fishing in at least over 10-15 years. There is enough evidence to suggest prey must be abundantly available along the coast. This means dolphins and other predators had enough food as compared to previous years. However, we must assess it now as the fishing activity picks up. Thus, we could expect more such sightings along the west coast,” said Ingole.The state fisheries department said fishing was practically zero during the lockdown followed by monsoon. From August onwards to the first week of November, it was just about 10% of what it is annually during this period. “This was because a large number of workers that generally come from Ratnagiri (as crew) avoided coming to Mumbai due to the pandemic. They arrived post Diwali, and since then, fishing activities has been about 40-45%,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner, Maharashtra fisheries department.Protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature as vulnerable, the Indian Ocean humpback dolphins have sporadic distribution, and are found in localised areas mainly in shallow waters very close to the shore (less than 20m deep, less than 1.5km from the shore, and around river mouths or estuaries), according to the Marine Mammal Research and Conservation Network of India. This dolphin species primarily feeds on fish such as mackerel, mullet, sardines and pomfret.“Since this is identified on the basis of live examples, it is an interesting identification. It could be due to changes in ocean currents which carry their feed material in plenty, and also may be favourable for their movement at the moment. Also, the Covid-19 associated lockdown may have improved water quality closer to the coast,” said E Vivekanandan, emeritus scientist at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute.Vivekanandan however warned that with an increase in infrastructure projects planned along the Mumbai coast, there was an immediate need for a population estimation of the marine species. “It will help strengthen conservation measures and provide crucial information about the species,” he said.The state mangrove cell said they were focusing on occurrence and genetic studies related to Indian Ocean humpback dolphins along all coastal districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai. “This has been proposed under our action plan for oceanic dolphin conservation under the Centre’s Project Dolphin program, which has been submitted to the state chief wildlife warden for approval. We hope such studies will help improve the understanding of this species,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Mangrove Cell).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dolphins-spotted-along-mumbai-coast-earlier-than-usual-this-year/story-131SlndfyFayw7D0ZLnI2L.html
