03-12-2020||India||Animal parts including musk deer pods seized in Guwahati, 3 arrested||Nearly 50 kg of sea fans and a large quantity of other wildlife parts including porcupine quills, musk deer pods were seized by authorities in Guwahati on Wednesday. The animal parts were seized during three different raids at separate locations in a joint operation by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and Assam forest department. Three persons involved in the racket were arrested. Besides the sea fans, 1.5 kg of porcupine quills, 14 musk deer pods, parts of monitor lizards etc. were seized in the raids. “Illegal trade of such precious resources has always been under the scanner of this government and we are committed to eliminate such evil acts from Assam,” forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya tweeted on Thursday. Sea fans are a type of soft coral found in warm waters around reefs. Sea fans are colonial animals that have a branching structure that is covered by soft tissue. According to forest officials, this is the first time, parts of marine animals have been seized in the state in such large quantity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/animal-parts-including-musk-deer-pods-seized-in-guwahati-3-arrested/story-PEdiRhxF8UCzZ4yh3KTWDK.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers who die by suicide are cowards, says Karnataka minister, sparks row||Even as farmers in many parts of the country are agitating against the new farm laws, Karnataka agriculture minister B C Patil stirred a new controversy by saying that farmers who die by suicide are cowards.Patil made these remarks while addressing farmers at Ponnampet in Kodagu district on the benefits of bamboo farming.“Farmers who commit suicide are cowards. Only a coward who can’t take care of his wife and children commits suicide. Once we are in the water, we have to swim and win, not die by suicide,” Patil said.The minister pointed out that despite Mandya district having complete irrigation facilities, there have been many suicide cases involving farmers unlike the dry and more drought prone Kolar district. “Do organic farming and there is profit to be made. If not Israel model of agriculture follow the Kolar mode. Don’t be cowards and die by suicide,” he said.Former chief minister and leader of opposition Siddaramiah condemned Patil’s remarks saying that people in responsible positions should not make irresponsible statements. The Congress party too hit out saying that as agriculture minister Patil had failed to address the concerns of the farmers.“Does he have the moral right to call farmers cowards after not providing a single scheme which brightens their lives. Making such arrogant statements, you are unfit to be an agriculture minister. Resign immediately,” the party tweeted.The minister defended his statement saying that what he said has been taken out of context and that he wanted to ensure that farmers don’t die by suicide. “I have not called farmers cowards. I have said committing suicide is cowardly. Those who give us food should never commit suicide but have to overcome all challenges is what I have said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-who-die-by-suicide-are-cowards-says-karnataka-minister-sparks-row/story-jU6TNAeli26kqk7w0hK1SO.html
03-12-2020||India||SC grants anticipatory bail to Punjab’s ex-DGP in 29-year-old custodial death case||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted protection from arrest to Punjab’s former Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in a case of murder lodged against him in August 2020 for an alleged custodial death 29 years ago.Saini who retired in 2018, had approached the top court seeking protection after the trial court in Chandigarh and the Punjab and Haryana High Court on September 8 refused to accept his plea of political witch hunt by the present Punjab government and declined him anticipatory bail.Reversing the order passed by the HC and the trial court, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that a fit case for pre-arrest bail was made out looking to the status of the petitioner who retired as Punjab’s DGP after 30 years of service and the long delay of 29 years for the State to lodge fresh charge of murder against Saini.The bench, also comprising Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah directed that in the event Saini was arrested in connection with this case, he shall be released on bail on furnishing personal bond of Rs one lakh and two sureties. He will have to surrender his passport and cooperate with the investigation, the bench added.The incident took place in 1991 when one Balwant Singh Multani, a junior engineer with Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation was arrested by a team of Punjab Police in connection with a car bomb blast on August 29, 1991 that killed three policemen while causing injuries to Saini. Police claimed that Multani escaped from police custody soon after his arrest.The case took a fresh twist in May this year when Multani’s brother filed a complaint alleging murder of Multani by seven police officers including Saini. The case was registered at Mohali’s Mataur police station, initially under charges of kidnapping for murder (IPC Section 364) but in August, the charge of murder (IPC Section 302) was added. Two police officers who were co-accused with Saini turned approvers and narrated the brutal custodial torture inflicted on Multani at the instance of Saini.The bench noted, “A long delay like 29 years as in the present case can certainly be a valid consideration for grant of anticipatory bail.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi who appeared for Saini argued that all of a sudden the brother of the victim had woken up in an incident 29 years old and even co-accused have turned approvers to harass and victimize Saini, who was a decorated officer.The bench noted this fact and said, “In this FIR….Section 302 IPC has been added on the basis of the statements of the approvers only (Jagir Singh and Kuldip Singh). We are of the opinion that the appellant has made out a case for anticipatory bail.”Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra who sought custodial interrogation of Saini defended the state by saying, “Mere delay or political vendetta cannot be a ground to quash the criminal proceedings, more particularly, when the allegations are very serious and the allegations against the police officers are of misuse of power, kidnapping and thereafter killing the innocent person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-punjab-s-ex-dgp-in-29-year-old-custody-death-case/story-hrO39oHNKOSB0Jto9W6XuM.html
03-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address all-party meet on December 4; Covid-19, vaccine likely to be discussed||The government has called an all-party meeting on December 4, which will be the second such meeting since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic situation, vaccine network are likely to be discussed in the meeting, to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Floor leaders of all parties from both houses of Parliament have been called for the meeting, which will be held via video conference at 10.30am.Apart from PM Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan are likely to be present at the meeting. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and minister of state Arjun Ram Meghwal will also attend the meeting.Discussions may take place on the holding of the winter session of Parliament, which may get clubbed with the Budget session that usually begins in the last week of January. Congress leader Manish Tewari on Thursday demanded that the winter session of Parliament be convened at the earliest to debate various pressing issues facing the country like the ongoing farmers’ protest against agriculture reform laws, Chinese aggression and the Covid-19 crisis.As far as Covid-19 in concerned, the all-party meeting follows a few crucial meetings that took place in the last few weeks. On November 24, PM Modi held a video conference with the chief ministers and other representatives of all states and union territories and discussed the government’s vaccine preparation. On November 28, the PM visited the vaccine development sites in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune. On November 30, OM Modi interacted with three other vaccine-makers — Gennova Biopharma, Biological E and Dr Reddy’s.As many as five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development. While four are in Phase II-III and one is in Phase-I-II trials.An estimated one crore frontline health workers will receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine whenever it becomes available, with around 92 per cent of government hospitals and 55 per cent of private hospitals across all states and union territories providing data identifying the workers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-all-party-meet-on-december-4-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-discussed/story-hJ7DMpwIueeZiy9FHpNr2O.html
03-12-2020||India||Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung to address mega rally in Siliguri on Sunday||Followers of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have planned a huge rally in Siliguri town on Sunday to mark Gurung’s return to Bengal’s Darjeeling district after three and a half years. Gurung, who has been charged by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government under anti-terror law for the violence during the Gorkhaland stir in 2017, was in hiding all these years. He surfaced in Kolkata on October 21 and offered to support Mamata Banerjee in the assembly elections due in about five months. In the last three Lok Sabha polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Darjeeling seat with Gurung’s support. “The BJP did nothing to find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. We are with Mamata Banerjee,” he said in Kolkata recently. Sunday’s rally will be held at the Indira Gandhi Maidan in Siliguri. Bishal Chettri, vice president of the party’s central committee said, “Gurung will reach Siliguri by train on Sunday morning and head for the venue. We are expecting a gathering of more than one lakh supporters.” Anand Bhandari, lawyer of the GJM (Bimal Gurung faction), said Gurung can appear in public since the Supreme Court has ordered a stay on investigation in the cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Gurung will not immediately move to hills, leaders in the party said. He and his supporters will stay in Siliguri to avoid confrontation with the GJM’s Binoy Tamang faction, Binoy Tamang met law and labour minister Moloy Ghatak on Thursday. Tamang is opposed to Gurung’s return to the hills. His close aide Anit Thapa is chairman of the board of administrators in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkha-leader-bimal-gurung-to-address-mega-rally-in-siliguri-on-sunday/story-J9PmKdp8m0DxZPoVH71oBJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control, cases going down: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Covid 19 situation in the national capital is “under control” and the number of cases are also going down. At a meeting with a delegation of Delhi Bar Council and Coordination Committee of Bar Associations of Delhi, the chief minister said his government invested the most in the field of health and education and the result of that investment in the health sector is visible now during the pandemic.Delhi has shown the path to other states by first implementing the welfare scheme for lawyers, and now other states can follow suit, he said.The chief minister said, “Delhi is showing the path in various sectors. Now the Covid-19 cases are also going down in the capital and the situation is under control. Delhi has fought a very difficult battle at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.” During the third wave of Covid 19 pandemic, Delhi reached a peak of 8,500 cases one day and around the world, there is no such city where so many cases were reported, he said.“During the peak of corona in New York, the patients were lying on the streets, but due to our strong hospital management system, nothing such has happened.” “Even at the peak of 8,500 cases a day, Delhi had 7,500 empty beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-in-delhi-under-control-cases-going-down-kejriwal/story-jiX7KWAGr07piKjdTkKjiN.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Not connected in any way’: India says Pakistan linking Kulbhushan Jadhav case with another||India on Thursday accused Pakistan’s security establishment of pressuring a Pakistani lawyer engaged by the Indian high commission to misrepresent New Delhi’s position on Kulbhushan Jadhav during a court hearing. The lawyer, Shahnawaz Noon, was engaged to represent an Indian prisoner named Mohammad Ismail, who continues to be in jail despite completing his sentence. According to Pakistan’s media reports, Noon said during a hearing of Ismail’s case in the Islamabad high court on Tuesday that India’s chargé d’affaires is willing to appear in court to explain New Delhi’s position on Jadhav. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing that Noon had exceeded his brief due to pressure from Pakistan’s security establishment. Srivastava also accused Pakistan’s attorney general Khalid Jawed Khan of attempting to link Ismail’s case to that of Jadhav, though there is no connection between the two. “Mr Noon is reported to have made those statements which are not true and are in contravention of our stand in the case. He appears to have acted under pressure from the Pakistani establishment to make such statements, for which he has no authorisation,” Srivastava said. Also read: Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impactNoon was selected by the Indian high commission as part of a “routine consular practice” to appear in the case for the release and repatriation of Ismail. “However, during proceedings of the case regarding Mr Ismail, Pakistan’s attorney general raised the matter pertaining to Jadhav, though the two cases are not connected in any way,” he said. “Mr Noon misrepresented the position of the high commission. He was clearly told by the high commission that he had no authority to represent either the government of India or Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava said, referring to the former Indian Navy officer on death row following his conviction for alleged involvement in spying. The Indian mission in Islamabad has written to Noon, reiterating he has no authority to represent Jadhav and no basis to suggest the Indian chargé d’affaires will appear in court. The Islamabad high court is hearing a separate case related to appointing a lawyer to represent Jadhav so that he can file an appeal in line with the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) verdict staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction. India has insisted that an Indian lawyer or a lawyer eligible to practice in the UK should represent Jadhav so that he can get a fair hearing, but Pakistan has said the formal naval officer can only be represented by a lawyer allowed to practice in the country. Srivastava reiterated Pakistan has failed to respond to “core issues” related to Jadhav’s case, including the provision of all legal documents and unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access, which will be the “basis of an effective review and reconsideration” as ordered by the ICJ. Jadhav was arrested in March 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage, and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rubbished the charges levelled against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The ICJ stayed Jadhav’s execution in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-connected-in-any-way-india-says-pakistan-linking-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-with-another/story-b8GTEhikBFRXxDnIkZJtDL.html
03-12-2020||India||14-year-old Uttarakhand girl gang-raped by 3, left in forest||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by three men in a remote area of Uttarakhand’s Nainital on Wednesday night. The incident, however, came to light on Thursday when villagers saw her lying unconscious in the jungle, said revenue police under which the area falls. The villagers informed her family members who then reached the spot and rushed her to hospital, said revenue police. Revenue police sub-inspector, Praveen Hyanki, who is investigating the case, said, “The girl was kidnapped by three men on Wednesday evening when she was alone at home while her parents were out for some work.” “They then took her to the jungle where they took turns to rape her. The three men then left her there before threatening to kill her if she told anyone about the heinous act,” said Hyanki. He also informed that all the three accused were known to her as they live in the same area. Also read: No end to deadlock but Centre, farmers hopeful for next meet on Dec 5The girl who sustained serious injuries, fell unconscious in the jungle, only to be found by villagers the next morning. “The villagers after identifying her immediately informed her parents. They then came to the spot and rushed her to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to a higher centre in Haldwani,” said Hyanki. Later in the evening, the girl’s father lodged a complaint against the three men. Sub-divisional magistrate, Koshyakutoli sub-division in Nainital, Prateek Jain confirmed receiving the complaint and said, “We have received the complaint and will soon register a case. The girl is at present undergoing treatment at the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-uttarakhand-girl-gang-raped-by-3-left-in-forest/story-992tbl5GZZseBJr5Ho72tO.html
03-12-2020||India||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee says state government employess to get 3% hike in DA from January||Announcing a three per cent hike in dearness allowance (DA) from next month for government staff, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the state’s coffers would never run dry for its employees, although it was yet to receive dues of Rs 85,000 crore from the Centre.Banerjee, during her address to members of TMC- affiliated government employees’ association at the state secretariat, said dues payable by the Centre to Bengal had been mounting over a period of time under several heads -- UGC grant, GST and funds for Covid-19 battle among others.“We had not been receiving our financial dues. At least Rs 8,000 crore is due under GST. Despite financial constraints, we had met the recommendations of all previous pay commissions (sixth pay Commission). We will also provide three per cent hike in DA from January 2021,” she said.The chief minister said the exercise will incur an expense of Rs 2,200 crore on the state’s exchequer.“Over Rs 85,000 crore dues are yet to be cleared by the Centre but that will not prevent us from giving our people their dues,” she said.The CM further said that 9.5 lakh students of 14,000 higher secondary schools and 636 madrasas will be given tablets for free for their online classes.Tenders will be floated soon to ensure that students get the gadgets on time to prepare for their higher secondary examinations, he said.The state has also made arrangements to ensure RT-PCR tests are conducted at a rate as low as Rs 950, she stated.Noting that employees of central government organisations and undertakings are currently “insecure” amid talks of privatisation of institutions, the CM said her dispensation has never sacked anyone and instead increased salaries of staff even in the midst of the pandemic.“Employees of the railways, Coal India, SAIL and Air India are currently not feeling very secure as these institutions might be shut down any day. Even the ordnance factories are not immune...” she said.The situation in the country is such that “the farmers are agitating on the streets, while the labourers have lost their voice,” Banerjee claimed.“I have spent more than Rs 33 crore (from state exchequer) to the railways to bear the fares of hapless migrant labourers, but the central government did not do anything to help them return home from their workplaces during the Covid-19 induced lockdown,” she said.The CM also claimed said that the Centre has not given the state its dues for Amphan relief and Covid-19 care.“They are talking of corruption, even as they raised a lot of money under PM Cares initiative but doled out nothing,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-says-state-government-employess-to-get-3-hike-in-da-from-january/story-xR1yddO7asHdigiEECH2FM.html
03-12-2020||India||Army chief to visit Saudi Arabia, UAE from Sunday||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane is set to make a four-day visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from December 6. This is his third foreign trip this year with diplomatic overtones, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Naravane will spend two days each in both West Asian countries, home to a majority of the nine million Indian expatriates in the region, and hold meetings with the senior military and civilian leadership, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The visits are being seen as part of the Indian government’s outreach to West Asia, which is seen by New Delhi as part of its extended neighbourhood, and come close on the heels of external affairs minister Jaishankar’s visit to Bahrain and the UAE during November 24-26. This outreach has dramatically expanded defence and security cooperation, especially counter-terrorism, in recent years.Naravane is set to travel first to Saudi Arabia, where his engagements will include an address at the National Defence University, the people said. He will then travel to the UAE, whose defence ties with India have been expanded in recent years, the people added.Also read: Our right to build dam on Brahmaputra, says China as experts warn of impactDetails of the trips were being kept tightly under wraps by all the three countries though the visits were confirmed by diplomats and other officials in New Delhi and Riyadh. Former Indian foreign secretary Kanwal Sibal described the visits as “very significant” in a tweet. “Apart from deepening bilateral ties in sensitive area, signals loosening of [Saudi Arabia-UAE] ties with Pak. With Raheel Sharif employed by SA to head Islamic counterterrorism coalition, inviting Naravane sends piquant message,” he said, referring to the former Pakistan Army chief who currently heads the Islamic Military Counter Terrorism Coalition, an alliance of 39 Muslim countries with headquarters in Riyadh.In October, Naravane accompanied foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on a visit to Myanmar, where they held talks with the senior leadership, including Aung San Suu Kyi and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing, on security and development cooperation. Last month, Naravane travelled to Nepal for a visit that was seen as preparing the grounds for Shringla’s subsequent trip, with both engagements helping nudge bilateral ties towards normalcy after a border row over a new political map issued by Kathmandu that included Indian territories.The visits also come at a time when Pakistan’s ties with both Saudi Arabia and the UAE are strained. Angered by Islamabad’s criticism of Riyadh’s position on the Kashmir issue, Saudi Arabia recently sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018. After being rebuffed by the Saudi leadership on the Kashmir issue, Prime Minister Imran Khan had made an unsuccessful attempt to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries with Turkey and Malaysia – a move that further irked Riyadh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-to-visit-saudi-arabia-uae-from-sunday/story-jUeO4u0ywaDjxp2SEHNPNO.html
03-12-2020||India||94% farmers selling produce on MSP in Chhattisgarh: Govt||Over 94 per cent farmers in Chhattisgarh are getting benefit of the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy and it is expected to rise by two percentage points this year, an official statement said Thursday.Due to the policies of the state government, the number of farmers selling paddy in the state has increased from 12 lakh to 18.38 lakh, Chhattisgarh Information Centre said in a statement here.It said 94 per cent of farmers are getting benefit from the state government’s paddy purchase at the support price.The statement said that due to “farmer-friendly policies of the Bhupesh Baghel government, not only the acreage of agriculture has increased in the last two years, but the people who had abandoned farming as a non-profit business are once again coming back towards farming.” In Chhattisgarh, where 76 per cent of the farmers sold paddy on MSP in 2017, after the Bhagel government came to power, it has shown an unprecedented growth and the figure reached 92.61 per cent in 2018 and 94.02 per cent in 2019, it said. This year, over 2 lakh new farmers have registered, so the figure is expected to cross 98 per cent.Paddy procurement has started in Chhattisgarh on support price from December 1, the statement said.Over 21 lakh farmers have registered to sell paddy in the state this year and the area where the paddy is sown is more than 27 lakh hectare, it said.In two years, the area has increased from 19.36 lakh hectare to 22.68 lakh hectare and the number of farmers has also increased from over 12 lakh to 18 lakh, the information centre said.In the year 2017-18, 56.85 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased at the support price. During two years, this figure of paddy procurement reached 83.94 lakh metric tonnes (MT). Considering the number of farmers registered to sell paddy in 2020 and the area under paddy production, the farmers benefitting from support price are estimated to be higher than the last year, it said.The chief minister has waived agricultural loan of about Rs 9 thousand crore of over 17 lakh farmers in the state and the irrigation tax of Rs 244.18 crore outstanding on over 17 lakh farmers for years, according to the information centre.The state government launched the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana from May 21, 2020 to provide farmers their right and fair price for their produce under which Rs 5,750 crore is being given to the 19 lakh farmers in four installments, it said.So far, direct assistance of Rs 4,500 crore has been given to the farmers in three installments, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/94-farmers-selling-produce-on-msp-in-chhattisgarh-govt/story-tdiDcd0gNGRJbotttet8IM.html
03-12-2020||India||Former CM Sukhbir Singh Badal says Parkash Badal’s returning of award sends a strong message||Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday has expressed his solidarity with former CM Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal on returning his Padma Vibhushan award and said that it sent a strong message to the government.He also said that the government is forcing the farmers to accept the recently passed farm bills during the monsoon session.“Parkash Singh Badal (former Punjab CM) fought for farmers for his entire life. He returned his award to send a strong message to the government. Farmers don’t need these laws so why the Govt of India is forcing them on farmers?,” Badal told news agency ANI.The former five-time Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal ex-president on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan award and said he feels that the farmers are being betrayed.In his emailed letter to President of India Ram Nath Kovind, Parkash Singh Badal highlighted the reasons why he felt that the farmers have been hurt and betrayed. He said, “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today, when he (farmer) has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour.”He also described the recently passed farm bills as ‘bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country.’Farmers, who are protesting against the bills for more than a week, are currently holding discussions with union ministers at Vigyan Bhavan in New Delhi. The deadlock between the farmers’ bodies and Centre continues as talks reach the second round. Farmers’ union leaders also told ANI that they are not ready to accept any hospitality from the government until their demands are met.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which they say will adversely affect the agricultural sector. Farmers fear that the introduction of these bills will allow major agro companies to enter the sector and pave way for corporate farming. They also fear that procurement of farm yields under the Minimum Support Price system will be impacted due to these bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cm-sukhbir-singh-badal-says-parkash-badal-s-returning-of-award-sends-a-strong-message/story-PmqlAQu35lWfAw1Sw6L5KJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee to hold TMC meeting on Friday to assess poll readiness||Amidst rumblings of discontentment within the party, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has called a virtual meeting of state and district level leaders of the ruling TMC on Friday to assess its preparedness for the approaching state poll, party sources said. The state is set to witness stiff fight between TMC and opposition BJP, which has made deep inroads. While the poll will be crucial for the BJP as it has never been in the government in West Bengal, Banerjee will be seeking to return to power for the third consecutive time.Friday’s meeting assumes immense significance as this will be the first major organisational meeting after the resignation of disgruntled TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari from the state cabinet and various party leaders openly speaking out against the leadership.It is likely that during the meeting the party will unveil a new outreach campaign to tell the people about the policies and developmental work done by the TMC government in the state in the past ten years since it came to power, the sources said.“Banerjee will assess organisational strengths and weaknesses. Some changes in the organisation are likely to take place to fix the loose ends. From this meeting she will give directions to the TMC leadership on what has to be done.She will give us a roadmap for the 2021 assembly polls,” a senior TMC leader said.The TMC state committee, core committee, presidents and convenor of all the districts, frontal organisations, MPs, MLAs and other senior leaders have been asked to be present at the meeting, the sources said.Another senior TMC leader said Banerjee, who is also the party supremo, is likely to virtually launch a new mass campaign and brief the leaders about it.The campaign, like the others launched by the party, is a brainchild of poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his I-PAC team, the TMC leader said.The new programme will cover all the 78,908 booths of the state and will be more of taking feedback from the masses and assessing the ground-level situation, said another leader.Election to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly is due in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-hold-tmc-meeting-on-friday-to-assess-poll-readiness/story-NPbNv36jML2uCDseZuFwfM.html
03-12-2020||India||Indian economy is gradually recovering: IMF||India’s economy, severely affected by the coronavirus pandemic, is gradually recovering, the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday.India’s economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on better consumer demand.“India has indeed been severely affected by the pandemic but is gradually recovering,” IMF chief spokesperson Gerry Rice told reporters.Fiscal, monetary, and financial sector measures announced to date provided much-needed support to the economy, including businesses, agriculture, and vulnerable households, Rice said in response to a question on the IMF’s assessment of India’s economy during the coronavirus pandemic.“To further support growth, we believe the Indian authorities should prioritize swift implementation of the existing support programs and may need to consider expanding their scope, as warranted,” Rice said.In her address to the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC), the ministerial-level committee of the IMF, through video conference, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that a V-shaped pattern of recovery is being seen in several high-level indicators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-is-gradually-recovering-imf/story-zASjauQBLTGADwMQWYuETN.html
03-12-2020||India||Domestic carriers may post loss of Rs 21,000 cr this fiscal: Icra||Domestic carriers are expected to post losses to the tune of Rs 21,000 crore this fiscal as against a net loss of Rs 12,700 crore reported in the financial year ended March 2020, impacted by lower revenue and higher costs, ratings agency Icra said on Thursday.At the same time, the industry’s debt level is also expected to increase to around Rs 50,000 crore (excluding lease liabilities) over 2021-22, while it would require an additional funding of Rs 35,000-37,000 crore over 2022-23, it said in the release.The ratings agency has also revised downward its passenger traffic forecast with domestic passenger traffic estimated to decline 62-64 per cent this fiscal from the earlier forecast of 41-42 per cent. The international passenger volumes are estimated to plunge 88-89 per cent as against its earlier projection of 67-72 per cent, as per the release.The recovery in domestic passenger traffic is contingent on factors such as containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, willingness of consumers to undertake leisure travel, recovery in macroeconomic growth, and recovery in business travel.“The two listed airlines (IndiGo and SpiceJet) have together lost around Rs 31 crore per day during the first half of the fiscal,” said Icra Vice-President Kinjal Shah.She added that the airlines’ daily cash burn started reducing, as gradually they recommended domestic operations, along with continued chartered and cargo operations, thereby resulting in significantly higher yields.“This resulted in a lower daily loss of around Rs 26 crore for these two airlines in the September quarter against around Rs 37 crore in the June quarter of this fiscal,” Shah added.With a sequential improvement in domestic passenger traffic and continued cost rationalisation initiatives by the airlines supported by benign ATF prices, the daily cash burn for airlines has further reduced in the third quarter of 2020-21, she added.In the near term, the balance sheets of Indian carriers will remain stressed until the carriers are able to reduce their debt burden through a combination of improvement in operating performance and/ or by way of equity infusion, Icra said.It has thus maintained its negative credit outlook on the Indian aviation industry.Shah said, “Icra expects FY2021 to witness a higher decline of 62-64 per cent in domestic passenger traffic, than its earlier estimates of 41-46 per cent decline.” With this, the domestic passenger traffic will reach much lower than the 2010-11 levels, she added. “The recovery in air travel is expected to be gradual once the Covid-19 threat is allayed.” The impact of the pandemic will be more profound and last longer on international travel compared to domestic travel, the ratings agency said.It added that in addition to the above-stated factors determining the recovery in passenger traffic, the recovery in international travel is also contingent on the opening up of scheduled international operations by the government.“Icra expects the FY2021 international passenger traffic for Indian carriers to witness a significant year-on-year decline of around 88-89 per cent, higher than its earlier estimates of about 67-72 per cent decline,” Shah said.Due to the low base of 2020-21, the passenger growth in 2021-22 for both domestic and international operations will be robust; however, it will still be significantly lower than even 2015-16 levels, Icra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-carriers-may-post-loss-of-rs-21-000-cr-this-fiscal-icra/story-72ZmgUtpZViXSXOoX4iRaI.html
03-12-2020||India||Seems govt’s stand over MSP will be fine, says Bharatiya Kisan Union after meeting with Centre||The talks between the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers made little progress on Thursday, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said after the seven-hour meeting concluded for the day.Speaking after the meeting, Tikait said the government has given indications over Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the key demands of agitating farmers, “It seems that their stand over MSP will be fine,” Tikait said.The issue is about the complete rollback of laws, Tikait also said. “Farmers want that the laws be taken back,” he added.Also Read | Govt not egoistic, holding discussions with farmers with an open mind: TomarThe next round of talks will take place on December 5.Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting against three farm laws which were recently enacted during the monsoon session of Parliament in September. They are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The farmers are demanding the complete withdrawal of the laws as they fear that it will lead to the end of Mandi system and are only in the interest of big corporates. However, the government has so far refused the demand.However, the government has assured that no such thing would happen. Meanwhile, it had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them.Thursday’s meeting was held between the leaders of 40 farm organisations and three ministers from the central government - Narendra Singh Tomar along with railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash. The meeting at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhavan today is the fourth round of talks between the government and the farmers.The Centre also offered to set up a committee to discuss the provisions of laws. However, it has been rejected by the farmers’ unions. Instead, they have demanded a special session of parliament to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seems-govt-s-stand-over-msp-will-be-fine-says-bharatiya-kisan-union-after-meeting-with-centre/story-Br4vFdb3KLHr4ao2DHfSEI.html
03-12-2020||India||7 months after blowout, Baghjan gas well in Assam is finally abandoned||Seven months after it witnessed a blowout and 17 days after the blaze in it was doused, Oil India Limited’s (OIL) Well No-5 at Baghjan was finally abandoned on Thursday evening. Following the uncontrolled release of gas and oil at the well on May 27, OIL had declared an emergency for its internal control purposes. On Thursday, the emergency was withdrawn after abandonment of the well. “All the jobs pertaining to capping, killing and final abandonment of the well was successfully completed in the evening hours on December 3,” OIL said in a statement.The company, which has been faced loss in production and backlash from local residents in its handling of the blowout, thanked all stakeholders for the support. It expressed gratitude to the three OIL employees who died during operations to control the blowout and subsequent fire. The fire at the well was doused using by a team of experts from Canada on November 15 using a technique called snubbing. The gas well in Tinsukia district had a blowout (uncontrolled release of oil or gas) during a workover operation. It caught fire on June 9 killing two firefighters. Another engineer died at the site in September due to electrocution. Besides the loss of three lives, over a dozen houses located close to the well had been gutted in the fire and nearly 40 others damaged partially. Thousands of people were forced to leave their homes and stay in temporary camps for months while efforts were on to control the well. As the well is located close to the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri Motapung Wetland there were also apprehensions of damage to ecology due to the blowout and fire. According to OIL, several studies were conducted to access the damage caused and none of them had detected any major harm. Impact on the areas close to the well will be studied done after the well is completely brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-months-after-blowout-baghjan-gas-well-in-assam-is-finally-abandoned/story-DKLqJ2iFWdCnrIxN9IYaeN.html
03-12-2020||India||Hyderabad civic election results 2020: Counting to begin at 8am tomorrow; CCTV cameras to record entire process||The counting of votes in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Council election will begin at 8am on Friday amid elaborate security arrangements. Counting centres have been set up at 30 places and 8,152 officials will be engaged in the process, which will be recorded in CCTV cameras. As ballot papers were used for the election, the results will be known later on Friday. The vote count can be followed on the website of Telangana State election commission. The voting took place on December 1 following a high-octane campaign which. however, did not match with the voter turnout percentage. Only 34 lakh voters caste their ballots out of around 74 lakh eligible voters, which translated to a voter turnout of only 46.55 per cent. Telangana Rashtra Samithi won the last election in 2016 bagging 99 out of 150 wards. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had won 44 seats, while the BJP won four seats, Cogress two and the TDP one.BJP conducted a spirited campaign with Union home minister Amit Shah, party president JP adda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy, who is Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, party MP Tejasvi Surya participating in the campaign. The GHMC election is being seen as a litmus test for 2023 state assembly election as 24 assembly segments fall under the GHMC limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-ghmc-election-results-2020-when-and-where-to-watch-live-counting-to-begin-at-8am-tomorrow-cctv-cameras-to-record-entire-process/story-NRQvnpM9Rob0ilbkgmkjRM.html
03-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders ask Centre to hold winter session soon||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday said that the government should sit for a winter session of Parliament and avoid evading questions raised by Opposition leaders as well as farmers.Malik told ANI that Parliament should sit for a winter session even if the session runs for a short period of time. He said, “Not holding (winter) Session and evading questions is not right for democracy. Opposition & farmers are demanding that even it’s for two days.”He also said that Bengal Congress Lok Sabha MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s demand for holding a winter session is valid. Malik said, “Adhir Ranjan ji’s demand for winter session of Parliament is valid.”Earlier on Thursday, Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla highlighted the need for holding the winter session. In his letter to Birla, he wrote, “There are a number of very important issues that the nation is facing in present times. The most notable among them is the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the status/preparation of the COVID-19 vaccine.”Nawab Malik also pointed out that the government should clarify queries regarding the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine. He said, “The Health Secretary says that they never said that the vaccine would be administered to everyone. Will it be free of cost? There are questions. The Modi govt should call the winter session of the Parliament and discuss the issue of farmers and vaccines.”Earlier on December 1, health secretary Bhushan had said that the government is not planning to inoculate every single individual and the vaccinations will be done to break the chain of transmission.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba last week met representatives from all the states and union territories to discuss the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine and asked officials to ensure that last-mile vaccine delivery is ensured.Congress Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi also on Thursday said that the prime minister should clarify how Centre plans to deliver vaccines to citizens. He said, “PM - Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections- Everyone in Bihar will get a free vaccine. Now, GOI- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-ask-centre-to-hold-winter-session-soon/story-bUMAYTQVfjxsK8L2tnnkeN.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt not egoistic, holding discussions with farmers with an open mind: Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the government is holding discussions with farmers with an open mind and holds no ego after the second round of discussions ended between the farmer groups and the union ministers.Tomar also said that farmers are mainly concerned with the impact the laws would have on the Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis. He said that the government is considering strengthening the APMC and contemplating levying an equal amount of tax for private mandis outside the purview of APMC as well as for APMC currently operating under the ambit of the APMC Act.Tomar told ANI, “Some points have been raised in previous meetings & today’s meet. Farmer unions are mainly concerned about these. The Government has no ego, it was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs.”He further said, “The government will contemplate seeing that APMC is further strengthened and its usage increases. New laws lay down provision for pvt mandis outside purview of APMC. So, we’ll also contemplate having an equal tax for pvt as well as mandis under APMC Act.”Tomar also said that farmers can raise their issues with courts in case of disputes arising from the passage of these new farm laws. He said, “In the new Act, it has been provided that farmers can take their grievances to SDM court. Farmers’ Unions feel that SDM court is a lower court and they should be allowed to go to court. Government will consider this demand.”Farmers’ groups, however, did not relent and said that emphasis still lies on repealing the new laws and the farmers will continue to raise their voices until the Centre decides to completely roll back the recently passed farm laws.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa told ANI that farmers do not want amendments and remain firm on the demand that the new laws be repealed. Sirsa also said that the government had to admit that there are drawbacks in the recently passed laws.He said, “We listed all drawbacks before the government, they had to admit that there are drawbacks & they’ll make amendments. We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it.”Harjinder Singh Tanda of the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee said that the farmers are hopeful that the government will take action. Tanda said that farmers’ groups will continue to pressurise the government and ask them to repeal the laws.Tanda told ANI, “We are hopeful. The laws are wrong. In the next meeting, we will put pressure on the government. They will have to say that they will take back the laws. In my opinion, it will be finalised during the meeting day after tomorrow.”The farmers’ group and the government will again hold another round of discussions on December 5. Farmers are protesting for more than a week against the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. They fear their incomes will be in danger as private players can enter the market. They also fear that as APMCs will be impacted affecting the procurement of yields under the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-not-egoistic-holding-discussions-with-farmers-with-an-open-mind-tomar/story-PKoZJ1CIPozbFUzbkcUjfL.html
03-12-2020||India||Imperative for China to adhere to agreements on LAC, says India||Against the backdrop of a US commission concluding that the deadly June 15 clash in Galwan Valley was planned by Beijing, New Delhi said on Thursday it is imperative for China to adhere to agreements on not taking any unilateral action to alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The “core issue” continues to be strict adherence to bilateral agreements and protocols for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a weekly news briefing when he was asked about the report of the US-China Economic and Security Review Commission. The commission, in its report submitted to the US Congress on December 1, said evidence suggested the Chinese government had planned the “massive physical brawl in the Galwan Valley” between People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Indian troops on June 15, “potentially including the possibility for fatalities”. The clash resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and unspecified Chinese casualties. Srivastava referred to a statement issued by the external affairs ministry following a conversation between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi two days after the violent face-off in Galwan Valley. “I would stress that the core issue remains that both sides need to strictly follow the various bilateral agreements and protocols in their entirety, including the 1993 and 1996 agreements on maintenance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas, which require that there should not be amassing of troops, each side should strictly abide by and respect the LAC, and should not take any unilateral action to alter it,” he said. Despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, the two sides haven’t been able to agree on a roadmap for disengagement and de-escalation at friction points in Ladakh sector of the LAC, including Depsang and Pangong Lake. There has also been no official word on the holding of the ninth round of talks between senior military commanders, even as tens of thousands of troops of the two sides have dug in for the winter. Srivastava said the two sides “continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels with the objective of ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC” and full restoration of peace and tranquillity. “Both sides have agreed to have another round of senior commanders’ meeting at an appropriate time. As and when we have more information, we will share it with you,” he said. In response to another question on whether China’s actions had figured during a recent conversation between the foreign ministers of India and Australia, Srivastava said New Delhi and Canberra had elevated their bilateral relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in June and are committed to a rules-based global order. “Given the depth and importance of our bilateral relations, naturally, we exchange views on regional and global developments as well as current issues of concern,” he said, adding bilateral engagements span critical minerals, infrastructure, maritime cooperation, counter-terrorism and cyber security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imperative-for-china-to-adhere-to-agreements-on-lac-says-india/story-nETE7VrAOWpvStE4xxfz4H.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive at Vigyan Bhawan meeting and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meetingThe meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. Read moreOld rivalries take back seat as six Jammu & Kashmir parties join hands to contest local pollsSaifuddin Shah, 70, and his family from Kakroosa village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district have been staunch loyalists of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC). Read moreMalegaon blast case: Court asks MP Pragya Singh Thakur, other accused to appear on December 19Four of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, including Bharatiaya Janata Party lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, failed to appear before a special court hearing the matter. Read moreCovid-19: Three former US presidents may take vaccine shot on cameraThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is scrutinising the data submitted by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE to grant the required approval for emergency use. Read moreCan’t get your hands on Sony PS5 in India yet? This might be the reasonSony announced its next-generation gaming console the Sony PlayStation 5 last month. Shortly after that, that is around November 19, PS5 went on sale in the global markets except India. Read moreNASA shares video of the Sun created using pics captured for over 20 years. It’s mesmerisingA video of the Sun shared on Twitter has now won people over and chances are it’ll leave you mesmerised too. The clip is created using pictures captured for over two decades from ESA and NASA’s Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO). Read moreMouni Roy’s droolworthy look in a Rs 30k red ruffle saree is all you need to add the oomph factor on your next date nightThey say there is a shade of red for every woman and television hottie Mouni Roy proved it rightly so with her latest smoking hot look in an organza red saree. Read moreMulan movie review: A monumental misfire from Disney, the worst of its live-action remakesMulan finds a way to offend just about everyone. Are you a feminist? Prepare to be disappointed by the film’s simplistic idea of empowerment. Read moreFarmers decline food offered by govt at meeting, take their own lunchFarmer leaders, who participated in a meeting with Union ministers on December 3, declined food offered by the government. They were seen distributing and eating food they had taken with themselves on paper plates. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-talks-with-centre-inconclusive-at-vigyan-bhawan-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news/story-70qJLHhb0R7wPIjjVzTdRI.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt creates new posts of Deputy Chief of Army Staff (Strategy), Director General Information Warfare||As part of the reorganisation of Army Headquarters, the government has approved the creation of a new deputy chief of strategy in the headquarters as per a plan first envisaged during the Doklam crisis with China in 2017.The government has also cleared the creation of the post of Director General Information Warfare in the headquarters who would be dealing with media affairs too.The government sanction letter for the creation of a new post of Deputy Chief of Army Staff (Strategy) as part of Army headquarters’ reorganisation has been issued, Army sources said on Thursday. The first officer to assume the new appointment would be the present Director General of Military Operations Lt General Paramajit Singh, they said.The new office of the third deputy chief in the Army would reduce the burden on the vice chief of the Army as he would have important officers including the in-charges of military intelligence and military operations under him.The new post was envisaged during the Doklam crisis when a need for closer and direct coordination was felt in the headquarters.The sources further informed that the government has also given sanction for creating a new post of Director General Information Warfare.The office would have the Additional Director General (Strategic Communications) under him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-creates-new-posts-of-deputy-chief-of-army-staff-strategy-director-general-information-warfare/story-7m33BdXid7y3KV2ocvT3hJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Pakistan linking Kulbhushan Jadhav case with another prisoner’s case, says India||India on Thursday blamed Pakistan for linking Kulbhushan Jadhav with another prisoner case.“Pakistan is trying to link the case of Kulbhuashan Jadhav with another prisoner’s case. In routine consular practice, Shahnawaz Noon was selected by our High Commission to appear in the case for release and repatriation of an Indian prisoner, Mohammad Ismail, who has completed his sentence but continues to be in jail in Pakistan,” Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at the weekly media briefing.“However, during the proceedings of the case regarding Ismail, Pakistan Attorney General raised the matter pertaining to Jadhav though the two cases are not connected in any way, and Noon is reported to have made those statements about our Charge d’Affaires (Cd’A) which are not true, and they are in contravention of our stand in this case,” he added.Srivastava said Noon did this under pressure and has misrepresented the position of the High Commission.He was clearly told by the High Commission that he had no authority to represent either the Government of India or Kulbhushan Jadhav.“Noon is reported to have made those statements which are not true and are in contravention of our stand in the case. He appears to have acted under pressure from the Pakistani establishment to make such statements for which he has no authorisation,” Srivastava said.Pakistan has failed to respond on the core issues concerning the case including the provision of all documents and an unimpeded unhindered and unconditional consular access of Kulbhushan Jadhav which would form the basis of an effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the International Court of Justice.Indian Mission in Islamabad has written to Noon reiterating that he has no authority to represent Jadhav and has no basis to suggest that the Indian Charge d’Affaires would appear in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-linking-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-with-another-prisoner-s-case-says-india/story-LESVGIhXt6qyZzzTGi3eFM.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ talks with Centre inconclusive: Who said what at Vigyan Bhawan meeting||The meeting between the representatives of the protesting farmers’ organisations and the Union ministers on Thursday remained inconclusive, though both sides found silver lining after the seven-hour deliberation at Vigyan Bhawan. The farmers organisations are hopeful that in the next meeting — which is scheduled on December 5 — the issue will be resolved as the Centre on Thursday agreed to review several provisions of the laws. The Centre too is pinning its hope on the next meeting after today’s discussion. Meanwhile, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has urged the agitating farmers to withdraw their protests so that people in Delhi do not suffer.Here is what happened at the meeting:> The meeting was held at a cordial environment with 40 leaders representing various farmers’ organisations that are currently protesting the agricultural laws which the Centre projects as reforms but the farmers are worried that minimum support price will be withdrawn. > The farmers pitched for the repeal of the three farm laws, which the Centre had earlier refused.> Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government listened to the grievances of the farmers with an open mind. Some of the points have also been raised in previous meetings. “Government has no ego. It was discussing with farmers with an open mind. Farmers are concerned that the new laws will end APMCs,” the agriculture minister said. > In the meeting, the Centre reiterated to the farmers that the MSP system will continue. > The farmers expressed their reservation over the provision where they are supposed to take their grievances to SDM courts. “Farmers’ unions feel that SDM court is a lower court. Govt will consider this demand,” Tomar said.> The farmers raised concerned over trading outside the purview of mandi. The trading is supposed to take place on the basis of PAN card. The farmers, at today’s meeting, pointed that getting hold of a PAN card is very easy. The Centre has assured the farmers that traders will be registered. > The farmers organisations said there was little progress in the meeting as the government has only assured about MSP.> The farmer leaders said the government accepted that there are certain drawbacks which they will amend. “We said we don’t want amendments but withdrawal of laws. We also demanded that MSP be implemented for certain and law should be made for it,” farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-meeting-remains-inconclusive-who-said-what/story-1N6UCM226HYXVPuDN2va9O.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Will be destroyed’: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warns against ‘Love Jihad’||In a stern warning against “Love Jihad”, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shiv Raj Singh Chouhan on said, “If someone plots religious conversion or does anything like this, they will be destroyed,” news agency ANI quoted Chouhan as saying. This comes as the state is preparing to pass a controversial ordinance that outlaws marriages with an aim of religious conversions. “Government belongs to everyone, all religions and castes. There is no discrimination but if someone tries to do anything disgusting with our daughters, then I’ll break you,” Chouhan also said, ANI reported.“Love jihad” is a term coined by right-wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.Following on the footsteps of Uttar Pradesh government, MP home minister Narottam Mishra confirmed earlier this month that the state would soon table a bill against ‘love jihad’. It will likely to be brought in the next Assembly session.As per the ordinance, the conversion for marriage by force, fraud, lure or instigation will be punishable by a maximum jail term of 10 years, Mishra had said.Meanwhile, experts including Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur have raised concerns saying that such laws will put freedom of choice, dignity and human rights on the back seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-destroyed-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-warns-against-love-jihad/story-TWRR2kT2FpArFNHdIxGvyJ.html
03-12-2020||India||No changes will be made to MSP: Agri minister assures farmers’ leaders||Minimum Support Price (MSP) will not be touched, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar during a meeting with leaders of farmers’ union protesting against the recently enacted farm laws, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. In a response to farmer leaders, Tomar said that “no changes will be made to it.”Leaders of 40 farm organisations are meeting with three ministers from the central government - Narendra Singh Tomar along with railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash. The meeting at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhavan today is the fourth round of talks between the government and the farmers.Click here for complete coverage on farmer’s protest Farmers are protesting against the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They were passed during the monsoon session in September.Thousands of farmers protesting against the laws are demanding the government to repeal the contentious laws as they worry that it will end the mandi system and are only in the interest of big corporates.However, the government has assured that no such thing would happen. Meanwhile, it had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them. The Centre also offered to set up a committee to discuss the provisions of laws. However, it has been rejected by the farmers’ unions. Instead, they have demanded a special session of parliament to repeal the laws. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-changes-will-be-made-to-msp-agri-minister-assures-farmers-leaders/story-PAXb5dBqmm86W0YfZ2gaRP.html
03-12-2020||India||India tells China it is concerned about its Brahmaputra hydropower project||India has conveyed its concerns regarding the diversion of waters of Brahmaputra river, India’s external affairs ministry said on Thursday after reports that China is building a mega-dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Tibet.The Chinese side has assured that they’re only undertaking run of river hydropower projects which don’t involve diversion of waters of Brahmaputra, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a weekly media briefing.“We have urged them to ensure that the interest of downstream states isn’t harmed by activities in upstream areas. Chinese side conveyed to us on several occasions that they’re only undertaking run of river hydropower projects which don’t involve diversion of waters of Brahmaputra,” said Srivastava.He also said that the government is monitoring the developments and as lower Riparian state with considerable established user rights to water of transborder rivers “we have consistently conveyed concerns to China.”“We intend to remain engaged with China on the issue of transborder rivers to safeguard our interests,” Srivastava further said.Earlier this week, Chinese state media had reported that Beijing will build a “super” dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river. Chinese media had indicated that the dam could come up in the Medog county of TAR, which is close to Arunachal Pradesh.Originating in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR), the trans-border Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh where it is called Siang and then to Assam as Brahmaputra before flowing into Bangladesh.The new dam’s ability to generate hydropower could be three times that of central China’s Three Gorges Dam, which has the largest installed hydropower capacity in the world.China had earlier played down its plan, saying there is no need to have “any anxiety” over the project and assured that it would continue to have “good communication” with lower riparian states - India and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tells-china-it-is-concerned-about-its-brahmaputra-hydropower-project/story-dPBU6I6BQWAZkH3ZEBAtNI.html
03-12-2020||India||Asia needs flexible LNG deals not linked to oil prices: Dharmendra Pradhan||Asia needs flexible liquefied natural gas (LNG) contracts with no links to oil prices to reflect changes to the market as demand recovers from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, India’s oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday.Pradhan said gas buyers and sellers need to adjust to changing market dynamics after lower spot gas prices in last two years have encouraged buyers to favour short-term and spot deals instead of long-term oil-linked deals.“The LNG price determination for Asian consumers is still oil-linked, and this requires an urgent revision,” Pradhan said at an International Energy Forum event.India, the world’s fourth largest liquefied natural gas importer, is aiming to raise the share of gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from the current 6.3% and is investing $60 billion by 2024 to strengthen infrastructure.The country’s top importer Petronet LNG is renegotiating pricing of gas bought under long-term deals with Qatar, after a spot price slump made oil-linked long-term deals unattractive.“There is greater recognition to immediately address the rigidities in its marketing structures in LNG sector,” the minister said referring to clauses like destination restriction.He said refined fuels and gas demand in India has recovered to pre-Covid levels and he hoped the country will remain a key global energy demand center.India is doubling its natural gas grid to 34,500 kilometers and increasing annual gas import capacity to 61 million tonnes by 2022 from the current 42 million tonnes, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asia-needs-flexible-lng-deals-not-linked-to-oil-prices-dharmendra-pradhan/story-Z53yHjiuxQhxqOxBZ0uLBN.html
03-12-2020||India||Shivraj Chouhan announces memorial for Bhopal gas tragedy victims||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced building of a memorial for the Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims to ensure there is no recurrence of industrial disasters. He also announced the resumption of pension to widows which was not being paid to them since 2019. The CM made the announcements during an all-religion meet organised by the state government in Bhopal to pay homage to those killed due to the leakage of highly toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas from erstwhile Union Carbide factory on the intervening night of December 2 and 3, 1984.More than 3,700 people were killed in the gas leak according to the state government records and more than 5.58 lakh others were affected. “We have been mulling this for a long time but now time has come. We should build a memorial of Gas Tragedy in Bhopal at the earliest which teaches a lesson to the world that we should not make any such thing which proves disastrous for the entire world,” Chouhan said.“By paying silent tributes to the victims of Bhopal Gas Tragedy we wish to resolve to protect our environment to ensure that there is no recurrence of such a tragedy”, he added. Also read: Bhopal gas tragedy: 36 years on, survivors still await justiceHe said, “Our sisters who became widows due to tragedy whom we call Kalyani were getting Rs 1000 monthly pension but the same was discontinued in 2019 (during the then Congress government). The pension will be resumed immediately.” Meanwhile, paying tributes to the tragedy victims four organisations of tragedy survivors ‘condemned the continued evasion of legal liabilities by Dow Chemical, USA for the ongoing damage to the health of the survivors and pollution of the local soil and groundwater’. The organisations in a joint statement said they denounced the state and central governments for failing to make the corporation pay adequate compensation and denying the rights of the survivors to medical care and social support. The organisations include Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh, Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha, Bhopal Group for Information and Action and Children Against Dow Carbide. “Dow Chemical’s market share that was down to 2.5 % in 2005 has steadily risen since 2015 to over 22% of the Indian market”, said Rashida Bee, President of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmachari Sangh. However, she added, the monthly pension of Rs 1,000 for 5,000 women widowed by the disaster had been stopped since last December. Alleging downplaying of figures of death of gas survivors due to Covid-19 by the Madhya Pradesh government, Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information & Action, said “This is nothing new. Officials have been downplaying the figures of death and extent of health damage caused by Union Carbide and Dow ever since the morning of the disaster. The official figure of death is still five times lower than the actual and over 90 % of those exposed to Union Carbide’s gases have been categorized as needing just one visit to the hospital.” Nawab Khan, President of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, “In the last ten years officials of the state and central governments promised in writing that they would revise the figures of death and health damage in the curative petition for additional compensation from the American corporations. These promises remain to be kept. Meanwhile, all official research on the long term health impact of the disaster has been stopped or suppressed.” “The effect of the pandemic on the survivors in Bhopal and on people exposed to industrial pollution everywhere in the world has once again highlighted the urgent need for reigning in chemical corporations. In the last 36 years our institutions have failed to make Union Carbide and Dow Chemical heed the laws of the land.” said Nausheen Khan for the Children against Dow Carbide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-announces-memorial-for-bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims/story-5XMWlWlOtLHCcxOchKt81I.html
03-12-2020||India||Sundeep’s Shiva song shines on Dev Deepawali!||The video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi witnessing Dev Deepawali from a cruise in Varanasi, went viral on social media, recently. The clip featuring a laser light show on the song, ‘Shiv Shankar Shambhu’ was an instant hit. The chartbuster played in the backdrop of the video has been written, composed and sung by Lucknowite, Sundeep Gosswami. Elated with his devotional song going viral and earning praise, the composer-singer said, “It was late in the night that I saw my song getting featured in the back drop of the video. Within a few hours the views went in multi-million with the song being vastly praised by all. I feel it’s all due to Baba’s blessing,” said the composer. Sundeep has earlier composed for films like ‘Bhindi Bazaar Inc,’ (as Sundeep-Surya), ‘Blue Mountains’ and ‘Phamous.’ “This is my first devotional song titled ‘Kaal Ke Hai Mahakaal’ that I wrote, sang, composed and produced. It was released on my official YouTube channel in April 2017. It has 4.5 million views on my channel and with other channels combined it has 25 million views. Many songs were played in during the celebrations but the one shared by the prime minister on the occasion was my mine,” shares Sundeep. A Shiva devotee, he composer has been releasing one song on the deity every month. “My numbers don’t fall in bhajan category. They are devotional songs, with fusion of western music, which attracts youth as well as the elders. My next song is going to be a rap with which I have incorporated mantras.” Sundeep had also composed a number of non-filmi songs for Darshan Raval, Jubin Nautiyal-Jonita Gandhi and Ash King. Recently, he composed ‘Kambakht Jawani’ for Kancchan Srivas and is waiting for a new release ‘Chal koi gal nahi’ that features Arishfa Khan and Lucky.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/sundeep-s-shiva-song-shines-on-dev-deepawali/story-RnEvK3haiOwXsn3XG7BXQJ.html
03-12-2020||India||NIA takes over Nagrota encounter case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday took over the Ban Toll Plaza encounter case which took place near Nagrota on November 19.Four heavily armed Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists were killed on November 19 in Nagrota in a swift operation by the security forces. The case was handed over to the NIA following a notification issued by the Central government. “An FIR has been registered in Jammu Police Station of the NIA on Wednesday,” said an official. It may be recalled that an NIA team had visited the site of encounter at Ban Toll Plaza on November 19 itself. The team had recorded statements of the eyewitness and police officers. The NIA is already probing the encounter in Nagrota which took place on January 31, 2020, in which three terrorists from Jaish-e-Mohammed were killed at the same toll plaza.Also read: Maharashtra farmers launch day-long protests against farm laws“The Central Government received information regarding registration of FIR No. 0045/2020, registered at PS Nagrota, District Jammu, 307, 120B, 121, 122, 123 of IPC, sections 7, 25, 26 & 27 of Arms Act and sections 16 & of the UA(P) Act, 1967, relating to an encounter between the police party and unknown terrorists who were travelling in a truck bearing registration No. JK03F-1478 at Ban Toll Plaza in PS Nagrota, District Jammu during which three militants were killed and three of their accomplices including the driver of the Truck were arrested,” NIA case details read.The encounter between terrorists and security forces started around 4.50 am at Ban Toll Plaza on Jammu-Srinagar national highway. Within three hours, the four Jaish terrorists were killed inside the truck that was ferrying them to Kashmir.The slain ultras had used a trans-border tunnel from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers that opened up near Regal post of the BSF in Samba sector.Subsequently, they had boarded a Kashmir-bound truck on Pathankot-Jammu national highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-takes-over-nagrota-encounter-case/story-19svhQ2i9x13EEMF2sAjYP.html
03-12-2020||India||Slump in Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate in last 7 days; steady rise in number of containment zones||The Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has slumped in the last one week, dropping from 8.65 per cent on November 26 to 5 per cent on December 2, even as the count of containment zones has grown steadily in the same period, according to official data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In this duration, nearly 100 containment zones have been added each day, rising to 5,772 on Wednesday.Delhi recorded 3,944 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over 5.78 lakh, while 82 new fatalities pushed the toll to 9,342.These fresh cases came out of a record 78,949 tests conducted on Tuesday, including 36,370 RT-PCR tests, while the positivity rate dropped to 5 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.This is the highest number of tests conducted in a day till date and also the first time when over 70,000 tests were done.The positivity rate has been steadily dropping since November 26 till date, except on November 29 when it marginally rose to 7.64 per cent compared to 7.24 per cent on November 28, as per the official figures shared by the Delhi health department.The positivity rate was 8.65 per cent on November 26 when 5,475 fresh cases were recorded, and 8.51 per cent on November 27 when 5,482 cases were reported.On November 30, the rate again dropped to 7.35 per cent; 6.85 per cent on December 1 and 5 per cent on December 2, as per the data.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital is falling rapidly and it should drop to below 5 per cent level in the next few days.However, the number of containment zones has steadily risen in the last one week, from 5,156 on November 26 to 5,772 on December 2.The count of zones on intervening days were -- 5,229 (November 27), 5,331 (November 28), 5,441 (November 29), 5,552 (November 30) and 5,669 (December 1), according to official data.Also Read | Centre allotted labs taking more than 24 hours in providing Covid-19 test reports: Satyendar JainWhen asked about the rise in count of containment zones, Jain had said, as per the government policy, any place where three or more cases are reported are converted into a containment zone.“So, this is our effort to contain the spread of the virus and so the numbers are increasing, and thus not a matter of concern,” he said, adding, that the rapidly falling positivity rate is a “satisfactory” trend.The positivity rate was 15.26 per cent on November 7. There has been a reduction of nearly 55 per cent since early November, Jain had said on Tuesday.Eighty-two fatalities were recorded on Wednesday, pushing the toll in the national capital to 9,342.The active cases tally on Wednesday had dropped to 30,302 from 31,769 on Tuesday.The Wednesday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 5,78,324, while the recovery rate stood at over 93 per cent.The highest single-day spike till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slump-in-delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-in-last-7-days-steady-rise-in-number-of-containment-zones/story-ZMZ07CJQKUqX6IwVxG5MCJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Arnab Goswami seeks stay on investigation in 2018 abetment to suicide case||Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami has moved the Bombay high court seeking a stay on the ongoing investigation by the Mumbai Police into Anvay Naik’s suicide case in 2018. The journalist has also urged the high court to transfer the investigation to CBI or any other independent agency.The matter will be heard before the Bombay high court on December 10.Goswami was arrested on November 4 on charges of abetting the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018. He was granted interim bail on November 11.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has recently said a charge sheet will be filed soon in the case.The Supreme Court has observed that prima facie evaluation of the FIR against journalist Arnab Goswami and two others did not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide. The apex court has also extended the interim bail granted to Goswami. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said that the high court should not foreclose itself from the exercise of the power when a citizen has been “arbitrarily deprived of their personal liberty in an excess of state power”.“In this batch of cases, a prima facie evaluation of the FIR does not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 of the IPC. The appellants are residents of India and do not pose a flight risk during the investigation or the trial.“There is no apprehension of tampering of evidence or witnesses. Taking these factors into consideration, the order dated 11 November 2020 envisaged the release of the appellants on bail,” the top court recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-seeks-stay-on-investigation-in-2018-abetment-to-suicide-case/story-ljj94CZ2DVS3eCSfO6ee6N.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers from other states won’t be allowed to sell crops in Madhya Pradesh, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that the state government will only buy the yield of crops of Madhya Pradesh, and if anyone from other states tries to sell their crops in the state, then their trucks will be confiscated and they will be imprisoned. Addressing the crowd in Sehore, he said, “I have decided that only the produce of the crops harvested in the state will be bought. If someone from outside the state come, even try to sell from the neighbouring states, then his truck would be confiscated and he would be sent to jail.” मैंने तय किया है कि जितनी पैदावार किसान की यहां होगी उतनी खरीद ली जाएगी। लेकिन अगर बाहर से कोई आया, अगल-बगल के राज्यों से बेचने या बेचने का प्रयास भी किया तो उसका ट्रक राजसात करवाकर उसे जे़ल भिजवा दिया जाएगा: म.प्र. के मुख्यमंत्री शिवराज सिंह चौहान pic.twitter.com/t2RuUb1ZInThe chief minister was addressing a program organised at Nasrullaganj in Sehore to transfer an amount of Rs 100 crore under the Chief Minister Kisan Kalyan Yojana in the banks of the farmers.Kisan Kalyan Yojana was launched by Madhya Pradesh’s chief minister following the path of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana. Under the Kisan Kalyan Yojana, the state government will pay farmers a Samman Nidhi of Rs 4,000 like the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana that pays Rs 6,000 every year in 3 equal installments. In the backdrop of the farmers’ protest, the BJP leader also attacked the opposition and claimed that the Congress has always been against the farmers. He blamed Congress for the chaos and violence in the districts of Neemuch and Mandsaur, saying that it was the Congress that distressed and instigated the farmers. He went on adding that he will not let the opposition party create chaos in Madhya Pradesh. Also Read | Farmers’ Protests Live Updates: Farmers march in Maharashtra against farm laws“Congress has always opposed farmers. They’re distressed, they’re looking for some chaos. It was the same Congress that instigated farmers in Neemuch & Mandsaur and fanned violence. We will not let Congress do this at any cost in Madhya Pradesh,” the chief minister said.Farmers from across the nation are protesting in the national capital against the three new farm laws introduced by the government. The protesting farmers on Wednesday had called for a special Parliament session to repeal the anti-farmers laws that were enacted in September earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-from-other-states-won-t-be-allowed-to-sell-crops-in-madhya-pradesh-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-JCkOxWYXNJ2QXrlV6eFIEK.html
03-12-2020||India||UP govt gives 4 reasons to HC for not transferring DM after Hathras gang rape||The Uttar Pradesh government has listed four reasons before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court for not transferring district magistrate of Hathras after the gang-rape incident in the district in September.The government also tried to justify the decision to perform the last rites of the deceased in the night.The case came up for hearing in the court of Justice Pankaj Mittal and Justice Ranjan Roy on November 25 last. The order was uploaded on the court’s website on December 2 (Wednesday). During an earlier hearing of the case on November 5, the court had asked advocate of the Uttar Pradesh government, SV Raju, whether it was fair and reasonable to allow the district magistrate of Hathras to continue at the same post during the pendency of the investigation. Raju informed the court that after pondering over the issue the government decided not to transfer the district magistrate of Hathras Praveen Kumar Laxkar for four reasons. Firstly, the transfer of district magistrate has been made an issue by political parties with oblique motive to exert political pressure. Secondly, there is no question of the DM tampering with the evidence relevant to the investigation. Thirdly, security of the family is now in the hands of the CRPF with which the state government and its authorities have no concern. Fourthly, the investigation (of Hathras case) is being conducted by the CBI and the state government has no role to play. The government counsel also attempted to justify the cremation of the victim in the night and pointed out that the Hathras DM did not commit any wrong in this regard.On September 14 last, the 19-year-old Dalit victim was raped by four persons in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect fodder for cattle. She was partially paralysed in the attack. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 28 and died in the early hours of September 29. The court has fixed December 16 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-gives-4-reasons-to-hc-for-not-transferring-dm-after-hathras-gang-rape/story-RNp4erEh8zQGIYxj9xVBUM.html
03-12-2020||India||Kolkata Metro to increase daily services, extend timings from Dec 7||The Kolkata Metro Railway will increase its daily services from 190 to 204 from Monday to Saturday starting December 7, a senior official said on Thursday.Timings will also be extended, with the first service from both ends - Dum Dum and Kavi Subhash stations - at 7 am instead of 8 am, he said. The last trains will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30 pm instead of 9 pm.The last trains will leave Kavi Subhash and Dum Dum at 9.30 pm instead of 9 pm, the official said, adding that services will be available every 7 minutes during the morning and evening peak hours.Senior citizens, ladies and children below 15 years, will not be required to produce e-passes throughout the day.For all other passengers, e-passes will not be required between 7 am and 8.30 am, and 8 pm onwards, he said.Tokens will not be issued, and travellers need to make use of smart cards to avail the services, as has been the practice since the Metro resumed operations following the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-metro-to-increase-daily-services-extend-timings-from-dec-7/story-XcVApetl16gE9wSiveHAiO.html
03-12-2020||India||Old rivalries take back seat as six Jammu & Kashmir parties join hands to contest local polls||Saifuddin Shah, 70, and his family from Kakroosa village in Jammu & Kashmir’s Kupwara district have been staunch loyalists of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference (NC). He says they have always voted for the NC, which ushered in transformative land reforms in the 1950s and negotiated the erstwhile state’s special status that was revoked last year. The family credits the NC for playing an important role in Jammu & Kashmir’s “development and empowerment” and says it would not have voted for the party’s rival-turned-ally Peoples Conference (PC) on Tuesday in the District Development Council (DDC) elections had not they been contesting the polls together. The two parties are part of a six-party alliance called the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The grouping was formed in October to fight for the restoration of the special status. The NC and PC leaders have been jointly campaigning for their candidates as the bitter rivalry between them appears to be a thing of the past.“Our family always voted for the NC. It has been a relationship of generations with this party. This time, we voted...for [PC]... After the special status was removed, the old rivalries have ended automatically, especially when all the mainstream leaders were detained. I could have never thought of voting for the PC candidate but for the future of Kashmir, there was no other option...,” said Shah.Also read | BJP goes full steam for J&K DDC polls; Smriti Irani among star campaignersThree former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti were among hundreds of people, who were detained to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. PC chief Sajjad Lone was also among the detainees. A protracted communications’ blackout and a lockdown were also imposed in the aftermath of the nullification, which means outsider can now buy properties as well as get government jobs in the region.Umar Farooq, a first-time voter, echoed Shah saying his family, too, is an NC supporter but decided to vote for a joint PAGD candidate. ”Kashmir has been betrayed by leaders of all the parties. This is the first time when the leadership has come on a single platform. So, let us give them another chance. We lost everything when these people were divided and hope now with the unity, they could get us something back.”Mohammad Maqbool Khan, a local village head, said the alliance is helping both the NC and PC. “Both the parties have strong vote banks in Kupwara...”PAGD is contesting most of the 280 DDC seats. So far, voting has taken place for 50 of the seats in the Kashmir division in the first two phases of the polling.Umar Maqbool, a political analyst, said PAGD looks strong on paper but it remains to be seen whether votes of big parties like the NC, PC, and Mufti’s People’s Democratic Party are transferable. “At many places, votes are getting transferred and the alliance looks strong. But at many places local rivalries are becoming a big impediment to this vote transfer which could hurt the PAGD candidates... many independent candidates, who are actually proxies of political parties, could also win.”PC spokesman Adnan Ashraf said many disgruntled candidates of different parties are contesting as independent candidates. He acknowledged that could hamper the vote transfer among the PAGD allies. “The leaders are making all efforts to win the seats. We are campaigning in areas which are our strongholds...we want the alliance to win maximum seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-rivalries-take-back-seat-as-six-jammu-kashmir-parties-join-hands-to-contest-local-polls/story-JcP1BoIsMe08aLlegLNJjK.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Coward’: Karnataka minister make bizarre remark on farmers who die by suicide||Karnataka Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Thursday said the farmers who die by suicide are cowards.“The farmers who commit suicide are cowards. Only a coward who can’t take care of his wife and children commits suicide. When we have fallen (in the water), we have to swim and win,” Patil said addressing farmers at Ponnampet in Kodagu district of Karnataka.The Minister was explaining to bamboo growers of Ponnampet how profitable the agriculture business is, but some cowards do not realise that and die by suicide.To buttress his point, Patil cited an example of a woman who was wearing gold bangles.“When I enquired with her how her hands were full of gold bangles, You know what she said? She said, “This mother earth has given me for my 35 years of toil.” “Doesn’t this please you all after listening to this?” Patil told the gathering.He said when a woman who had depended herself entirely on agriculture and achieved big why other farmers cannot do it.Reacting to this, Congress Karnataka unit spokesperson V S Ugrappa condemned the Minister’s statement, saying he has shown disrespect to the farming community.“It’s a disrespect to the farmers. He should apologise for it,” Ugrappa told PTI.He said the Minister should have gone into the subject to find why some farmers commit suicide.“No farmer wishes to end life. There are many reasons such as floods and droughts, which have not been understood and solved yet. Instead of understanding the gravity of the problem, the Minister gives such an irresponsible statement,” Ugrappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coward-karnataka-minister-make-bizarre-remark-on-farmers-who-die-by-suicide/story-newzJN1I5dSMZz40dCojdK.html
03-12-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh govt issues orders to liquidate Amaravati start-up area||More than a year after a consortium of Singapore companies pulled out of the project to develop a start-up area development project in Amaravati, the present capital city of Andhra Pradesh, the state government issued orders to liquidate the project. A government order to this effect was issued by state municipal administration and urban development secretary J Syamala Rao on Wednesday. According to the order, the state government has given approval to Amaravati Metropolitan Development Authority for the termination of agreements of concession and development and also shareholders’ agreement signed with the Singapore consortium for the start-up area development project at Amaravati under the auspices of Amaravati Development Partners (ADP) Private Ltd. The government also authorised the officials concerned including Metropolitan Commissioner of Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), chairman and managing director of Amaravati Development Corporation Limited and the Board of Members of Amaravati Development Partners Pvt Limited (ADP) to execute the termination agreements. The government authorised them to initiate the process of liquidation of the ADP forthwith as per the laws in force. In 2017, the AP government led by then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had entered into an agreement with the consortium of Singapore companies Ascendas-Singbridge and Sembcorp Development for the development of Amaravati capital city start-up area project in 6.84 square kilometres (about 1,691 acres) of government land. The consortium had a 58 per cent stake and the state government 42 per cent in the project. The ADP, the agency incorporated under this public-private partnership, was supposed to develop and market the available land in the start-up area for offices and other commercial activities to companies and institutions across the globe. In November 2019, the Singapore Consortium pulled out of the project following change of guard in Andhra Pradesh. The closure of the project was based on mutual consent between the AP government and the consortium. “We note that the newly elected government of Andhra Pradesh has decided not to proceed with the Start-Up Area, given its other priorities for the state,” Singapore minister for trade relations, S Iswaran, said in a statement then. Later, the state government authorised the then APCRDA Commissioner (now commissioner of AMRDA) and ADCL chairman to finalise draft termination agreement for the project after working out all legal issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aandhra-pradesh-govt-issues-orders-to-liquidate-amaravati-start-up-area/story-j2hQ87iqcMj1oKSzaJr3TJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Marathon rescue op goes in vain, boy who fell into borewell dies in hospital||A 20-hour-long non-stop rescue operation went in vain as a four-year-old boy was declared dead in hospital soon after he was brought out of a borewell at Budhaura village in Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh’s Bundelkhand region on Thursday, officials said.“The boy was unconscious and all efforts to revive him failed. He was declared dead after an hour (of being taken to the hospital),” said sub-divisional magistrate Mohammad Awes.“We did everything possible to save the child. Oxygen was supplied round the clock and biscuits were passed on. Everyone is sad at the loss,” said district magistrate Satyendra Kumar.The boy had fallen into the borewell while playing on Wednesday.On Thursday morning, a jawan of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) moved through a parallel duct which was built to reach the boy who was stuck at a depth of 36 foot in the 160-foot borewell.The jawan brought the boy out amid the villagers’ cheers.The child was rushed to the Mahoba district hospital, where a team of five doctors was on stand-by since Wednesday, but he was declared dead.Also read: Prepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir SinghEarlier, on Wednesday, Dharmendra fell into the borewell while playing. The incident took place when he accompanied his father Bhaghirath and mother Kanti, who were working at a field nearby.Bhaghirath had dug the borewell about nine months ago for irrigation. Since it failed to provide any water, it was lying closed. A stone slab was put on the opening at that time but someone removed it on Wednesday, the police said.The local administration quickly arranged excavator machines and began rescue work, but faced hiccups as it was initially difficult to assess the depth at which the child was stuck.Two teams of the NDRF and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were rushed to Mahoba. The teams reached Budhaura village, around 30 kilometres from the district headquarters, around midnight.By that time, 28-foot parallel digging had been done. Experts found that the child was trapped at the depth of 36-feet. Further digging was done to create a tunnel that went at least two-feet below the point the boy was at.At 9 am on Thursday, an NDRF jawan went through this tunnel, which was connected to the borewell, and managed to bring the boy out.A pall of gloom descended on Budhaura village. Bhaghirath and his wife were inconsolable on losing their only son.Unattended private borewells were a big problem in the area, which is marked as a dark zone, according to Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam’s executive engineer S Niranjan. Dark zone refers to an area where the groundwater level is critically low.He also said the department was writing to the district administration to take effective action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marathon-rescue-op-goes-in-vain-4-year-old-boy-who-fell-into-borewell-dies-in-hospital/story-RxJI13kPmEuRXLopGXYxrJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Meghalaya starts preparing for Covid-19 vaccine amid festive season||With the Covid-19 vaccine trials picking up pace, Meghalaya is putting in place protocols to ensure that the process of immunisation is streamlined while keeping in mind the safety of citizens especially during the ensuing festive season.A detailed review meeting on the state’s Covid-19 situation was convened by chief minister Conrad K Sangma on Wednesday evening following which he stated, “Keeping in mind the festive season, which has already begun…it is important that we come up with basic guidelines if necessary protocols, to ensure that people are safe because during festive season, we do tend to let down our guards.”Sangma said the state government will also be holding consultations with the different stakeholders. “The deputy commissioners will be asked to hold meetings with different stakeholders to get their feedback after which, within a week’s time, we will be able to come up with guidelines for this festive season,” he said.Also read | Former Haryana chief minister Chautala tests Covid-19 positiveUrging citizens to strictly follow laid down protocols, the CM said, “Christmas time is a time where we all are in a festive mood. So I would urge that whatever maintain discipline and keep in mind the safety aspects.”Referring to the decline in the number of cases in the state, the chief minister said, “It is a good message but it is important that we don’t let our guards down by always ensuring that protocols are maintained.”On the proposed vaccination programme, Sangma said the Prime Minister has clearly directed all the states to ensure that the necessary system and logistics are in place to implement the vaccination process as and when the vaccines are approved by the scientists and overall regulatory authorities.Sangma said medical and frontline workers will be the first to be immunised. “Therefore, it will be slightly a more structured and easier process because most of them will be able to go to the closest health centres for vaccination,” he said.Asserting that the state is ready to implement the programme, Sangma said all deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure the manpower and infrastructure are put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-starts-preparing-for-covid-19-vaccine-amid-festive-season/story-fVsKQbbD6YzpYGeQA39vnN.html
03-12-2020||India||India, US ink MoU to enhance cooperation on intellectual property||India and the US have signed an MoU to increase cooperation in the field of intellectual property (IP) by facilitating exchange and dissemination of best practices, collaboration in training programs and outreach activities, an official statement said on Thursday.The two sides will draw up a biennial work plan to implement the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which will include detailed planning for carrying out co-operation activities, including the scope of action, it said.The Union Cabinet, on February 19 this year, had approved signing of the MoU between the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra and Andrei Iancu, Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director, USPTO conducted a virtual signing ceremony for the MoU.The MoU aims at increasing IP co-operation between the two countries by way of facilitating exchange and dissemination of best practices; collaboration in training programs, exchange of experts; exchange of information and best practices on processes for registration and examination of applications for patents, trademarks, copyrights, geographical indications, and industrial designs, as well as the protection, enforcement and use of IP rights.Besides, both sides would exchange information on the development and implementation of automation and modernization projects, new documentation and information systems in IP and procedures for management of IP office services, it added.“The MoU will go a long way in fostering the cooperation between India and USA, and provide opportunities to both countries to learn from the experience of each other, especially in terms of best practices followed in the other country. It will be a landmark step forward in India’s journey towards becoming a major player in global innovation and will further the objectives of National IPR Policy, 2016,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-ink-mou-to-enhance-cooperation-on-intellectual-property/story-7gSrx1J1eErl3UOi7DIT5O.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignored and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignoredShiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa returned his Padma Bhushan award to oppose farm laws here on Thursday. Read morePrepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir SinghChina’s attempts to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the Covid-19 pandemic complicated the security situation, with the Indian Navy deploying its P-8 Poseidon aircraft and Heron drones for surveillance on the northern frontiers, naval chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday. Read more‘We brought our own food,’ say farmer leaders, refuse food or tea offered by government at Vigyan Bhawan meetFarmer leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday for their crucial meeting with the Centre regarding the new agriculture laws are not accepting food or tea offered by the government, a leader told ANI. Read more‘I’ll remember it forever’: The KL Rahul gesture which floored debutant Cameron GreenThe newest member of the Australian cricket team, Cameron Green has admitted that he was ‘taken back’ by the warmth showed by India wicketkeeper KL Rahul during the third ODI in Canberra on Friday. Read more‘December 2020 abhi baaki hai’: Smriti Irani reminds people the year isn’t over yet with funny minion memeIf one has to explain the phrase “Umeedon pe pani pher diya” in one word, then “2020” is probably the best suited one. Read moreKangana Ranaut-Diljit Dosanjh fight turns ugly: She calls him Karan Johar’s pet, he says she has no ‘tameez’After Diljit Dosanjh’s tweet criticising Kangana Ranaut, she too has responded with barbed words. Kangana took to Twitter on Thursday, calling Diljit filmmaker Karan Johar’s pet and herself a lioness. Read moreBad news for PUBG Mobile India: PUBG fans and gamers will have to wait longerThe team behind PUBG Mobile India have been trying to get their game launched in the country for a while now. Read moreCentre holds 4th round of talks with farmers as protest enters 8th dayAgriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash met 40 farm organisations for the fourth round of talks at Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan on December 3. WatchBMW 2 Series Gran Coupe ‘Black Shadow’ edition launched in India at Rs 42.3 lakhBMW has launched the new 2 Series Gran Coupe ‘Black Shadow’ edition in India on Thursday at Rs 42.3 lakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mp-sukhdev-dhindsa-returns-padma-bhushan-says-award-is-worthless-as-farmers-are-ignored-and-all-the-latest-news/story-N3nDyCmfeONurc9vh8VbxI.html
03-12-2020||India||In Telangana’s Asifabad forests, an alert for man-eating tigers on prowl||Forest officials of Telangana’s Asifabad Kumaram Bheem district on Thursday sounded a high alert in the reserve forest area of the district bordering Maharashtra, following the killing of two tribal youths in a span of 18 days by suspected man-eating tigers. The killing of a 16-year old girl Pasula Nirmala by a tiger at Mannewada tribal hamlet near Kondapalli village of Penchikalapet mandal on Sunday night triggered panic among the local tribals. The incident happened within 20 km of Digada village, where another 20-year old man Sidam Vignesh was mauled to death by a tiger on November 11. In both the incidents, the tigers dragged the bodies of victims and abandoned them deep inside the forests after partially eating their flesh. “According to our preliminary investigation, the tigers involved in the two incidents are different. The first one has moved towards Maharashtra and the second one is moving closely in the Telangana forest range,” Asifabad Kumarm Bheem district forest officer S Santaram said. Santaram said it was alarming to note that tigers moving in the forests of Telangana-Maharashtra borders have turned into maneaters. “We have not come across man-eating tigers in the district so far. Naturally, the latest incidents are a matter of serious concern,” he said. According to Santaram, the main reason for tigers attacking human beings was the loss of natural habitat. “Despite our repeated requests, tribal people were going deep into the reserve forest areas and take up “podu” cultivation by felling trees and setting up hamlets there. Naturally, tigers in the area would feel insecure and attack humans,” he said. Following the two incidents, the forest department authorities issued an advisory to the local tribal villagers in order to prevent attacks by the maneaters. The forest officers are making announcements in the village using drums to create awareness among villagers on do’s and don’ts they need to follow to prevent incidents of wild animal attacks. “We have asked them to move in groups when they go inside the forests for harvesting of crops or other agriculture operations. One or two of them should keep a watch on the movement of animals and sound an alert by drum beating or blowing trumpet when they spot wild animals,” the official said. The authorities also warned tribals not to take their cattle deep into the forests for grazing and restrict themselves within half-a-kilometre from their hamlets. They should invariably carry sticks with them. The forest officials suggested that the tribals constitute a village protection committee comprising local sarpanch and forest beat officer, which will monitor the movement of tigers and inform the higher officials immediately. All the tribals venturing into forests should inform the protection committee about their movement. The forest department has already formed special tracking teamsto deal with the maneaters. “A seven-member monitoring committee, as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SoP), of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, has been formed to track and deal with the tigers,” Santaram said. “We have set up three cages on the corridors and paths of the big cat. He said seven more cages are being brought up. As many as 60 forest officials are on the job to catch the tiger. This apart CCTV cameras were also being set up to track its movement,” he said. Santaram said there were no traces of the tiger in the nearby areas after Sunday’s incident. “It might have gone deep inside the forests. The CC cameras have not noticed any movement of tiger, nor are there any fresh pug marks in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-s-asifabad-forests-an-alert-for-man-eating-tigers-on-prowl/story-nymMSwwnKIIlb4XdyZ4cuI.html
03-12-2020||India||Karnataka will have law against “love jihad”: State home minister||Karnataka will have a law against “love jihad”, and officials have been directed to gather information regarding an ordinance promulgated in Uttar Pradesh in this regard, state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday.Uttar Pradesh had recently promulgated an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories.“Love jihad” is a coinage used by right wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.“...when Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments started mulling over it (a law), we too started thinking about it- how to do it, how to ensure that there was pressure or force involved (in conversion)- it is the main thing,” Bommai said.Speaking to reporters in Udupi, he said, Uttar Pradesh has recently promulgated an ordinance in this regard and our officials have been directed to get a copy of it.Also Read | First man booked under UP’s new law against forced conversions arrested“After gathering information from other states also regarding the measures taken there, in Karnataka too we will have a law against love jihad for sure. The chief minister has agreed to it...,” he added.Last month, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had said that the government will take strong measures to put an end to religious conversion in the name of love and marriage.BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel too on Wednesday had asserted that a stringent law against ‘Love Jihad’ will be enacted in Karnataka.However, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy on Tuesday had said there was no proposal of enacting a law against religious conversion for the sake of marriage before the government for now. “...Being the scrutiny committee chairman, I can say that no such proposal has come before me yet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-will-have-law-against-love-jihad-state-home-minister/story-TjE9CfIny32r9pcyCl1UGO.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt increases domestic flights’ cap from 70 pc to 80 pc of pre-Covid levels||The cap on the number of domestic flights that Indian airlines are permitted to operate was increased from 70 per cent to 80 per cent of their pre-Covid levels on Thursday, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The minister had said on November 11 that the Indian airlines can operate up to 70 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic passenger flights due to the prevailing demand amid the coronavirus situation. Puri tweeted on Thursday, “Domestic operations recommenced with 30K passengers on 25 May & have now touched a high of 2.52 lakhs on 30 Nov 2020.” “Ministry of Civil Aviation is now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from existing 70% to 80% of pre-Covid approved capacity,” he stated. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent. On November 11, it was increased to 70 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-increases-domestic-flights-cap-from-70-pc-to-80-pc-of-pre-covid-levels/story-Vc6qultLE3L69H4gAdGxwN.html
03-12-2020||India||Malegaon blast case: Court asks MP Pragya Singh Thakur, other accused to appear on December 19||Four of the seven accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, including Bharatiaya Janata Party lawmaker Pragya Singh Thakur, failed to appear before a special court hearing the matter.Lawyers of Thakur, Ramesh Upadhayay, Sudhakar Dwivedi, and Sudhakar Chaturvedi filed an application pleading their exemption from appearing before the court citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The court allowed the plea but asked them to appear before the court on December 19.The special court, which is likely to begin hearing the case on a day-to-day basis from Friday, earlier this week asked all the accused to remain present before it as it sought to resume the trial on Thursday. But only three accused, Sameer Kulkarni, Ajay Rahirkar, and Lt Col Prasad Purohit, appeared.The court has asked all the lawyers to cooperate for the resumption of the trial. The prosecution had brought an independent witness, who was partly examined before the Covid-19 lockdown in March. The court has asked it to resume the recording of the evidence from Friday when the witness will be cross-examined.Six people were killed and over 100 wounded when a bomb planted on a motorcycle went off at Malegaon in September 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malegaon-blast-case-court-asks-mp-pragya-singh-thakur-other-accused-to-appear-on-december-19/story-NK3QoBL3PGeyJA2kBi9xCM.html
03-12-2020||India||PFI president alleges ED raids planned ‘distraction’ from farmers’ protests||The controversial Popular Front of India has condemned the raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on premises and entities linked to the front and its office bearers on Thursday and alleged that it was part of vendetta politics.“It is a politically-motivated move. It is aimed at distracting from the farmers’ strike,” said OMA Salam, the president of the front. Salam is employed with Kerala state electricity board.Salam’s condemnation follows raids carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on offices and residences of PFI leaders in Kerala in connection with the money laundering case filed by the central agency. Premises of PFI national chairman OMA Salam, national secretary Naseeruddin Elamaraom and state leader Karamana Ashraf Moulavi, were among the raided entities. In Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, angry PFI workers tried to block raiding officials and later local police had to intervene.A senior official of the ED said it was part of a nationwide raid and 26 locations were searched in Delhi and eight other states.A radical outfit, PFI is often considered to be an offshoot of the banned Students’ Islamic Front of India (SIMI). It all started when Abdul Nasser Madani, an accused in Bangalore and Coimbatore blast cases, founded Islamic Seva Sangh on the lines of RSS after the Babri mosque demolition in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Later, when Madani was in jail in connection with the Coimbatore blasts, the leaders of the Islamic Seva Sangh formed the National Development Front. Later, the front merged with Manitha Neethi Pasarai of Tamil Nadu and Forum for Dignity, a Karnataka-based outfit, to form the Popular Front of India (PFI). Also Read: ED raids PFI chairman’s premises in Kerala as part of money laundering probeIn Kerala, most of the front’s erstwhile leaders are members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The PFI describes itself as a neo-social movement committed to empower people belonging to the minority communities, Dalits and other weaker sections of the society. In Kerala, a retired professor P Koya is considered as the tallest leader of the organisation. Now, the PFI claims to have units in 22 states. Officials in the intelligence agencies say it successfully exploited a growing vacuum in the minority community by portraying itself as a ‘saviour’. Since its inception, the outfit has been mired in many clashes and political murders. It was allegedly involved in at least 30 political murders in Kerala. In 2015, 13 of its workers were awarded life-term in prison for chopping the palm of a college professor, T J Joseph, who prepared a question paper, alleged to be blasphemous.In 2017, six PFI activists were held in connection with the murder of an ABVP leader in Kannur and nine were arrested for allegedly killing SFI leader Abhimanyu in Maharaja College in Ernakulam in 2018. The front is currently being probed for alleged funding of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfi-president-alleges-ed-raids-planned-distraction-from-farmers-protests/story-fPTJVrVZ6JySIAMLXFLEFK.html
03-12-2020||India||Magistrate court records Javed Akhtar’s statement against Kangana Ranaut||The Metropolitan Magistrate court, Andheri on Thursday recorded the statement of lyricist Javed Akhtar in connection with his the complaint of defamation against actor Kanaga Ranaut for her comments on him during an interview. His statement was recorded by the magistrate under the process of verification of the complaint. The writer and poet had approached the court last month. After the verification the court would now hear his lawyer Niranjan Mundargi over admission of the complaint. If admitted the court would take cognizance of the complaint and issue notice to Kangana.Akhtar has through his lawyer filed a private complaint on November 2 against the actor under section 499 (Defamation) and section 500 (punishment for defamation) of Indian Penal Code.Akhtar has claimed that he has been in the industry for more than 25 years and Ranaut has defamed him during a television interview claiming that he had threatened her to withdraw case against Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan.He contended that Ranaut has called him part of ‘suicide gang’ and claimed that he had threatened her saying if she didn’t back out she will have no option but to die by suicide.Akhtar said because of such comments he received many calls and messages criticising him and was trolled on social media. He claimed that such comments caused much damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magistrate-court-records-javed-akhtar-s-statement-against-kangana-ranaut/story-Vf5ynK6ZRaBljKyE7ChuBK.html
03-12-2020||India||Punjab announces financial assistance for families of two farmers who died during protests||Mourning the death of two farmers, who were participating in the agitation against the three farm sector laws passed by the Centre, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakhs each to the deceased families.Farmer Gurjant Singh, from village Bachhoana in Mansa district, died in Delhi during the agitation against farm laws, while Gurbachan Singh (80) from Bhinder Khurd village in Moga district, died due to massive heart attack during a protest at Moga on Wednesday.“Deeply anguished at the death of Gurjant Singh and Gurbachan Singh, farmers from Mansa and Moga respectively during their participation in the protests at Delhi. The government will provide full monetary and other assistance to their families,” said Singh.Singh also met the Union Home Minister Amit Shah today and urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the state’s economy and also posed a serious danger to national security.Punjab Chief Minister during the meeting stressed that the problems of farmers need to be solved quickly and urged the Union Home Minister to ensure that the Government of India addresses the concerns of the farmers.The Chief Minister told media during a brief interaction after his meeting with Shah that while he and his government were not involved in mediation in any way and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country.“A solution has to be found at the earliest,” he said, adding that he had come to meet the Union Home Minister to reiterate Punjab’s stand on the imbroglio between the farmers and the central government, as well as the need to secure the future of the farming community and agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-announces-financial-assistance-for-families-of-two-farmers-who-died-during-protests/story-rOz40QxYr6O3JtHChkTR6M.html
03-12-2020||India||‘I am a son of Bengal, will continue to serve the people’ : TMC’ Suvendu Adhikari||Disgruntled TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari Thursday said he will continue to serve the people of the state as a “son of Bengal and India”.His comment came amidst speculations over his next political move following the impasse in the dialogue between him and the party, which had claimed that differences with him had been sorted out.Adhikari, who resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet last week, was seen on Thursday holdiing a rally here without banners or flags of the party.The rally was held to mark the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose in Tamluk sub-division of East Midnapore district. His supporters were seen carrying the national flag during the programme.“The Constitution of our country speaks of government by the people, of the people and for the people. I am a son of Bengal and a son of India and will continue to serve the people of my state in that capacity,” Adhikari told reporters when asked about his present political stand.His statement comes a day after leaders close to him had rejected the TMC leadership’s claim of a rapprochement with him as “false”, and said he is unpacified as his grievances have not been addressed.They said Adhikari, an influential leader with a mass base who had resigned from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and other positions that he held a few days ago, has maintained that it is “difficult for him to work with the party”.Meanwhile, according to TMC sources, the party leadership has sent Adhikari a message on Thursday morning stating that “the details of the meeting were disclosed after all the issues were discussed and resolved.“Now if you have changed your stand, it is your decision,” the message said.Senior TMC leader Saugata Roy, who was among those who held talks with Adhikari to resolve the differences, said the “Party will not say anything more on the issue and now it is for him to speak up”.Adhikari is said to be miffed at the way senior TMC leaders went to town on Tuesday claiming all differences with him had been sorted out after a high-level meeting that he had with TMC MPs Abhishek Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandopadhyay, besides election strategist Prashant Kishor.Sources close to Adhikari said he did not want the details of what transpired at the meeting during the backchannel talks to be leaked to the media.He has been incommunicado after the Tuesday night meeting. Repeated calls to the former minister for the last three days went unanswered.All eyes are now on Adhikari’s sheduled press conference on December 6 at his hometown Kanthi in East Midnapore district.Adhikari, a mascot of the Nandigram movement that added to the political heft of Mamata Banerjee and catapulted her to power, had resigned as minister of transport, irrigation and waterways last week, setting off speculation that he may quit the ruling TMC ahead of the state assembly polls next year.Several rounds of backchannel talks to pacify the leader, believed to be unhappy over organisational changes and the growing clout of Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor, have come to nought.Himself a two-term former MP, Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu are sitting TMC MPs from Tamluk and Kanthi Lok Sabha constituencies respectively.The family wields considerable influence in at least 40-45 assembly segments in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia, Jhargram, parts of Birbhum -- mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad.The state polls are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-a-son-of-bengal-will-continue-to-serve-the-people-tmc-suvendu-adhikari/story-HcbU4CVSL1CNRS6jIewNLM.html
03-12-2020||India||‘We brought our own food,’ say farmer leaders, refuse food or tea offered by government at Vigyan Bhawan meet||Farmer leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan on Thursday for their crucial meeting with the Centre regarding the new agriculture laws are not accepting food or tea offered by the government, a leader told ANI. A video of farmer leaders sharing food that they brought with them has also surfaced. The video shows the union leaders came prepared for the lunch time — with boxes full of food and paper plate for distribution so that they don’t have to accept government hospitality. #WATCH | Delhi: Farmer leaders have food during the lunch break at Vigyan Bhawan where the talk with the government is underway. A farmer leader says, "We are not accepting food or tea offered by the government. We have brought our own food". pic.twitter.com/wYEibNwDlXA delegation of 40 farmers arrived at Vigyan Bhawan early in the day for their second round deliberation with the Centre amid the ongoing ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests, which entered the eighth day on Thursday. The agitating farmers earlier said they had come to Delhi for the protest with enough foodgrains in stock to sustain them for months, hinting that they won’t yield unless their demands are met.The first meeting to end the present stalemate owing to the ongoing protest of thousands of farmers in Delhi and at the borders of the Capital city was held on Tuesday. It fell through as the farmers’ representatives refused the Centre’s proposal to set up a committee which will address the issue of the farmers. On Wednesday, Union home minister Amit Shah met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, commerce and food minister Piyush Goyal to discuss the issue. Both Tomar and Goyal are present at Vigyan Bhawan meet apart from Som Parkash who is an MP from Punjab and also is the minister of state for commerce.Ahead of the Vigyan Bhawan meeting today, Amit Shah also met Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh who requested Shah to resolve the issue at the earliest. “Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” Amarinder Sinh said after the meeting.The farmers want a Parliament Session repeal the laws enacted in September, which the government had earlier rejected. It had asked the farmers’ bodies to identify specific issues that are worrying them. The laws have been enacted as major farm reforms removing middlemen but the farmers are worried that minimum support price (MSP) will be rendered ineffective.In a significant development of Thursday, Akali stalwart and former Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-second-day-meeting-underway-union-leaders-not-accepting-food-or-tea-offered-by-government/story-T4GV5LkLHGgKAj72uGJBGK.html
03-12-2020||India||Maharashtra farmers launch day-long protests against farm laws||Farmers across Maharashtra marched to offices of tehsildars and district collectors to express their solidarity with cultivators camping outside Delhi to demand repeal of farm laws passed in September to liberalise the sector. The All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), an umbrella body of over 500 farmer organisations, organised the marches.Over 80 organisations in Maharashtra are participating in Thursday’s protests. Farm labours, trade unions, bank employees, etc, were also backing their solidarity marches, the AIKS said.Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the tableAjit Navale, AIK’s Maharashtra general secretary, said they will issue a detailed statement at the end of the day.In Mumbai, Trade Unions Joint Action Committee formed to coordinate the protests organised a protest at Parel.Congress leader Sachin Sawant said they are also holding statewide protests at the tehsil and district levels. “The protests started at 11am this [Thursday] morning. ...party workers in large numbers are protesting at tehsildars’ offices. We have left it up to the district level Congress leadership to decide the nature of the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-farmers-launch-day-long-protests-against-farm-laws/story-dQKsXkveEhpEg3ktl2qHQK.html
03-12-2020||India||Prepared to face China and challenges arising from Covid-19: Navy chief Karambir Singh||China’s attempts to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and the Covid-19 pandemic complicated the security situation, with the Indian Navy deploying its P-8 Poseidon aircraft and Heron drones for surveillance on the northern frontiers, naval chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday. Singh told the annual news conference ahead of the Navy Day on December 4 that air power at sea is an essential component of naval operations and the Indian Navy is committed to acquiring a third aircraft carrier, a move that would also be in line with the country’s ambition of becoming a $5-trillion economy. The Navy, he said, is prepared to face challenges arising from the pandemic and China’s attempts to change the status quo on the northern borders, which have “significantly increased the complexities in the security situation”. Also Watch | ‘Indian Navy’s activities are in synergy with Army, Air Force’: Navy chief The Navy’s P-8I maritime surveillance aircraft and Heron unmanned aerial vehicles were deployed to northern bases to keep an eye on the Ladakh sector of the LAC in line with requests from the Army and Air Force, he said. Two MQ-9B Sea Guardian drones, which have an endurance of about 33 hours, have been leased from the US to fill in the gaps in the Navy’s capabilities, he added. Though Chinese fishing and research vessels are operating in regional waters, none of them has violated India’s maritime boundaries and only three warships of China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy have been present in the Gulf of Aden in the Indian Ocean region for anti-piracy operations since 2008. With the Navy’s second aircraft carrier, the indigenously built INS Vikrant, set to begin sea trials next year, Singh emphasised the need for a third carrier to project naval power “here and now”. The Navy is working on collating technical information before formally approaching the government to clear the acquisition of a third carrier, he said. “Air operations are integral to naval operations. Air power at sea is required here and now. The Navy is all about reach and sustenance,” Singh said, adding project power at sea dovetails with the government’s plans to make India a $5-trillion economy. “If you want to be a $5-trillion economy...you will have to go outwards. The Navy does not want to be tethered to the shore. For that, aircraft carriers are absolutely essential,” he said. The Navy is working with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on a multi-role carrier-based combat jet to replace its MiG-29s. This work will build on the lessons learnt from the indigenously built light combat aircraft and the Navy is hoping the home-grown carrier-based fighters will join service in the 2030s, Singh said. Indigenisation is a key part of the Navy’s acquisition of warships and all 24 surface vessels and submarines inducted in the past six years were built in India, while 41 more vessels are being constructed at the country’s shipyards, he said. The Project 75I-class submarine programme too is on track, with the Navy having identified vendors and partners to build six submarines, and Smash-2000 rifles are also being acquired to protect vessels against attacking drones, he added. Despite the disruption caused by the pandemic, the Indian Navy participated in 13 bilateral and multilateral drills this year and training of naval personnel from friendly countries resumed in November. Thirteen countries have been invited to send representatives to India’s information fusion centre in Gurugram and three foreign liaison officers have joined while three more are expected soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prepared-to-face-china-covid-19-says-navy-chief-karambir-singh/story-TXuBgPAQhYH7zcFcEOvhCO.html
03-12-2020||India||Man arrested for sexually assaulting minor daughter in Odisha||Police in western Odisha district of Jharsuguda, on Thursday, arrested a 34-year-old man who had allegedly sexually assaulted his 11-year-old daughter in a state of intoxication on Sunday night.Officials said the survivor stayed with her father and grandmother in Jharsuguda town. On Sunday, when the girl’s grandmother had gone out to wash utensils in a wedding reception party, her father allegedly assaulted her sexually.District coordinator of Childline in Jharsuguda, Ashish Panda said after the assault, the man threatened his daughter against revealing the incident to anyone.“However, the victim told her neighbours about the assault on Monday, who in turn, informed her grandmother. The grandmother reported the matter to Jharsuguda town police station after returning from work at the wedding on Wednesday,” said Panda.The girl’s mother had left her father four years ago.Also Read: Woman Maoist who guarded senior rebel leader surrenders to Odisha policePolice officials said a case under Pocso Act and other IPC sections have been lodged against the accused. The girl, now studying in class 6, has been sent to a child shelter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-daughter-in-odisha/story-ZARjJdbP7VHli6tUYGFJJO.html
03-12-2020||India||‘One should age gracefully, make room for youngsters’||Versatile actor, motivational speaker, Smita Jayakar, believes that with age one should move ahead and make space for the next generation.“See, change is permanent and if we, as humans, will not accept it, it’s impossible to live a peaceful life. I can’t be doing what I was doing 10-20 years back. As actors, we too should move ahead with time else everything will become stagnant. The next generation should be handed over the mantle and we should age gracefully,” said the actor best remembered for the blockbuster ‘Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam.’Acting happened randomly for Smita and projects just happened one after the other. Remembering her earlier days, she said, “There was no such dramatic incident that got me into acting. Instead, a Marathi Doordarshan’s anchoring offer led to weekly shows and the rest is history. Life was easy then with no work pressure on actors or makers. I was married early and was a mother of two at the age of 24. So, I started acting when my personal life was all settled.”Smita was spotted in a TV serial ‘Ghutan’ for Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Hum Dil…’ by the film maker’s mother. “I have been guided constantly and it was a smooth-sailing journey after my debut. My second film ‘Sarfarosh’ gave me more recognition and then films like ‘Devdas,’ ‘Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani,’ ‘Ek Vivah…’ gave me immense appreciation and love.“But as I said, one needs to keep on moving in life and age gracefully. I was into spirituality, maybe that helped me a lot to understand this theory of life. I have been in the industry for over three decades and enjoyed my work thoroughly and now I have decided to slow down,” she shared.Currently, Smita is happy with the release of her short film ‘Chhoti Si Guzaarish,’ that was shot in Lucknow a few years back and won accolades at various international film fests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/one-should-age-gracefully-make-room-for-youngsters/story-5nS7AVE5Nr5ooUhAt8da7H.html
03-12-2020||India||Rajasthan: Bharatpur police launches multi-stakeholder campaign to check child marriages||Police in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district and a child protection organisation have laid down a mechanism to ensure that police have direct dialogues with women and girls regularly to check child marriages.The mechanism has been introduced under a multi-stakeholder campaign against the social evil. Police have constituted a panel of women volunteers of the organisation Aangan Trust, who are trained in child protection, at police stations as a part of the community liaison group (CLG). “The programme has been introduced to ensure regular dialogue with women and girls in the district so that the issue of child marriage can be addressed,” said Superintendent of Police, Bharatpur, Amandeep Singh Kapoor, who had recently launched the campaign. Police and the organisation have laid down an effective mechanism to hold dialogue directly with women and girls in the district, an associate of the Trust said.There are 600 women volunteers in the district.“Vulnerable children are at high risk of exploitation through child marriage and the police are hearing from them and addressing their demands to ensure their safety,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-bharatpur-police-launches-multi-stakeholder-campaign-to-check-child-marriages/story-9HFpEhjF7oUjgLv0d806VK.html
03-12-2020||India||Indo Gangetic plain global hotspot of atmospheric ammonia, IIT Kharagpur study||The Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP) is the global hot-spot of atmospheric ammonia (NH3) due to intense agricultural activities and fertilizer production there, according to researchers at The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur.The study titled “Record high levels of atmospheric ammonia over India: Spatial and temporal analyses” has also been published in the international Elsevier journal “Science of the Total Environment”. The study by the IIT team was conducted along with researchers from Indian Institute Of Tropical Meteorology, Pune and few European researchers.The team has also recommended wider adoption of precision farming along with seasonal restrictions on the use of fertilizers. “Agro fertilizers containing high levels of ammonia have long been designated as a hazardous material for human health. In a first-of-its kind study, the seasonal and inter-annual variability of atmospheric ammonia emitted by the agricultural sector was analysed by us and the results are in agreement with the long-held apprehension of global environmentalists - the Indo-Gangetic Plain is indeed the global hot-spot of atmospheric ammonia,” said Jayanarayanan Kuttippurath, Professor at IIT Kharagpur’s Centre for Oceans, Rivers, Atmosphere. “The satellite data we collected for agricultural emissions show a positive correlation of atmospheric ammonia with total fertilizer consumption and temperature since high temperature favours volatilization and is negatively correlated with total precipitation as wet deposition helps removal of atmospheric ammonia,” he added.Using IASI satellite measurements to analyze the seasonal and inter-annual variability of atmospheric NH3 over India for the period 2008–2016, the researchers observed atmospheric ammonia growing rapidly at a rate of 0.08 pc annually during the summer-monsoon (Kharif crop period) season from June to August.“Atmospheric ammonia is typically generated due to agricultural activities including the use of nitrogenous fertilizers, manure management, soil and water management practices and animal husbandry. It is very dynamic as it is constantly exchanged between the atmosphere and biosphere. “In India, there has been a lack of detailed information about atmospheric ammonia, which is a significant contributor to atmospheric pollution and deterioration of air quality. This is particularly important for IGP as there are many cities including New Delhi,” Kuttippurath said.The study also mentions that there are positive trends in atmospheric NH3 over the agricultural areas of the United States, China and Europe, about 1.8–2.61 per cent annually, depending on regions. However, the general trend in atmospheric ammonia over India is negative in most seasons. “Observing the overall trend, we can therefore assert to have sincere to our pledge at the Paris Climate Summit towards reducing atmospheric emissions through initiatives under the National Clean Air Programme though we have to be relentless in our efforts to reduce the emissions at the Indo Gangetic Plain, which would otherwise have detrimental effects on the human health, ecosystems and climate,” said Kuttippurath.Deliberating on possible remedies, co-authors Ajay Singh and Nirupama Mallick from the IIT Kharagpur’s Department of Agricultural and Food Engineering emphasised wider adoption of precision farming along with seasonal restrictions on the use of fertilisers. “Agriculture, in its conventional form, contributes significantly to the atmospheric emission of gaseous ammonia that plays a key role in the deterioration of air quality over the whole of India by actively contributing to the formation of secondary aerosols. This demands regulations on the amount of fertilizer application in cropping seasons in arable lands, in place of conventional blanket recommendation practices, along with viable strategies to curb farm emissions,” said Mallick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indo-gangetic-plain-global-hotspot-of-atmospheric-ammonia-iit-kharagpur-study/story-RZFBhXjKLr6Bg7sE9keX8I.html
03-12-2020||India||Need priority list as vaccine won’t be available for all in the beginning, says AIIMS director||All India Institute of Medical Sciences Director, Randeep Guleria, on Thursday expressed hope on the emergency authorisation of vaccine for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Indian regulatory authorities. Speaking to news agency ANI, Guleria said that several vaccine candidates that are being developed in the country are now in their last stage of the trial. He also said that hopefully, the process of vaccinating the people will begin soon after getting the required approvals from regulatory authorities “by the end of this month or early next month.”Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“There is good data available that the vaccines are very safe. Safety and efficacy of vaccine not compromised at all,” Guleria further said as per ANI. “70,000-80,000 volunteers given a vaccine, no significant serious adverse effects seen. Data shows that in the short term vaccine is safe,” Guleria added.Speaking on the vaccine availability, Guleria said, “In the beginning, it will not be available in sufficient doses to give to everyone. We need a priority list to see that we vaccinate those who’ve high chances of dying due to Covid,” ANI reported. “Elderly, people with comorbidities and front line workers should be vaccinated first,” It quoted Guleria as saying.Once a booster dose is given, the vaccine will give a good amount of antibodies production and protect from the virus for “for a significant amount of time.” The antibodies can last for many months in the body, he also said.Also Read | No night curfew in Delhi as of now, AAP govt informs Delhi high courtOn the distribution plan of the government, Guleria said that work is going on at war-footing both at the Centre and state level. Authorities are working on a plan “in terms of maintaining the cold chain, having appropriate storehouses available, developing strategy, training vaccinators and availability of syringes.”This comes as India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 9.5 million-mark on Thursday after it recorded 35,551 fresh cases of the viral disease. As of Thursday morning, the country have 95,34,964 confirmed cases of the virus. While the death toll reached 1,38,648.On November 23, pharmaceutical company Astrazaneca said that the its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in development with British partner Oxford University, has an efficacy rate of 90%. The late-stage trial findings will allow the company to seek emergency use approval by year-end, before securing authorisation for a full rollout by February or March.India is also conducting a late-stage trial of Russia’s Sputnik V.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-priority-list-as-vaccine-won-t-be-available-for-all-in-the-beginning-says-aiims-director/story-nSa7DyZR1gH99zPaX9XgJN.html
03-12-2020||India||Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai police station bags award for being India’s best||The Union home ministry has named Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai police station the best in the country. Amit Shah, the Union home minister, virtually presented a trophy to the police station’s in-charge, inspector Keisam Premkumar Mangang, on Wednesday during an ongoing three-day virtual meeting of police chiefs from across the country.Nongpok Sekmai police station was established on April 8, 2015.Also read | Manipur imposes night curfew till December 31 to check Covid spreadPrime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015 sought the laying down of parameters for grading police stations on the basis of their performances and citizens’ feedback to rank the top 10 among them annually. An annual assessment has since conducted to recognise 10 best police stations nationally and in each state and territory.Earlier, Manipur’s Nambol and Imphal West city police stations were declared the best in 2018 and 2019.In a tweet, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “Congratulations to Nongpok Sekmai PS, Thoubal District on being conferred the #BestPoliceStationAward2020 of the country by Union Home Ministry. The award is in recognition of the professionalism, hard work, dedication and community oriented policing by the #Manipur Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-nongpok-sekmai-police-station-bags-india-s-best-police-station-award/story-nvfgR3XTCmeMEfGUKWBgtN.html
03-12-2020||India||Boy who fell into borewell in UP dies||A 4-year-old boy who fell into a borewell in Budhaura village here died on Thursday, officials said. “After an 18-hour rescue operation, the child was taken out from the borewell in the morning and rushed to the hospital on life support system where doctors declared him dead,” District Magistrate Satyendra Kumar said.Dhanendra alias Babu had fallen into the borewell at around 2.30 pm on Wednesday when he was playing. His parents were irrigating the field at the time of the incident, according to police. Anup Kumar Dubey, SHO, Kulpahad had on Wednesday said the boy was suspected to be trapped at about 25-30 feet deep borewell. Additional Superintendent of Police Rajendra Kumar Gautam said the child was rescued at about 8.30 am on Thursday.“The borewell had water up to 25 feet and it seems the child slipped into it and died,” he said. Dr Gulsher Ahmad of the district hospital said the child may have died about six hours before he was brought to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-who-fell-into-borewell-in-up-dies/story-lF87pqGlzhghcmxY5JohGL.html
03-12-2020||India||Bombay high court acquits doctor convicted of disclosing gender of foetus in 2006||The Bombay high court has quashed a doctor’s conviction for conducting a woman’s prenatal test to determine the gender of her unborn child in 2006, saying the proper procedure was not followed while registering the complaint in the case.Mohankumar Nagane’s lawyer, Abhijeet Desai, said the competent authority did not check Nagane’s clinic and a medical officer who did so did not follow the procedure. He submitted the amount alleged to have been paid to Nagane for the test was not found in his clinic but in a car owned by someone else which the doctor used sometimes.The court held that though the money was not found in the premise of Nagane and the medical officer had acted beyond his authorisation, both the lower courts failed to take cognisance of it and hence the conviction was being quashed and set aside.Sex determination tests are banned in India to prevent female foeticide that is common in some parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-acquits-doctor-convicted-of-disclosing-gender-of-foetus-in-2006/story-N6TQDvNoe39BsLAZJ50r2H.html
03-12-2020||India||Bengal CM Mamata threatens country-wide stir if new farm laws not withdrawn||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday threatened to launch a country-wide agitation if the “anti-farmer” new farm laws were not withdrawn.The Trinamool Congress supremo lashed out at the BJP- led government at the Centre over the issue in a series of tweets.“I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately, we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” she tweeted. I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills.Her statement came ahead of a crucial round of talks scheduled to be held between the Centre and representatives of the agitating farmers during the day.“We have called a meeting of the All India Trinamool Congress on Friday, December 4. We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in sky rocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” she said in another Twitter post.“The GOI is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence, etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment & privatisation policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets,” Banerjee added. The GOI is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence, etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment & privatization policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets.Agitating farmers had on Wednesday demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the new farm laws as they threatened to block other roads in Delhi and “take more steps” if it failed to do so.Ahead of the scheduled talks, Union Home Minister Amit Shah held deliberations with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on the previous day on ways to dispel concerns over the new farm laws.Tomar, Goyal along with Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash had represented the Union government on Tuesday during the talks with farmer leaders but failed to reach any breakthrough.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cm-mamata-threatens-country-wide-stir-if-new-farm-laws-not-withdrawn/story-d9auujTeCwGTd1mvC2QpCN.html
03-12-2020||India||MP Sukhdev Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan, says award is worthless as farmers are ignored||Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa returned his Padma Bhushan award to oppose farm laws  here on Thursday.The veteran leader, who parted ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal following political differences with SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, was presented the Padma Bhushan by President of India Ram Nath Kovind in March 2019.“I have returned my Padma Bhushan in protest as farmers have been staging dharnas for the past two months but the Central government is not ready to listen to them. When the BJP government is ignoring our elderly people, who have shifted their protest to Delhi borders, the award is worthless to me,” Dhindsa told HT over phone.The Rajya Sabha MP said that his party workers are extending support to farmers and he has asked them not to discuss party politics in farmers’ protests.Also read | Parkash Singh Badal returns Padam Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’“My son Parminder Singh Dhindsa also staged protests against these anti-farmer laws. I will stand by farmers,” he added.He added, “I will intensify the agitation if the government does not repel such black laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-mp-sukhdev-dhindsa-returns-padma-bhushan/story-L9FKE7EmojcVS199UtwsWN.html
03-12-2020||India||Those not wearing masks violating other citizens’ Fundamental Rights: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the December 2 order passed by Gujarat high court mandating social service duty at Covid care centres for those found not wearing masks in public. The court also sought suggestions from the Centre and the State governments on ways to ensure compulsory wearing of masks and maintenance of social distancing by the public at large.The three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan held that the state must vigorously enforce the standard operating procedure (SOP) released by the Centre for mandatory wearing of masks and keeping social distancing to contain the spread of Covid 19 disease.“Those people not wearing masks in public are violating the fundamental right (right to life and health) of other citizens,” observed the bench, also comprising justices RS Reddy and MR Shah. The bench noted that in the State, people were gathering in thousands and there was no mechanism to report such gatherings.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for Gujarat, had opposed the high court order, calling it well-intentioned but claiming that the consequences of its implementation will be bad. Mehta informed the court that those violating mandatory wearing of masks are being fined Rs 1000 by the State Police. The bench agreed to stay the interim direction of Gujarat HC on the appeal filed by the State stating that such a direction will cause more harm to people by exposing them to the risk of catching infection. However, it noted that wearing of masks is mandatory and stare authorities shall take every action to punish violators, including levy of fine. Also Read: Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK VenugopalThe order of the HC was passed on a PIL by a lawyer named Vishal Awtani, who complained against the lack of enforcement of mandatory norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing by people across the State.Mehta shared the concern of the court and said that the problem is being witnessed throughout the country as this phenomenon relates to a “culture of indiscipline” prevailing among people.The bench sought suggestions from the Centre and States as it said, “There is a standard operating procedure in place put by (the) Centre but how is it to be implemented.” The States will give suggestions on how they propose to implement rules about mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing. The Court listed the appeal by Gujarat government for further hearing in the second week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-not-wearing-masks-violating-other-citizens-fundamental-rights-sc/story-t3bnVimH31lMvvjlbskDeK.html
03-12-2020||India||Delhi HC adjourns Manoj Tiwari’s plea against summons in Sisodia’s defamation case to Dec 7||The Delhi High Court on Thursday adjourned to December 7 the plea filed by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari challenging a trial court order issuing summons against him in a defamation case filed by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia.A single-judge bench of Justice Anu Malhotra asked the counsel appearing for Tiwari to file legible copies of documents relating to his petition and submit physical copies of judgements, which he is relying on to support his plea.Tiwari’s counsel and senior advocate Pinki Anand urged the High Court to quash the order passed by Rouse Avenue Court on November 28, 2019, issuing summons against her client.The trial court had also issued summons to BJP MPs Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma and MLAs Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Vijender Gupta in the matter. Gupta has also challenged the trial court order in the Delhi High Court.The High Court also listed Gupta’s plea for further hearing on December 7.Sisodia had filed a defamation case against BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans, Pravesh Verma, MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa, MLA Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana for making false allegations regarding the former’s involvement in corruption of Rs 2,000 crore in the building of classrooms of Delhi government schools. All accused are out on bail in this matter.Sisodia, in the defamation case, had said that all the allegations made by these BJP leaders were false, defamatory, derogatory and with an intention to harm and damage the reputation and goodwill of the Delhi Deputy Chief Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-adjourns-manoj-tiwari-s-plea-against-summons-in-sisodia-s-defamation-case-to-dec-7/story-FJC4wj8MaIJ1RZMh7DE8YJ.html
03-12-2020||India||No night curfew in Delhi as of now, AAP govt informs Delhi high court||The AAP government on Thursday told the Delhi high court that it has decided not to impose night curfew in Delhi as of now, after assessing the present Covid-19 situation in the Capital. On November 26, a high court bench comprising Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad asked the government to submit its response on imposing night curfew without any delay. The government at that time told the court that no decision was taken on night curfew but it was under “active consideration”.On Thursday, the Delhi government filed a status report in which it said it has issued an order directing status quo be maintained with regard to permitted and restricted activities in the city till December 31. “Therefore, no new activity has been permitted/ allowed till December 31,” the report said. Earlier, the court had rapped the government for lifting several restrictions at a time when the number of cases was on the rise.Since the last week of October, the Capital saw an uptick in daily infections with the number breaching the 8,000-mark in November. The daily toll too reached above 100 in November when the Capital is believed to have witnessed the third wave of Covid-19.The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day, taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.Though several states have announced night curfews and local restrictions, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal maintained that restrictions is not a solution to the Covid-19 situation — they only delays the spread. In the past few days, however, the number of daily infections in Delhi came below 4,000 as it recorded 3,944 fresh Covid-19 infections on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-night-curfew-in-delhi-as-of-now-aap-govt-informs-delhi-high-court/story-l1QPKn9adHSuIBXrhUuF3M.html
03-12-2020||India||Mamata warns of nationwide protest against farm bills, attacks Centre’s disinvestment policy||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has threatened a nationwide agitation if the Centre does not withdraw the three contentious laws enacted in September to allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions.“I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI [government of India] must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress will hold a meeting on Friday to discuss their future of course of action.“...We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” she said in another tweet.Also read | BJP targets 10million Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreachFarmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying they will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.Banerjee also sharpened her attack against the Centre’s disinvestment and privatisation policy saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is transforming national treasures into its assets“The Government of India is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment and privatization policy. We must not allow treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets,” she said.BJP leader Jay Prakash Majumdar said the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), carried out anti-Centre protests for 34 years and Banerjee talks on the same lines. “Will Bengal leaders always oppose the country’s laws and deprive people of the state of the Centre’s welfare schemes.” CPI(M) leader Md Salim said Banerjee always wakes up late. “The movement has already reached the doorsteps of Delhi. The Left parties have already held a nationwide movement. She is talking of holding a movement when her party is on its way out of power in Bengal.” Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya blamed the Centre for an alarming increase in the prices of essential commodities and added Banerjee is free to lead the protests. “But she must also ensure that prices of vegetables produced in the state are kept under check.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-warns-of-nationwide-protest-against-farm-bills-attacks-centre-s-disinvestment-policy/story-VqXHtymIKKZiKQ0qQFzLLL.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Ready to tackle Covid-19, China’: Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh||Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Thursday said the navy is prepared to face dual challenges of Covid-19 and Chinese attempts to alter the Line of Actual Control (LAC). He added that the navy is all prepared with an standard operating procedure (SOP) to tackle the situation in case of any infringement by the Chinese vessels.“There is a dual challenge from Covid-19 and Chinese attempts to change the Line of Actual Control. The Navy is prepared to face both these challenges,” Admiral Singh said at a press conference on the eve of the Navy day.On surveillance activities, the navy chief said the two predator drones taken on lease are aiding the navy to fill the capability gap. He added that if the army and the IAF felt the need, the 24 hours sustained surveillance capabilities can be used for the northeast as well. Also Read | China plays down concerns over ‘super’ dam impacting water security in northeast IndiaHe also notified that all three armed forces are operating in close coordination with each other.He said, “2 Predator drones taken on lease are helping us to fulfil the capability gap in our surveillance. 24hrs of surveillance capability is helping us to get sustained surveillance capability: If the Army and IAF feel a requirement for them in the northeast, we can consider it.”The navy chief elaborated on the surveillance drones by informing that P-8I aircraft and Heron surveillance drones have been deployed on various frontiers as per the requirement of Army and IAF. Further, “As of now, three Chinese warships are in the Indian Ocean region. The Chinese have been maintaining three ships since 2008 for anti-piracy patrols,” said Navy Chief Singh.Admiral Singh talked about bolstering the strength of the force amidst the Ladakh-China row that started due to the aggression from the PLA. India and China are still in deadlock after seven months of high level deliberations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-tackle-covid-19-china-navy-chief-admiral-karambir-singh/story-HhAkHTC4ZvA8PpqS3hhfkI.html
03-12-2020||India||Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest ‘betrayal of farmers’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and five-time former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the “betrayal of the farmers by the government of India and the shocking indifference and contempt with which it is treating the ongoing peaceful and democratic agitation” of the farmers against the three farm Acts. “I am who I am because of the people, especially the common farmer. Today, when he (farmer) has lost more than his honour, I see no point in holding on to the Padma Vibhushan honour,” the veteran Akali leader wrote in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. He described the betrayal of the farmers by the government as “bolts from the blue on the already beleaguered peasantry of the country”, adding that the farmer finds himself waging bitter struggles in severe cold just to secure his fundamental right to live. Also read | Centre, farmers begin fresh round of talksSAD, one of the oldest constituents of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), had snapped ties with the BJP in September 2020 and pulled out of the alliance to protest against the agriculture marketing laws enacted by the Central government. In a letter e-mailed to the President, Badal listed his reasons for feeling “hurt and betrayed” by the government’s attitude and actions against the farmers. “When the Government of India had brought the ordinances, assurances were given that the farmers’ apprehensions would be addressed to their satisfaction while bringing the relevant Bills and subsequently the Acts. Trusting these assurances, I even appealed to the farmers to believe the Government’s word. But I was shocked when the Government simply went back on its word,” he wrote. The former chief minister described that period as the most painful and embarrassing moment in his long political career. “I just cannot put in words the pain and emotional stress which I have been going through since then. I have truly begun to wonder why has the Government of the country become so heartless, so cynical and so ungrateful towards the farmers,” he said. Badal also said he had been deeply pained by the communal insinuations being thrown at the peacefully and democratically protesting farmers. Badal regretted that the government remains indifferent to the sufferings of the farmers. “The spectacle of hundreds of thousands of farmers crying out for justice in one voice in the national capital would have moved any other nation or its government,” he said. No such sensitivity towards the farmers’ pain and anger is visible here, he said, hoping that as the first citizen of the country and a conscientious public figure, the President too would be fully aware and perhaps as deeply concerned about these developments. Badal felt apologetic that the pleas of farmer friendly parties like the Shiromani Akali Dal were mocked. “It was cynically suggested that farmers take loans just for ostentatious lifestyle. This cruel cynicism and malice against the farmers did not stop even when thousands of farmers in this country were and are being driven to take their own lives in a phenomenon called farmer suicides,” he said. He also came down heavily on the government, saying that while “corporate loans worth lakhs of crores are waived off with just a single thoughtless stroke of the governmental pen, no one has ever thought of even subsiding the farm debts, forget a complete waiver”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badal-returns-padma-vibushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-x89lL0NPAh8Zq7H8FB87eM.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid 19 scuttles 200-km yearly padyatra to commemorate the lord of Goa||December 3 marks the feast of St Francis Xavier, a 16th century Spanish Jesuit who travelled to the then Portuguese held territories in India and other parts of Asia to evangelize and is now revered as Goencho Saib (Lord of Goa). The public holiday is marked with huge congregations at Old Goa, but this year on account of the coronavirus pandemic, the event has been largely moved online.For the hundreds of people from the villages of the hilly and thickly forested upper reaches of the Western Ghats-- now falling in North Western Karnataka and South Western Maharashtra-- who would make the 150-200 kilometres walk from their town to Old Goa every year on the occasion, the pandemic has meant that their pilgrimage cannot be held this year. Catholics residing in the neighbouring districts, who trace their roots back to Goa, known as ‘Bardeskar’-- their ancestors having had to migrate from the Bardez taluka in Goa to escape religious and cultural persecution, epidemics and continuous Portuguese-Maratha skirmishes -- had begun a tradition of walking across five days to reach Old Goa by December 2, the eve of the feast of St Francis Xavier. “The tradition had become a part of the lives of the people of these villages who have great reverence and devotion for Goencho Saib. This (restriction due to the pandemic) became a deep source of sorrow to many of the devotees who have been walking every year,” Fr Joseph Monetiro, the parish priest of Gadhinglaj in Kolhapur district of South Maharashtra, said. The pilgrimage, modelled on Maharashtra’s Varkari cult’s ‘padyatra’ to Vithoba, the presiding deity at Pandharpur, is undertaken with the hope that various favours will be granted that could include help in getting rid of an alcohol habit, a new job, healing from chronic diseases, etc.The devotees would walk across the ghats, making their way through the forested stretches and traditional pathways to reach Old Goa by December 2 each year.Gadhinglaj and the neighbouring towns of Azra in Kolhapur district, Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra and Belgaum district of Karnataka are home to hundreds of families of ‘Bardeskar’ who have formed Catholic settlements centuries ago, but continue to hold on to their links to Goa and the village associations that they belong to. The tradition dates back to 1982, when a Jesuit priest Swami Prabhudar began walking from Azra, a village in the Kolhapur district of Maharashtra with just seven people. It soon gained popularity and now involves hundreds of people with some marching from as far as Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra to Goa. Also Read: Old Parrikar video threatens to derail railway line doubling project in Goa Instead this year, on account of the risks associated with large gatherings, the villagers from Gadhinglaj decided to have a smaller scale pilgrimage involving fewer people and a march from Gadhinglaj to Nesari, a distance of 22 kilometres every day for nine days until December 3, when the feast will be celebrated. “We are doing this to ensure that the tradition is not broken besides to also enable those who wish to participate, seeking the intercession of St Francis Xavier for various favours can fulfil their devotion,” Fr Monteiro said. The feast of Francis Xavier is being celebrated at a low key level this year with physical gatherings being discouraged and the celebrations being live streamed instead for the benefit of the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-scuttles-200-km-yearly-padyatra-to-commemorate-the-lord-of-goa/story-rSpxa2R0UiCjw8nzNZh4bN.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan in protest against farm laws||In the latest development over the ongoing anti-farm law protests, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former 5-term Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday returned the Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second-highest civilian award, which was conferred upon him in 2015. Former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal returns Padma Vibhushan to protest "the betrayal of the farmers by govt of India" pic.twitter.com/mzdsoAZSlCIn a statement, Badal described the laws as “the betrayal of farmers” by the government of India. In September, the month these laws were passed, then central minister and Badal’s daughter-in-law, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was the only SAD representative in the central government, had resigned from office in protest against the legislations. Days later, the SAD, too, formally announced it was no longer a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | SAD-NDA: Farm bill was final nail in the coffin. Here’s a look at other reasons for splitThe SAD was the BJP’s oldest ally, with the two parties’ ties being more than two decades old.In recent days, a number of sportspersons from Punjab, too, have threatened to return their awards if the farmers’ demands were not met. Though the farmers have been protesting against the laws since September, including blocking railway tracks in Punjab, last week they started marching towards the national capital and have been camping on its outskirts for eight days now. They have threatened to block Delhi “from all sides” if the laws are not repealed.Three rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers’ unions and the government thus far, including the latest one on Tuesday. Fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-punjab-cm-parkash-singh-badal-returns-padma-vibhushan-in-protest-against-farm-laws/story-bIAlkJjQrZvwPuL76Ab4pJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Dilli Chalo protest: Centre, farmers begin fresh talks; MSP assurance on the table||Three Union ministers are currently meeting leaders from 40 farm organisations for the fourth round of make-or-mar talks at the Capital’s Vigyan Bhawan, as protests by thousands of farmers against a set of farm laws continued for the seventh straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash are leading the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, are speaking for the farmers. While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector. Opposition to the reforms has set off some of the biggest farmers’ protests in decades, posing a political challenge for the Narendra Modi government. “It is possible that the government may offer some sort of undertaking or assurance that the reforms will not impact minimum support prices (MSP), although the reforms are not meant to have any impact on MSP,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Farmers also want rollback of an ordinance invoked in October by the government to crack down on pollution in New Delhi, of which crop-residue burning is a major cause. The ordinance has riled farmers because it provides for steep penalties for polluters, including farmers who burn crop stubble, with a jail term of 1 year and fines of up to Rs1 crore. “Higher subsidies that will enable farmers to adopt environment-friendly technologies as an alternative to crop-residue burning is another option before the government,” a second official said. The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. In the last round of talks on December 1, which was inconclusive, the government had asked the farm unions to identify specific provisions in the three farm laws which they were opposed to. The three ministers had assured of appropriate responses to their objections in today’s meeting. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the Centre is pushing farming in India,” stated Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, in a letter to the farm minister ahead of Thursday talks. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed MSP, erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSP, but farmers have demanded a law to guarantee that no sale of farm produce below MSP will be permitted. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates market distortions. If it is not profitable for traders to buy at federally-fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce, said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. The assumption behind the new reforms is that free competition in agricultural markets will result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in an equilibrium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilli-chalo-protest-centre-farmers-begin-fresh-round-of-talks/story-vRYvUsKi5hKSoGkMjdMxjO.html
03-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh joins 27 states and 3 UTs to opt for GST loan, Jharkhand is lone dissenter||Chhattisgarh is the latest State to accept the Centre’s borrowing option of Rs 1.1 lakh crore to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall in 2020-21, making Jharkhand the lone dissenter.“Government of Chhattisgarh has communicated its acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The number of states who have favoured Option-1 has gone up to 27. All states except Jharkhand and all the 3 Union Territories (UTs) with legislative assemblies, have decided in favour of Option-1,” Union finance ministry said on Thursday.Now, 30 members of the GST council – 27 states and 3 UTs -- have formally accepted the first borrowing option proposed by the Centre in August this year, reducing the number of dissenting states to just one, an official in the Union government said requesting anonymity.At the 41st GST Council meet on August 27, the Centre had given two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall of about Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the current financial year. Two days later, it had specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either the principle amount or the interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore (later this amount was raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore) to meet the GST revenue shortfall because of implementation issues. However, they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfalls due to an “act of god”, which was the Covid-19 pandemic.Initially 10 states – Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal-- mostly administered by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties, objected and insisted that the entire borrowing should be done by the Centre without imposing any direct interest burden on States. They were.Under the first option, the Union government on October 23 set up a special borrowing window for this purpose and borrowed an amount of Rs 30,000 crore on behalf of states, which was passed on to them. “The funds borrowed through the special window were released to the States and UTs on 23rd October, 2020, 2nd November, 2020, 9th November, 2020, 23rd November, 2020 and 1st December, 2020. Now the State of Chhattisgarh will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-joins-27-states-and-3-uts-to-opt-for-gst-loan-jharkhand-is-lone-dissenter/story-ToGdJWwWQbIJi2LRACNkIJ.html
03-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Farmers block NH-9 ahead of talks with govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Ahead of talks with government, protesting farmers block Ghaziabad-Delhi side of NH-9Supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) intensified the farmer’s stir and blocked the National Highway-9 near the UP Gate on Thursday morning. The move has led to blockade and disruption of traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi. Read moreGovt releases list of India’s top 10 police stations, Manipur’s Nongpok Sekmai on topThe government on Thursday released a list of the top 10 police stations in India for the year 2020. In a press release, the government noted that the list was in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions while addressing the 2015 Directors General of Police (DGP) Conference in Kutch, Gujarat. Read more‘What does PM stand by’: Rahul Gandhi on Centre’s stand on Covid-19 vaccineFormer Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on Thursday for ambiguity in the vaccine policy of the country, seeking clarity over the same. Read more‘He has many ways to get wickets’: Tom Moody believes 29-year-old India fast bowler is an ‘exciting package’India benefitted from the four changes they made to their playing XI in the third ODI against Australia in Canberra on Wednesday. India left out Mayank Agarwal, Mohammed Shami, Yuzvendra Chahal and Navdeep Saini and replaced them with Shubman Gill, Kuldeep Yadav, T Natarajan and Shardul Thakur, with all four additions contributing immensely in India’s 13-run win. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh slams Kangana Ranaut for her tweet against elderly Sikh woman: ‘Shouldn’t be so blind, she says anything’Diljit Dosanjh has joined multiple Punjabi stars as they rebuked actor Kangana Ranaut’s latest Twitter fiasco. Kangana had shared a tweet, misidentifying an elderly Sikh woman during the farmers’ protest as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh. She had written that the woman had joined the protest for a meagre price of Rs 100. Read moreTata Nexon EV surpasses 2,000 sales milestone in 10 monthsIt may not seem like a milestone to rave about at first but that its battery-powered heart has helped Tata Nexon become a cornerstone in the electric vehicle movement in India is now underlined by the fact that 2,000 units of the EV have been sold here in a little over 10 months since being launched. Read moreNetflix StreamFest in India: Here’s how you can watch Netflix for freeNetflix is going to be free this weekend in India. Netflix StreamFest will be a two-day event on December 5 and 6 where anyone in India will be able to watch Netflix for free. Netflix is experimenting this for the first time, and it’s starting with India. Read more‘Killed this’: Sonam Kapoor Ahuja calls her look ‘hot’ as Rhea Kapoor-Masaba Gupta gush over the denim saree stylingEccentric outfits and out-of-the-box looks are synonyms for Bollywood fashionista Sonam Kapoor Ahuja whose uncanny ease at pulling off the most unconventional of outfits makes the fashion police’s jaws drop everytime. Read more‘Indian Navy played crucial role in deterring PLA Navy’: Vice Admiral AK ChawlaVice Admiral AK Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in- Chief, Southern Naval Command said that Indian Navy played a crucial role in preventing any misadventure by the Chinese Navy in the Indian Ocean Region during the peak of the border standoff between the two countries. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-farmers-block-nh-9-ahead-of-talks-with-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-j7Co0gY46Dr3n14XOyUkIJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Telangana HC orders pole climbing test for two women rejected for lineman job||The Telangana High Court has directed a state power distribution company to conduct pole climbing test for two women candidates, who cleared the written test for the post of junior lineman.The court gave the direction to the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana after its counsel informed the court that the state-run power utility did not want to engage women for field jobs such as lineman as they could not climb poles easily.A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddywhile hearinga writ appeal by V Bharathi and B Shirisha on Wednesday, observed that women were being recruited in armed forces also.It has directed the power department to conduct the pole climbing test for the petitioners in two weeks and submit the result to the single bench which is hearing the petition.A single bench had earlier ordered the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd and Principal Secretary Energy Department to conduct the test for the two women “if they conduct any Pole Climbing test in future.” The petitioners seeking timeframe for the test had moved the bench.G Vidya Sagar, senior advocate appearing for the DISCOM, said the power utility in its advertisement for filling vacanciesof lineman, had mentioned that women candidates were not eligible for the posts of lineman.However some women candidates approached the High Court court seeking its permission to appear for the exam.Out of them, two cleared the written test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-hc-orders-pole-climbing-test-for-two-women-rejected-for-lineman-job/story-XzlErh8ERMydCd9kcBPQsK.html
03-12-2020||India||ED raids PFI chairman’s premises in Kerala as part of money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday raided premises including that of Popular Front of India (PFI) chairman OM Abdul Salam in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi in connection with a money-laundering probe, officials familiar with the matter said.Raids are being conducted at 26 locations in nine states: Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra.The PFI is under investigation for alleged financial links with anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protesters earlier this year. The ED in January this year submitted a note to the Union home ministry saying there “is a direct correlation between the dates of deposits/withdrawals of money from the bank accounts of PFI and those of demonstrations against the CAA”.“It has been noticed that Rs1.04 crore were deposited in 15 bank accounts of PFI (10) and Rehab India Foundation (5) during the period starting from 04.12.2019 till 06.01.2020. The deposits were in form of cash and IMPS using mobile and deposit amounts varies from Rs5,000 to Rs49,000. The amounts have been kept below Rs50,000 in order to [not] disclose the identity of depositor,” the note said.Also read | Scribe held on way to Hathras: ‘Shocking findings’ have emerged during probe, UP govt tells SC“Rs1.34 crore were withdrawn from these 15 accounts from December 4, 2019 to January 6, 2020 by way of cash and NEFT/IMPS using mobile.” The withdrawals were made in small amounts of Rs2,000 to Rs5,000 on multiple occasions.The note, a copy of which HT has seen, said 80 to 90 withdrawals were made from a single account on December 12 and December 21 when protests were held at several places in Uttar Pradesh.“The money trail has proved beyond doubt that PFI has mobilised the money to finance the cost of demonstration/gherao against CAA Bill till 06.01.2020. Further investigation to trace money trail from other bank accounts is continuing,” the note said. PFI, which has denied all the allegations against it, did not immediately respond to ED raids.The organisation has been accused of forced conversions, radicalisation of Muslim youth, and linkages with banned outfits.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has called it a threat to national security and the then Union minister Kiren Rijiju in January 2018 said the government was considering banning the outfit. The government is yet to ban PFI.Prior to ED’s probe, PFI has been named in at least four cases by the NIA. They include the one involving chopping of the palm of a professor in Kerala’s Idukki district in July 2010, the murder a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader in Bengaluru in October 2016, the so-called Islamic State Omar Al-Hindi module in Kochi and a training camp in Kannur from where bombs, IEDs and swords were recovered in April 2013.NIA in 2016 said PFI’s Sathya Sarini was involved in several conversions in Kerala. PFI was never charged by the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-pfi-chairman-s-premises-in-kerala-as-part-of-money-laundering-probe/story-LXsL04p6IMga3P2CmbsDNP.html
03-12-2020||India||Olive ridley turtles return to Odisha beach for nesting||Pairs of olive ridley sea turtles have begun emerging on the swirling sea waters off Gahirmatha in Odisha, marking the commencement of the annual natural heritage of mass nesting, forest officials said on Thursday.Forest personnel on patrolling drives have sighted pairs of mating turtles. For undisturbed breeding of the aquatic animals, prohibition on sea fishing continues to remain in force in the marine sanctuary, they said.Gahirmatha beach in Kendrapara district is acclaimed as the world’s largest-known nesting ground of these endangered marine species. Apart from Gahirmatha, these aquatic animals turn up at Rushikulya river mouth and Devi river mouth for mass nesting.“On the serene surface of sea waters, the turtle surveying teams spotted hundreds of mating pairs along the Gahirmatha coast. Fishing prohibition is presently clamped in Gahirmatha zone to ensure disturbance-free mating of the marine animals,” said Divisional Forest Officer, Rajnagar Mangrove, Bikash Chandra Dash.After the end of the mating season, most of the male turtles usually return, leaving behind the female turtles to lay their eggs, he said The female turtles virtually invade the nesting beaches, usually at the dead of the night for laying eggs, the phenomenon described as ‘arribada’.After indulgence in instinctive egg-laying, the turtles leave the nesting ground to stride into the deep seawater. Hatchlings emerge from these eggs after 45-60 days.It is a rare natural phenomenon where the babies grow without their mother, the officer said.The ban on sea fishing remains in force round the year in Gahirmatha marine sanctuary as the seawater here is the most conducive habitat for these delicate species.The rise in the mortality rate of mating turtles along the coastal water surface led to the clamping of prohibition as the gill nets used by the trawls prove to be messengers of death for breeding turtles.The mute species, accorded schedule-1 animal under Wildlife Protection Act for its highly threatened status, get entangled in the nets for prolonged periods and die of asphyxiation. Many turtles also perish after getting hit by the fast-moving propeller of the fishing trawlers, forest officials said.The rate of mortality of these endangered species is quite high. An olive ridley usually lays about 120 to 150 eggs from which hatchlings emerge after about 45 to 60 days. But not all eggs remain intact as predators devour it.Besides, eggs are also washed away by sea waves during high tide. The eggs are incubated in the nest and grow, sans mother, to emerge as hatchlings, they said.Around 7.30 lakh olive ridley turtles had turned up for their annual sojourn of mass nesting in the 2019-20 season. The female turtles had emerged from the sea to crawl on to the serene beach and dig pits to lay millions of eggs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/olive-ridley-turtles-return-to-odisha-beach-for-nesting/story-HZCRe2NTZizs7DiGHGmO9O.html
03-12-2020||India||Will launch political party in January, tweets Rajinikanth; says announcement on Dec 31||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on Thursday said on Twitter that he will launch his political party in January next year, adding that announcement about it wil be made on December 31.Assembly elections are due in Tamil Nadu next year. He had met the district secretaries of ‘Rajini Makkal Mandram’ - a political extension of his fan club - on Monday and deliberated the possibility of his political foray.“They (functionaries) told me that they are with me whatever may be my decision. I will make known by decision (on political foray) as soon as possible,” he had said after the meeting.Fans thronged the meeting location and his residence cheering for him as the next chief minister. Rajinikanth reportedly spoke to about 1.5 hours at the meeting.“Most of the office bearers wanted him to contest in the 2021 assembly elections but we also wanted him to take care of his health,” said Thoothukudi district secretary A J Stalin.In October, Rajinikanth had for the first time disclosed that he had undergone a kidney transplant in 2016 in the United States and that the doctors were against him venturing into politics in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Rajinikanth had first announced his decision of entering politics in December 2017 but he had not taken any concrete steps to build his party. In March 2020, Rajinikanth said that he would head his party but he wanted someone educated to be the chief minister candidate. However, the only certainty that Rajinikanth has maintained in his political plans is that his politics would be spiritual.On the other hand, Rajinikanth’s contemporary in films and politics, Kamal Hassan, who floated Makkal Needhi Maiam (People’s Justice Party) contested in the 2019 parliamentary elections, and is preparing to put up candidates for the 234 assembly seats. Hassan had said that he will not align with any of the Dravidians parties.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-launch-political-party-in-january-tweets-rajinikanth-says-announcement-on-dec-31/story-TqD5iJBeCX0aSshA0wB35H.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Haryana chief minister Chautala tests Covid-19 positive||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, 85, has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to Gurugram’s Medanta Hospital, a state health department official said.The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Chautala was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday and has symptoms like fever and cold. “Considering his age, several other tests were also conducted to keep a check on his health condition. Currently, his condition is stable.”Also read | Farmers’ protest: JJP suggests written assurance from Centre on MSPA leader of Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal also confirmed the former chief minister has tested positive for the disease after he attended his grandson’s wedding. “The wedding reception of Chauatala’s grandson took place at a Sirsa farmhouse on November 30. It was a closed family function with limited gathering.” The hospital authorities did not immediately comment about Chautala’s illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-haryana-chief-minister-chautala-tests-covid-19-positive/story-XTJCXMpbsxROkvNRZMzAGM.html
03-12-2020||India||‘Nothing for me to resolve’: Punjab CM after meeting home minister Shah over farmers’ stir||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday met Union home minister Amit Shah over the ongoing farmers’ protests on the outskirts of the national capital against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre in September. Speaking to media after the meeting, Singh said talks were going on between the Centre and the farmers and there was nothing for him to resolve.“Discussion is going on between farmers and Centre, there’s nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with home minister and requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state and security of the nation,” news agency ANI quoted the Punjab chief minister as saying. Discussion is going on between farmers & Centre, there's nothing for me to resolve. I reiterated my opposition in my meeting with Home Minister & requested him to resolve the issue as it affects the economy of my state & security of the nation: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh https://t.co/OPfQWdyPCL pic.twitter.com/6T4gxMuydoAdditionally, Singh also announced compensation of Rs five lakh each to the families of two farmers, from the districts of Mansa and Moga respectively, who lost their lives during the ongoing protests, the Punjab chief minister’s office (CMO) said in a statement. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh has announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the two farmers, hailing from districts Mansa and Moga respectively, who died during ongoing Farm law protests: Chief Minister's Office, PunjabThe meeting between Shah and Singh took place on a day fourth round of talks are scheduled to take place between the government and the protesting farmers. The third round of talks, which took place on Tuesday, had ended in a stalemate, with the farmers’ representatives turning down the government’s proposal to form a panel to discuss the three laws.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he is hoping for a positive outcome of talks with farmers.“The government is constantly discussing issues with farmers. Today is the fourth round of talks And I’m hoping for a positive outcome,” Tomar said after meeting home minister Shah.The Centre is trying very hard to end the protest against the newly-enacted farm laws, which the farmer leaders are opposed to. Just hours ahead of talks with protesting farmers, Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry on Thursday stated that farmers are coming for talks because there is hope for a solution that will be acceptable to both government and farmers and reiterated that the Centre is clear that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will stay and is willing to give it in writing as well.Of the three ministers who held hour-long discussions with farmers, Prakash hails from Punjab and will be engaging with farmers today along with agriculture minister Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal.The farm unions, which are spearheading the protests, said that 40 leaders are present at Vigyan Bhawan for talks with the government.“We are hopeful that the talks will be productive. If our demands are not met then the farmers will take part in the Republic Day parade held in Delhi,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikat said.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-singh-arrives-to-meet-home-minister-amit-shah-over-farmers-stir/story-ZFZukeqzuWaT77kdZD7DVN.html
03-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Modi, seeks priority Covid 19 vaccination for state||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking free and on priority Covid 19 vaccination for the tribal-dominated state, a government press release stated on Wednesday. The CM further said that the state is fully prepared for carrying out the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive. “Since Chhattisgarh is a tribal-dominated state, it should be given priority in the first phase of vaccination drive and it (vaccine) should be free for all. The pandemic has resulted in stress and fear and therefore it is (the government’s) responsibility to ensure peace and good health for every person in the country. As we all know, Covid-19 vaccination is important for the prevention of infection and related deaths,” the letter stated. The CM further outlined who all were likely to be administered the vaccine first once it is made available.“Apart from the health professionals, frontline workers of police, revenue, urban development, rural development departments and media personnel will be covered under the vaccination drive in the state, he stated in his letter.The country is chiefly relying on Astra Zeneca/Oxford vaccine, made in Pune by the Serum Institute of India. The trial of this vaccine is also being conducted in India.Also Read: Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHOThe letter to PM Modi comes at a time when a controversy has broken out after a senior government official indicated that the Central government may not be looking to vaccinate the entire country.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier said that all Indians will be vaccinated. ICMR’s Balram Bhargava has said that the purpose of vaccination is to break the chain of infection, which could even be achieved “if we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people” required to break the virus transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-priority-covid-19-vaccination-for-state/story-fIXBsXiMyuuGjD4dYu4LwI.html
03-12-2020||India||Declare journalists who die of coronavirus as Covid-19 warriors: Press council to Centre||The Press Council of India (PCI) has written a letter to the Centre and state governments saying journalists, who die of coronavirus, be treated as Covid-19 warriors like doctors and offered benefits that those at the forefront of fighting the pandemic get. It has sought group insurance schemes for journalists such as the one implemented by the Haryana government.“The Council recommends to the Central Government to include the journalists, who died due to Covid-19, in the category of Covid warriors like the doctors and others and confer them with the same benefits,” the letter said.The Centre has announced Rs50 lakh compensation for doctors and other frontline workers who die fighting the pandemic.Press Associations such as the Indian Journalists Union, Indian News Cameramen Association, and National Union of Journalists have also submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare journalists as Covid-19 warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declare-journalists-who-die-of-coronavirus-as-covid-19-warriors-press-council-to-centre/story-PpYTbc6UNLcL7nZ57FjiXN.html
03-12-2020||India||Government announces list of 10 best performing police stations in India||The government on Thursday released a list of the top 10 police stations in India for the year 2020. In a press release, the government noted that the list was in accordance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions while addressing the 2015 Directors General of Police (DGP) Conference in Kutch, Gujarat.The press release further stated that 2020’s survey for the best police station was done by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) under “challenging circumstances” due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. It also said that Union home minister Amit Shah had noted that a “vast majority” of police stations shortlisted for the list were from small towns and rural areas. This, the release said, was also true for the 10 police stations finally listed as the best in the country.The top 10 police stations were selected from a total of 16,671 police stations on certain parameters, the release said. From these, 75 police stations were selected for the next stage, out of which 10 were selected as the country’s best police stations.A total of 4,065 respondents participated in the survey, the government said, while also acknowledging that all states and Union territories co-operated with it even during the pandemic period.Here are India’s top 10 police stations for the year 2020:1. Nongpok Sekmai (Thoubal, Manipur)2. AWPS-Suramangalam (Salem, Tamil Nadu)3. Kharsang (Changlang, Arunachal Pradesh)4. Jhilmili (Surajpur, Chhattisgarh)5. Sanguem (South Goa, Goa)6. Kalighat (North and Middle Andaman, Andaman and Nicobar Islands)7. Pakyong (East district, Sikkim)8. Kanth (Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh)9. Khanvel (Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Dadra and Nagar Haveli)10. Jammikunta Town (Karimnagar, Telangana)The list can also be accessed from this Press Information Bureau (PIB) link.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-releases-list-of-india-s-top-10-police-stations-manipur-s-nongpok-sekmai-on-top/story-fYxADHHII2qmcthR2hISBL.html
03-12-2020||India||UP’s Govardhan road expansion projects hits green hurdle in SC||A series of road expansion plans proposed by the Yogi Adityanath government soon after it came to power in 2017 faced environmental hurdle in the Supreme Court on Wednesday with questions being raised over the felling of 2,940 trees for one out of the six road-widening projects to facilitate pilgrimage to Govardhan Hill, associated with Lord Krishna.On behalf of the Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department, senior advocate S Wasim Ahmed Qadri presented the court with the application for felling of trees moved in 2017, pending in court for the past three years. Incidentally, the court-appointed expert body, central empowered committee (CEC), had granted clearance for the tree felling in January this year.Taking up the matter, a three-judge bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde wished to know whether the value of compensation for felling the trees took into account the oxygen producing capacity of the trees considering its age, species and feasibility of felling it.Qadri informed the court that the CEC had examined all aspects and granted clearance for the project. He stated that the state calculated a compensation of Rs 141.4 crore for one of the road widening projects from Ding to Mathura to be paid to the forest department and will replant the same species and number of trees in a separate area.Also Read: Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK Venugopal“We do not want this argument of development versus environment…..You can’t fell 2,940 trees in the name of Lord Krishna,” said the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. They asked the State if it had examined the possibility of saving some of these trees. “Why can’t this road take a turn around the trees. If you make road winding around the trees, traffic will be slow and this will save human lives as accidents will reduce,” the bench said.Advocate ADN Rao, appearing for the CEC, pointed out that when trees are cut in forest land, the net present value (NPV) to be paid for felling of trees takes into account their remaining lifespan. Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bharti, who appeared for the UP government, sought time to take instructions on how the value of Rs 141 crore was arrived at. The court posted the matter after four weeks asking ASG Bharti to consider suggesting the state to apply the NPV formula and even consider feasibility of saving some trees from felling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-govardhan-road-expansion-projects-hits-green-hurdle-in-sc/story-PoNMb0W3Xrl5FHZrSoaZgK.html
03-12-2020||India||‘What does PM stand by’: Rahul Gandhi on Centre’s stand on Covid-19 vaccine||Former Congress party chief Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government on Thursday for ambiguity in the vaccine policy of the country, seeking clarity over the same. “PM - Everyone will get vaccine. BJP in Bihar elections- Everyone in Bihar will get free vaccine. Now, GOI- Never said everyone will get vaccine. Exactly what does the PM stand by,” Gandhi said in a tweet. Gandhi’s tweet came in response to the government stating on Tuesday that it has not talked about vaccinating the entire population of the country against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“I just want to make this clear that the government has never spoken about vaccinating the entire country. It’s important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only,” Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, Union health ministry, had said. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayBhushan had also said that the average daily positivity rate in India has been 3.72% and with 211 cases per million, India has the lowest cases per million count “among all the big nations”. While data from the last seven days indicates that cases are increasing in European nations, the cumulative positivity rate has decreased in India, he had noted. The cumulative positivity rate fell from 7.15% to 6.69% between November 11 and December 1. The number of recoveries had exceeded the number of new Covid-19 infections in India in the month of November, Bhushan added.A contentious point, however, in BJP’s manifesto announced ahead of the Bihar election was that the vaccine would be administered for free to everyone in the state. The promise had drawn the ire of the Opposition, with the parties asking the Election Commission to strike it down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-does-pm-stand-by-rahul-on-centre-s-stand-on-covid-19-vaccine/story-7FvhbvkhJv38qlGepMIdzK.html
03-12-2020||India||UNGA fails to acknowledge violence against Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism: India||Calling out the “selectivity” at the United Nations in condemning acts of violence against religions, India has said the UN General Assembly has failed to acknowledge the rising hatred and violence against Buddhism, Hinduism, Sikhism and underlined that the culture of peace cannot be only for “Abrahamic” religions. Addressing the UN General Assembly session on ‘Culture of Peace’ on Wednesday, First Secretary in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Ashish Sharma said there are “disconcerting trends” in the world of today. While India fully agrees that anti-Semitism, Islamaphobia and anti-Christian acts need to be condemned and the country also firmly condemns such acts, he pointed out that UN resolutions on such important issues speak only of these three Abrahamic religions together. “This august body fails to acknowledge the rise of hatred and violence against Buddhism, Hinduism and Sikhism also,” Sharma said. “Culture of peace cannot be only for Abrahamic religions. And as long as such selectivity exists, the world can never truly foster a culture of peace,” he said. Asserting that the UN is not a body which should take sides when it comes to religion, Sharma said if “we are indeed selective”, the world will end up proving American political scientist Samuel Huntington’s ‘clash of civilisations’.Also Read | UN to open special session on coronavirus crisis, India’s Secretary West listed as speaker “What we are trying to build here is an ‘alliance of civilisations’, not set up a clash. I call on the UN Alliance of Civilisation to act likewise and speak for all, not just a select few,” he said. Sharma recalled the shattering of the iconic Bamyan Buddha by fundamentalists in Afghanistan as well as the terrorist bombing of a gurdwara in the war-torn country in March where 25 Sikh worshipers were killed and the destruction of Hindu and Buddhist temples and minority cleansing of these religions by countries. He told the 193-member General Assembly that such acts call for condemning violence and attacks against Buddhist, Hindu and Sikh religions also. “But the current member states refuse to speak of these religions in the same breath as the first three ‘Abrahamic’ religions. Why is this selectivity?” he asked. Sharma noted that overall, Hinduism has more than 1.2 billion followers, Buddhism has over 535 million followers and Sikhism around 30 million followers across the world. “It is time that attacks against these religions are also added to the earlier list of the three Abrahamic religions when such resolutions are passed,” he said. Key UN General Assembly resolutions over the years have categorically condemned and voiced concern over increase in “anti-Semitism, Christianophobia and Islamophobia in various parts of the world”. However, violence against other religious minorities “get little more than a slap on the wrist”, a sentiment shared by several other countries also, sources said. Sharma told the General Assembly session that India is not just the birthplace of Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism, but is also the land where the teachings of Islam, Judaism, Christianity and Zoroastrianism have taken strong root and where the Sufi tradition of Islam has flourished.“Today, every one of the world’s major religions has a home in India,” he said. Sharma said for millennia, India has provided shelter to waves of those persecuted in foreign lands, and allowed them to thrive in India. “And our tradition of inter-culture dialogue goes right to the time when ancient Indian thinkers had a flourishing dialogue with the ancient Greeks. India is not just a culture, but a civilisation in itself,” he added.Also Read | Nearly 100 world leaders to speak at UN session on Covid-19 Underlining that culture of peace is the cornerstone of the foundation of a global order of peace and tolerance, he said India has tried to foster this culture through tolerance, understanding, respect for differences, respect for other religions and cultures, respect for human rights, gender equality -- all this under the overarching umbrella of pluralistic ethos and democratic principles. India on Wednesday co-sponsored a resolution presented by Bangladesh titled, ‘Follow-up to the Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace’. The resolution reiterates that the objective of the effective implementation of the Programme of Action is to strengthen further the global movement for a culture of peace. It invites member states to continue to place greater emphasis on and expand their activities promoting a culture of peace at the national, regional and international levels and to ensure that peace and non-violence are fostered at all levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unga-fails-to-acknowledge-violence-against-buddhism-hinduism-sikhism-india/story-pCkKvPSGB3KfzsY5QMJnXN.html
03-12-2020||India||BJP targets 10M Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreach||In a bid to counter the Trinamool Congress-led government’s biggest outreach program ahead of the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party plans to reach out to more than 10 million families in the State highlighting alleged corruption of the Mamata Banerjee government. “Just like the TMC-led government has launched an outreach program - Duare Sarkar (government at doorsteps) - BJP workers will also reach more than 10 million households on December 5. The program has been named Aar Noy Anyay (no more injustice),” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s West Bengal unit. BJP workers, across the state, will visit households and distribute leaflets to highlight the alleged corruption of the TMC government and how the people were allegedly deprived from availing central schemes such the Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat Yojana. With an eye on the 2021 assembly polls, the Mamata Banerjee government has launched its biggest outreach drive over the next two months. At least four camps would be set up in every village and civic body across 344 blocks in the State between December 1 and January 28. Officials will help people to access various government facilities including MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), job cards, health cards, caste certificates and ration cards among others. Also Read: After Suvendu Adhikari, another disgruntled TMC MLA fans speculation“This is one of the biggest outreach programs any state government has undertaken. Already 5.4 lakh people have come to the camps within two days to the services. This has unnerved the BJP,” said Sovandeb Chatterjee, state minister and a veteran TMC leader. BJP leaders said that their outreach would be the second phase of the Aar Noy Anyay campaign. The first phase was launched earlier this year when union home minister Amit Shah had come in March. It was launched to counter another outreach program of the TMC – Didi ke Bolo (tell didi). BJP leaders have already started to hold meetings for the execution of the campaign to reach 10 million households simultaneously across the state on December 5 around 12 noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-targets-10m-bengal-households-to-counter-tmc-govt-s-biggest-outreach/story-fohUtWImDCuysMSFnRcUiM.html
03-12-2020||India||Achieve target to provide safe drinking water to all by 2024, says Andhra Pradesh Governor||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan participated as Chief Guest at the “Hygiene Matters” seventh WASH Conclave organised by UNICEF and the National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR). Addressing the participants at the 7th WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) Conclave via virtual mode from Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, Andhra Pradesh Governor said, “It should be ensured to achieve the target to provide access to and use of safe and adequate drinking water to all households within premises by 2024.”Harichandan participated as Chief Guest at the inaugural session of the three-day Conclave being held with the theme of “Hygiene Matters” in which key stakeholders of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have participated on a single platform to discuss key issues with particular focus on hygiene.Speaking on the occasion, the Governor said, “India has achieved significant strides in Water, Sanitation and Hygiene sector in terms of achieving Open Defecation-free status, basic drinking water services through piped water supply (PWS) and is progressing towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goal Number six to provide ‘clean water and sanitation.”Also Read | Cyclone Burevi heads towards TN coast after crossing Sri LankaThe Governor said the supply of adequate, accessible, equitable and quality water supply and better sanitation facilities in household, community and institution-level with a community-managed water supply and sanitation system is the soul of Jal Jeevan Mission and Swachh Bharat Mission programmes.The Governor further said that the State-level programme initiatives such as ‘Manam Mana Parisubrtha’ in Andhra Pradesh, ‘Swacchotsava Nityotsava’ in Karnataka and ‘Palle Pragathi’ in Telangana have been contributing in a long way towards achieving WASH resilience and a healthy society.Harichandan said the States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana have been working extremely hard to overcome the situation posed by the Covid-19 by taking up various initiatives by controlling the spread of the virus and simultaneously focusing on development activities in line with guidelines issued by the Government of India and said observing proper hygiene for health have never been felt so important globally as it is now and people have now realized that Hygiene is the first line of defense against the Covid-19 pandemic.The Governor complimented all the stakeholders of the three States, involved in sustaining the Open Defecation-free status and achieving the milestones of water and sanitation for all and appreciated their efforts to become 100 per cent WASH compliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/achieve-target-to-provide-safe-drinking-water-to-all-by-2024-says-andhra-pradesh-governor/story-7zeHYbwv8HfV4MjGetc5JM.html
03-12-2020||India||Amit Shah speaks to Tamil Nadu and Kerala CMs over Cyclone Burevi, promises all possible help||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala as Cyclone Burevi barrels towards India’s southern coast. The cyclonic storm is expected to make landfall late on Thursday night or early Friday morning.“Modi government is committed for all possible support to help people of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Several teams of NDRF are already deployed in both the states,” Shah said on Twitter. Have spoken to Tamil Nadu CM Shri @EPSTamilNadu and Kerala CM Shri @vijayanpinarayi in the wake of Cyclone Burevi. Modi government is committed for all possible support to help people of Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Several teams of NDRF are already deployed in both the states.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts of Kerala for December 3. There is red alert for four districts of Tamil Nadu too.After hitting the Tamil Nadu coast, the cyclone is expected to cross over to Kerala either on Thursday night or Friday morning“Cyclone Burevi will emerge into the Gulf of Mannar in the next 3 hours. It will reach near Pamban and Kanniyakumari around noon and cross the south Tamilnadu coast on 3rd night to 4th early morning,” the IMD said on Twitter on Thursday morning.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 26 relief teams in Tamil Nadu and Kerala kept one team in reserve in Puducherry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Wednesday and discussed the situation prevailing in parts of the states due to the incoming cyclone while pledging all possible support from the Centre.“We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” PM Modi tweeted.Cyclone Burevi, named by the Maldives, will not be as strong as Cyclone Nivar which lashed the northern coast of Tamil Nadu last week, said weather department officials. They said the storm is expected to have a speed of 80-90 km/hour unlike Nivar which had a speed of 110-130 km/hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-speaks-to-tamil-nadu-and-kerala-cms-over-cyclone-burevi-promises-all-possible-help/story-ddy3FAfbRnNTFIXS9rkLdI.html
03-12-2020||India||Former Congress corporator Rakib Zakir arrested in connection with Bengaluru riots case||Rakib Zakir, a former Congress corporator and a key accused in Bengaluru riots case, has been arrested by Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru Police.Joint Commissioner of Crime Sandip Patil said on Thursday morning that Zakir was arrested late on Wednesday night. He was on the run.On August 11, an angry mob enraged over a derogatory social media post, had burnt down more than 60 vehicles as well as DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations in Bengaluru apart from the house of Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy.Three people were killed in the police firing when cops were trying to control the riots. At least 60 policemen were injured in the violence.More than 400 people were arrested in the incidents of violence and a preliminary charge sheet filed by the police in the case said that intra-party rivalry within Congress was one of the key reasons for riots.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had in September taken over the investigation in which the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) were invoked by the state police.The NIA has carried out searches at multiple locations in connection with the case and arrested a number of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-congress-corporator-rakib-zakir-arrested-in-connection-with-bengaluru-riots-cases/story-vk53fqoUmSwrAvKtuBw67O.html
03-12-2020||India||Provide gender sensitisation training to judges to avoid stereotyping women, says AG KK Venugopal||Attorney General KK Venugopal on Wednesday suggested to the Supreme Court that judges who are from the old school and have a patriarchal approach need to be sensitised to deal with cases of sexual violence.During the hearing of a petition seeking guidelines for courts to not impose bail conditions objectifying women especially through bail orders in sexual violence cases, the AG said sensitization of judges by State Judicial Academies is needed.Venugopal further told a Bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar that all lawyers should also undergo gender sensitisation training for two to three years.Venugopal said, “The patriarchal approach of judges, especially of the old school where women are stereotyped, needs to be avoided with training and sensitization.”He said when an accused is granted bail in cases of sexual violence and is a neighbour of the victim then protection needs to be given so that acid throwing instances or witness coercion does not take place.The Bench reserved its order after hearing arguments in the case.Also Read | AG calls for greater role for women in judiciary to help sexual crime victimsEarlier, the top court had asked Attorney General and others to recommend ways to improve gender sensitivity towards victims while laying down bail conditions for sex crime offenders.The Bench had sought view on a plea about courts imposing bail conditions for sex crime offenders which end up further harassing, objectifying their victims.Nine women lawyers had approached the top court questioning the bail conditions imposed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court which directed a man accused of sexual assault to get a Rakhi tied by the victim as a condition for bail.Approaching the top court, the women lawyers, led by advocate Aparna Bhat, said the High Court order was a “trivialisation of victim’s trauma.”The law prescribes the victim to be kept far away from the accused, plea said, adding that instead, here the High Court has ordered the accused to visit the home of the woman -- the very place where the crime is alleged to have occurred.The order only succeeds to victimise the woman and retards the years of work done to sensitise the courts about how damaging it would be to attempt a compromise “by way of marriage or mediation between the accused and the survivor”, plea added.The plea said that the High Court further ordered the accused to gift the woman a sum of Rupees 11,000 “as a customary ritual usually offered by brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provide-gender-sensitisation-training-to-judges-to-avoid-stereotyping-women-says-ag-kk-venugopal/story-n5K5oRt5C7GucS7uSkZ91O.html
03-12-2020||India||Bar Council of Delhi writes to PM Modi, calls for repeal of farm laws||Extending support to farmers’ protest against new farm laws, the Bar Council of Delhi has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to repeal the new farm laws.The letter said it seems that while framing the laws, it was not brought to the notice of Prime Minister that they are “more detrimental” to the interest of legal professionals across the country.It said “bar of civil court jurisdiction” will substantially affect district court as well as high courts in some states.The letter said the nature of subject matters covered under these laws are so vast that all disputes up till now entertained by civil courts will be adjudicated by SDMs/ADMs, who are not part of regular courts.Senior Advocate Ramesh Gupta, Chairman Bar Council of Delhi, said the government should have consulted and taken lawyers into confidence when farm laws are simply not related to routine revenue matters but matters which are basically contractual and commercial. “How can any litigation having civil consequences be given for adjudication to a structure involving administrative agencies, controlled and run by executive authorities?” he asked.Also Read | Most of Delhi borders closed due to farmers’ protest: 10 points“Your kind attention is invited to constitutional provision for separation of judiciary from executive to maintain its independence and probity as enshrined under the Constitution but by resorting to these laws, what is not permissible under our Constitution has been provided,” the letter said.“It will substantially damage district courts in particular and uproot the lawyers. Under our Constitution, a fine pyramid of justice dispensation system has been envisioned. The district courts are part of basic structure and being the principal courts of original jurisdiction is the foundation of the pyramid. These courts are at the doorstep of people, where one approaches for access to justice but the trend in the recent past is to destroy courts. This will seriously jeopardize the interest of the public, as getting justice at the doors of bureaucracy is far from reality,” it added.According to the lawyer’s body, these laws are not only detrimental to the peasants but also affect the lawyer community, the litigants and the general public.“The mindset behind the move to oust the jurisdiction of civil courts and transfer of power to bureaucrats, acting as executive officers, to decide disputes between the traders and the farmers, will lead to corruption, and touts will victimize unimaginably. Shutting the doors of civil courts to entertain disputes, pertaining to the subject matter under these Acts will prove disastrous,” the letter said.It mentioned that a large number of farmers are agitating on the borders of the capital.“You are also champion of the cause of masses and while you were not in power, you always said that right to protest is a universal right and whenever enactment or any act of the government is not suitable to masses and there is agitation, the government in power must listen to their grievances and come out with an amicable solution,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bar-council-of-delhi-writes-to-pm-modi-calls-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-bbKtpSxrXwRemQ1leXtT1H.html
03-12-2020||India||10 to 15% Covid-19 patients may have only gastrointestinal symptoms, say AIIMS doctors||Around 10 to 15% Covid-19 patients have only gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea rather than cough, breathlessness or sore throat, said All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) doctors at the National Grand Round, a virtual platform for doctors to discuss trends and treatments for the disease.Covid-19 patients may also suffer heart attack, stroke, clotting problems, kidney or liver dysfunction, the doctors said while discussing the impact of the illness on organs other than lungs.“...10 to 15% of the Covid-19 patients may present with only gastrointestinal symptoms and no respiratory symptoms. It is, therefore, necessary to test those who have gastrointestinal symptoms for Covid-19 if they show any respiratory symptoms or if they have a history of contact with a positive patient,” said Dr Saurabh Kedia, assistant professor, department of gastroenterology, AIIMS.Also read | Vaccines won’t prevent short-term coronavirus surge: WHOThe most common gastrointestinal symptoms of Covid-19 are diarrhoea (2 to 50%), appetite loss (30 to 40%), hepatitis (14 to 53%), digestive symptoms (3 to 23%), vomiting and nausea (1-12%), Dr Kedia said. Elevated liver enzymes were also a common finding, with half the Covid-19 patients having them, said Dr Shalimar, an additional professor at AIIMS.Other than the gastrointestinal symptoms, Covid-19 can lead to clotting problems, heart and brain conditions, kidney injury, and dermatological symptoms, said Dr Neeraj Nischal, an associate professor of medicine at AIIMS.Data presented by Nischal showed that among the 540 Covid-19 patients in a ward excluding those with dengue and blood cancer, 27% had low platelet count and 2.9% severely low platelet count. Dengue and blood cancers can both lead to low platelet count.“Pulmonary embolism [the blockage of the blood vessel to the lung due to a blood clot] in Covid-19 patients is much higher as compared to those without Covid-19 – 20.6% as compared to 6.1%,” said Dr Nischal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-to-15-covid-19-patients-may-have-only-gastrointestinal-symptoms-say-aiims-doctors/story-JIfESQejMyumsQSKzJGyeI.html
03-12-2020||India||Dharampal Gulati, iconic face of MDH spices, dies; tributes pour in||Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, owner of spices brand MDH, passed away on Thursday. He was 98.Union minister Piyush Goyal paid tribute to Gulati on Twitter. “Extremely saddened by the demise of Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, who spread the fragrance of Indian spices in the whole world. He set an example through his self-reliance. May he attain salvation,” Goyal tweeted in Hindi on Thursday morning. देश के मसालों की सुगंध को पूरे विश्व मे फैलाने वाले, पद्मभूषण पुरस्कार से सम्मानित महाशय धर्मपाल गुलाटी जी के निधन से अत्यंत दुख हुआ।अपनी उद्यमिता से स्वदेशी व आत्मनिर्भरता के साथ ही उन्होंने सामाजिक कार्यों का एक आदर्श स्थापित किया। ईश्वर उन्हें मोक्ष प्रदान करें। ॐ शांतिः pic.twitter.com/Nzi0zA6VPwDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid his tributes to the departed soul. “Dharm Pal ji was very inspiring personality. He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul.” Dharm Pal ji was very inspiring personality. He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul. https://t.co/gORaAi3nD9According to MDH website, Gulati was born on March 27, 1923, in Pakistan’s Sialkot. He dropped out of school in 1933 before he could complete Class 5.By 1937, Gulati started assisting his father in his business.He came to Delhi after the Partition, on September 27, 1947, and started a business of spices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharampal-gulati-iconic-face-of-mdh-spices-dies-tributes-pour-in/story-pJlhUvETmzPk4dXTm6sYwJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Closed border points affect vehicular traffic in outer, east Delhi||Vehicular traffic movement remained affected on Thursday morning and motorists faced traffic jams in several parts of the city, especially in outer and east Delhi areas, because of the closure of several border points connecting Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh due to the ongoing farmers’ protest.In order to alert commuters about the closure of borders and alternate routes, Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter to post a list of borders that have been closed and the alternate routes that the motorists can take to travel between Delhi-Haryana and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh. As per the advisory, the Chilla border on Delhi-Noida link road has been closed for vehicular movement near Gautam Budh Dwar. Also read | Punjab CM Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi, to meet Amit Shah ahead of talks with farmers“The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic due to farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida link road for going to Noida and use NH 24 and DND instead for Noida,” the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. The local police, however, said that one carriageway going towards Noida from Delhi through Chilla border is open since Wednesday afternoon, after the protesting farmers shifted their protest to the Noida to Delhi carriageway.“Noida to Delhi carriageway is closed. Only one carriageway was opened by farmers yesterday, which is Delhi to Noida,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Jasmeet Singh.The traffic police also posted an alert regarding obstruction in traffic in the carriageway from Akshardham towards Noida-Chilla Border due to overturning of a light goods vehicle near Mayur Vihar Phase-1 flyover. Commuters have been advised to avoid the stretch. About the other borders, the traffic police alerted that Tikri border, Jharoda border, and Jhatikra border are closed for any traffic movement. The alert says that Badusarai border is open but that too, only for two-wheeler traffic.“Available open borders to Haryana are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders,” the traffic police tweeted.They said that Singhu border is still closed from both sides while Lampur , Auchandi and other small borders are also closed. They have advised the motorists to take alternate routes and that traffic has been diverted from Mundka Chowk and GTK Road.“Traffic is very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-closed-border-points-affect-vehicular-traffic-in-outer-east-delhi/story-HlmePzJYjuFDWfdt0jTHTI.html
03-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 caseload crosses 9.5 million with 35,551 new cases||India on Thursday recorded 35,551 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the country’s overall tally to 95,34,964, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases stood at 4,22,943, while 89,73,373 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.The health ministry data also showed that in the last 24 hours, 526 people died due to the disease and the death toll now stands at 1,38,648.India’s total active caseload significantly dropped to 4.28 lakh (4,28,644) on Wednesday, the lowest after 132 days, according to the health ministry. It further said that India’s present active caseload consists of just 4.51 per cent of the country’s total positive cases.Health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 pandemic taught countries that such challenges require shared responsibilities and collaborations had become the order of the day.Vardhan was charing the inaugural session of the annual conference of the India-Sweden Healthcare Innovation Centre under the Sweden-India Nobel memorial week.Meanwhile, the difference in new recoveries outnumbering new cases has also improved the recovery rate to 94.03 per cent as on date, according to the health ministry.Of the new recovered cases, 78.35 per cent are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-caseload-crosses-9-5-million-with-35-551-new-cases/story-nAtLsgS89QVUWEvhgYRmaJ.html
03-12-2020||India||IB’s annual three-day police chiefs’ conference begins||The Intelligence Bureau (IB)’s 55th annual three-day conference of Director Generals of Police and Inspector Generals of Police began on Wednesday. The police chiefs and central agencies officials will discuss policing, national security, and terrorism at the conference.Union home minister Amit Shah, who inaugurated the conference being held virtually for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic, directed the security agencies to have a coordinated approach to national security. He asked them to achieve the target of making India a developed and safe nation, according to a home ministry statement.Shah stressed upon the need to ensure the safety and dignity of the citizens. He underlined the importance of the capacity building of police to deal with emergency situations and disasters.Shah highlighted policy issues on national security and applauded the role of police as frontline warriors in crisis and disaster management. He emphasised there should be “zero tolerance against terrorism”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also joined the conference virtually and reviewed the action points of last year’s conference.The IB presented a review of the internal security situation to Modi and Shah.A session on initiatives of security forces to tackle the Left-wing extremism was also held. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval also attended the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-s-annual-three-day-police-chiefs-conference-begins/story-dgmSdaS7v8EoRbVpXN9qdK.html
03-12-2020||India||MHA to deploy volunteers to raise funds for armed forces||The Union home ministry will deploy volunteers at the four entry and exit gates of New Delhi’s North Block on December 7 to collect donations to support the families of soldiers who have lost their lives in the line of duty, disabled ex-servicemen and their dependents. December 7 is celebrated as Armed Forces Flag Day and the fundraising is being done on the defence ministry’s request.According to a home ministry order, the volunteers will receive donations from people and officers visiting the offices in the North Block that houses key ministries. Officers have been asked “to contribute generously”.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the Armed Forces Flag Day will be celebrated throughout December. “It is our national responsibility to support families of our security personnel, who have lost their lives or suffered injuries in the line duty.”Armed Forces Flag Day has been observed annually on December 7 since 1949 to honour the soldiers, airmen and sailors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-to-deploy-volunteers-to-raise-funds-for-armed-forces/story-lmtfETwbzCteywi4oXvpXL.html
03-12-2020||India||How to minimise Covid-19 spread risk at market places: Health ministry issues revised SOPs||Only asymptomatic customers should be allowed inside shops, with no entry for customers not wearing a mask, and at least a six feet distance between seats meant for customers to sit at shops in marketplaces, say revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by Union ministry of health and family welfare amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Shop owners, employees and visitors living in containment zones shall not be allowed entry into marketplaces. At the entry point of shops, all employees and visitors need to undergo mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening to check for fever.“Staggering of visitors to be done for maintaining physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet, when queuing up at the time of entry. Number of customers inside the shop to be kept at a minimum, to maintain the physical distancing norms. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing norms. Use of escalators with one person on alternate steps may be encouraged,” the SOPs say.The guidelines also suggest that civil defence volunteers, home guards, volunteers etc. should be involved to regulate crowd, there should be access control at parking lots for limiting vehicle entry, and, if feasible, separate entry and exit with unidirectional flow of visitors. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayRoads within the marketplaces may be made vehicle-free (including cycle and electric rickshaws) and secured only for pedestrians and bicycles as far as possible. Strict penal action should be taken against illegal parking on market roads by law enforcing authorities. The SOPs also suggest providing incentives or discounts to those who shop during non-peak hours. “Provision for online booking of groceries/ items and delivery at doorstep must be encouraged. The staff for home deliveries to be screened thermally by the vendors prior to allowing home deliveries,” it said. The SOPs make a special note of the need for proper ventilation. “As far as feasible, natural ventilation must be ensured and use of small enclosed spaces must be discouraged. Circulation of outdoor air needs to be increased, as much as possible, by opening windows and doors, using fans, or other methods,” the guidelines say. “For air-conditioning and ventilation of closed enclosures, the guidelines of Central Public Works Department shall be followed which emphasise that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate. Air handling unit needs to be cleaned prior to switching on,” it says. The guidelines also suggest exploring the option of allowing markets or shops to opening on alternate days, and even closure of market in case a large number of cases is reported linked to it. Finally, special emphasis has been placed upon self-regulation by market associations in market places. “Covid appropriate behaviour in marketplaces may be self-regulated by market associations through a number of measures, such as creation of a sub-committee for each market to facilitate and monitor implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour (within shops and establishments as well as outside),” the SOPs say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-releases-revised-sops-for-market-places/story-x6umpn0kYlGgXRUUjDaFUK.html
03-12-2020||India||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh arrives in Delhi, to meet Amit Shah ahead of talks with farmers||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh arrived in Delhi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah ahead of the next round of talks between the Centre and farmer organisations’ representatives on the three contentious farm laws. He is scheduled to meet Shah around noon to try and work out an amicable solution to the deadlock, according to sources. Amarinder is accompanied by his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and some other officials. The chief minister had sought time from the home minister for a meeting on the ongoing stir against the new laws that has led to a siege by the protesting farmers, mostly from Punjab. Thursday’s meeting between farmers and the Centre is crucial as this is the fourth such meeting — all previous meetings failing to end the deadlock — over the grievances against the three farm bills passed recently by Parliament. As focus shifted to today’s meeting, farm leaders appeared to have hardened their stand, demanding the Centre call a special session of Parliament to repeal the newly enacted farms laws, which they say will adversely impact the minimum support price system (MSP) that offers cultivators assured prices from the government, and eventually help corporate entities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-leaves-for-delhi-to-meet-amit-shah-ahead-of-talks-with-farmers/story-rJzKaq71M3qLrpwXgY3foN.html
03-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi just 40 km away from Mannar, IMD issues red alert for 4 districts of Kerala||Cyclonic Storm Burevi is very close to the Tamil Nadu coast. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin on Thursday morning, Burevi is very likely to move west-northwestwards and emerge into Gulf of Mannar near Mannar coast during next three hours.“Cyclonic Storm Burevi lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 03rd December over Sri Lanka near Lat. 9.0°N and Long. 80.3°E, about 40 km east of Mannar, 120 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 320 km east-northeast of Kanniyakumari (India),” the IMD bulletin at 8:30 am said.“The Cyclonic Storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph would be centered very close to Pamban around noon of 3rd December,” it further added.It is likely to cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari in the night and early Friday morning.As many as eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and personnel of the Air Force and the Navy have been deployed for rescue and relief operations ahead of the landfall of the cyclone, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday.In total, 26 relief teams have been deployed in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and one team is in reserve in Puducherry, the NDRF said.Nearly 700 people from 175 families have been shifted to relief camps, while 2,489 other camps have been identified.The IMD has issued a red alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts for December 3, in view of cyclone Burevi.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala on Wednesday and discussed the situation prevailing in parts of the states due to the incoming cyclone while pledging all possible support from the Centre.“We discussed the conditions prevailing in parts of the state due to Cyclone Burevi. Centre will provide all possible support to TN. I pray for the well-being and safety of those living in the areas affected,” PM Modi tweeted.Cyclone Burevi, named by the Maldives, will not be as strong as Cyclone Nivar which lashed the northern coast of Tamil Nadu last week, said weather department officials. They said the storm is expected to have a speed of 80-90 km/hour unlike Nivar which had a speed of 110-130 km/hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-just-40-km-away-from-kerala-coast-imd-issues-red-alert-for-4-districts/story-f6CI587swlvNRl5RCdAlMN.html
03-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi heads towards TN coast after crossing Sri Lanka||Several districts in south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) with cyclonic storm Burevi heading towards the Tamil Nadu coast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.Burevi crossed the Sri Lanka coast close to north of Trincomalee between 10.30pm and 11.30pm on Wednesday as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph. It lay centred over Sri Lanka (close to north of Trincomalee), about 40 km north-northwest of Trincomalee, 190 km east-southeast of Pamban (India) and 380 km east-northeast of Kanyakumari (India).It is very likely to move nearly west-northwestwards and emerge into Gulf of Mannar Thursday morning. The cyclonic storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph would be centred very close to Pamban around noon. It would then move nearly west-southwestwards across Pamban area by afternoon and cross south Tamil Nadu coast between Pamban and Kanyakumari between Thursday night and Friday early morning as a cyclonic storm with wind speed of 70-80 gusting to 90 kmph. Thus, its impact on south Tamil Nadu’s coastal districts is very likely to commence from forenoon today initially over Ramanathapuram district and gradually towards Kanyakumari district.“Adverse weather in south Tamil Nadu is likely to begin much before Burevi makes landfall on Friday. This is because the storm will be crossing a narrow strip of ocean between two landmasses along the Palk Strait. Though it will first make landfall over Sri Lanka, it will cross a very narrow strip of land and continue to draw energy from the ocean and hence make landfall again as a cyclonic storm,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD said on Wednesday.“It’s likely to intensify further. The sea surface temperature in the Bay is around 0.5 degree Celsius above normal presently,” she added. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over south Tamil Nadu (Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai) on December 2 and 3; over south Kerala (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha) on December 3 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall likely over south Tamil Nadu on December 2 and 4 December and south Kerala on December 3 and 4.Also read | ‘Praying for the safety and well-being,’ PM Modi assures help to Kerala, Tamil Nadu ahead of cyclone BureviHeavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Mahe, Karaikal and north Kerala on December 2 and 3 and heavy rainfall is likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh on December 2 and 3 and over Lakshadweep on December 3 and 4.Squally winds reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph is very likely over Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and along and off south Tamil Nadu coast (Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram districts) and south Kerala coast (Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts) from December 2 forenoon. It will gradually increase becoming 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph from Wednesday evening and 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph from Thursday evening for subsequent 12 hours and decrease thereafter.Authorities urged fishermen not to venture into southeast Bay of Bengal, southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off east Sri Lanka coast from December 2 to 3; Comorin Area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala and west Sri Lanka coasts from December 2 to 4, over Lakshadweep-Maldives area and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea from December 3 to 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-heads-towards-tn-coast-after-crossing-sri-lanka/story-lWhnjcIY1xj8Zwu3SJGOKK.html
03-12-2020||India||Most of Delhi borders closed, farmer leaders accuse govt of indulging in divisive agenda: 10 points||The Centre will hold another round of talks with farmers on Thursday, in a bid to end the protest over farm bills that has severely affected traffic movement in and out of Delhi.The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for more than a week, jamming roads and engaging in confrontation with the police which are guarding the national capital’s borders.Here are updates on farmers protest and what the government is doing:• The Delhi Traffic Police tweeted on Thursday morning that the Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Gate. It also said that people who want to go to Noida from Delhi should use NH-24 and Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) flyway.• On the Haryana side, Tikri border, Jharoda border and Jhatikra border are closed, according to Delhi Traffic Police. “Available open borders to Haryana are following: Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”• Meanwhile, a delegation of farmers will meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday. A spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is spearheading the protest, said on Wednesday that all farmer organisations across the country should hit the streets now.• Several farmers from different parts of the country like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are marching towards Delhi to join the protest against new farm laws.• Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will meet Union home minister Amit Shah at his residence on Thursday, ahead of the talks between the Centre and farmer leaders. Singh will hold deliberations with Shah in a bid to work out an amicable solution to the deadlock.• The Punjab chief minister and his Congress party have been supporting the farmers’ stir and the state Assembly had also passed a set of bills aimed at negating the Centre’s farm legislation.• The Centre has, however, maintained that the new farm laws, passed by Parliament in September, are in the interest of farmers. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the reforms have been done after a long wait and the government is ready to address their concerns.• The leaders of the protesting farmers wrote to Tomar on Wednesday, demanding a special session of Parliament to repeal the new farm laws and asking the government to not “indulge in divisive agenda” to break farmers’ unity.• The government had held talks with farmer representatives on Tuesday. But the outcome remained inconclusive as farmer unions rejected the government’s offer to set up a committee and said they will continue their protest.• The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-delhi-borders-closed-due-to-farmers-protest-amarinder-singh-to-meet-amit-shah-ahead-of-key-meet-10-points/story-BlLOpOxqfqMyqfdJKPrXfJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Bhopal gas tragedy: 36 years on, survivors still await justice||The wait for justice for the survivors of one of the world’s biggest industrial catastrophe--Bhopal gas tragedy—continues on the 36th anniversary of the disaster with subsequent governments having given up on the cause, says the organisations fighting for their rights. Several rights organisations have been, for decades, demanding harsh and exemplary punishment to those responsible for the tragedy, adequate compensation to the victims, a proper rehabilitation plan and adequate medical facilities for survivors and removal of toxic chemicals lying on the plant premises among other things. As per a state government affidavit filed in the court in the year 2006, the tragedy had killed 3,787 people and affected more than 5.58 lakh in the state capital after toxic gas leaked from erstwhile Union Carbide factory which was closed after the tragedy on the intervening night of December 2 and 3 in 1984. However, the organisations fighting for the victims claim the tragedy has killed at least 25,000 people. A report released in April, 2019, by International Labour Organisation (ILO) dubbed the 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy as one among the world’s ‘major industrial accidents’ of the 20th century. The report stated that at least 30 tons of methyl isocyanate gas, released from the Union Carbide pesticide plant, had affected more than 600,000 workers and nearby inhabitants. The highly toxic methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas can cause death within minutes of inhalation if its concentration exceeds 21 PPM (parts per million). That was the reason for so many deaths and the crippling after effects on hundreds of thousands of survivors for decades, as per organisations. Eight accused in the tragedy case were awarded two-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1.7 lakh each by a Bhopal court in the first week of June in 2010 which, the survivors organisation say, was a mockery of justice in such a big tragedy. The accused were granted bail too. The main accused in the case, Warren Anderson, who was given a safe passage after his visit to Bhopal by the then Congress governments in the state and at the Centre, died in Florida, United States in September 2014 without facing any trial in Indian courts. “Nothing has changed for the survivors irrespective of the political party in power whether it’s in Madhya Pradesh or at the Centre. It’s always been the interest of the erstwhile Union Carbide and now Dow Chemical, and not the interest of the gas tragedy victims, which has dictated the policies of the governments,” said Rachna Dhingra, founder member of Bhopal group of information and action.Dhingra says whether it’s the case of compensation, rehabilitation, medical treatment for survivors, punishment to the guilty or shifting of toxic chemicals from the plant premises, the governments have been found to be woefully short and continue to ignore the adverse impact of gas on the next generations of the victims. “The National Library of Medicine, USA has recently collated health effects of MIC and diseases caused as a result of exposure to MIC. They have established that Hyperglycaemia (Diabetes), Uremia (kidney diseases), Pulmonary fibrosis, lung diseases & acidosis are associated with the long term damage caused by it,” Dhingra said. She says that various documents state that the injuries caused by exposure to Methyl Isocyanate (MIC) are permanent in nature, yet more than 90% of the exposed victims have been paid only 500 US dollars as compensation for ‘temporary’ injuries. Also Read: 36 years on, Bhopal gas tragedy survivors battle obesity, thyroid disordersSadhna Karnik, the convener of another rights organisation--Bhopal Gas Peedit Sangharsh Sahyog Samiti—who has been fighting for the victims, says that governments are making no efforts to mitigate the effects of the toxic case even today.“The gas leaked from the plant continues to affect people in a vast area of the city but there is no effort on the part of the central or state governments to address the issue. Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), the hospital meant for treatment of the survivors is in shambles but there is no effort to improve the facilities over there,” said Karnik. A banker Jagdish Dubey, one of the victims of the tragedy said, “Observing Bhopal Gas Tragedy anniversary has become a ritual for us as well as the government. There is lip service by the authorities that they would look into our problems and then nothing happens. Then, there is another anniversary next year.” Also Read: 3 women among 4 arrested for beating, stripping woman in Madhya Pradesh“The gas survivors have been demanding extra compensation for the long term injuries and vulnerabilities caused by the exposure to gas. This was evidenced during the ongoing Covid 19 pandemic. According to the health department official record, the Covid-19 death rate is 6.5 times higher among the gas exposed population of the Bhopal district,” said Nawab Khan, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha. Minister for Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation, Vishwas Sarang said, “The matter of compensation is pending before the apex court. Hence, I can’t comment on it. Our government in the state is making all out efforts to provide best medical facilities to the gas survivors. Bhopal has a dedicated hospital for the gas survivors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/36th-bhopal-gas-tragedy-anniversary-mere-lip-service-ritual-says-survivor/story-xZh0CUOb5181D0V9jOm1aK.html
03-12-2020||India||Why Delhi may be on right track in Covid-19 fight||The third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in Delhi has started showing clear signs of receding with new cases dropping steadily over the past few weeks. The reduction in new infections has come hand-in-hand with a drop in the positivity rate and a significant improvement in testing, suggesting that the outbreak in Delhi may be relatively under control for the third time. Here are four factors that show Delhi is on the right track in its battle against the viral outbreak.1. A distinct drop in the third waveDelhi’s Covid-19 case trajectory has shown three distinct surges. The first started in mid-June, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This receded by the end of July when the trajectory dropped to around 1,000 daily cases. The second wave started at the end of August, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17. This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, before the onset of the third wave. The third wave raged through most of October and November, leading to the largest surge of cases the capital has seen. The seven-day average of new cases peaked on November 14, when it touched 7,341 – the highest recorded so far. Since then, however, cases have started receding almost steadily (albeit with a slight bump on November 19 and 20).2. Testing better and testing moreWhile Delhi has been ramping up Covid-19 tests from as early as September, a key concern was that most were rapid antigen tests, which are cheap, and produce results within 15 minutes, but unreliable. The proportion of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, considered by experts to be the “gold-standard”, dropped significantly. In the first 15 days of September, while overall testing rose, the share of RT-PCR tests nearly halved – from 32.3% in the week ending September 1 to 17% in the week ending September 16. This may have suppressed the real positivity rate because studies have shown that rapid antigen tests can miss as much as 50% of positive cases.  But in the past few weeks, this has not been the case. In the past week, 47.5% of all tests done in Delhi have been RT-PCR tests – the highest proportion ever recorded since the Delhi government started releasing a breakup of testing numbers in the last week of August. Meanwhile, the rate of testing (both RT-PCR and antigen) is at the highest ever. On average, the Delhi government has conducted 64,148 tests every day in the last week. In fact, 78,949 samples were tested on Tuesday, another single-day testing record.3. Dropping positivity rate a good signThe positivity rate for Covid-19, meanwhile, has again started dropping. In the last week, 7.3% samples tested have come back positive (this is the lowest in over a month, since 7.2% for the week ending October 26). The proportion was 11.2% the week before, and 13.3% the week before that. On Wednesday, it was 5% — the lowest single-day positivity rate in nearly two months (it was 5% on October 6). The positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with increasing new infections, indicates that the virus is spreading rapidly. A rising positivity rate typically suggests that a region is testing inadequately. The average positivity rate should drop to 5% or below if the testing programme is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). That is why testing enough, and using the right kind of tests, is the key to Delhi being able to control the outbreak in the next few weeks.4. Another relief: Covid deaths dip againAs Delhi grappled with the third wave of infections, another alarming trend emerged – daily deaths were rising at an alarming rate again.In the week ending November 24, 116 people died every day on average of Covid-19. This was the highest death rate since mid-June (to be sure, deaths in this latter period were artificially inflated as Delhi retrospectively added fatalities that had been wrongly not attributed to Covid-19, according to the Delhi government). From the peak in the week to November 24, however, deaths have again started inching down, with 89 people a day on average, dying of Covid-19 in the past week.Source: Delhi government Covid-19 bulletins, HT’s Covid-19 dashboard||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-delhi-may-be-on-right-track-in-covid-19-fight/story-TZX7vnPyN6MmDpeSElPwPO.html
03-12-2020||India||Delhi HC to decide on issue of key tribunal’s chair||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said it will examine the issue related to a non-judicial member currently presiding over the charge of Acting Chairman of country’s only and crucial appellate tribunal dealing with the seizure and attachment of properties under money laundering Act, Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators Act (SAFEMA) and Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Relying upon a Hindustan Times report from last week, the authority of current acting chairman – G C Mishra, who is from Indian Legal Services and is the only member in the tribunal at the moment, was challenged by advocate Vijay Aggarwal on behalf of Echanda Urja Pvt Ltd (EUPL), a company linked to former ICICI Bank managing director Chanda Kochhar’s husband Deepak Kochhar. Aggarwal argued that Mishra, being a non-judicial member, cannot decide cases in the absence of a regular Chairman as only a judicial member can deal with legal aspects. HT reported on November 27 that the tribunal was headless for the past 14 months, seriously affecting its functioning and Mishra, being an acting chairman, had mostly deferred the appeals filed by individuals and business entities challenging attachment of their properties by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) or other authorities. ED approached the tribunal last week challenging a November 6 order by its own adjudicating authority under PMLA for releasing the attachments worth Rs 78 crore belonging to Kochhars. Kochhars sought a stay on hearing ED’s appeal till the matter of an acting chairman is heard. Justice Navin Chawla, however, refused to stay the proceedings on ED’s appeal while agreeing to contentions of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju who said that a stay would create a havoc in the various appeals being heard at the tribunal. ASG Raju contended that if a stay were granted other parties would also seek a stay on the cases being heard in the tribunal.After hearing lengthy arguments, the court said that it does not consider it fit to interdict in the proceedings (ED’s appeal) pending in the tribunal. The court also issued notice to ED seeking to know its response and posted the matter for further hearing in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-to-decide-on-issue-of-key-tribunal-s-chair/story-3z12iZfyALivQ0UCasrLvO.html
03-12-2020||India||CCTVs must in offices of CBI, ED, police stations: Supreme Court||With the aim of preventing custodial torture, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered for installation of CCTV cameras in the offices of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other agencies, in addition to police stations across the country.  Extending the ambit of its 2018 order, the top court maintained that not only police stations but all the other agencies, which have the power to make arrests and interrogate, must also have CCTVs and recording devices installed in their premises. Therefore, the bench headed by Justice Rohinton F Nariman directed the central government to get CCTV cameras with audio-recording facility installed in the offices of CBI, ED, NIA, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and all such agencies. “As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all offices where such interrogation and holding of accused takes place in the same manner as it would in a police station,” directed the bench. In 2018, the court had passed a judgment for bringing all police stations under the surveillance of the CCTV cameras to check human rights abuses. For this purpose, all states were required to constitute independent committees that could study CCTV camera footages and periodically publish reports of its observations. Further, this judgment asked the Central government to a set up a Central Oversight Body (COB) and provide necessary funds so that it could issue necessary directions to states and union territories to facilitate videography of the crime scenes and compliance with other directions of the apex court. Two years on, when the bench sought to evaluate the progress made by the states, it noted severe deficiencies in complying with its judgment across the board. At this point, the court sough assistance of attorney general KK Venugopal and appointed senior advocate Siddhartha Dave as amicus curiae (friend of the court) to navigate the matter to a fruitful outcome. After receiving suggestions from Venugopal and Dave, the bench expanded the ambit of its order and included central agencies too. Besides, the court order made SHO of each police station responsible for upkeep and maintenance of CCTV cameras. The cameras need to be installed at all entry and exit points, main gate of the police station, all lock-ups, reception area, officials’ rooms, and station hall. The court has directed the states to make sure that good quality cameras with high resolution, night vision and a recording retention facility for at least a year are purchased and installed immediately in all police stations. It added that a State Level Oversight Committee, comprising secretary or additional secretary from home and finance departments, director general of police or inspector general of police and a member of the state women’s commission, must also be constituted to make certain the court’s directions are duly complied with, besides taking care of budgetary allocations and supervision at the state level. Similarly, District Level Oversight Committees, consisting of the district magistrate, a superintendent of police and a municipality mayor, will be set up in all districts to interact with the SHOs for upkeep of CCTVs and review the footage for any human right violation. The Centre and states have been given six weeks by the court to file their compliance affidavit with details of cameras installed, exact timeline of completing the remaining installations and constitution of oversight committees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cctvs-must-in-offices-of-cbi-ed-police-stations-supreme-court/story-3PHqTtLDUvpnjQFVP34AqI.html
03-12-2020||India||Scribe held on way to Hathras: ‘Shocking findings’ haveemerged during probe, UP govt tells apex court||The Uttar Pradesh government told Supreme Court on Wednesday that “shocking findings” have emerged during the investigations into the arrest of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan near Hathras on October 5 and his alleged links with radical Muslim organization Popular Front of India (PFI).Seeking time to file a response to the affidavit filed on behalf of Kappan by Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who appeared for UP government said, “Accused is not before the Court. How can an association contest a habeas corpus petition on his behalf… He (Kappan) claims to be a journalist of a paper called Thejus which closed three years ago. Investigation conducted so far against him is shocking.”A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde told senior counsel Kapil Sibal appearing for KUWJ to approach the Allahabad High Court and asked for any precedent where an association or union has filed a habeas corpus on behalf of an accused lodged in jail for a criminal case. Sibal agreed to add Kappan’s wife as a party to their petition. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “Even if you implead the wife (of Kappan) we will still ask you why should you not go to the High Court.” Sibal gave the instance of the Supreme Court interfering directly on the arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami and cited this as a precedent for the Court to step in where individual liberty was concerned.But the bench brushed it aside saying, “The facts of each case are different.” The bench posted the matter for hearing next week allowing time for the state to respond to KUWJ’s response and the journalist union to join Kappan’s wife to the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scribe-held-on-way-to-hathras-shocking-findings-haveemerged-during-probe-up-govt-tells-apex-court/story-73CgQ7TFoHkh4WFAPsCNEM.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt’s own ministries divided on Char Dham road project, says SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday noted that the central government’s own ministries were divided on the Char Dham road project, with the ministry of defence (MoD) alleging neglect of security concerns amid tensions along the Indo-China border.The court pointed out that the MoD and the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) appear to be not on the same page on keeping the width of roads leading to border areas at 5.5 metres.“It seems your own ministries are not in tandem with each other. They don’t seem to be working with each other,” a bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, told attorney general KK Venugopal.The bench was referring to the latest affidavit by MoD. The affidavit complained that the MoRTH’s circulars in 2012 and 2018 on the width of roads along the national highways did not take into account the needs of the security forces.While these circulars restricted the widening of roads in hilly and mountainous terrains based on the number of vehicles plying every day, MoD emphasised that aspects relating to movement of troops and artillery were overlooked. “Neither the MoRTH circular of October 5, 2012, nor the circular dates March 23, 2018, dealt with the security needs of the country by way of roads which could accommodate tanks or heavy artillery and the mobilisation of troops, and would therefore stand in a class apart from the roads used for civilian movement in mountainous territory,” stated the MoD’s affidavit.MoD called it unfortunate that even though security of the state is itself in jeopardy in view of the situation developing along the Chinese border, “needs of the army was mentioned in passing” by MoRTH.It asserted that the MoRTH circulars “do not deal with roads which are essential for the movement of troops, armaments, artillery and tanks to the borders of the country to defend the nation against aggression and hence, cannot be treated as covering the particular situation which the state is facing today.”In its affidavit, MoD requested the bench to modify its September 8 order, fixing the width of the road to 5.5m for the whole project, in terms of the MoRTH circular in 2018.MoD requested that the national highway from Rishikesh to Mana, from Rishikesh to Gangotri and from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh may be allowed to be developed into a 2 lane configuration with a width of 7m “in the interest of the security of the nation and defence of its borders”.The bench further asked Venugopal to resolve the issues between the ministries after his office gets a report from the HPC after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-own-ministries-divided-on-char-dham-road-project-says-sc/story-J6KlmmHAvGyyaCRBu3IkTK.html
03-12-2020||India||SC puts on hold felling of trees for road projects||The Supreme Court on Wednesday put the Uttar Pradesh government in a quandary over the assessment of oxygen-releasing capacity of trees that the state government seeks to cut for road projects around the Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura.A bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde declined to approve the tree felling in the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ ), a defined area of 10,400 sq km around the Taj Mahal to protect the monument from pollution, until the state spells out its method of evaluating a tree, including how much oxygen it gives off.“You cannot cut trees...only in the name of Lord Krishna. Is there any evaluation on how much oxygen these trees produce? You cannot simply say we will plant a week-old sapling in lieu of a 100-year -old tree.There can be no comparison between the two in terms of oxygen they release,” the bench told additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bharti and senior advocate SWA Qadri.Bharti was appearing for the state government while Qadri represented the Public Works Department (PWD). PWD had to seek permission from the court to cut more than 3,000 trees since the areas comes under the TTZ, earmarked by the Supreme Court to protect the Taj Mahal from environmental pollution.When asked about the classification of trees based on their age and oxygen releasing capacity, Qadri expressed his inability to give such details.This prompted the CJI to question how permission for felling thousands of trees can be given when the PWD has no clue about such information. The judge added that living trees cannot be evaluated merely as timber, which is dead wood.“Living trees give oxygen and it must be taken into account while evaluating them. How much oxygen a tree releases during its life time and the loss of it once it is cut; these are important factors,” said the bench, asking Bhati if the state government has any policy in this regard.As Bhati sought some time to get instructions, the bench asserted that meaningful reforestation requires a detailed assessment of the trees sought to be felled.The court added that not pulling down certain very old trees may only mean a road taking a turn around such trees. “It will only slow down the traffic which is also a good thing since this can prevent deaths due to high speed,” it said.The court then recorded in its order: “It is not possible to accept the compensation in just arithmetic terms particularly since there is no specific statement coming forth from the Uttar Pradesh government or PWD as to the nature of the trees i.e, to say whether they are classified as shrubs or large trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-puts-on-hold-felling-of-trees-for-road-projects/story-NijChv0l4f9qgvj9N18A6N.html
03-12-2020||India||India lost 118 billion work hours due to heat in ’19: Study||India recorded the highest loss in work hours or productivity because of extreme heat in 2019. Across the globe, a potential 302 billion work hours were lost in 2019, 103 billion hours more than the hours lost in 2000.Only 13 countries made up 80.7% of the global work hours lost in 2019, with India recording the greatest total loss and Cambodia the highest per-capita loss for any country. India lost 118.3 billion work hours and 111.2 work hours per person in 2019 alone, according to the Lancet Countdown report on health and climate change released on Thursday morning.By 2015, the estimated loss in earnings because of heat stress reached as high as 3.9–5.9% of gross domestic product (GDP) for lower-middle-income countries tracked by Lancet authors, including India, Indonesia and Cambodia.In 2019, India also saw a record number of above-baseline days of heatwave exposure affecting people aged above 65 years. During the past 20 years, there has been a 53.7% increase in heat-related deaths globally among people older than 65 years, reaching a total of 296,000 deaths in 2018. The highest number of deaths among the elderly in 2018 were reported in China (62,000) and India (31,000 deaths) followed by Germany, the US, Russia and Japan.“There is an increase in the intensity, duration, and extent of heatwaves over South Asia — particularly the India-Pakistan region,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, citing a study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, as predicting an increase in heatwaves by up to sixfold under a 2° Celsius warming scenario. “This means that the health impacts due to the rising heatwaves also would be large. While we have an excellent weather forecasting system, we also need to work on health forecasting systems,” Koll said.The report warned that the imprint of climate change on extreme weather events was now clear. Advancements in climate science allow for greater accuracy and certainty in attribution, it said, adding that studies from 2015 to 2020 have shown the imprint of climate change on 76 floods, droughts, storms, and temperature extremes. According to the report, drafted by 120 global health and climate change academics, 40 to 60 million people in India will be exposed to a sea level rise of 5 metres by the end of the century. Around 67% of global cities surveyed expected climate change to seriously compromise their public health assets and infrastructure.The report concluded that “the window of opportunity is narrow, and, if the response to Covid-19 is not fully and directly aligned with national climate change strategies, the world will be unable to meet its commitments under the Paris Agreement, damaging health and health systems today, and in the future.”The report underlined that Covid-19 and climate change were interlinked crises. “The pandemic has shown us that when health is threatened on a global scale, our economies and ways of life can come to a standstill,” Ian Hamilton, executive director of the Lancet Countdown, said in a statement.Vivek Adhia, country director for India at the Institute for Sustainable Communities, said, ”Even as we were measuring up to address the existing development gaps, the Covid-19 pandemic further underscored implications with increased risks, on the most vulnerable constituencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lost-118-billion-work-hours-due-to-heat-in-19-study/story-tyxzqV4OU1Zf70hBlaSHBM.html
03-12-2020||India||Chanda Kochhar didn’t disclose ties with Videocon: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), in an appeal filed before the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) tribunal last week, sought to establish that ICICI Bank’s former managing director and chief executive officer Chanda Kochhar had close links with the Videocon Group that she did not disclose to the bank. Such a disclosure would have made her ineligible to be on the sanctioning committees approving loans to Videocon, it claimed. The agency is investigating Kochhar’s role in sanctioning loans to Videocon in return for the latter’s promoter, Venugopal Dhoot, investing in her husband’s companies. The case, based on a whistleblower complaint, was responsible for Kocchar’s exit from the bank. ED’s latest disclosure came when it challenged the November 6 order of its own Adjudicating Authority (AA) under PMLA, Tushar V Shah, who dismissed the attachment of properties worth Rs 78 crore belonging to Kochhar and her husband Deepak Kochhar. While asserting that ED had failed to establish these as the proceeds of crime, Shah termed the investment of ₹64 crore in Deepak Kochhar’s Nupower Renewables Ltd (NRL) by Venugopal Dhoot’s SEPL (Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd) as a business transaction. In its appeal dated November 25, reviewed by HT, ED said Chanda Kochhar “knowingly didn’t disclose to the ICICI Bank that she and her husband had a very close association with VIL (Videocon Industries Ltd), its group companies as well as Mr V N Dhoot (Chairman of Videocon) since the year 1994-95.” “She neither disclosed that she was a shareholder in Credential Finance Limited (a company in which Videocon was having substantial interest) nor that she was authorized signatory for Pacific Capital Services Pvt Ltd (50% shareholder of her husband’s Nupower Renewables Ltd), even at the time she was the MD and CEO of ICICI Bank,” ED added. The agency also claimed that “funds were transferred from Chanda Kochhar’s salary account held with the ICICI Bank to CFL. If she had disclosed these facts to the ICICI Bank, then she would have to recuse herself from the recommending and sanctioning committee dealing with the proposal of Videocon Group of Companies”. According to ED, Videocon had invested Rs 10 crore in this company and Chanda Kochhar held 2,835 equity shares in it in 2000-01. Coming down heavily on the AA , ED said in its appeal that: “AA has jumped into the shoes of the special court under PMLA, as if it were hearing the final arguments”. The agency has accused the AA of making a “roving and fishing enquiry into the evidence placed on record and relied upon” by it. ” The AA was not required in law to venture into the quality of evidence placed on record by the appellant against the respondent (Kochhars)”, the appeal read. Seeking to set aside Shah’s November 6 order, ED said the order was passed “without application of mind” and “against the mandate of the PMLA”. The Kochhars’ lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “ED appeal is even technically wrong as it has been filed by a deputy director and as per law can be filed by only a director. And on merits, they also know that they don’t have a case but as one appeal is provided in law so they have availed the remedy knowing fully well that attachment is purely conjectural”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chanda-kochhar-didn-t-disclose-ties-with-videocon-ed/story-zTWWA4m9442qJvmSPThd7O.html
03-12-2020||India||AG calls for greater role for women in judiciary to help sexual crime victims||Attorney general KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that if gender stereotypes against victims of sexual crimes had to end, the Supreme Court should make a beginning by giving greater representation to women at all levels of the judiciary.In a note submitted to the court on the need for sensitizing judges against passing orders and making remarks in sexual crimes that tend to trivialize the crime, the country’s top law officer said: “Improving the representation of women in the judiciary could also go a long way towards a more balanced and empathetic approach in cases involving sexual violence.”At present, the gender ratio in the judiciary is skewed against women. Out of 1,113 judges in the high courts and Supreme Court, only 80 are women (roughly 7.2%), with the apex court having two women judges. Six high courts do not have a single sitting woman judge. No woman has ever become the Chief Justice of India. Similar gender data is not available for subordinate judiciary or tribunals, the note prepared by Venugopal said.“The goal must be to achieve at least 50% representation of women in all leadership positions,” Venugopal said, adding: “This initiative must come from the Supreme Court itself, considering that the power of appointment rests almost exclusively with Supreme Court Collegium.” The AG found certain “outlandish” conditions imposed by some HC judges while granting bail to sexual offenders. These included the victim tying a rakhi on the alleged offender, the offender serving as a Covid-19 warrior, allowing bail to facilitate marriage between the victim and the accused, among others. A detailed list of such offending orders was produced before the court by advocate Aparna Bhatt, on whose petition the court initiated the exercise of seeking the attorney general’s views and laying down the parameters for judges to avoid handing down orders or making comments having the potential for causing disrepute to the victim or trivializing the crime.Venugopal said: “Any judge who wants to pass such an order must place themselves in the shoes of the victim and assess the crime as if the same had been committed on a member of their own family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ag-calls-for-greater-role-for-women-in-judiciary-to-help-sexual-crime-victims/story-rDatdMJiY3DTns652MpudL.html
03-12-2020||India||Central Vista project: Underground transit to ferry 20k people in peak hours||A dedicated transit system connecting the 10 buildings being built as part of the new Central Secretariat complex, itself part of the ongoing Central Vista redevelopment, will be accessible from the Central Secretariat Metro station and ferry up to 20,000 people during peak hours, keeping much of the movement between the buildings underground, and also making it easy for commuters to transit to their offices from metro stations. “The people mover will be accessible from the Central Secretariat Metro Station’s concourse level, which is an interchange for the Yellow and Violet lines. The people mover will be connected to the Central Secretariat buildings in the basement,” said Bimal Patel, head of HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, the consultant and architect for the Central Vista redevelopment project. A people mover is a small scale transit system mainly used to serve a small area such as airports and parks. The feasibility study for the underground transit project has been done, said HCP Design. The people mover will have coaches and run on electricity just like the Metro, but the technology it will run on is yet to be worked out by Central Public Works Department (CPWD), the government’s construction arm, and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). The two are also working on the alignment, technology and the construction details, said the consultant. CPWD and DMRC officials declined comment.Under the Central Vista project, a common Central Secretariat, a new Parliament House building, and residences of Prime Minister and vice-president will be constructed. The new Parliament building will be ready by 2022. A portion of the new Central Secretariat, which will house offices of all central ministries, will be completed by 2023. The deadline for completion of the entire project is 2024. The people mover, a 3-km-long (approximately) underground transit facility was initially meant to connect to two Metro stations -- Central Secretariat and Udyog Bhawan but the latter was found to be infeasible as it is not an interchange station and its distance from the proposed people mover corridor is an issue. While the people mover will connect all 10 buildings in the new Central Secretariat, which will house 51 ministries, it will not be connected to the new Parliament building.The Central Secretariat metro station is one of the major interchange stations on DMRC’s network. The station provides interchange between the Yellow (Samaypur Badhi-HUDA city centre) and Violet (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh (Ballabhgarh) lines. The 38-km-long Yellow line is the busiest and carried an average of 1.45 million people a day before the pandemic. The people mover will have four stations — one for every cluster of three buildings of the Central Secretariat.“The buildings will be connected by an underground people mover and by an overground shuttle. These facilities will make the Central Secretariat a transit-oriented development. The plan is under development and will be finalised in coordination with all other projects being developed as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment,” said Patel.The cluster of three buildings will be connected to the station by a walkway with travellators in the basement to ensure safe, secure and seamless movement of people. Traffic volume in the Central Vista area will increase once the redevelopment project is complete. Connectivity to the Metro is essential because 44% of people currently working in various offices in the Central Vista use it, according to a survey conducted by HCP. Apart from the people mover, the capacity of roads will also be increased. HCP wants to increase this proportion to 50% , which is where the people mover comes in. As for the traffic, according to HCP, it will be “be managed by providing increased road capacities, dedicated access lanes and better entry and exit to the Central Secretariat. The Central Secretariat is being planned to provide parking for visitors to avoid on-street parking prevalent today. There will be dedicated bus bays and taxi bays...” Amit Bhatt, director transport at WRI India, said the people mover “is a good idea, but its success will depend on its integration with the existing transit system, including payment modes. Apart from providing alternative modes of public transport, it is important to put in place mechanisms to discourage the use of private vehicles... Just providing a public transport system is not enough...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-underground-transit-to-ferry-20-000-people-in-peak-hours/story-rWVdf5DXByWgErLJarAUZL.html
03-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The UK, which has a patchy record in managing the coronavirus disease — it was, after all, the first country to decide to bank on herd immunity before it realised the folly of the approach — became the third country (after China and Russia) and the first Western one to approve a vaccine for Covid-19.China has approved three vaccines for emergency use; Russia, two. The UK’s regulatory approval for the mRNA vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE came on Wednesday, and the first shots of the vaccine are likely to be administered as early as the end of next week. The UK has said it is expecting deliveries of 800,000 of the 40 million doses of the vaccine it has ordered, next week. The Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine is a two-dose one that needs to be stored at Antarctic temperatures (which also means the vaccines can’t be moved around too much), which means the UK may well be able to vaccinate 400,000 of its people from the first delivery. Analysts expect the country to receive a few million doses of the vaccine this year; the shots will be administered by the UK’s National Health Service. The UK has firm agreements with a clutch of vaccine makers for around 350 million doses, which should be adequate for a country of 67 million.UK’s LEAP FORWARDUK, a country that did almost everything wrong at the start of the pandemic, has emerged at the vanguard of countries poised to get the better of the disease as the world enters 2021, a year that will be defined by vaccines and vaccination efforts, almost as much as 2020 was by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and Covid-19. Thus, a country that did almost everything wrong at the start of the pandemic has emerged at the vanguard of countries poised to get the better of the disease as the world enters 2021, a year that will be defined by vaccines and vaccination efforts, almost as much as 2020 was by the Sars-Cov-2 virus and Covid-19.There’s been some confusion over India’s own vaccine plans, which too have gathered steam — the country is betting on the Astra Zeneca/Oxford vaccine, made in Pune by Serum Institute of India; the UK too has a large order with AstraZeneca, for around 100 million doses, and is pressing ahead with regulatory approval of the vaccine, which released trial data that has come in for some scrutiny (and may well prevent the US drug regulator, for instance, from approving the vaccine in that country). There is a trial of this vaccine on in India as well (although the country can approve the vaccine based on the results of its UK/Brazil trial that have been released) but the confusion doesn’t stem from that front — it comes from an almost throwaway comment by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Tuesday, that the Indian “government never spoke about vaccinating the entire country”. PITCH FOR UNIVERSAL VACCINATIONThere’s a scientific basis for vaccinating everyone. While more data from the trials as well of infections is needed, questions remain on the extent of natural immunity of people who were infected but remained asymptomatic. Leaving it to nature is a risk the world can’t afford to take. Universal vaccination is the only solution. The comment, which has been followed by radio silence, at least on his part, goes against what Prime Minister Narendra Modi said — that all Indians will be vaccinated. Sure, Indian Council of Medical Research chief Balram Bhargava (who was at the same briefing as Bhushan) sought to explain the health secretary’s comment by saying that the purpose of vaccination is to “break the chain of infection”, and that “if we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the virus transmission, we may not have to vaccinate the entire population”.It’s important to clarify that the coronavirus vaccines being developed are not for everyone. They are for adults only. None of the vaccine trials thus far, bar one, has been on anyone under the age of 18 years. The exception is the Pfizer/BioNTech trial that, in September, recruited children who were 15-17 years old (in October, it recruited more children, some as young as 12). But the results of this part of the trial are still not out. And it is unlikely that Bhushan had this nuance in mind when he said what he did.As for Bhargava’s explanation, while technically correct, it is perhaps only marginally less dangerous than the UK’s original herd-immunity strategy. This is not how you crush a pandemic as infective and as debilitating to body, spirit, and the economy as Covid-19.There’s also a scientific basis for vaccinating everyone. As Eric Topol and Dennis Burton of The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, California wrote recently in Nature Medicine, at the end of a brief but illuminating note that discussed natural and vaccine-based immunity: “Overall, we are optimistic, given the number of platforms being investigated and the huge ongoing efforts, that a vaccine (or vaccines) against COVID-19 with immune responses and protection superior to that achieved through natural infection is an achievable goal.”While, as the authors say, more data from the trials as well of infections is needed, questions remain on the extent of natural immunity of people who were infected but remained asymptomatic. Leaving it to nature is a risk the world can’t afford to take.Universal vaccination is the only solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-bMILH0ly2gbTooZ7txvHPL.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle, all eyes on key meet today||A day before the resumption of crucial talks, top Union ministers went into a huddle on Wednesday, brainstorming ways to end a protest by farmers who have massed at Delhi’s borders to demand the repeal of three contentious laws aimed at opening up farm trade, as the city’s authorities scrambled to smoothen traffic disrupted by the massive show of strength by cultivators from northern India. Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal met at Shah’s residence on the day a blockade triggered by the farmers’ protest at two key border points connecting Delhi to Haryana entered its sixth day, and the gathering of protesters at the Noida border led to the closure of an arterial road link to Uttar Pradesh. “(In the previous round of talks) the farmers were confrontational and party leaders are relying on Shah to bring them around,” a senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary aware of the discussion among the central ministers said, referring to a dialogue between farm leaders and the government on Tuesday. That meeting could not reach a consensus but the stakeholders agreed to carry forward the dialogue. Shah was expected to meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday morning, ahead of the Centre’s talks with farm leaders, according to PTI . Thousands of farmers from Punjab have joined the protests. As focus shifted to Thursday’s meeting, farm leaders appeared to have hardened their stand, demanding the Centre call a special session of Parliament to repeal the newly enacted farms laws, which they say will adversely impact the minimum support price system (MSP) that offers cultivators assured prices from the government, and eventually help corporate entities.At Singhu border, which opens into Sonepat and is one of the two points blocked on the Haryana border, farmers’ leader Darshan Pal accused the Centre of dividing agricultural groups. “The Centre should call a special session of Parliament to repeal the three farm laws,” he said, adding that protesters will continue their agitation till the laws were repealed. Apart from Singhu, the farmers have also been camping at the border point in Tikri -- it opens into Bahadurgarh — since November 27.The blockade has hit supply of fruits and vegetables to Delhi from Haryana, Punjab and states further north. Opening another front, transport unions threatened on Wednesday to halt the movement of essential goods across north Indian states from next week, and then subsequently to the entire country if the government did not meet the farmers’ demands.A large section of farmers has demanded the repeal of the three laws enacted by Parliament in September, which, together, allow agribusinesses to trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s MSP system. At Tuesday’s talks, protesters rejected a proposal from the Centre for a five-member committee of officials, economists and farmers’ representatives to hold future negotiations after union leaders from 35 farm organisations based in Punjab and Haryana met Tomar, Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash for over three hours. Farmers say they also want a legal guarantee for MSP, stressing that they have marched to Delhi for a “decisive battle”. “The party high command has already issued statements to assure farmers about the continuation of MSP,” said the BJP functionary quoted above.He was referring to the Centre’s outreach attempts led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has said the reforms will not hurt the MSP system, will add “new dimensions” to agriculture and break decades-old “shackles” on farm trade.That the government is pulling out all the stops to reach a consensus is evident from separate negotiations it held with farmers’ group Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction, which holds sway over western Uttar Pradesh. As the impasse continued, protests at Mayur Vihar, bordering UP, led to the closure of a crucial route connecting the national capital with the state for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. “The Chilla border on Noida link road is closed for traffic... People are advised to avoid Noida link road... and use NH 24 and DND instead,” the traffic police tweeted.One of the carriageways on the route was opened in the afternoon, allowing commuters coming from Delhi to enter Noida, as protesters continued to sit on the other side of the road amid heavy police deployment.The Kalandi Kunj border connecting Noida with south Delhi was briefly closed around 4:30pm after about 100 farmers on tractors arrived there and tried to enter Delhi. Police placed barricades and deployed extra personnel at the site, and convinced them to return to Noida.Meanwhile, several traders from three prominent agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) in Delhi – Azadpur, Ghazipur and Okhla – said a large number of them had stopped sending fruits and vegetables to other states temporarily and were focusing only on local supplies to keep prices stable in Delhi. Arrivals of fruits and vegetables in Azadpur have dropped significantly from around 11,500 trucks per day on an average for this time of the year to around 6,000 trucks a day, said Adil Khan, Azadpur APMC chairperson.Anil Malhotra, a wholesale trader based in Azadpur, said: “...traders are running out of stock. And the arrivals are very low. So a demand and supply gap will surface soon — probably in another three to four days — if the borders remain blocked. With that, prices will go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-in-huddle-all-eyes-on-key-meet-today/story-RzU4ke4jcnQPKPXWXmR3OO.html
03-12-2020||India||Baby allegedly raped in Kanpur while mother collected cattle fodder||A local man allegedly raped a 13-month-old boy in a field in a village at Ghatampur in Kanpur rural on Wednesday evening, police said. Villagers caught the man and handed him over to the police.Circle officer Ravi Pratap Singh said the man, identified as Umesh Prajapati, was arrested and a case under the POCSO (Protection of Children From Sexual Offences) Act registered against him. The child has been admitted in a local hospital for treatment.Police said the incident took place after the boy’s mother, along with her father- in-law, had gone to the field, about 100 metres from their house, to collect fodder for cattle.Since both needed to carry stacks of fodder, the mother left the child in a field and decided to pick him up after her work was done. Soon, they heard the baby screaming and rushed to the spot.They saw Prajapati running away and the child bleeding profusely. Some other villagers chased Prajapati and caught him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-month-old-boy-allegedly-raped-in-kanpur-accused-arrested/story-IwKCcZfdJkkC1aIgVCwuWK.html
03-12-2020||India||Nine-year-old boy in Tripura allegedly sexually abused by private tutor||A case was lodged against a 23-year-old private tutor for allegedly sexually assaulting a nine-year-old boy at Agartala, nearly ten days after the incident, police said Wednesday.The accused, identified as Indra Ghosh, is yet to be arrested, said police on Wednesday. “We filed a case on November 30 after the child’s mother came to us. The accused is absconding and we are trying to arrest him,” said officer in-charge of Ramnagar Outpost Biswajit Das. Police booked the accused under Section 506 of Indian Penal Code (punishment for criminal intimidation) and Section 5 (m)(p) and 6 (penetrative sexual assault) of POCSO Act. A delegation of Childline went to the boy’s home on November 28 after coming to know of the incident. During their counselling, they came to know that the boy was sexually abused by his private tutor at the latter’s house which is near the minor victim’s home. After returning home, the boy did not tell his parents about the incident as the tutor threatened him of dire consequences if he spoke to anyone.“The child told us that he skipped his private tutor for a week after the incident out of fear. Later, he told everything to his mother when she asked the reason for skipping tuition,” said the Childline’s team member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-year-old-boy-in-tripura-allegedly-sexually-abused-by-private-tutor/story-YCRfytpcJx9onBWnwk1iBI.html
03-12-2020||India||BJP IT cell chief’s post on farmers’ protest tagged as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter||Twitter on Wednesday flagged as “manipulated media” a 15-second video clip tweeted out by Bharatiya Janata Party IT cell chief Amit Malviya claiming that an elderly farmer had not been attacked by police as alleged by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his own tweet which accompanied a photograph showing the policeman raising his lathi at the farmer. Malviya’s may be the first political tweet to be labelled thus, although HT couldn’t independently ascertain this. Twitter officials could not confirm this either. Malviya did not respond to repeated messages and calls. Malviya’s tweet with the video, juxtaposed with the photo posted by Gandhi and raising questions on the latter’s credibility was tagged by the social media company with anyone clicking or tapping on the “manipulated media” tag being taken to tweets by fact checking websites that showed that the farmer had indeed been assaulted (but by a different policeman and shortly before the farmer passed by the one raising his lathi) and also quoting him (the farmer) to this effect. “The referenced Tweet was labelled based on our Synthetic and Manipulated Media policy. As explained in the policy, in order to determine if media have been significantly and deceptively altered or fabricated, we may use our own technology or receive reports through partnerships with third parties,” a Twitter spokesperson said. Other people familiar with the matter said that while Twitter does not have a fact-checking policy, it uses its own team and third party partnerships to determine whether media has been significantly manipulated. The video in question was not first posted by Malviya but by a Twitter handle called Political Kida. The video and the photograph were shot at a Delhi border where thousands of farmers, who have marched from Punjab toward the national capital to protest against new farm legislation they say will hurt their interests, are camped. It dates back to November 28. Posting the photographs on Twitter on November 28, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “arrogance has turned farmer against soldier”. The tweet termed this a “dangerous” trend. Twitter’s action provoked a strong response on the platform itself. While some praised it, others criticised it for targeting Malviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-it-cell-chief-s-post-on-farmers-protest-tagged-as-manipulated-media-by-twitter/story-eN3ex18sBMjdzSxiiBpF7I.html
03-12-2020||India||Law on MSP may not benefit farm sectors||A new deal to reshape the country’s antiquated agriculture sector has hit a dead-end as protests simmer over three new laws that farmers say will hurt their incomes. The reforms allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called mandi system controlled by the government, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The government has insisted it will still buy staples at MSPs, but farmers have demanded a law guaranteeing minimum state-set prices for all major farm produce. The aim is to prohibit sale of any farm produce below the MSP threshold. MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities. Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s obsession with keeping food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices. “An MSP is an important policy tool that helped achieve food self-sufficiency because it gave farmers assured prices. It is an important price signal. It is an administrative exercise that does not have statutory backing,” said Abhijit Sen, a farm economist. While the government announces MSP for 23 major crops, setting them at 1.5 times the cost of cultivation to account for inflation, analysts say a blanket law mandating that no trader can buy any farm commodity below this threshold price makes little economic sense. The most immediate impact of such a law will be a higher inflation. Higher MSPs prima facie lead to higher overall prices. “Every 1 percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation,” said economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets. In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce. The government already procures staggering quantities of surplus rice and wheat, which have become unmanageable. As of September 2020, the government held 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food-security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year. If MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate. So, the assumption behind the new changes is that free competition in agricultural markets will ultimately result in a market-clearing price, at which quantity supplied equals quantity demanded, resulting in equilibrium. According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about Rs 37 a kg. For wheat, it is around Rs 27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six-eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs the FCI to buy the staples. On the other hand, the MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states. The 70th round of the National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs. While MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. Also, MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices. They often ignore the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy. This also means surplus stocks can’t be exported without a subsidy, which invites the World Trade Organisation’s objections. WTO rules cap government procurement for subsidized food programmes by developing countries at 10% of the total value of agricultural production based on 1986-88 prices in dollar terms. “Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions such as whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-on-msp-may-not-benefit-farm-sectors/story-azRb8gE6LDAW5noqc5TQEP.html
03-12-2020||India||How the Centre can resolve the deadlock over new farm laws||Protests by thousands of farmers against a set of farm-reform laws they say will hurt their interests simmered for the seventh straight day, with talks deadlocked. While the farmers want the three laws revoked, and the passage of a new law guaranteeing minimum state-set prices for all major farm produce, the government has said the new laws will lead to better price discovery and bring investments to the farm sector. On Thursday, the government is set to meet farmers for the fourth time. The endgame looks tricky but there are several fixes that the government can deploy to resolve the crisis without necessarily withdrawing the reforms. Markets In free markets proposed under the laws, traders don’t have to pay any fees. Farmers worry that the move to open free markets in competition to notified markets controlled by state governments could lead to a collapse of traditional markets. Traditional markets serve as a big source of state revenue. In Punjab, they charge 6% fee (3% each as market fee and rural development fee) on wheat purchases. A 6% fee was also payable on non-basmati paddy while for basmati paddy, 4.25% fee was charged. In September 2020, after the Centre’s new laws came into force, Punjab was forced to reduce the market fee and rural development fee on basmati rice from 2% to 1% each. Set up in the 1960s, these markets initially served as critical infrastructure for farmers to sell their produce and discover prices under the government’s supervision, thereby helping avoid distress sale. Over time, these markets have grown opaque and monopolistic, with prices rigged to the advantage of middlemen, according to a 2010 probe by the India’s statutory anti-monopoly agency, the Competition Commission of India. These markets are also interlocked meaning traders often lend money to farmers, but assure them of purchases, albeit below federally fixed minimum prices, creating a dependence that is entrenched. Since 90% of wheat and paddy in Punjab are bought and sold in these markets, the state government, farmers and middlemen are threatened alike. “The government can come up with rules under the new laws to say that government procurement will mandatorily be done from traditional markets, while other private trade can simultaneously happen in free markets,” said RS Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. This will show , over time, which markets serve farmers better, he said, while assuaging farmers’ fears that the new laws will kill the notified markets. Minimum prices Farmers have demanded a law guaranteeing minimum support prices (MSPs) for all major farm produce. The aim is to make the sale of any farm produce below its MSP threshold illegal. There are economic constraints to such a law, such as its impact on inflation. While farmers want price assurance, the government has focused on reforms to result in better price discovery. Experts say there are several ways to assure returns, such as a price-deficiency mechanism, which the government could lay down during the negotiations. “Price deficiency (mechanism) has been tried in Madhya Pradesh. It needs to be refined, but it can be a way to compensate when markets are down,” said Rohini Mali, an independent consultant, who was formerly advisor of food systems, FAO in Rome. Under the price deficiency system, the government pays the difference between market price and MSP to farmers. Stubble burning In October, the government brought an ordinance to set up the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas. The new law aims to cut pollution in New Delhi, of which crop-residue burning is a major cause for a month or so. This ordinance has angered farmers because of it provides for steep penalties for polluters, including farmers, with a jail term of 1 year and fines of up to Rs 1 crore. “This ordinance further reinforces the fears of the farmers that the Central Government is more interested in adopting coercive measures instead of finding real solutions, despite court directions to provide alternatives to farmers to manage the paddy straw,” said Kiran Kumar Vissa of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. Farmers have been demanding an incentive of Rs 200 per quintal of straw to make alternative disposal financially viable. The Supreme Court has already said the government may consider giving Rs100 per quintal. Given that paddy covers six million hectares in three states, Punjab, Haryana and Utter Pradesh, a federal “production subsidy” as direct cash transfer per quintal of paddy to stop stubble burning will allow the government to take farmers out of the purview of the new anti-pollution law, said Kavitha Kuruganti of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-centre-can-resolve-the-deadlock-over-new-farm-laws/story-1LBdM2wgYngFYQ8OP3p6pJ.html
03-12-2020||India||Govt holds separate talks with BKU’s Tikait faction||The Union government held separate negotiations on Monday night with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU)’s Tikait faction, which holds sway over western Uttar Pradesh, hoping to build a bridge with a farmers’ group well known to some senior government ministers. Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of the BKU (Tikait faction), said his group was backing the protests by farmers from Punjab and the separate meeting was held to further explore avenues for a solution. Protests by thousands of farmers who say three recent farm-reform laws will hurt their interests simmered for the sixth straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs ministers, along with minister of state Son Prakash, held talks with a team of leaders from the Tikait group in the agriculture ministry soon after wrapping up the main discussions, which ended inconclusively, with leaders of 35 farm organisations. The meeting with the Tikait group followed a series of informal discussions between the Tikait group’s leaders and defence minister Rajnath Singh, a government official said, requesting anonymity. “The defence minister has been talking to various stakeholders and farmers’ unions in the hope of finding an amicable settlement, including the Tikait group. The government believes in talking to everyone,” the official said. “We are with the farmers of Punjab. I am hopeful about a solution, although it may take time,” Tikait said, adding: “Rajnath Singh’s family is into farming. He was a successful chief minister of our state and was sensitive to farmers’ problem.” The Tikait group has considerable influence over sugarcane and wheat-growing belts of India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh, and is politically influential. Rakesh Tikait said the meeting with the three minsters focused on the three laws, besides other key problems faced by farmers. “We have (also) demanded easier rules for farm credit under the Kisan Credit Card system and cheaper electricity,” he said. Yudhvir Singh, the general secretary of the group, said the government’s move to impose steep fines for crop-residue burning, a major cause of pollution, was another anti-farming step that should be withdrawn. “In the meeting, the ministers told us that we should highlight specific issues with the farm laws. Our question is how can the state-notified markets be prevented from collapsing because of the new reforms? If the government works on these lines, a solution is possible,” he said. Farmers want the government to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. The government has said the laws will empower and enrich farmers, freeing them from the clutches of local traders and opening up new opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-holds-separate-talks-with-bku-s-tikait-faction/story-RDGfF2myZr1WsAAkPPr3AI.html
03-12-2020||India||Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh slug it out over new farm laws||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday criticised his Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh for “falsely” accusing him of passing the farm laws in the national Capital and questioned if he is acting at the behest of the BJP-led Central government. Addressing a digital press conference, Kejriwal said all the three farm laws were brought in and implemented by the Central government and that the state governments have no role to play in it. He also appealed to the Centre to accept all demands of the farmers and amend the farm laws to include guarantee of MSP. “Yesterday, the Punjab CM alleged that I passed these black farm laws in Delhi. How can Captain Singh play such low-level politics in this fragile situation? The day the President signed the black farm laws, they became effective across the entire country from that day itself,” he said.The Punjab CM rejected Kejriwal’s assertion, and said it was clear that the AAP leader did not even want to try to fight the “draconian legislations”. “Why did you not stand against the Centre by passing your own state legislations like we did in Punjab?”, Singh asked.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which is in the opposition in Punjab — a state where elections are scheduled in 2022, asked if the Punjab chief minister is acting under pressure from the BJP-led Central government.“You are speaking BJP’s language. Are you forging a friendship with the BJP or is there some kind of pressure on you because the enforcement directorate (ED) has filed a case against your family members and sent notices to them?” Kejriwal said. The Punjab CM hit back at his Delhi counterpart, accusing him of stooping to low level politics and indulging in brazen double-speak.On Tuesday, Singh hit out at the AAP saying they had exhibited “shocking double standards on the farmers’ protests” by “shamelessly implementing the draconian farm law in the middle of the crisis while pretending to be standing with he farmers. Kejriwal said it is no longer up to the states now to choose whether they want to implement these laws or not. “Had the onus lied on the states then why would farmers from across the country come to Delhi to protest? They would demand withdrawal of these laws from their respective state governments. No state government can stop these laws,” he said.“Captain Singh is aware of these facts and he still levelled these false allegations on me. Ever since the Delhi government denied to grant permission to turn the city’s 9 stadiums into temporary jails for the protesting farmers, the BJP-led Central government has been very angry with me,” Kejriwal said. “But the Delhi government did not give permission for this. There was a lot of pressure on me to approve the proposal of the Delhi Police to make these temporary jails. But many a times life throws such situations on us when we listen to our conscience without fearing the consequences,” Kejriwal said.The Punjab CM trashed the claim by Kejriwal and said that it the AAP leader, “whose survival depended on the central government”, was more worried about angering the central government than about the plight of the farmers. The Punjab CM also lambasted Kejriwal for allegedly misleading the people on the committee formed by the central government last year on agricultural reforms. “Not once were these black laws discussed or even mentioned in the committee,” said Amarinder. ”It is evident that Kejriwal is only playing to the sentiments of the farmers now because his party has completely lost the political narrative in Punjab, where AAP has its eyes on the 2022 assembly elections,” Amarinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-amarinder-singh-slug-it-out-over-new-farm-bills/story-p3exBUMI2MnzJoBxGZenzL.html
03-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest highlights: Madhya Pradesh farmers head to Delhi to join protests against farm laws||The talks held between the central government and the farmer groups on Tuesday regarding the three new agricultural laws failed to reach a logical conclusion. A second meeting will be held on Thursday as farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued their protests for over six days. Right after Tuesday’s meet which lasted for three hours, Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that Centre suggested setting up a five-member panel to further understand the issues raised by the famers, but it was rejected by the leaders of 35 farmer groups. They said that such committees have led to no results and outcomes in the past. “We had a detailed discussion. We will again meet on December 3. We suggested to them to form a small committee, but they said they all will be present in the meeting. So, we agreed to that,” Tomar had said. Meanwhile, Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday morning said that the Chilla border, situated on Noida-link road has been closed for traffic movement due to protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. It added that people were advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead. Follow live updates on farmers’ agitation here: Madhya Pradesh farmers to join protests in Delhi opposing farm lawsFarmers from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh left for Delhi today to join the ongoing protests against the centre’s farm laws, reports PTI. MP farmers have left for the national capital, with the union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar set to meet with the leaders of the already protesting farmers’ unions tomorrow. Farm laws in farmers’ interest, government ready to address concerns: Agriculture ministerNarendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the farmers that the centre’s farm laws were in the interest of the farmers and that the government has implemented them after a long wait. He further assured that the government is ready to address the objections and concerns of the farmers regarding the laws, reports ANI.Agriculture minister assures talks with farmers tomorrowMinister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the central government will hold talks with the farmers tomorrow. “Let’s see to what extent issues can be resolved,” he said, as quoted by ANI. The government had earlier agreed to meet and discuss with protesting farmer unions on December 3, about the farm bills.Krantikari Kisan Union demands special parliament session to repel farm lawsDarshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union has demanded that the central government should convene a special parliament session to repel the farm laws, reports ANI.Centre didn’t invite UP, Uttarakhand farmers for talks on Tuesday, says farmers organisationSardar VM Singh, convenor of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had said that the farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand weren’t invited for talks with the government on Tuesday, despite assembling in Burari after the Home minister’s appeal.He further said that the committee has spoken with leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union and they “are together in this struggle,” reports ANI.Apex transport body calls for nationwide strike in support of farmersSupply of essential goods might potentially be hit , as the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has called for a strike in support of the farmers’ protests. AIMTC president Kultaran Singh Atwal has said that all vehicles would be stopped in north Indian states and Union Territories if the centre doesn’t comply with the farmers’ demand.AIMTC represents roughly 10 million truck drivers and a statement from the body said that nearly 65 percent of the trucks carry farm goods and produce. Police use water cannons on Punjab Youth Congress workers marching to Haryana CM’s residence Punjab Youth Congress workers jumped over barricades in their march to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence. Police tried to disband the protestors using water cannons and several others were taken into preventive custody.The protestors marched against the Haryana government for stopping the ‘Delhi Chalo’ farmers’ march, reports news agency PTI.Police remove barricades at Delhi-Noida border The carriageway from Delhi to Noida at Chilla border has been opened after protesting farmers agreed to shift themselves on the other carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida.Manish Tewari urges Centre to urgently convene winter session of ParlCongress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday urged the Union government to convene the winter session of Parliament as soon as possible to resolve farmers issues along with rising Covid-19 cases in the country and Chinese incursion. “Farmers have besieged Delhi, Economy is officially in recession, Chinese continues to encroach upon over 1000 square kilometres of our land, COVID cases are at 95 lakhs with 1.38 lakhs dead in 8 months. GOVT NEEDS TO CONVENE THE WINTER SESSION OF PARLIAMENT ASAP WITHOUT DELAY,” he tweeted. Legal notice served to Kanagana over ‘misidentifying’ Shaheen Bagh activist Bilkis BanoA Punjab-based lawyer sent a notice to actor Kangana Ranaut over the alleged misidentification of an old woman at the ongoing farmers’ protest as Shaheen Bagh activist Bilkis Bano. Advocate Harkam Singh suggested Ranaut should have authenticated information before posting it on social media and demanded an apology over her tweets where she allegedly misidentified the woman. Rahul Gandhi fires ‘suit boot’ jibe at CentreCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday once again slammed the central government over the ongoing farmers’ protest. Taking to twitter, Gandhi said, “ “What the government said: farmers’ income will be doubled. What the government did: increased income of its cronies four times and will halve farmers’ income. This is a government of lies and a ‘suit-boot’ government.”Tikri border along with two other borders closed for traffic movement: Delhi Traffic PoliceThe Delhi Traffic Police also said Tikri border, Jharoda Border, Jhatikra Border are closed for any traffic movement adding that Badusarai Border is open only for two-wheeler traffic. Chilla border on Noida-link road closed for traffic due to protestsThe Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday morning said that the Chilla border, situated on Noida-link road has been closed for traffic movement due to protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. It added that people were advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead, reports ANI.  The Chilla border on Noida-link road is closed for traffic due to farmers protests near Gautam Budh Dwar. People are advised to avoid Noida-link road for going to Noida and use NH-24 and DND instead for Noida: Delhi Traffic Police#FarmerProtest pic.twitter.com/wnAx3S9n7UNorthern Railway cancels few trains amid ongoing protestsThe Northern Railway on Wednesday morning cancelled/short terminated/short-originated/diverted a few trains due to the protests being carried out by farmers of Punjab. The 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar express special train has been cancelled along with 09612 Amritsar - Ajmer special train. The 05211 Dibrugarh- Amritsar express special train commencing on December 3 will remain cancelled. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar - Dibrugarh will remain cancelled too. SAD alleges ‘failure’ of talks part of Centre’s attempts to tire farmersThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday blamed the Centre for failure of talks on Tuesday alleging that it was prolonging and deepening the deliberation process in order to tire the farmers out, according to an official release. The SAD added that Tuesday’s meeting was the Centre’s refusal to focus on specific demands of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-KfDN1fQytvP2MQht7MkK8H.html
