04-12-2020||India||Farm laws unconstitutional, illegal: SC Bar association president||Senior lawyer and president of Supreme Court Bar Association Dushyant Dave on Friday said that the recently passed farm laws by the union government are “unconstitutional” and “illegal” and will eventually promote profiteering and legalise the exploitative money lending system in the villages. A meeting took place today between the president of Supreme Court Bar Association, Dushyant Dave, Sangharsh Committee member and farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa and senior lawyer Harvinder Singh Phoolka on the ongoing farmers’ protest in the national capital.After the meeting, Dave told ANI: “It is a matter of pride that Sangharsh Committee members met me regarding the farmers’ protest. I have told them that the recently passed farm laws are unconstitutional and illegal. These laws will legalise the exploitative money-lending system in the villages.“This will promote profiteering. There is no protection to the farmers as most of them are small and marginal. How will they enter into agreements with traders and understand the terms? The situation will become such that traders will destroy the farmers,” he added.Dave further said: “The government should think about these laws as it is their responsibility to hear the farmers, address the legal issues and bring an amendment to the law. The most important amendment should be that the trader should give in writing that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) will be ensured to the farmers.”“The government has also mentioned that they want to keep the judicial system outside of the purview of this law. The joint secretaries and district magistrates will not be able to dispense justice to the farmers. Our judiciary is capable to dispense justice to the farmers. The government should include the judiciary system. But it is also true that cases will increase in the courts and hence this law is not required,” he added.Dave further said: “This law also impacts the ‘democracy at the grassroots’. The farmers till now could do collective bargaining at Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). It is true that all APMCs were not working fine. But that does not mean that the government should bring in an even more exploitative law.”“I am hopeful that the Prime Minister will address these issues and think about the welfare of the farmers, I will assist the farmers in their struggle in my personal capacity,” he added.HS Phoolka said that the government should reconsider these farm laws as a senior advocate like Dave is also not on its side. “We are thankful that Dushyant Dave will assist the farmers in their struggle. The government is saying that it has examined the law but it should think that if a senior lawyer like Dushyant Dave is also saying that these laws are not in the interest of the farmers then it must be considered by them,” Phoolka said.“The government’s legal advisors may be differing on this issue but they should contemplate on it. Delhi Bar Council also announced that they examined these laws and declared that they are not in the interest of the farmers or advocates. The government should not make it an ego issue,” he added.Phoolka further said, “India is a country of farmers. If all the farmers are uncomfortable, then how is our country a democracy? The government should sit with the farmers and advocates and then implement the amendments to these laws.”Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa said: “We are very happy that Supreme Court lawyer Dushyant Dave is with us. The government should roll back these laws and make laws after consulting farmers. Dushyant Dave said that he will fight the cases for farmers free of cost. We are grateful to HS Phoolka who facilitated our meeting with Dave ji.”Thousands of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.On Thursday, the farmers held the fourth round of talks with the Centre and said the government had talked of some amendments to farm laws.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said after the talks that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind.“The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions are held on Saturday,” the minister had said.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-unconstitutional-illegal-sc-bar-association-president/story-xGwYf5eND2jCDq6vwiErsL.html
04-12-2020||India||CBI books Delhi company in Rs 1,800-crore bank fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday raided three locations, three days after booking a petrochemical trading company - Jay Polychem India Ltd - for allegedly cheating a consortium of 13 banks led by State Bank of India of Rs 1,800 crore, people familiar with the development said. The agency has issued lookout circulars (LOC) against the owners of the company - Satinder Pal Madhok, Sandeep Madhok, Harneet Kaur and Sumohita Kaur so that they don’t flee the country, they said. It is alleged in an FIR, registered on December 1, that Jay Polychem India, having its office in south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, engaged in wholesale import and trading of industrial chemicals, petrochemical products and agro commodities, took total loans of Rs 1,652 crore from 13 banks led by SBI before 2014 but failed to repay the same. The account was declared a non performing asset (NPA) in August 2014 due to non-payment of dues. A forensic audit carried out by Ernst and Young revealed massive diversion and siphoning off of bank funds, fictitious transactions, forgery etc. The CBI FIR, reviewed by HT, states that some of the companies associated with Jay Polychem did not exist at their registered addresses while there were common addresses between the vendors and customers. The accused company, CBI says, had issued Letters of Credit (LCs) to various companies abroad which didn’t exist. The income tax return documents of the company indicated that trade receivables amounting to Rs 679 crore were classified as doubtful debtors. It is suspected that receivables shown by the company may be fictitious. As of March 2018, the company owed Rs 1800.72 crore to 13 banks with SBI having maximum exposure of Rs 474.72 crore. Other banks which have been cheated by the company include – Bank of Baroda, Allahabad Bank, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, Corporation Bank, Union Bank of India, Syndicate Bank, Bank of India and others. The company representatives could not be located by HT for their comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-delhi-company-in-rs-1-800-crore-bank-fraud-case/story-VnZcd2m7NYQz0goVCbTxzN.html
04-12-2020||India||‘Films help me to use my creativity to its fullest’||Hailing from Amethi, filmmaker and poet Pragyesh Singh, wants to do his bit to bring the young talent to the fore. “I was into auditing profession and then started promoting young talent from Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai who wanted to work in the film industry almost two decades back. I started living my dream through them and soon realised that’s was the best way to use my creativity as writer and poet to its fullest.”First short film produced by Pragyesh was ‘Cute Girl’ based on acid attack survivor and is streaming on an OTT platform. “I have produced almost 47 films with newcomers, along with a web series ‘Chameli’ which will release next year. My films have been part of film fests and I feel proud of my team of TNV Films who have worked hard to bring best of stories for the audience,” he said.Currently, Pragyesh is enjoying his directorial stint. “I wanted to get into direction but was not getting stories that were close to my heart. The story of ‘Chhoti Si Guzaarish’ is about old parents who were left alone by their son to fend themselves while the other being a 47-minute-long film ‘Shinaakht’ based on female genital mutilation. My film ‘Choti Si… was completely shot in Lucknow (2017) and got released on OTT recently.”Feature film titled ‘Tatsam’, being produced and directed by him, will go on floors soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/films-help-me-to-use-my-creativity-to-its-fullest/story-xx9s2u8v11QK1HBEUQjlkL.html
04-12-2020||India||‘No BJP storm, sky is clear’: Asaduddin Owaisi reacts to Hyderabad civic poll results||As the BJP overtook All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) to become the second largest party in Hyderabad civic election, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday said the party will continue to fight the BJP in a democratic way. Dismissing any ‘BJP storm’, Owaisi said, “Where is the storm? Had there been a storm, BJP wouldn’t have lost in Maharashtra MLC election. BJP had said they would conduct surgical strike in old city. But they couldn’t do anything in my area. We did democratic strike. We contested in 51 seats and won 44. Think what would have happened, had AIMIM contested in 80 seats.” In 2016, the party had contested in 60 seats and won 44 seats, thus making this year’s strike rate better than 2016, Owaisi added.“We are confident that people of Telangana will stop the BJP from expanding its footprints in the state,” Owaisi said. Owaisi’s party, which is based in Telangana, was looking to make more gains in this year’s election as the party recently won five assembly seats in Bihar. However, the party maintained its stronghold and its 2016 tally — 44 seats. “We have won on 44 seats in Hyderabad GHMC elections. I have spoken to all newly elected corporators and asked them to begin their work from tomorrow itself,” Owaisi said.Talking about Telangana Rashtra Samithi, Owaisi said, “TRS in our opposition but in Telangana, it is a formidable political party, it has to be accepted. It represents the regional sentiment of Telangana. I am sure K Chandrashekar Rao will review the party’s performance in these elections. I am sure he will be a big challenge for the BJP.” The ruling TRS emerged as the single largest party winning 55 wards in the 150-ward GHMC election. The results of 149 were announced as counting of votes had to be stopped in a ward as per a High Court order. Counting had to be stopped in Neredmet ward as marks other than the standard Swastik symbol (crossed arrow mark) were in majority.AIMIM was crucial in the civic election as Owaisi was the target of several attacks the BJP made during the campaigning. The BJP also alleged that TRS and AIMIM have formed secret coalition. After Yogi Adityanath said the BJP might think of renaming Hyderabad as Bhagyanagar, Owaisi hit back saying that the generation of Uttar Pradesh CM may end but the city will always be called Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-begins-from-tomorrow-asaduddin-owaisi-reacts-to-hyderabad-civic-poll-results/story-hHu4fpUlGcr4NUeQlxxEEM.html
04-12-2020||India||As dissent rocks TMC, BJP rubs it in, says Abhishek Banerjee a bonus for it||Dissent among a section of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders over the growing clout of Abhishek Banerjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and heir apparent, coupled with organizational changes made at the advice of election strategist Prashant Kishor is helping the the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition party’s leaders feel.Some ruling party leaders share this view as well. Abhishek Banerjee has become the focal point of the BJP’s attack on the TMC in recent weeks after a number of leaders, starting from heavyweight former minister Suvendu Adhikari to senior legislator Mihir Goswami, have rebelled over decisions taken by him and Kishor.It is an open secret in the TMC that Banerjee and Kishor work in close coordination with each other and many instructions are often passed on to district leaders by executives of I-Pac, Kishor’s company, and not senior leaders. Talking to HT on condition of anonymity, a senior TMC state committee member said that at an important virtual meeting with district and state leaders Mamata Banerjee on Friday afternoon gave clear instructions that those raising their voice against the party should be removed from their posts. “The chief minister said this while addressing Sisir Adhikari, the father of Suvendu Adhikari. She also said those who are afraid of facing the BJP in the coming election may leave the TMC. She said she will not hold any grudge against them. Significantly, she also mentioned emphatically that there is no need to feel scared as the next generation of leadership is ready. There was a clear message in this,” the TMC leader said.Sisir Adhikari is the Lok Sabha member from Kanthi and president of the party’s East Midnapore district unit. Mamata Banerjee will address a mammoth rally in Midnapore on December7. Suvendu Adhikari, who has told the leadership that he cannot work with the TMC, will announce his next move on December 6. There are speculations that he may quit the TMC. “Many TMC leaders joined the BJP in recent years. But senior people such as Mukul Roy and former Kolkata mayor Sovon Chatterjee left us because of their differences with Abhishek Banerjee. Suvendu has the same issue,” said a senior TMC leader who did not want to be named. The BJP’s assaults on Abhishek Banerjee are not restricted to calling him bhaipo (nephew) or khokababu (kid) in public. The saffron camp wants to corner him politically as well. BJP national president J P Nadda will be holding an organisational meeting with BJP leaders from South 24 Parganas during a visit on December 8. The meeting will be held at Diamond Harbour, Abhishek Banerjee’s Lok Sabha constituency. Nadda will hold a second meeting in Kolkata on December 9. “What is happening in the TMC is a mirror image of what the Indian National Congress is going through. The Gandhi family is desperate to make Rahul Gandhi the head of the party although he lacks mission and vision. In Bengal, Abhishek Banerjee, who never led any mass movement or contributed to the TMC’s growth in its formative years, has been made the party’s second face,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of the BJP’s Bengal unit. “In the districts, people worked for years to build the TMC’s organization because they were inspired by Mamata Banerjee’s struggle as an opposition leader. Many of these leaders are now being replaced by young people who owe their allegiance to Abhishek. The chief minister cannot force her old and sincere leaders to like and follow Abhishek. Only the opportunists will do that. The BJP is reaping the fruits of the TMC’s corruption and the government’s failures. Abhishek is an added bonus,” Majumdar added. While Mihir Goswami, the lawmaker from Cooch Behar South assembly seat in north Bengal, joined the BJP on November 27, Suvendu Adhikari, who headed three important departments, quit the cabinet the same day. A third lawmaker, Silbhadra Dutta from the Barrackpore seat in North 24 Parganas, has declared that he will not contest the assembly polls. “I don’t believe that political decisions can be taken by a hired commercial agency. The agency cannot lecture me on politics. I feel obsolete in the present situation,” Dutta had said on November 1, referring to I-Pac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-dissent-rocks-tmc-bjp-rubs-it-in-says-abhishek-banerjee-a-bonus-for-it/story-bUQ1bzjJ68OKcxCxNl4QtL.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Govt’s fifth round of talks with farm leaders to be held on Saturday||The government and farmer leaders are scheduled to meet again on Saturday for their fifth round of talks to end the deadlock over the new farm laws.     Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State of Commerce and Industry Som Parkash, who will be present in the meeting, will deliberate on the points that farmer leaders had raised and offer possible solutions.     According to sources, the government has worked out possible solutions to the provisions on which farm leaders have raised objections. It hopes to break the deadlock on Saturday so that the farmers’ protest ends at the earliest. In the previous meeting on Thursday, Tomar had assured 40 farmer union leaders that the government is open to considering ways to strengthen APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with proposed private markets, and provide a provision for approaching higher courts for dispute resolution, while asserting that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) will continue.      But the other side stuck to their demand of repealing the three “hastily-passed” farm laws, saying that the legislations with several loopholes and deficiencies cannot be amended.     It needs to be seen whether farmer leaders will accept solutions offered by the government and end the protest due to which Delhi’s border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day.     Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has threatened that the farmers’ agitation would intensify if the government fails to meet the demands.    “The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed. If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday’s meeting,” Tikait told PTI.     The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are “anti-farmer”, and would pave the way for dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.  However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-govt-s-fifth-round-of-talks-with-farm-leaders-to-be-held-on-saturday/story-Jdvbdcc9h7SwptVK8jA4QK.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Amarinder Singh calls return of Padma award by Badal ‘theatrics’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday called the decision of Akali Dal stalwart Parkash Singh Badal to return his Padma Vibhushan theatrics and wondered why he was even given the country’s second-highest civilian honour. Badal had returned his Padma Vibhushan award on Thursday in protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, over which thousands of Punjab farmers are now protesting at Delhi’s borders. “I don’t know why Parkash Singh Badal got the Padma Vibhushan in the first place,” Singh said in a statement which also attacked AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal, calling him a “slimy fellow.” The Punjab CM said Lt Gen Harbaksh Singh got the Padma Vibhushan for winning the 1965 war with Pakistan and mocked, “What war did Parkash Singh Badal fight or what sacrifice did he make for the community?” Singh claimed that the former CM is now saying he has made a big sacrifice by returning the award. “Stop politicking on this,” he said. “This ‘dramebaazi’ (theatrics) might have worked 40 years ago but it does not work now.” Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party, the main opposition in Punjab, too had called Badal’s gesture a “drama”. Amarinder Singh said Badal has been claiming all his life that he represents the interests of the farmers. “Then why did his party support the central ordinances after initially opposing them, and then did an about-turn and started publicly criticising the legislations,” he said. He said as a member of the Union Cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal was very much a part of the meeting that passed the farm ordinances. “Is she illiterate that she can’t read,” he asked, referring to the former Union minister and Badal’s daughter-in-law who later quit the Narendra Modi Cabinet over the contentious farm laws. He also slammed Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for allegedly twisting his statement on national security. The AAP had targeted Singh for linking the farmers’ agitation to national security, in remarks made after a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Singh on Friday said he had told Shah that the amendment bills passed in Punjab Vidhan Sabha were the solution to breaking the deadlock over the farmers’ issue. Describing Kejriwal as a “slimy fellow” who was in the “habit of lying”, Amarinder asked the Delhi chief minister to first explain why his government had notified one of the central farm laws. “When other Opposition-ruled states, including Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, have passed amendment bills to counter the central laws, why did he not call a session of the Delhi Assembly to reject the latter,” he asked. “Does Kejriwal not have villages around Delhi?” he said. He charged that while Kejriwal is in the habit of lying, his Haryana counterpart M L Khattar has the habit of thrashing people, an apparent reference to attempts by the police of that state to stop Punjab farmers from marching to Delhi. The Conngress leader said he is not scared of the Enforcement Directorate, reacting to the charge by rivals that he is under pressure from central agencies. “For 13 years, I have been going to courts because of the cases initiated against me by the Badals, I am not bothered about ED. I can go to courts and fight for another 13 years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-amarinder-singh-calls-return-of-padma-award-by-badal-theatrics/story-tFez6Fuugsj84ovlPnNrKK.html
04-12-2020||India||Nadda hails BJP’s performance in GHMC polls; says result shows people’s rejection to ‘corrupt KCR govt’||Bharatiya Janata Party president, JP Nadda on Friday thanked the people of Hyderabad after the party made significant electoral inroads by securing 48 seats in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. Hailing the result as “historic”, Nadda said it shows “people’s unequivocal support towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development and governance model.” “I want to thank the people of Hyderabad, “ he added.He further said that the result of the civic polls shows that the people of Hyderabad have made it clear what will be the results of the Telangana assembly elections, scheduled to be held in 2023.Also Read | TRS emerges largest party in GHMC polls but BJP steals thunder with stellar show“I can say with confidence that people have decided to say goodbye to the corrupt K Chandrashekar Rao government,” Nadda also said.During the 2016 civic polls, BJP which had fought in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party had won only four seats. Meanwhile, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)’s tally fell below the majority mark as it won 56 seats. While All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, ended up in the third position with 44 seats, which was one seat less than what it had won in 2016.The BJP had run a high-octane campaign with rallies and roadshows by key leaders including union home minister Amit Shah, Nadda and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-hails-bjp-s-performance-in-ghmc-polls-says-result-shows-people-s-rejection-to-corrupt-kcr-govt/story-Pa0bX21jjLZwRRPPWCT7vK.html
04-12-2020||India||Union minister Nitin Gadkari launches Rs 4127 cr national highway projects for Nagaland||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday laid the foundation stones for 14 national highway projects, stretching across 270 kilometres in total and worth over Rs 4127 crores, in Nagaland. The minister also inaugurated the newly improved portion of NH-39 at the commercial city of Dimapur during a virtual launching event.The union minister in his address termed Nagaland as one of the most important states in northeast India and said his ministry is committed to developing the state for the greater development of the region. He highlighted that Nagaland, which had a total NH network of 880.68 km till 2014, has seen a 78 per cent growth over the past six years and now has 1547 km-long NH network.Gadkari said the newly sanctioned projects for which he laid the foundation would help not just the people of Nagaland but will improve the connectivity with neighbouring states of Manipur and Assam and towards the Myanmar border as well. They are expected to generate employment opportunities and boost socio-economic progress of the state while also providing easier access to healthcare and emergency services, he said. Expressing optimism that the road projects would contribute towards a more developed Nagaland, in general, considering their rich potentials, he called upon Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and his government for cooperation and to expedite resolution of land acquisition processes so that delays in execution of work are avoided.Also read: BJP springs a surprise in Hyderabad civic polls, keeps TRS away from majority markOut of the 14 sanctioned roads, 11 would be looked after by the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation (NHIDCL) and the remaining three will come under the state Public Works Department.Chief minister Rio acknowledged the union minister’s efforts for giving keen interest in projects in the state that were previously left neglected and also for approving new ones towards improving overall road connectivity in the state. Maintaining that Nagaland is a landlocked state and road connectivity is paramount for any economic development to thrive, he urged upon the ministry to look into possibilities for conversion of all single-lane roads in the state into at least two-lane roads. Rio emphasised the need for the ministry’s approval for the proposed vital Trans Nagaland Highway, also called the Foothill Road project, which he said has the potential to elevate the socio-economic status of the people of the state.Union minister of state (MoS) for road transport and highways, General VK Singh (Retd), officials of NHIDCL, deputy chief minister Nagaland Y Patton and chief secretary Nagaland were among those who were present at the virtual conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-nitin-gadkari-launches-rs-4127-cr-national-highway-projects-for-nagaland/story-dJiZntz7lyXQcoZyi30GGO.html
04-12-2020||India||‘Fate of Bhagyanagar rising’: Yogi’s tweet on GHMC election results stokes name row||Several BJP leaders used the name Bhagyanagar as they tweeted on the updates of GHMC election counting on Friday. After the results were announced which put BJP in the second position in Hyderabad’s local poll, ahead of local party AIMIM, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath took to Twitter and stoked the name row by saying, “The fate of Bhagyanagar is rising.” He mentioned Hyderabad as he referred to the election but referred to the people as “the people of Bhagyanagar” as he thanked them for showing confidence in PM Modi’s leadership. "भाग्यनगर" का भाग्योदय प्रारंभ हो रहा है...हैदराबाद के निकाय चुनावों में भाजपा एवं आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के नेतृत्व पर अभूतपूर्व विश्वास जताने के लिए "भाग्यनगर" की जनता का कोटि-कोटि धन्यवाद।Adityanath was in Hyderabad as part of BJP’s star-studded campaign. “”Some people were asking me if Hyderabad can be renamed as Bhagyanagar. I said - why not? I told them we renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came into power. Why can’t Hyderabad be renamed as Bhagyanagar?” he said during the campaigning. The name comes from a small temple of Goddess Lakshmi, known as Bhagyalakshmi temple, adjacent to Charminar. Some BJP leaders have claimed the temple got its name from Bhagyanagar which was Hyderabad’s original name before it was changed to Hyderabad by Muhammed Quli Qutub Shah. The temple falls in the part of the city which is a stronghold of AIMIM. The temple was at the centre of this year’s civic election from the beginning. During the beginning of the poll campaign, the State Election Commission ordered the government to stop receiving applications from rain-affected people for Rs 10,000 relief for which the TRS blamed the BJP. State BJP chief B Sanjay Kumar challenged that the Chief Minister to come to the Bhagyalakshmi temple, saying he was ready to take oath in the name of goddess in the presence of the CM, and he went to the temple. Union home minister Amit Shah too visited the temple when he was in Hyderabad for campaigning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fate-of-bhagyanagar-rising-yogi-s-tweet-on-ghmc-election-results-stokes-name-row/story-1XDJpEYruZdbn270OO0PDK.html
04-12-2020||India||AIUDF chief’s foundation booked for receiving foreign funds with alleged terror links||Police in Guwahati filed a FIR on Friday against a foundation run by Lok Sabha MP and chief of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) Badruddin Ajmal for receiving funds from some foreign agencies, allegedly linked to terror groups.The FIR lodged by Bharatiya Janata Party leader Satya Ranjan Borah at Dispur police station against Ajmal Foundation alleges that the organization got funds from foreign agencies linked with terror outfits. “The complainant alleges in the FIR that Ajmal Foundation had misused funds received from foreign agencies which had terror links. The FIR is lodged under sections of IPC and Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. We are conducting investigations,” said Himangshu Das, ACP (Dispur). “The FIR has been filed under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 124A (sedition) and 420 (cheating) of IPC read with Section 13 of FCRA,” said Das.Borah’s complaint is based on allegations levelled against Ajmal Foundation by an NGO called Legal Rights Observatory (LRO). In a series of tweets on Thursday, the NGO alleged that several Turkey and UK-based organizations have given Rs 69.55 crore to Ajmal Foundation for education. But only around Rs 2 crore of the total amount was reportedly spent on educational purposes. LRO also alleged that these funding agencies had links with Islamic terror groups such as Al Qaeda, Hamas and Hizbul Mujahideen. “Many people in Assam are of the opinion that Badruddin Ajmal spends money from his own pocket to run his foundation. But the truth is that he receives funds from abroad,” Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists. “There are now allegations that the funds came from groups with terror links and most of the amount received was misused. I hope the central agencies will conduct proper investigation into this,” he added. Set up in 2005 with headquarters in Hojai town of Assam, the foundation run by Ajmal, who has a flourishing perfume business, deals in education, healthcare, disaster relief, women empowerment etc. The Ajmal Foundation has rubbished the allegations and said it welcomed a thorough probe.“Most of our foreign funds come from UK under strict compliance of FCRA regulations and are used in social, education and relief works. A false impression about our foundation is being created based on incorrect information. We want the thorough investigation, so that the truth is revealed,” Khasrul Islam, director of Ajmal Foundation told a TV channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiudf-chief-s-foundation-booked-for-receiving-foreign-funds-with-alleged-terror-links/story-vuGUnP7iTpF5TTC6H72KGM.html
04-12-2020||India||J-K DDC polls: North Kashmir’s key seats likely to seal fate of 3 powerful political families||Two District Development Council seats of north Kashmir’s Sangrama constituency are likely to decide the fate of three powerful political families of Kashmir.Sangrama which is part of Baramulla district has two DDC seats - Wagoora and Sangrama. While the first one is reserved for women candidates, on the second seat there is a triangular contest between the Apni Party candidate former legislator, Shoiab Lone; PDP spokesman, Suhail Bukhari, who is an alliance candidate; and an independent candidate Irfan Hafiz. Polling for both the seats was held on Friday amid tight security and more than 30 per cent voters exercised their franchise on both DDC seats.On the Wagoora reserved seat, four women contestants are in the fight, including Safeena Baig, wife of former J&K deputy CM and former MP Baramulla, Muzaffar Baig. The Baramulla MP recently resigned from the PDP as its patron after his wife, who was also the head of PDP’s women wing, was denied ticket by the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The seat was given to the NC candidate.Safeena contested as an independent candidate. Baig’s had an influence over two seats Baramulla and Sangrama, of late the influence got diminished after Baig’s nephew and former legislator, Javeed Baig, left the PDP and joined the Apni party. Baig’s another brother also joined the Apni party. A day before the polls, Baig’s son from his first wife, Zahid Baig also released a critical video against Safeena on the social media.Also read: TRS emerges largest party in GHMC polls as BJP puts up stellar show“This is a very important election for Baig, especially for Safeena and if she manages to win the DDC seat, they (Baigs) can start afresh from this place,” said young businessman Fayaz Ahmad after casting his vote at a polling station set up inside Government school Sultanpora.“More than 300 people voted in the first four hours and more people are coming and it’s going to be a triangular contest between Safeena, Apni Party candidate and the alliance candidate,” he said, adding that it could be a close contest but for senior Baig (Muzaffar Hussain) everything is at stake.At Kreeri village, the native village of former minister and NC leader, Basharat Bukhari, the voters came in small groups to cast their votes at three polling stations set up at local higher secondary school while polling agents were distributing voting slips among the voters.“This is a local election but it’s going to be very important for future of three leaders Muzaffar Baig, Bashaarat Bukhari and Shoaib Lone. Baig and Bukhari had been former ministers while Lone’s father was also a former minister. This time the enthusiasm of the past election is missing but the polls are important for all these political families,” said BDC chairman Kreeri, Ghulam Mohiuddin Sofi while asking his supporters to vote on the symbol of a particular candidate. Another voter Shabir Ahmad said that for the political families it is going to be a turf war. “It will be interesting to see which family will emerge victorious.”Lones are contesting on both the seats while Nasreena contested from Wagoora, Shoiab contested from Sangrama. He lost two previous assembly election with a thin margin and this time his win is crucial. He left Congress in March and joined Apni Party in March. Bashaarat Bukhari won the last assembly elections on the PDP ticket and was minister in the last BJP PDP government but resigned from the PDP and joined NC before August 5, 2019.At neighbouring Shrakawara village, very few people had turned towards the polling station compared to the previous polls. “We had powerful people representing us in the past when J&K was a full-fledged state. Now, these big leaders are fighting panchayat polls. They are doing it for their political survival,” said Nisar Ahmad who didn’t cast his vote terming it a futile exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ddc-polls-north-kashmir-s-key-seats-likely-to-seal-fate-of-3-powerful-political-families/story-lDvGxhx9bO5qA31OTFOeEL.html
04-12-2020||India||Govt fully committed to ‘reform, perform and transform’. No sector left out from reforms: PM Modi||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that the Indian diaspora across the world has put their faith in resurgent India while addressing the IIT 2020 Global Summit. He said, “Indian diaspora across the world have put their faith in resurgent India. They became ambassadors of a new India.”He highlighted that the push from Indian diaspora led to the world understanding India’s viewpoint in the right spirit. PM Modi while addressing the IIT 2020 Global Summit also said that under the NDA government every sector is seeing large scale reforms. He said, “There is no sector left out from our reforms. Agriculture, atomic energy, defence, education, healthcare, infrastructure, finance, banking, taxation, the list goes on. We have brought path-breaking reforms in the labour sector, assimilating 44 Union labour laws into just four codes. Our corporate tax rate is one of the lowest in the world.”The prime minister also highlighted how India used the pandemic as an opportunity to rethink its ways of doing business and referring to how India managed to attract investment during Covid-19. He also said the IIT alumnus is capable of providing solutions to problems the world faces in the post-pandemic scenario. He said that the responsibility is huge but the IIT alumni is capable to undertake that task. Modi said, “I urge you to debate, discuss and contribute to solutions in the emerging new world. The responsibility is heavy but I know that your shoulders are capable.”This year’s theme for IIT 2020 Global Summit is ‘The Future is Now’. Members of IIT alumni will discuss issues concerning global economy, technology, climate change and universal education. PM Modi also encouraged the attendees to contribute to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and said that the IIT alumni can steer the nation towards becoming self-reliant. He also said that the IIT alumnus has set a ‘higher benchmark on giving back to India.’(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-fully-committed-to-reform-perform-and-transform-no-sector-left-out-from-reforms-pm-modi/story-DFJFQWytF2UxHZXlAkE0sN.html
04-12-2020||India||Sweets, crackers: BJP celebrates ‘moral victory’ in GHMC election||With the counting of votes in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Council elections reaching its last leg on Friday, the BJP started celebrating what it called its ‘moral victory’ in a so far uncharted region. In 2016 civic elections, BJP had won four seats. The number in 2020 went to 48, four seats more than local party AIMIM. “Today’s results indicate that we have blessings of the people in our efforts to bring BJP govt in Telangana in 2023 elections. TRS has failed, people are against their dynasty rule & corruption. People have paved a way for a BJP govt in Telangana, in the days to come,” minister of state, home, G Kishan Reddy said as he started distributing sweets amid the counting.  #WATCH Telangana: BJP workers burst crackers in Hyderabad following the #GHMCElectionresults https://t.co/xihpiLV81t pic.twitter.com/JQa2eKO7kYBJP supporters too started bursting crackers in Hyderabad as the results were being declared.Like the high-octane campaign ahead of the election, BJP’s reaction to the result also stood out as top prty leaders including Amit Shah, JP Nadda congratulated the victory. “Historic result for BJP in Hyderabad GHMC elections shows that people of the country supports only & only development agenda. This result reflects people’s unequivocal support to Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s development & governance model,” the BJP chief tweeted. GHMC results show rejection of Dynastic,Corrupt & Appeasement politics. I Congratulate State President @bandisajay & hardworking @BJP4Telangana Karyakartas for their spirited efforts that led to great success. Gratitude to people of Hyderabad for their faith & support.BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav termed BJP’s result — second in the race as it was ahead of AIMIM during counting — as “moral victory”. The BJP’s performance has confirmed the trend that it is replacing the Congress as the main challenger to the TRS, Yadav said. The party had won four seats in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and then its victory in the Assembly bypoll in Dubbaka came as a surprise.“The results are very encouraging and a moral booster for the BJP, and in a way, it is a moral victory of the party. The results reaffirms that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership and his model of good governance has acceptability across regions,” Yadav, who was deputed as in-charge for the local elections in Hyderabad, told PTI.While the TRS fielded candidates in all 150 wards in the election, the BJP put up nominees in 149. The Congress, AIMIM and the TDP fielded candidates in 146, 51 and 106 wards respectively. The TRS won 55 seats and the Congress won only two seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-results-2020-bjp-celebrates-moral-victory-with-crackers-sweets/story-BhBFEmLmRj9hJBU3ssimON.html
04-12-2020||India||BJP springs a surprise in Hyderabad civic polls, keeps TRS away from majority mark||The elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, threw up a hung house with no political party reaching the absolute majority mark of 76 in the 150-seat corporation after counting of votes concluded on Friday. Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the ruling party in Telangana, emerged as a single largest party in the GHMC but its numbers took a big hit. The TRS which had won 99 seats in 2016 GHMC elections, was reduced to 55 seats – a fall of nearly 43 seats. On the other hand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which had won just four seats in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party in 2016, put up a tremendous show in these elections winning 48 seats in a solo fight to emerge as the second largest party in the GHMC. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, ended up in third position with 44 seats, which was one seat less than what it had won in 2016. The Congress managed to win only two seats, the same number it had in the last GHMC. Taking moral responsibility for the poor show of the party, Telangana PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy announced his resignation from the post. The result of one seat has been withheld.The hopes of TRS to retain the GHMC Mayor post at least with the help of co-opted members, including MLCs, MLAs and MPs from Hyderabad, have also been shattered. There are 52 co-opted members in the GHMC and including the 150 elected corporators, the overall strength of the GHMC elected body will 202. It requires at least 102 members to capture the Mayor’s post. However, the TRS has only 38 co-opted members. Now that it has won only 58 corporator seats, the overall strength of the TRS will be only 96 – six seats short of the number needed to bag the Mayor’s seat. This peculiar scenario has resulted in the AIMIM emerging as a king maker in the GHMC. Since it cannot support the BJP and the TRS has been its long-time friend, it is expected that the party will forge an alliance with the TRS to capture power in the GHMC. The biggest gainer in these GHMC elections is the BJP, which put up a remarkable show by winning 48 seats. The party pulled out all stops to win the elections by launching a high voltage campaign by deploying its top leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah, national president J P Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and other senior leaders. The party successfully capitalised on the understanding between the TRS and the AIMIM and polarised the Hindu vote bank in Hyderabad, besides cashing in on the failure of the TRS government led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in attending to the people affected by recent heavy rains and floods. Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said the main reason for the failure of the TRS in the GHMC was its open friendship with the AIMIM. “It has naturally given a weapon to the BJP and an opportunity to emerge as a champion of Hindus,” he said. Moreover, in the last five years, KCR focused only on decimating the Congress, but failed to assess the threat from the BJP. “The TRS supported the Narendra Modi government in Parliament on several issues. So, how can people believe KCR?” he asked. Senior TRS leader and panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao said the people had reposed their faith in the TRS despite large scale conspiracy by the BJP which sought to exploit religious sentiments to win the seats. “They have voted for the development and rejected divisive forces,” he said. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay attributed the stupendous performance of the party in the GHMC elections to the hard work by the party workers. “Though election commission authorities and the police supported the TRS, the people reposed their faith in us,” he said. Karnataka minister and co-in-charge of BJP in Telangana K Sudhakar said people of Telangana were waiting for a credible alternative to the TRS. “Now there is no more a TINA factor in Telangana, but it’s BITA - BJP Is The Alternative,” he said. Senior Congress leader and former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said his party was thoroughly disappointed with the results but expressed confidence that it would bounce back soon. “The TRS, BJP and MIM misled the voters with a false narrative and secured their votes by using all illegal means,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-emerges-largest-party-in-ghmc-polls-but-bjp-steals-thunder-with-stellar-show/story-zguknhrrRh1VTbHyK0BRDJ.html
04-12-2020||India||Oppn leaders hail India’s efforts to contain Covid, then a word of caution||Leaders cutting across political parties hailed India’s efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic but cautioned the government on the hurdles lying ahead at the all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.Even as many Opposition parties are up in arms against the Union government over the three new farm laws and are supporting the farmers’ protest in the national capital region, most political leaders stood by the government on the Covid issue.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said the pandemic should be a part of India’s national security policy, given the devastating impact of Covid on the lives of millions of Indians and the economy. Azad said the political leadership must be ready to counter the possible misinformation campaign over vaccines in the near future, according to the people cited above.In the second all-party meeting with PM Modi since the pandemic, Azad mentioned how he took a jab of H1N1 vaccine along with Zydus scientists to dispel public fears and malicious rumours. While he maintained that India’s Covid management was “very good” in terms of the country’s size and population, he demanded that vaccines should be affordable and cold chains should be set up across the country.The Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay sought “the PM’s advice” to the states and read out from a paper on how West Bengal was taking innovative measures to combat the pandemic. He said the Union government should extend full support to all vaccine producers.The DMK’s TR Balu asked the Prime Minister to take “a serious note” of the fact that the virus spread from China but “their Covid tally remains lower than most of the country”. The DMK leader also sought uniform rates for RT-PCR tests and suggested mobilising public sector units, CSR (corporate social responsibility) and government funds to create a buffer stock of vaccines.At this point, Balu picked up the farmers’ protests and said they were suffering in the cold weather of Delhi. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told him to stick to Covid. Balu hit back, saying the minister should not interrupt when he is talking to the PM.YSRCP leader Vijayasai Reddy asked for a financial package from the centre for Telangana as the state government spent a large amount on biosafety of hospitals.Lauding India’s fight against Covid, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said it was clear there were huge differences between many advanced nations and India, which was in a far better position in tackling the outbreak. Pawar suggested that the government should have added focus on storage of vaccines as well as handling bio-medical waste and countering misinformation.While Pawar, a partner in Maharashtra’s coalition government, asked for the Centre’s help for the economic revival of states, RCP Singh of the JD(U) spoke about strengthening the cold chain to the last mile.The BJD’s Chandrasekhar Sahu spoke of assessing the effectiveness of various vaccines and Satish Chandra Mishra maintained there should be no compromise with regular immunisation and health services. Samajwadi Party leader Ram Gopal Yadav, chairman of Parliament’s health panel, asked the PM to expedite the goal of spending 2.2% of GDP on health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-hail-india-s-efforts-to-contain-covid-then-a-word-of-caution/story-7B5PXTCaR6Xq8FTVZriRoM.html
04-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Army chief’s visit to Saudi Arabia, UAE signals India’s intention to boost security cooperation, say experts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army chief’s visit to Saudi Arabia, UAE signals India’s intention to boost security cooperation, say expertsIndian Army chief Gen MM Naravane’s upcoming visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) signals New Delhi’s intention to boost security cooperation amid the rapidly changing scenario in West Asia, experts and former diplomats said on Friday. Read moreED seizes Vijay Mallya’s assets worth 1.6 million euros in FranceThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday seized fugitive Vijay Mallya’s assets worth 1.6 million euros in France. Read moreAT HTLS 2020, Nirmala Sitharaman says MSP for farm produce will continueAmid the raging farmers’ protests against the new farm laws, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the government intends to continue the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism for farm produce. Read moreIndia begins talks with Luxembourg firm on cold chain for Covid vaccineTwo top officials of the Luxembourg-headquartered B Medical Systems will arrive in New Delhi over the weekend to initiate talks with senior government officials, scientists and diplomats on setting up a cold chain for Covid-19 vaccines in the country. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor mixes 70s retro with modern-chic in co-ord denim outfit worth Rs 25kApart from her immaculate acting, Janhavi Kapoor has also made a name for herself as a fashionista in Bollywood. Read moreKardashian-Jenner clan pranks their friends, Kim shares funny clipThe Kardashian-Jenner ‘klan’ never fails to entertain as well as excite their viewers with their wholesome and hilarious antics. Read moreMika Singh slams Kangana Ranaut, says being a ‘sherni’ on Twitter is no big deal, ‘help us provide meals to needy instead’Picking up where he left off, singer Mika Singh continued criticising actor Kangana Ranaut, whose comments on the ongoing farmer agitation in north India attracted controversy on Thursday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-army-chief-s-visit-to-saudi-arabia-uae-signals-india-s-intention-to-boost-security-cooperation-say-experts-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jethlzFfwcNEWuJYJqnrbN.html
04-12-2020||India||‘Planning to block remaining roads of Delhi,’ say farmers as protests intensify||As the deadlock between farmers and the Centre continues over the farm law, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) - which is spearheading the protests - on Friday said that they are planning to block remaining roads of national capital Delhi if the government fails to pay heed to their demands. In an announcement from Singhu border which connects Delhi and Haryana, BKU General Secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhwal called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 if the government does not withdraw contentious farm laws, enacted in September.“We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” said Lakhwal.“Yesterday (Thursday), we told the Government that the farm laws should be withdrawn. On December 5, effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be burnt across the country,” news agency ANI quoted Ladkhwal as saying. “We have given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8,” he added.Also Read | Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat: Petition filed in Supreme CourtThe call for Bharat Bandh has been supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward. Government has to take back the farm laws.”Thousands of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws. During the protests, farmers are camping in and around Delhi borders due to which several roads connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been blocked. As per the latest traffic advisory, vehicular movement is shut at Singhu (epicenter of protests) and Tikri borders as farmers remain firm to protest against the farm laws.Meanwhile, the farmers held the fourth round of talks with the Centre on Thursday. Though the talks were not able to break the logjam, the government moved a step forward by agreeing to review the three farm laws. The next round of talks will take place on December 5.After Thursday’s talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind.“The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions is held on Saturday,” the minister had said.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planning-to-block-remaining-roads-of-delhi-says-farmers-as-protests-intensify/story-jKfLbvFyYtKzdxLLVdtOiJ.html
04-12-2020||India||ED seizes Vijay Mallya’s assets worth 1.6 million euros in France||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday seized fugitive Vijay Mallya’s assets worth 1.6 million euros in France. The property was seized under the anti-money laundering law by the French authorities after ED’s request. The action was undertaken by French authorities “on the request of the Enforcement Directorate” and the property is located at 32 Avenue FOCH in France, central probe agency said in a statement.Also Read | UK trying to resolve issue holding up Vijay Mallya’s extradition as quickly as possibleIn Indian currency, the value of the seized asset is about Rs 14 crore.Former liquor baron Mallya is wanted in India over fraud and money laundering charges in relation to loans taken out by his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines from state-owned Indian banks. As per banks’ claims, Mallya owes Rs9,000 crore in principal and interest to banks in India.The government in India is currently trying to extradite Mallya from the UK, where he is being living since March, 2016. He is on bail as the British court delayed his extradition over a confidential legal matter. In October this year, the UK government also had indicated that Mallya is unlikely to be extradited to India anytime soon, saying there is a legal issue that needed to be resolved before his extradition can be arranged.The extradition was ordered by the British court after Mallya exhausted all legal remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enforcement-directorate-seizes-vijay-mallya-s-asset-in-france-worth-1-6-million-euros/story-l7V8Y1oq3Al67fA2wN4MhP.html
04-12-2020||India||CSE hands over honey adulterant fructose syrup sample to FSSAI||The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Friday handed over to the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) a sample of the fructose adulterant, which can beat existing quality and safety tests, used by leading brands and other documents that were part of its investigation into honey adulteration.The FSSAI had sought samples and other evidence. The CSE shared the sample of fructose syrup, which is called “all-pass” in the market procured from a company in Jaspur. It also provided full correspondence with two Chinese companies from which CSE procured adulterant samples along with details of the consignment of adulterant sent by a company in China that CSE could not eventually receive because it did not have necessary permits.On Wednesday, CSE made public the findings of its investigation into honey adulteration. The probe found that 77% of samples from 13 top honey brands were adulterated with a modified sugar syrup to beat safety tests. CSE found that some Chinese companies developed a syrup containing fructose, or fruit sugar, that can go undetected in Indian tests for the purity of honey.A CSE statement said its representatives met FSSAI officials including chairperson Rita Teotia and CEO Arun Singhal. It added the authority has assured that they will send the adulterant sample for further testing and will also follow up on all the contacts and details CSE has provided to unravel the adulteration nexus. Based on its review, FSSAI has said it will take the necessary steps to amend the food standards and step-up surveillance.FSSAI on Thursday responded to the expose and said CSE found the adulterants by using the non-prescription Trace Marker for Rice (TMR) syrup test instead of a more sensitive Specific Marker for Rice (SMR) syrup test. “It is not clear as to why some tests like SMR have not been conducted on the samples spiked with adulterants by CSE. FSSAI has requested details of the samples and the tests conducted from CSE. As soon as details become available, they will be analysed by FSSAI to draw conclusions about the protocols followed and suggest any improvements that are required in the test methodology for future,” FSSAI said in a statement on Thursday.On Friday, FSSAI representatives inquired why CSE had not asked for SMR in the samples deliberately spiked by CSE to expose adulteration. CSE sent the spiked samples to National Dairy Development Board laboratory in Gujarat for testing. FSSAI officials said SMR was required to detect adulteration by rice syrup. CSE has explained that this was not the globally understood laboratory test practice.CSE has stressed that the ring of adulteration needed to be firmly dealt with and that FSSAI must take urgent steps to stop or break the nexus. “Our research has clearly established that samples adulterated even up to 50% can bypass our testing for C3 and C4 sugar [(cane or high fructose corn syrup],” said Sunita Narain, director general, CSE.“We will send samples for further investigations,” said an FSSAI spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cse-hands-over-honey-adulterant-fructose-syrup-sample-to-fssai/story-T34QP4BVvcKn0DazZTZmXO.html
04-12-2020||India||‘Surprising’: Top court on MP govt supporting illegal miners who paid fine||The Supreme Court on Thursday urged the Centre and states to adopt a stern approach against illegal mining, as it called the Madhya Pradesh government supporting the contention of some violators “very surprising”. The apex court took umbrage that the MP government wanted the violators not to face criminal prosecutions only because they had paid monetary fines. “We are of the opinion that the violators cannot be permitted to go scot free on payment of penalty only. There must be some stringent provisions which may have deterrent effect so that the violators may think twice before committing such offences and before causing damage to the earth and nature,” said a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan.Authoring the judgment, Justice MR Shah reminded the State that they are the custodian of mines and minerals in the country, and said they should be more sensitive towards protecting the ecological balance by ensuring stern action against the violators. It pointed out that although provisions in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act (MMDR Act) empowered the state to withdraw prosecution for illegal mining after imposing fines, they would do well to acknowledge the growing concern regarding environmental damages and its grave consequences.The observations came as the top court dismissed a clutch of appeals for quashing as many as 14 FIRs registered in Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district against illegal sand mining and their transportation. While the FIR was lodged on a directive from the judicial magistrate concerned, the violators proceeded to settle the charges under the MMDR Act by paying monetary fines. These petitions were dismissed by the high court. The state government, which had initially supported the magistrate’s order on FIRs, took a U-turn before the Supreme Court and said the prosecution under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for theft and abetting concealment of stolen properties cannot go on after these violators have already settled the case by coughing up fines.The bench called the state government’s support to the “violators” “very surprising”, and held that the criminal prosecution under the IPC is independent of the settlement proceedings under the MMDR Act.The court said that even if a state government decides to withdraw cases under the MMDR Act, investigation under the IPC shall go on in accordance with the law. The bench, therefore, allowed quashing of the charges under Section 23A of the MMDR Act but clarified the prosecution for theft etc will continue in all the 14 FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surprising-top-court-on-mp-govt-supporting-illegal-miners-who-paid-fine/story-jviJnycd9DbPQvdYPJJbAK.html
04-12-2020||India||US envoy expresses gratitude to Indian Navy on Navy Day for hosting Malabar Exercises||US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster has extended greetings to the Indian Navy on Navy Day and expressed gratitude for hosting Malabar Exercise.Taking to Twitter, Juster said, “On behalf of the US Mission in India, a very happy #NavyDay to @IndianNavy. We thank you for hosting the US, Japan, and Australia for this year’s successful Malabar Exercise and look forward to continued growth in the #USIndiaDefense partnership. Sham No Varunah!”The 24th edition of the Malabar series of multilateral naval exercises concluded in the Arabian Sea in two phases on November 20 with navies of India, America, Japan, and Australia taking part in it.Seen as the coming together of four navies against growing hegemonic tendencies of China in oceans, a senior commander of the Indian Navy had said the Malabar-2020 wargames have shown an “extraordinary degree of interoperability” among the four participating forces.Every year, December 4 is celebrated as the Navy Day to commemorate the decisive naval action by the Indian Naval ships on Karachi Port, which heralded the victory of India over Pakistan in the Indo-Pak War of 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-envoy-expresses-gratitude-to-indian-navy-on-navy-day-for-hosting-malabar-exercises/story-n9qgkfyYpQhvEUUHX0ErSL.html
04-12-2020||India||Maoist commander killed in encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district||A ‘platoon commander’ of Communist Party of India (Maoist ) was killed in an encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district in Bastar region on Friday, police said. Police also seized a rifle and explosives from the site of encounter. In the last one week, two Maoist commanders have been killed by security forces in Bijapur district. Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P said that the encounter took place in the afternoon at around 1 pm, when a team of district reserve guard (DRG) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were out for an anti-Maoist operation. “We had information about a Maoist gathering hence a team was sent for operation. The encounter started when the team reached the jungles near Hakwa village. After the firing stopped, the body of a platoon commander of Gangaloor area committee of CPI (Maoist) was recovered. The other Maoists managed to escape in the jungle,” said the IG. Sunderaj also said that the deceased commander was allegedly involved in the recent civilian killings in Gangaloor, Mirtur and Bhairamgarh areas of the district. On November 26, security forces gunned down a Maoist commander Santosh Podiam, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, and was allegedly involved in killing of policemen in Bijapur district. Podiam was allegedly involved in the abduction and murder of assistant sub-inspector, Nagaiyya Korsa, in August and in the killing of Forest Ranger Rathram Patel in September in Kutru and Jangla police station areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-commander-killed-in-encounter-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-district/story-v83Ep2uUftv1WrOb1vq1WN.html
04-12-2020||India||Unidentified gunmen attack DDC poll candidate in South Kashmir’s Kokernag||Unidentified gunmen attacked a district development council candidate (DDC) in South Kashmir’s Kokernag area while polling for the third phase took place in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.This is the first attack on any DDC candidate since the election process began last month. The candidate who was shot at has been identified as Anees ul Islam. He was attacked near Sagam in Kokernag.People familiar with the development said that Anees had recently joined the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari. Officials said that he has been moved to a hospital. Police and Indian Army personnel reached the spot of the attack for investigations.A senior doctor posted at Medical College Anantnag said that Apni party candidate is stable and out of danger.Former J&K chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice president, Omar Abdullah said the attack was carried out by forces inimical to peace.Also read: India begins talks with Luxembourg firm on cold chain for Covid vaccine“Disturbing reports coming in from Kokernag in South Kashmir of an attack on a DDC election candidate. I hope & pray that he survives the attack. Elections have always brought out the worst in those forces that have remained inimical to peace in Kashmir,” Abdullah tweeted.Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari said this dastardly attack on our contesting candidate is a manifestation of frustration among forces inimical to peace and the rising popularity of Apni Party among the people. “The government should take serious cognizance of this incident and take all necessary security measures in this regard.”Spokesman PAGD and chairman Peoples Conference, Sajjad Lone said the attack on a contesting DDC candidate is detestable to say the least. “Violence has been the biggest facilitator in our disempowerment”Police spokesman said that preliminary investigation revealed that terrorists had fired upon independent DDC candidate of Sagam constituency at Sagam Kokernag in district Anantnag.“In this incident, he has received injuries in small finger of his left hand and a minor injury on thigh. He was allocated cluster accommodation in Khanabal and after end of scrutiny period he was properly informed by PS Kokernag on the evening of 3rd December regarding the same. Besides he was instructed to get escort personnel for campaigning purpose which he did not take.”Three-tier security arrangements are in place while the DDC polls, to elect 280 candidates, are being held in eight phases in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unidentified-gunmen-attack-ddc-poll-candidate-in-south-kashmir-s-kokernag/story-H2yxUCXmbq0CckRBfNyhqN.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers call for Bharat Bandh on December 8, demand immediate withdrawal of farm laws||The farmers protesting against the three newly-enacted farm laws have hardened their stance, announcing a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. The farmers have so far held four rounds of talks with the government, but the impasse has not ended and the borders of Delhi, where the protest is going on, are choked. The protests were launched by farmers of Haryana and Punjab, but those from Uttar Pradesh later joined them.“Yesterday, we told the government that the farm laws should be withdrawn. On December 5, effigies of PM Modi will be burnt across the country. We have given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8,” said HS Lokwal, the general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Lakhowal).Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital demanding that the bills passed by Parliament in September be withdrawn.“We need to take this protest forward. The government has to take back the farm laws,” said Hannan Mollah, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Earlier, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the farmers are hoping that the government will meet their demands during the fifth round of talks scheduled on December 5, failing which they will continue their protests against the new farm laws.“The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed. “If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday’s meeting,” Tikait told news agency PTI.The government had invited the farm leaders for fourth round of talks on Thursday, but the it remaind inconclusive. The two sides are scheduled to meet on Saturday again.The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are “anti-farmer”, and would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-december-8-demand-immediate-withdrawal-of-farm-laws/story-rDOtMIWbwIDDXsVuqeJ3eK.html
04-12-2020||India||Important to have large basket of Covid-19 vaccine candidates: DBT Secy||It is important to have a large basket of Covid-19 vaccines as it is really difficult to know which one is going to be the best among the lot, Department of Biotechnology secretary Renu Swarup said on Friday. She said the vaccines that are being developed indigenously are on different platforms and each has its own benefits and challenges.“It is important to have a large basket of vaccines as we move forward because we really don’t know which one is going to be the best. It is not necessary that the first one is the best, you may have one coming later which is going to be better but it is difficult to say right now,” she said at a webinar.There are 30 vaccine candidates which are being developed within the country.   Five vaccine candidates are under different phases of clinical trials in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the ICMR has already started the phase-3 clinical trial.  Another indigenously-developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has also completed phase -2 clinical trial in the country.   Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) on Tuesday announced the start of adaptive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India.Also, Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.        Swarup said a lot of effort has gone in the development of the vaccine like building capacity for clinical trials. Stressing that vaccine development is a complex process, she said a lot of science has gone in making it.She said the DBT has an expert committee to track the development related to Covid-19 vaccine. The panel, which also has experts from within the country and outside, meet every two weeks to discuss not just with the academic research groups but also the vaccine manufacturers and developers to understand what they need for its development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-to-have-large-basket-of-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-dbt-secy/story-Tc4FdzPEzQML1ADVQoULmI.html
04-12-2020||India||‘MH-60 Romeo in all its glory’: Lockheed Martin shares photo of chopper for Indian Navy||American defence manufacturer Lockheed Martin on Friday shared the photo of MH-60 Romeo chopper in Indian colours. The chopper will be inducted in the Indian Navy.“This #NavyDay, we are proud to share the first look of the #IndianNavy’s #MH60R in all its glory. #RomeoForIndia,” Lockheed Martin posted on Twitter. This #NavyDay, we are proud to share the first look of the #IndianNavy’s #MH60R in all its glory. #RomeoForIndia 🇮🇳#NavyDay2020 pic.twitter.com/vZoOgFq4DHIndia had signed $2.6 billion deal in 2019 to buy 24 MH-60 Romeo helicopters from Lockheed Martin.Designed for hunting submarines as well as knocking out ships and conducting search-and-rescue operations at sea, the Lockheed Martin-built helicopters would replenish India’s aging fleet of British-made Sea King helicopters.The multi-mission helicopters can detect, track and attack submarines and surface ships.On Friday, the US also approved the sale of $90 million worth of military hardware and services to India in support of its fleet of C-130J Super Hercules military transport aircraft.The Pentagon said that the proposed sale ensures the previously procured aircraft operates effectively to serve the needs of the Indian Air Force (IAF), the Army and the Navy transport requirements, local and international humanitarian assistance, and regional disaster relief.This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by helping to strengthen the US-Indian strategic relationship and improve the security of a “Major Defence Partner”, according to the the Defence Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) of the Department of Defence.The DSCA also said that India continues to be an important force for political stability, peace and economic progress in the Indo-Pacific and South Asia region.India and the United States have been ramping up defence ties in recent years with joint military exercises, exchanges and exchanges. They held their first 2+2 ministerial in September 2018 - a simultaneous meeting for their defence and foreign ministers. They ended years of discussions and back-and-forth and signed two enabling agreement LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement) and COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in recent years to improve interoperability between their militaries.In 2016, the US had designated India as a “Major Defence Partner” intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mh-60-romeo-in-all-its-glory-lockheed-martin-shares-photo-of-chopper-for-indian-navy/story-fH5W76IeSKlhUEllRWJbbK.html
04-12-2020||India||Army chief’s visit to Saudi Arabia, UAE signals India’s intention to boost security cooperation, say experts||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane’s upcoming visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) signals New Delhi’s intention to boost security cooperation amid the rapidly changing scenario in West Asia, experts and former diplomats said on Friday. The army chief is set to make a four-day visit to the two key West Asian powers from December 6 against the backdrop of the UAE, Bahrain and Sudan normalising relations with Israel. Commentators said this is possibly the first visit to Saudi Arabia by an Indian Army chief. India has welcomed the normalisation of ties between Arab states such as the UAE and Israel, saying such moves are in line with its efforts to back peace and development in West Asia, which is part of the country’s “extended neighbourhood”. Zikrur Rahman, a former envoy to Palestine who also served several stints in Saudi Arabia, described the upcoming visit as a “good beginning” that signals India’s desire to upgrade the security relationship with both West Asian states. It is in line with the decision by India and Saudi Arabia during Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s visit last year to create a strategic partnership council to monitor ties. Also read | Revival of US navy formation focused on Indian Ocean, partnership with India: US Official“The Saudis are now acting to boost their own national interests and the visit will be an opportunity for India to convey our own narrative on matters such as the border situation with China. It could even help to ensure that China is sidelined,” Rahman said, referring to the Saudi leadership’s openness to economic ties with China. “The West was never in favour of ties with China and Saudi Arabia has remained in that bloc. Besides, this trip will allow India to focus on defence cooperation and ways to strengthen matters such as intelligence-sharing,” he said. Both Rahman and Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the Indian Army chief’s visit had to be seen in the context of Israel’s growing ties with Arab states and Iran’s efforts to position itself as a key player in West Asia. “The Saudis have concerns about Iran – such as Iran’s recent agreement with China – and feel their leadership is under threat because of recent developments related to Israel but they will insist on a solution for the Palestine issue. Such a visit from India could also be a way to mount pressure on Pakistan to not get closer to Iran,” Rahman said. “The regional dynamics are rapidly changing and even Pakistan has moved away from Saudi Arabia and the UAE and tried to form an alternative Islamic front with Malaysia and Turkey,” Patil said. “This visit sends multiple signals to multiple players.” Patil also pointed to reports of mediation by the Saudi and UAE leadership during last year’s India-Pakistan standoff triggered by the Pulwama suicide bombing and said New Delhi’s defence and security cooperation with Arab states has so far focused largely on counter-terrorism, including sharing of information on Pakistan-based terror groups. The upcoming visit could be seen as part of India’s efforts to broad-base security ties to include more military exchanges and exercises, Patil said. “An obvious outcome will be a reciprocal visit by the Saudi Army chief,” he added. India and Saudi Arabia signed an MoU on defence cooperation in 2014 and both sides are exploring the possibility of joint production and joint exercises, particularly joint naval drills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-s-visit-to-saudi-arabia-uae-signals-india-s-intention-to-boost-security-cooperation-say-experts/story-bzM01ddX0VINxEEbwasD9H.html
04-12-2020||India||SP wrests teachers’ seat from BJP in legislative council poll in Varanasi||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered a setback in its stronghold Varanasi on Friday as the Samajwadi Party wrested the teachers’ constituency seat from it in the election to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council.Varanasi is also the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Samajwadi Party candidate Lal Bihari Yadav won the Varanasi division teachers’ seat defeating Dr Pramod Kumar Mishra of the Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (Om Prakash Sharma group) and pushing incumbent MLC Chetnarayan Singh of the BJP to the third place. Chetnarayan Singh had won the seat in the last two elections.Assistant election officer Navneet Singh Chahal handed over the certificate to Lal Bihari declaring him the winner of the Varanasi teachers’ constituency seat.While Lal Bihari polled 7,766 votes, Mishra got 6,830 votes. BJP candidate Chetnarayan Singh polled 4,858 votes. The Varanasi division teachers’ seat had witnessed 68.83% polling on December 1.Among the other candidates, Krishna Mohan Yadav polled 1,621 votes, Dr Jitendra Singh Patel 783, Dharmendra Kumar 191, Dr Fareed Ansari 169, Dr Brijesh 530, Rajni 527, Ranesh Singh 1973, Rajendra Pratap Singh 1,444 and Sanjay Kumar Singh 1,001 votes.The counting of votes began in Varanasi on Thursday morning. A total of 12 candidates tried their luck for the teachers’ constituency here.Legislative Council elections were held for a total of 11 seats (six teachers’ constituencies and five graduates’ constituencies) across Uttar Pradesh on December 1.Voters for these polls are spread across several districts and many assembly segments. In teachers’ constituencies, government teachers of class 10 and above register themselves as voters while in graduate constituency polls, all graduates who graduated three years before the polling date, are voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-wrests-teachers-seat-from-bjp-in-legislative-council-poll-in-varanasi/story-VP38tkriTOJ6vd3TFD5mkL.html
04-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petition in Supreme Court asking for removal of protesting farmers at Delhi border and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesFarmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat: Petition filed in Supreme CourtA petition seeking immediate removal or dispersal of the mass gathering of farmers at Delhi borders has been submitted to the Supreme Court on Friday as the farmers’ ongoing protest entered its 9th day. Read MoreCentre has no Covid-19 vaccine roadmap for poor, says Congress after all-party meetIn an all-party meet on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India’s vaccination programme against Covid-19 would begin as soon as scientists engaged in developing vaccines give a go-ahead. Read MoreMamata Banerjee speaks to protesting farmers; sends emissary to meet them at Singhu borderWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee spoke to the representatives of the farmers protesting against contentious farm laws and sent an emissary to meet them at the Delhi-Haryana border on Friday. Read MoreMEA summons Canadian envoy over PM Trudeau’s remarks on farmers’ protestIndia on Friday summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him that remarks by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers on the farmers’ protest had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The move signalled India’s ire over remarks by the Canadian leadership that have been perceived in New Delhi as interference in the country’s internal affairs. Read MoreWait, what? Milind Soman makes jaws drop as he nails a headstand in the backdrop of Mount EverestWhile we find it hard to leave our cosy blankets and work from home cuddled before our laptop and computer screens, Milind Soman is making jaws drop at his swoon-worthy workout in the backdrop of Mount Everest. Setting travel and fitness goals soaring higher this Friday. Read MorePotato sack but make it fashion? Looks like potato sack pants are the new trendWith 2020 approaching its end, if you thought that you’d seen it all, then think again. Here is a new funny fashion trend that will most probably make you scratch your head and say, “What?”. But don’t just take our word for it. Check out these potato sack pants for yourself to see if they’re ‘apeeling’ or if they make you want to say, “Thank you, next”. Read MoreArshad Warsi on Munna Bhai 3: ‘I don’t think it is going to happen, you all should go to Rajkumar Hirani’s home and threaten him’Actor Arshad Warsi gave Bollywood one of its most iconic characters of all time, Circuit, with Munna Bhai MBBS and Lage Raho Munna Bhai. However, it looks like we have already seen the last of Circuit and his tapori antics. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Arshad said that the chances for a Munna Bhai 3 are bleak at best.Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petition-in-supreme-court-asking-for-removal-of-protesting-farmers-at-delhi-border-and-all-the-latest-news/story-twkrn656UUvtvsoGSErhVO.html
04-12-2020||India||In new policy, Jharkhand to tap private investment for boosting tourism||Jharkhand has drafted a new tourism policy focusing more on private investment, employment, tourism promotion and education.In a bid to attract investment to develop tourism, the policy has proposed a 30% subsidy on total capital investment for developing any tourism facilities in Jharkhand, officials said on Friday. Besides, the policy also aims to generate employment for around one lakh people in the sector through short-term and long-term planning.The draft policy was submitted to chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday evening and it got approval in-principle. After inclusion of CM’s suggestions in the draft policy, it will be forwarded to the state cabinet for final approval, said tourism director A Dodde.Jharkhand had announced its first ever tourism policy in 2015. However, it failed to attract investments. The Soren government which came to power last year, decided to revise the policy and make it more attractive.Dodde said, “We have offered 30% flat subsidy or Rs 10 crore, which is lower, on capital investment for developing tourism facilities such as hotels, parks, resorts or others in the state. The subsidy will be 35% for developing the same in tribal districts.”He said 2015 policy failed to fetch desired results, as it hardly drew investments. “So, we made it more attractive for private investors,” he said.The federation of Jharkhand chamber of commerce and industries (FJCCI) has welcomed the subsidy initiative of the government. “Investors basically want safety, security and incentive. I believe the subsidy initiative will attract the private investors in the tourism sector,” said Shailesh Agarwal, sub-committee (tourism) chairman of FJCCI.The tourism director said the policy was drafted after studying the tourism policies of various states including Gujarat, Rajasthan and Kerala. “This would be one of the best policies of the country,” he said.Even though tourists’ inflow has increased manifolds since the state’s inception in November 2000, safety and security of tourists have been a major issue in the state due to left wing extremism in some ports of the state.In 2000, when Jharkhand came into being, just 4.53 lakh tourists, including 3,111 foreigners, visited the state. But the number rose to 3.55 crore in 2018-19 including 1.76 lakh foreign tourists. Chief minister Soren asked the officials to develop a tourist tracking system and documentation of places of tourists’ interest. “The system will help monitor tourists’ safety and security and it will also guide them where to visit during their journey,” Dodde said.Geo-tagging and demarcation of tourism destinations are also being done. The demarcation of tourist places would help the people who want to conduct film shoots or events. The department is also working on a single window system for tourism so that people could get all the information or formalities from one spot, officials said.Dodde said the hospitality and tourism sectors have immense potential to generate employment. “We are targeting to create 75,000 to one lakh employments in the sectors in coming years,” he said.On the lines of the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM), a Food Craft Institute at Deoghar has also been proposed in the draft policy, which will offer certificate, diploma and degree courses.The draft policy also mentions various tourism circuits such as religious, eco, cultural, rural, adventure, film and mining.Pradip Dasgupta, a tourist from West Bengal who visited Hundru falls in Ranchi on Friday, said, “Security, proper information and well managed tourist places are the basic things that attract tourists. In Jharkhand, there are very few places which provide all these. I think tourism department should work on this line.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-policy-jharkhand-to-tap-private-investment-for-boosting-tourism/story-ljP9F02DcTcpCHKDiAiAbP.html
04-12-2020||India||Amarinder Singh behaving like BJP CM, says Manish Sisodia||Hitting out at Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for speaking on the lines of Bharatiya Janata Party over the ongoing farmers’ protest, AAP leader Manish Sisodia on Friday alleged that the former is behaving like a BJP Chief Minister.Sisodia’s response comes a day after Singh met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the “economy of the state and also posing a serious danger to national security”.Speaking to ANI, Sisodia said, “Captain Amarinder Singh met BJP leaders yesterday and is now defending BJP. He is saying that the farmers’ agitation is a danger to national security. The Punjab Chief Minister is behaving like a BJP Chief Minister. He is speaking on the lines of BJP.Also Read | Hope govt will meet demands, else farmers’ protest will continue, says BKU leader TikaitSingh, during a brief interaction with media, after his meeting with Shah had said that while he and his government were not involved in mediation in any way and the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, “an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country”.A large number of farmers, mostly from Punjab, have gathered in and around Delhi in protest against the three farm laws, passed in the Monsoon Session of Parliament in September.The Centre is scheduled to hold the fifth round of talks with the representatives of farmers on December 5.On Thursday, the farmers held the fourth round of talks with the Centre, during which, they said the government talked of some amendments to the farm laws.Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said the government has given assurance concerning minimum support price. “It seems that their stand over MSP will be fine. The talks have made little progress,” Tikait said.Meanwhile, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind.”The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions is held on Saturday,” the minister said.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-behaving-like-bjp-cm-says-manish-sisodia/story-pzAQsyz1Is8hpMOm40zpAL.html
04-12-2020||India||In Rajasthan, 1 million people pay ₹14.03 cr in fines for violating Covid norms in 8 months||More than one million people have been fined in Rajasthan for violating guidelines issued to contain Covid-19 and more than ₹14 crore has been collected from them as fine since March, according to the police department’s dada. Between March 22 and December 3, 1,005,000 people have been fined for not wearing masks and ₹14.31 crore has been collected from them. Those fined include 353,000 people not wearing masks at public places, 14,135 shopkeepers not wearing masks while selling products, 2,831 spitting in public places, 600 drinking alcohol at public places and 637,000 people not maintaining safe physical distance, the data shows. The top five districts with the highest number of violations are Udaipur (75,349), Jaipur city (73,316), Bhilwara (66,759), Jhalawar (58,770) and Bhiwadi (51,230). Those drinking alcohol in public places are fined ₹500. Shopkeepers and vendors selling products without wearing masks are fined ₹500 and the same amount is collected from people without masks in public places. Those found not maintaining a distance of six feet from another person and spitting in public are fined ₹100. The figures show that during this period 31,729 preventive arrests were made under section 151 of CrPC, 6964 were arrested for risking contagion and 256 were arrested for spreading fake messages. Most of the people arrested under section 151 of CrPC were roaming in the markets without any reason during the lockdown or areas where curfew had been imposed. A total of 6,964 people held for risking contagion were booked under section Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. Anyone who disobeys orders promulgated by public servants which causes or tends to cause obstruction, annoyance or injury, or risk of obstruction, annoyance or injury, can be arrested under section 188 of IPC. Director general of police ML Lather said that for the prevention of coronavirus infection in the state, it is necessary to comply with the health protocol and all the provisions. “Effective action is being taken by the Rajasthan police under the Rajasthan Epidemic Ordinance applicable in the state for prevention of infection of corona as well as all other provisions,” Lather said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rajasthan-1-million-people-pay-14-03-cr-in-fines-for-violating-covid-norms-in-8-months/story-BbOa1ivMkGu4Tb5VB6bE1M.html
04-12-2020||India||Lakshadweep administrator and former intelligence bureau director Dineshwar Sharma dies; PM Modi pays tribute||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tribute to Lakshadweep administrator Dineshwar Sharma, who passed away today.“Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma Ji made long lasting contributions to India’s policing and security apparatus. He handled many sensitive counter terror and insurgency ops during his policing career. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma Ji made long lasting contributions to India’s policing and security apparatus. He handled many sensitive counter terror and insurgency ops during his policing career. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti.Home minister Amit Shah said he is deeply anguished after learning about the passing away of Sharma.“Deeply anguished to learn about the passing away of Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma ji. He served the nation with utmost devotion as a dedicated officer of the Indian Police Service. My heartfelt condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. Deeply anguished to learn about the passing away of Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma ji. He served the nation with utmost devotion as a dedicated officer of the Indian Police Service. My heartfelt condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti.A Kerala Cadre IPS Officer, Sharma joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1979. He joined the Intelligence Bureau as Assistant Director in January 1991.During his service, Sharma handled a number of assignments including counter insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast.He was also appointed an interlocutor for Jammu and Kashmir in 2017. In this role, he held dialogues with the elected representatives, various organisations and concerned individuals in Jammu and Kashmir.Sharma was awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal for the meritorious service in 1997 followed by the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laskhadweep-administrator-and-former-intelligence-bureau-director-dineshwar-sharma-dies-pm-modi-pays-tribute/story-1WLok60iyNZnoONvfNWaHI.html
04-12-2020||India||As farmers continue protest, help arrives in form of volunteers, doctors and mechanics||While farmers continue their protest at the Tikri border, what’s sustaining them is continued support from volunteers from states like Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and UP who are supplying vegetables, milk, and ration to them.Among the 150-odd volunteers who have come together under the banner of Jamidar Chattar Sabha is Meet Mann. A resident of Charkhi Dadri, Mann, and the other volunteers unload 7,800 litres of lassi and 2,000 litres of milk from a pick-up vehicle and go on to distribute them among the farmers.Talking to HT, Mann said they have been providing essential commodities to protesting farmers for seven days now. “Our volunteers have been providing langar, tea, halwa, kheer, milk and lassi to the farmers during the day. In the evening, we send some of our volunteers to villages to organise milk, vegetables, lassi and other commodities for the next morning. For their dinner, farmers take vegetables and ration from us,” he added. Helping them in their endeavour are farmers, students, social organisations and khaps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-farmers-continue-protest-help-arrives-in-form-of-volunteers-doctors-even-mechanics/story-vnBMTGp9sil0oslqVUsUVM.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers blocking essential services, increasing Covid-19 threat: Petition filed in Supreme Court||A petition seeking immediate removal or dispersal of the mass gathering of farmers at Delhi borders has been submitted to the Supreme Court on Friday as the farmers’ ongoing protest entered its 9th day. The petitioner said the gathering leading to closure of many routes is blocking essential supply to the city, apart from apprehending the it can lead to community transmission of Covid-19.“It is pertinent to note that in view of the prevention of the community spread of the pandemic disease Coronavirus, it is very necessary to remove the gathering,” the plea said. “This protest is further blocking the roads for all emergency/medical services which are very much required to be supplied with the territory of Delhi in order to stop the spread of coronavirus as the cases of coronavirus patients are increasing rapidly in Delhi and many people were frequently travelling to Delhi from different states to get treatment in big government hospitals situated in Delhi,” the petition further added.As another round of talks between farmer representatives and Union ministers are scheduled to be held on December 5, the protest is going on, though agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday urged the farmers to withdraw their protests. The public interest litigation, filed by advocate Om Prakash Parihar, said the protesters should be shifted to some other place and they should be made to abide by Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“Though the Police has allotted a dedicated place for the protestors to protest peacefully, the protesters are not shifting/moving to the allotted place and in order to create trouble for the commuters they have blocked the borders. Furthermore, owing to their large number of protestors, the police is not able to control such a large gathering,” the PIL said.Security personnel at border points - Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur - stand guard, as the ongoing protests entered their ninth day on Friday.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police suggested alternative routes to commuters entering or exiting the city.Security personnel remained deployed at Singhu, Tikri, Chilla and Ghazipur border points as farmers continued their protests on Friday. Several routes in and around the Capital are closed on Friday and vehicles are allowed in some other routes under restrictions.The Delhi Traffic Police on Twitter informed commuters about the closure of Singhu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. National Highway-44 is also closed on both sides. Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway-24 too are shut. Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for any traffic movement while Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeking-removal-of-protesting-farmers-from-delhi-because-of-covid-19-situation/story-xBruHEMTaBikJQ10muFalK.html
04-12-2020||India||Woman and her 2 children vanish from a train in West Bengal, probe begins||A 24-year-old woman, Puja Jha, a resident of Samastipur, has gone missing along with her three-year-old daughter and two-year-old son from the Tata Nagar bound Chhapra-Tata Festival Express, when the train was passing through West Bengal on Thursday. She was travelling on the train with her husband in a sleeper coach.Puja’s phone is switched off and her relatives have approached the railway GRP. The incident yet again raised questions on the security of passengers travelling in trains. “The family boarded the train from the Samastipur railway station on the evening of December 2 in a sleeper compartment. The husband says he was woken up by cries for help from his wife and kids but could not find them in the coach.The husband of the missing woman then filed a complaint with the Government Railway Police (GRP) at Tata Nagar railway station after a rigorous search was conducted for his wife and children, police said. Sandip Kumar Jha, a native of Madhubani district who works in a private company at Jugsalai (Tata) in Jharkhand, said he suspected his wife and children had been abducted because they went missing with two luggage bags containing cash, ATM cards, gold ornaments and cell phones.Sandip complaint filed with the Tata Nagar Railway station GRP was transferred to Asansol GRP. Officers of Tata Nagar GRP were not ready to comment on the possible reasons for the woman and her children’s disappearance.Also Read: Auto driver, accomplice held for raping mentally-ill woman in Ludhiana  According to Sandip, the family together had dinner at around 8.30 pm when the train was passing through Barauni Junction before they went to sleep. Sandip says he was travelling on berth number 39 while his wife was on berth number 32. “Everything was fine and there is no reason for her to vanish like this on her own. I am sure she was abducted,” said Sandip.The couple were married on April 22, 2016. Asansol GRP officials said they had started a probe and were in touch with their counterparts in Jharkhand. They, however, didn’t rule out a possible theory that the woman could have deboarded with her children at Asansol Junction on her own.“The information with the photos of missing persons has already been sent to all the stations in the route. Our officers are exploring all possible angles but cannot say right now whether it is a case of abduction,” said Niladri Chakraborty, superintendent of rail police (Howrah).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-and-her-2-children-vanish-from-a-train-in-west-bengal-probe-begins/story-nr77NGJpFRbJN4BfUFz6FL.html
04-12-2020||India||Hope govt will meet demands, else farmers’ protest will continue, says BKU leader Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the farmers are hoping that the government will meet their demands during the fifth round of talks scheduled on December 5, failing which they will continue their protests against the new farm laws.“The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed.  If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday’s meeting,” Tikait told PTI.Click here for live updates on farmers’ protestsDelhi’s border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states held demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day, after talks between three union ministers and a representative group of agitating farmers failed to yield any resolution on Thursday.The two sides are scheduled to meet on Saturday again.The farmer community has expressed apprehension that the new laws are “anti-farmer”, and would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.       However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-govt-will-meet-demands-else-farmers-protest-will-continue-says-bku-leader-tikait/story-VL9QRGHDYkBAP0mpHL18eN.html
04-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh: Man arrested for killing ailing mother to implicate rivals||A man was on Thursday arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district for allegedly killing his 65-year-old ailing mother to avoid her treatment and implicate his rivals for her murder, investigators said on Friday.Police said Javitri Kushwah was found dead on November 28 and prompted them to lodge a murder case. Gayaram Kushwah, her son, told police he suspected the role of two villagers in the murder even as the investigators found his statement incoherent. He eventually confessed to having killed his mother to also implicate the two villagers.Also read | Bihar man lynched after shooting cousin dead over Rs20,000 loanJaiveer Singh Bhaduaria, a police officer, said the 65-year-old was ailing and bedridden. “Gayaram strangulated her in an intoxicated state on November 27 night,” he said. “Another motive behind the murder was Gayaram wanted to extort money from his rivals, the two villagers whom he wanted to implicate in the murder case. Earlier, he had accused these two villagers of kidnapping his daughter about four years back. Later, he extorted lakhs of rupees from them in the name of settling the case.”Bhaduria said the accused said his mother was already dying given her ailing condition. “Hence, he strangulated her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-man-arrested-for-killing-ailing-mother-to-implicate-rivals/story-zH8oILZv7v0u210lAuTVAO.html
04-12-2020||India||1,850 sensitive polling booths in Kerala in local body polls||As the crucial civic body polls are just days away in Kerala, the State Election Commission (SEC) has categorised 1,850 polling booths as ‘sensitive’ and decided to introduce a webcasting facility to keep a watch on the poll proceedings there.The booths, located in all the 14 districts of the southern state, were identified as sensitive based on the report of police chief Loknath Behera and State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran gave directions for webcasting, a SEC statement said here.The politically volatile Kannur, the north Kerala district which had once witnessed several political murders and clashes between political parties especially between CPI(M) and BJP, has the highest number of sensitive booths-785 while Pathanamthitta has the lowest- 5.While Thiruvananthapuram district has 180 sensitive booths, Malappuam has100, Kozhikode (120), Palakkad (182), Kasaragod (100), Wayanad (152) and so on.Comparatively, the northern districts have the highest number of sensitive booths.Meanwhile, the poll proceedings would be videographed in the sensitive booths, identified jointly by the district election officers, district police chiefs and city police commissioners, the SEC said.The videography facility would be installed in such booths, where there is no webcasting, and it would be conducted at the expense of the Election Commission.Either candidates or political parties can seek videography at their own expense in booths where there is no videography or webcasting, the Commission said adding that they can ask permission from the district polling officials for the same.A total of 74,899 candidates including 36,305 women and one transgender, are trying their luck in the upcoming local body polls, which is considered the curtain-raiser for the Assembly polls due next year.Malappuram district has 8,387 candidates, the highest in the state, while Wayanad has the lowest at 1,857.While the first phase of the three-tier poll, scheduled on December 8, would cover the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki, the second phase is on December 10.It would be held in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad while Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod would go to the polls in the third and final phase on December 14.An electorate of over 2.76 crore would exercise their franchise to elect representatives to 941 gram panchayats, 152 block panchayats, 14 district panchayats, 86 municipalities and six municipal corporations.The votes would be counted on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-850-sensitive-polling-booths-in-kerala-in-local-body-polls/story-P28MpKhhA0DBlZhmEO5mVM.html
04-12-2020||India||Delhi govt tells healthcare facilities to submit workers data for Covid-19 vaccination||The Delhi government has begun the process of enrolment of healthcare workers of different hospitals, nursing homes and other facilities for Covid-19 vaccination. For uploading data a link has been provided on the website of the Delhi State Health Mission, according to a public notice published in a national daily.Hundreds of healthcare workers (HCWs) at government and private facilities in Delhi had contracted the novel coronavirus, and many more are still getting affected by it.“Delhi government is enrolling healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination. Many registered nursing homes and hospitals have already submitted data, along with many smaller unregistered clinics,” the notice said.The Delhi government invites all those remaining healthcare facilities to submit the names of healthcare workers in their institutions, nursing homes, clinics and OPDs, it said.Healthcare workers include medical and paramedical staff, supporting, security and administrative staff of all allopathic, dental, AYUSH, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings, the notice said.According to Union Health Ministry officials, the anti-coronavirus vaccine, once available, would be distributed under a special Covid-19 inoculation programme, using processes, technology and network of the existing Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP).The government has initiated preparations for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine upon its availability and as part of it, one of the activities is creating a database of healthcare workers who will be prioritised for coronavirus vaccine.Also, the Centre in a letter to states and union territories has said MBBS and BDS doctors as well as interns, staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives and pharmacists would be considered as potential vaccinators, for carrying out the drive, provided that they are actively involved in day-to-day provision of clinical care and have experience in administering injections.Delhi recorded 3,734 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday with over 70,000 tests being conducted for the second consecutive day, even as the positivity rate dipped to 4.96 per cent, authorities said.The Thursday health bulletin said that the total number of cases has climbed to 5,82,058, while the recovery rate stood at over 93 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-tells-healthcare-facilities-to-submit-workers-data-for-covid-19-vaccination/story-vkxbxzHJKDYmM99fumBrCI.html
04-12-2020||India||India begins talks with Luxembourg firm on cold chain for Covid vaccine||Two top officials of the Luxembourg-headquartered B Medical Systems will arrive in New Delhi over the weekend to initiate talks with senior government officials, scientists and diplomats on setting up a cold chain for Covid-19 vaccines in the country. The firm is looking at setting up a plant in the country with its Indian partners to supply specialised refrigerated vaccine transportation boxes and freezers.The cold chain is counted among the biggest challenges in the logistics of reaching the coronavirus vaccine to people across the country.The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine shots, the first vaccine cleared for use by any government, need to be stored at minus 70 degrees Celsius (-94 F) or below. Moderna’s vaccine has to be kept at minus 20 degrees Celsius for shipping and longer-term storage of up to six months, but it can be kept at regular refrigeration temperatures for up to 10 days, according to a Reuters report.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has indicated that India may not go for the Pfizer vaccine but will wait a few weeks more for one that is made in the country. “The world is looking at a cheap but effective vaccine against Covid-19. The world is looking at India,” he said.Officials said price is one factor. Another is the logistics of delivery. PM Modi told the all party meeting that the government was looking into the storage and transportation logistics of the vaccine.Officials said the logistics challenge of the vaccine had figured in PM Modi’s conversation with the Prime Minister of Luxembourg Xavier Bettel last month who offered help to set up a vaccine cold chain via B Medical Systems.B Medical Systems chief executive officer Luc Provost and deputy chief executive officer Jesal Doshi are arriving in the country on Saturday and will hold meetings with top officials of NITI Aayog and the ministries of health and external affairs over the next two days beginning Sunday.They will then travel to Hyderabad, Pune and Ahmedabad for meetings with the three companies that are working on India’s top candidates for the Covid vaccine; Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech and Pune’s Serum Institute of India and Ahmedabad’s Zydus Biotech Park.B Medical Systems, which has the technology to store vaccines at minus 80 degree Celsius, intends to eventually build a plant in Gujarat. But this will take time and in the interim, the company is expected to import boxes that can be used to transport vaccines as soon as production starts.In September, the company website says, it had partnered with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to donate equipment for the storage of critical Covid-19 vaccines to a Mumbai hospital where clinical trials were being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-talks-with-luxembourg-firm-on-cold-chain-for-covid-vaccine/story-rjwEPOQudBc9tjf6jeo43H.html
04-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 active caseload further dips to 4.35% of total cases: Health ministry||India’s Covid-19 active caseload has fallen to comprise 4.35 per cent of the total coronavirus infections reported so far from 4.44 per cent on Thursday, the Union health ministry said.Continuing with the trend of the last seven days, the country has also reported more daily recoveries than daily new cases in a span of 24 hours, it said on Friday.The trend of more daily recoveries than daily cases has led to a continuous contraction of India’s active caseload which stands at 4,16,082 as on date, the ministry said.While 36,595 persons in India were found to be infected with Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours, 42,916 new recoveries were registered during the same period, it said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“The difference of 6,321 between new recoveries and new cases has led to a net decline of 6,861 cases from the total active caseload in a day,” the ministry said.  India still continues to have one of the lowest cases per million population in the world (6,936), much lower than many other countries of the western hemisphere, it said. The recoveries have surged to 90,16,289 pushing the national recovery rate to 94.2 per cent as on date.   “The gap between recoveries and active cases is steadily increasing and presently, stands at 86,00,207,” the ministry said.  It said that 80.19 per cent of the new recovered cases were contributed by 10 states and union territories (UTs). Maharashtra leads with 8,066 persons recovering from Covid-19 while Kerala recorded 5,590 recoveries. Delhi registered another 4,834 daily recoveries. Ten states and UTs have contributed 75.76 per cent of the new cases. Kerala reported 5,376 cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra registered 5,182 new cases on Thursday, while Delhi recorded 3,734 new cases. In a span of 24 hours, 540 case fatalities have been reported. The ministry said that 77.78 per cent of them are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra reported 115 deaths which was 21.29 per cent of the new fatalities. Delhi saw a fatality count of 82, while West Bengal reported 49 new deaths.  When compared globally, India has one of the lowest case fatalities per million population at 101. India’s total coronavirus cases mounted to 95,71,559 with 36,595 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,39,188 with 540 new fatalities, ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-active-caseload-further-dips-to-4-35-of-total-cases-health-ministry/story-jGXo1KSLyhQ3uE6qQ2MuAJ.html
04-12-2020||India||Centre has no Covid-19 vaccine roadmap for poor, says Congress after all-party meet||In an all-party meet on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India’s vaccination programme against Covid-19 would begin as soon as scientists engaged in developing vaccines give a go-ahead. However, the Congress alleged that the government has no roadmap for the poor population of the country, or people who are not frontline workers. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the the government is reiterating that those who need vaccination will get vaccine. “But who’s going to decide this? No plan was discussed how the vaccine will be given to the poor,” Chowdhury said.This comes amid confusion over how many people the government plans to vaccinate. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has recently said that the government never spoke about vaccinating the entire country. Director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research Balram Bhargava also said that if a critical mass of people is identified and vaccinated that helps break the virus transmission, then there will be no need to vaccinate the entire population.According to centre’s plan, initially 30 crore frontline workers will be vaccinated against the Covid-19. “Priority in this (vaccination) will be given to the healthcare workers involved in treating Covid-19 patients, frontline workers and old people suffering from serious conditions,” PM Modi said during Friday’s meeting.“Our scientists are very confident of succeeding in their endeavour of developing a vaccine against Covid-19. There are names of vaccines from different countries doing the rounds in the market, but the world is keeping a watch on having the cheapest and safest vaccine. That is why, it is natural that the world is watching India,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-no-vaccine-roadmap-for-poor-says-congress-after-all-party-meet/story-P8J6baRNGm6SG12fOP1idK.html
04-12-2020||India||Next year Budget to be prudent; growth oriented, says RBI Governor||With the Budget-making exercise in full swing, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said Budget 2021-22 is expected to be prudent and growth oriented. Das before donning the hat of RBI Governor was a career bureaucrat and was directly involved in crafting of about 10 Budgets for the country including one in the aftermath of global financial meltdown in different capacities at the Finance Ministry. In view of unprecedented pandemic and its impact on the economy, he said the government has maintained fiscal prudence in the response to deal with the crisis. “Naturally when we are recovering from a massive damage which pandemic has brought on the Indian economic, the budget has to be growth oriented. And also, let us keep in mind that during this year also, all the fiscal measures which the government has announced, I think has been very well calibrated very well targeted, and they have been very prudently drawn out,” he said during interaction with the media after the policy announcement. In fact, at the beginning of the pandemic, there was worry that the government’s fiscal deficit will go haywire, he said, adding it has not gone beyond control.“I think the response of the government (so far) has been very calibrated and prudent. So, the budget next year also I expect to be very prudent but naturally, it has to be a growth oriented budget. That is something which is bound to happen. It’s a no-brainer. It has to be a good supporting budget,” he said. While unveiling fifth bi-monthly monetary policy review, Das said the economy is recuperating faster than anticipated and growth rate is likely to turn positive in the second half of the current financial year. In the year as whole, the economy is likely to contract by 7.5 per cent, which is an improvement over Reserve Bank’s previous projection of 9.5 per cent contraction, the Governor said. The economy contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Observing that the prospects of growth have brightened with the progress on the vaccine front, Das said, the economy was likely to record a growth of 0.1 per cent in Q3 and 0.7 per cent in Q4. “Data that have become available for Q3:2020-21 confirm that the economy is recuperating faster than anticipated and more sectors are joining the multi-speed upturn that I had highlighted in my statement in October,” Das added. The finance ministry has already started the exercise to prepare the annual Budget for 2021-22 from October 16. It will be the third budget of the Modi 2.0 government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The budget will have to address critical issues pertaining to growth contraction and subdued revenue collection triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. The Budget 2021-22 is likely to be presented on February 1. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the Budget at the end of February. The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the preponement of the Budget, ministries are now allocated their budgeted funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-year-budget-to-be-prudent-growth-oriented-says-rbi-governor/story-NLP0nyjrJsV5GoqSjJOIHJ.html
04-12-2020||India||Controversy over land allotment to NDRF near Amchang wildlife sanctuary in Assam||Assam’s forest department and environmentalists have opposed the allotment of 82-acre land to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) next to Amchang Wildlife Sanctuary on the outskirts of Guwahati. The sanctuary is home to nearly 50 wild elephants, deer, leopards, jungle cats, and other species. The land surrounds the sanctuary on three sides and is frequented by elephants and other species.Also read | Ahead of assembly polls, Assam launches scheme to give Rs830 per month to 2.2 million poor familiesA military station close to the sanctuary has reported problems due to wild elephants and forest officials believe the NDRF’s construction next to it for one of its battalions will lead to more human-elephant conflict.Activist Rohit Choudhury wrote to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday seeking cancellation of the allotment. He said the agency should be allotted an alternative plot away from the sanctuary.In his letter, Choudhury cited communication by forest department officials indicating how construction activity by NDRF at the plot would hurt wildlife and lead to human-animal conflicts.“As evident from the correspondences of the Assam forest department, it is crystal clear that land allotted to NDRF is crucial for wildlife conservation as it is home to several species of wild animals including the Indian elephant,” Choudhury wrote.“The plot... is located next to the government land... [and is] to be a deemed forest with an average of 250 teak trees with girth class of 30-100 cm,” the local range officer wrote to Guwahati’s divisional forest officer last month and added the area falls under the eco-sensitive zone of the sanctuary.The All-Assam Students Union has also opposed the allotment of land to NDRF and urged the state government to reconsider the move.Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya said he was unaware of the exact nature of the issue.NDRF officials were unavailable for comments as they were reportedly busy in meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/controversy-over-land-allotment-to-ndrf-near-amchang-wildlife-sanctuary-in-assam/story-pqqx0IdLQLhKSmdwLYDZ5H.html
04-12-2020||India||Over 1,500kg of explosives, 6,000 detonators seized in Meghalaya; 6 arrested||Police in Meghalaya have seized 1,575kg of explosives, 6,000 detonators and 16 rolls of fuse wire and arrested six persons. According to a press release, police intercepted a vehicle at Kongong in East Jaintia Hills district following a tip-off on Wednesday evening and recovered 250kg of explosives (in 2,000 gelatin sticks), 1,000 live detonators and 8 rolls of fuse wire. Two persons in the vehicles were arrested and based on information from them, police nabbed the other four. Interrogation of those arrested persons led to the recovery of another 1,275 kg of explosives, 5,000 detonators and 8 more rolls of fuse wire from a place in Khliehriat. Police have registered a case under various sections of IPC and Explosives Act and are conducting further investigations to know about the source of the explosives and their final destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-500kg-of-explosives-6-000-detonators-seized-in-meghalaya-6-arrested/story-zrKk3JI5ZsRGnQ6TTHFX7L.html
04-12-2020||India||Cash-strapped Pakistan seeks debt suspension till Covid-19 crisis gets over||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has requested the international community for debt suspension till the end of the coronavirus pandemic for low-income and most affected countries as well as cancellation of debt of least developed nations, according to a media report on Friday. Cash-strapped Pakistan’s economic woes have further worsened due to the coronavirus pandemic and Khan’s government is arranging finances from world bodies, including the International Monetary Fund, to tide over the crisis.Presenting a 10-point agenda for urgent action before the UN General Assembly special session on Covid-19 on Thursday, Khan underlined the measures the international community needs to take to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic, the Dawn newspaper reported.The first item on his list is a request for debt suspension till the end of the pandemic for low-income and most affected countries. The second one is “cancellation of debt of least developed countries” that are no longer in a position to repay their loans, it said.Other items on the agenda include restructuring of the public sector debt of other developing countries under an agreed inclusive multilateral framework; a general allocation of special drawing rights of USD 500 billion; expanded concessional financing to lower income countries through multilateral development banks; and creation of a new ‘liquidity and sustainability facility’, which should provide short-term loans at lower costs.The novel coronavirus has so far infected 410,072 people and claimed 8,260 lives in Pakistan. Addressing the session, Khan said the coronavirus pandemic is the most serious global crisis since the Second World War. Nearly 100 world leaders and several dozen ministers are participating in the two-day virtual UNGA special session that began on Thursday. Pakistan’s agenda also includes a reminder to rich nations to fulfill 0.7 per cent of their official development assistance commitments and mobilising the required USD 1.5 trillion annual investment in sustainable infrastructure. The prime minister also urged the international community to help meet the agreed target of mobilising USD 100 billion per year for climate action in developing countries, the report said. Khan also called for immediate action to stop the massive illicit financial outflows from developing countries to rich countries, to offshore tax havens. He also suggested immediate return of assets stolen by corrupt politicians and criminals back to these countries. Earlier in his opening remarks at the special session, UNGA President Volkan Bozkir said, “Today marks an overdue and much-needed moment of reckoning. None of us could have imagined, this time last year, what was to come.” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said “it is time to reset” the global response to crises like this. “As we build a strong recovery, we must seize the opportunity for change,” he added. The deadly virus has infected nearly 65 million people across the world and killed close to 1.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cash-strapped-pakistan-seeks-debt-suspension-till-covid-19-crisis-gets-over/story-1BqlDphBPwWC6q3xtKumfP.html
04-12-2020||India||Delhi HC grants bail to journalist Rajeev Sharma in espionage case||The Delhi High Court Friday granted bail to freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly leaking sensitive information to Chinese intelligence.Justice Yogesh Khanna granted the relief to Sharma on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and a surety of the like amount, which shall be given by him within a week once the trial court resumes its normal functioning.Sharma had sought statutory bail on the ground that the charge sheet was not filed within 60 days of his arrest.However, the trial court had held that in this case, the charge sheet can be filed within 90 days.The high court set aside the magisterial court’s order being “illegal” and said that in this case, the period for filing charge sheet would be 60 days.“The petitioner is thus entitled to default bail; the challan having not been filed within 60 days,” Justice Khanna said.Sharma, 61, was arrested on September 14 by the Delhi Police Special Cell which has claimed that he was “found to be in possession of some defence-related classified documents”. It has claimed that the other two accused in the case were paying Sharma large amounts of money, routed through shell companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-journalist-rajeev-sharma-in-espionage-case/story-Zl7LuQtoTevW2Pzz08dgcK.html
04-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi’s leadership lacks consistency, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has said Rahul Gandhi’s leadership has a “few problems” and lacks consistency even though he is likely to be reappointed as his party’s next president since Congress leaders and workers still have faith in the Nehru-Gandhi family’s leadership. In an interview with Marathi newspaper Lokmat’s YouTube channel, Pawar maintained Congress is the only alternative to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Among Congress leaders, the Gandhi-Nehru family still has high respect and they would want Rahul to lead the party. The acceptability of the leadership by others within the party is important. I would not like to talk about the internal affairs of any other party,” said Pawar. He criticised the BJP over its policies while calling on the Congress to bring like-minded parties together to build up a strong alternative to the ruling party at the Centre.Pawar quit the Congress in 1999 to form the NCP. The NCP has since been the Congress’s key ally since and the two parties have shared power in Maharashtra and at the Centre. The two parties are currently part of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government.Pawar said former US President Barack Obama has no business commenting upon the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, who stepped down as the Congress chief after the party dismal performance in the 2019 national elections. “I think Obama should have avoided such remarks. Any political leader should restrain from any comments about the leadership of other countries and the political outfits as a matter of political decency. Canada has issued a statement about the farmers’ protest in India and our central government has rightly given a reply to it.”In his memoir A Promised Land, Obama wrote Rahul Gandhi has “a nervous, unformed quality about him as if he were a student who’d done the coursework and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject”, according to a review in the New York Times.Pawar said it is high time for big parties like Congress to take the lead to bring other parties together to build an alternative to the BJP. “There are many parties that do not stand with the BJP’s policies and have been openly speaking against them. West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee has been taking the BJP head-on consistently. In such a scenario, Congress and the Left parties should come forward and join hands with leaders like Mamta by keeping the differences aside.”He said it could not happen because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “But I think it can happen during the forthcoming parliament session [in February].”Pawar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government does not believe in dialogue with the opposition parties. “Except for the meetings on Covid-19 pandemic, the central government never attempted to have a dialogue with other parties. This has never happened in history,” he said. Pawar said the Modi government should have had an effective dialogue with the agitating farmers on the contentious issues related to the farm laws passed in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-leadership-lacks-consistency-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar/story-XjBSZrxSkMOqOOvVo6hpYN.html
04-12-2020||India||CM Yediyurappa appeals to pro-Kannada outfits to give up Karnataka bandh plans on Saturday||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday made a fervent appeal to pro-Kannada organisations not to go for Karnataka bandh on Saturday against the formation of Maratha Development Authority (MDA).“I appeal to everyone including Vatal Nagaraj, not to trouble people with Karnataka Bandh. It is not required,” the Chief Minister told reporters in Bengaluru.Yediyurappa said he is making every effort to take all the communities along.He underlined that he is doing everything to give prominence to Kannada language.“I have already given prominence to Kannada and I am ready to do whatever is required to be done to make Kannada prominent,” the Chief Minister said.Various pro-Kannada organisations are up in arms against the formation of the Maratha Development Authority, which the Chief Minister had announced on November 14 and earmarked Rs 50 crore for the ‘overall development of Maratha people’.These organisations on Friday reaffirmed their resolve to hold the bandh on Saturday demanding that the government give up its decision to form the MDA.Vatal Nagaraj, who is leading the agitation, said in Bengaluru the agitation is for Kannada pride.“I want to tell Yediyurappa -- You withdraw the ‘Authority’ (MDA), I will garland you at the Vidhana Soudha.But don’t threaten us. We will not get scared of it,” Nagaraj said.He alleged that the government threatened various organisations using police to withdraw support to the bandh but it will not work.Film producer Sa Ra Govindu, various factions of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike including Praveen Shetty and T A Narayana Gowda, Ola-Uber drivers association and a few auto rickshaw unions have extended their support to the Bandh.However, government offices, hotels, bus services and metro services will remain open.In view of the bandh call, the police have beefed up security across the state to prevent any untoward incident and forcible closure of shops and commercial establishments.In Bengaluru, about 14,000 policemen will be deployed.The move to set up the MDA was seen as an attempt to woo Marathas who are dominant in Basava Kalyan in Bidar district, bordering with Maharashtra.Assembly by-election is due in Basava Kalyan following the death of the sitting Congress MLA B Narayan Rao due to coronavirus a few months ago.The decision led to the growing clamour for various other development authorities and development corporations.The government further announced the formation of Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation with a fund of Rs 500 crore.Basava Kalyan is an important pilgrimage for the people of Lingayat sect, as it was the ‘Karmabhoomi’ of the founder of the sect and 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara.Yet, these measures did not impress the pro-Kannada organisations.They want the government to withdraw the MDA for the reason that Marathis keep demanding secession of Belagavi district from Karnataka and merger with Maharashtra as the district has a sizeable Marathi population for being at the border of the two states.The Belagavi-based Maharasthra Ekikaran Samiti, which led the agitation for the merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra had even managed to send some of its members to the Karnataka Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yediyurappa-appeals-to-pro-kannada-outfits-to-give-up-karnataka-bandh-plans-on-saturday/story-FHxRdoAqvKtHnQhkBuInwL.html
04-12-2020||India||105-year-old woman casts vote in third phase of DDC elections in J-K||Braving the cold and chilly conditions, 105-year-old Ashyan Begum cast her vote in the third phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections underway in the Union Territory on Friday.She was brought to the polling booth by her son. Ashyan was the first person to cast vote at the polling booth of Saddeqi Mohallah in panchayat Lancha, block Thuroo in the district Reasi.Polling for the third phase of DDC elections underway in the Union Territory on Friday.According to the State Election Commission, a total of 48.62 per cent of people cast their vote in the second phase of the DDC election.“The overall voting percentage for the second phase of the elections has recorded a voter percentage of 48.62 per cent in Jammu and Kashmir. 65.54 per cent votes polled in Jammu division and 33.34 per cent votes polled in Kashmir division,” said KK Sharma, State Election Commissioner.The DDC election is being held in eight phases and will go on till December 19. The counting of votes will take place on December 22.Polling for 43 constituencies in the first phase of eight-phased District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir concluded with 51.76 per cent voter turnout, an election official said on Saturday.“A total of 43 constituencies--25 in Kashmir province and 18 in Jammu province-- went to the polls in the first phase of DDC elections. It was conducted in all 20 districts of UT. Of the 7 lakh voters in Jammu and Kashmir, 2,12,224 voted in Jammu province and 1,50,522 in Kashmir province. The voting percentage in Jammu division is 64.2 per cent and in Kashmir division, it is 40.65 per cent. Total voter turnout for the first phase of DDC elections is 51.76 per cent. Riyasi district of Jammu province recorded the highest 74.6 voting percentage,” said KK Sharma, State Election Commissioner during a press conference here.“Over 3,62,000 voters exercised their voting rights including over 1,93,000 males and over 1,69,000 females.”The elections are the first being held after the abrogation of Article 370 and the reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/105-year-old-woman-casts-vote-in-third-phase-of-ddc-elections-in-j-k/story-3jtKAjhnURbGiSBfWsAMAN.html
04-12-2020||India||MEA summons Canadian envoy over PM Trudeau’s remarks on farmers’ protest||India on Friday summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him that remarks by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers on the farmers’ protest had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The move signalled India’s ire over remarks by the Canadian leadership that have been perceived in New Delhi as interference in the country’s internal affairs. Trudeau triggered a diplomatic row on Tuesday when he told a Facebook video interaction organised to mark the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion, that his government had conveyed its concerns over the farmers’ protest to New Delhi. In a swift reaction hours after Trudeau’s comments, the external affairs ministry had dismissed them as “unwarranted”. Also Watch Guru Nanak Jayanati: Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, Justin Trudeau extend wishes On Friday, the Canadian high commissioner was summoned to the external affairs ministry and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation that said the “comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”, according to an official statement. “Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the statement said. The statement further said the comments by the Canadian leadership had “encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our high commission and consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security”. “We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism,” it added. During the Facebook interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger, Trudeau had said, “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends. “I know that’s a reality for many of you. Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” The virtual interaction was joined by Canadian ministers Navdeep Bains and Harjit Sajjan, lawmakers and prominent members of the Sikh community. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Trudeau’s comments were apparently aimed at Canada’s influential Indian-origin diaspora, particularly the Sikh community. Canada currently has 18 Sikh MPs, including 13 from Trudeau’s Liberal Party. Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the protest by Indian farmers, which the government is trying to end through talks with farmers’ leaders. The protest is aimed against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The comments weren’t viewed favourably in New Delhi because they came at a time when both India and Canada have been making efforts to restore normalcy to bilateral ties hit by Ottawa’s perceived softness on pro-Khalistan activists during Trudeau’s first term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-summons-canadian-envoy-over-pm-trudeau-s-remarks-on-farmers-protest/story-HrRuvW65KrzGUYduVJ918J.html
04-12-2020||India||India, Canada ties might suffer, MEA says objecting to Justin Trudeau’s comment of farmers’ protest||The ministry of external affairs on Friday summoned the Canadian high commissioner and said that the comments made by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and some other Cabinet ministers and Parliament members on the issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in India’s internal matters. In the press release that the ministry issued on its demarche to the Canadian envoy, it specifically mentioned the name of Justin Trudeau.“Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada,” the MEA said.“The comments have encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our High Commission and Consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security,” the ministry said. The ministry also said it expected the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders. It also expects Canadian political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism.As farmers are protesting the three recently passed agricultural laws which they fear will harm their interests in more than one way, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday expressed his concerns, a move many believe was aimed at Canada’s Indian-origin diaspora. Participating in a Facebook video interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger to mark Guruparb or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, Trudeau said he must recognise the “news coming out of India about the protest by farmers”. “The situation is concerning and we are all very worries about family and friends,” Trudeau said.The external affairs ministry termed Trudeau’s comments as “unwarranted”. “It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justin-trudeau-s-comment-on-farmers-protest-unacceptable-mea-tells-canada-high-commissioner/story-znqPSKbUBlVBDEBv3AHj8H.html
04-12-2020||India||Punjab farmers have brought ‘superman’ Modi government to its knees, says Shiv Sena||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Friday said the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three farm laws enacted in September have brought the Narendra Modi government to its knees. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, it added that the “superman” Modi government has not suffered such a blow and embarrassment over the last six years. The editorial said the farmers have belied the notion that Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah do not bend to anyone.Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for over a week now against the farm laws. They say the legislation will allow big businesses to control prices and take away their minimum guaranteed earnings.“Even in the cold weather, the farmers from Punjab have made the Modi government sweat. The superman Modi government has not been in such trouble and never faced such embarrassment in the last six years,” the editorial said. It added the protests have put immense pressure on the Modi government.The editorial took a dig at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying its usual weapons such as the Central Bureau of Investigation cannot do anything about the protests. Also read | Farmers’ protest: On road but right at home inside their trucks, tractorsOpposition parties have accused the government of using the central agencies for political victimisation.The editorial said the farmers have “sent a notice to the Modi government to move back or leave the chair”. “Campaigns were launched to defame the farmers’ movement but tables instead turned on the IT [Information Technology] cell of the BJP.”The editorial lauded the solidarity Punjab’s artists and politicians have shown over the issue. It wondered when will Maharashtra show such unity. “We are talking about unity because it is the biggest success. Punjab’s artists, singers, sportspersons have decided to return their national awards.” It added by returning awards, they are supporting the farmers. The editorial said it is high time the Centre listens to the farmers. Shiv Sena ended its decades-long alliance with the BJP last year to form the government in Maharashtra with Nationalist Congress Party and Congress’s help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-have-brought-superman-modi-government-to-its-knees-says-shiv-sena/story-Lfk1qrzGEGcnNxVOdMAbXO.html
04-12-2020||India||Mumbai hospital continues to wait for Covaxin to begin clinical trials||More than a week after Lokmanya Tilak general hospital was granted an approval by its ethics committee to run clinical trials for India’s first indigenous vaccine candidate being developed by Bharat Biotech, the Sion-based hospital is still waiting to get Covaxin from the central government.On November 26, the hospital got the green signal to conduct the third phase of the trial. “We have kept over 300 volunteers ready for the procedure. We will start the trial as soon as we get the vaccine from the government,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, hospital dean. In the last week of October, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) selected the hospital for the third phase, pan India trial, of Covaxin. As many as 1,000 volunteers between 18 and 60 years will be included in the trial. Of this, 20% volunteers with co-morbidities will be selected and 5% will comprise medical health workers. Volunteers will be followed up for 12 months as per ICMR rules.Also Read: Covid vaccine could be ready in next few weeks, says PM ModiAs per the official website of Bharat Biotech, Covaxin is developed in BSL-3 (Biosafety Level 3) high containment facility. The vaccine received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for Phase I and II human clinical trials which commenced across India from July, 2020. “Those who want to participate can contact us at the hospital. We have also started an Out Patient Department (OPD) for them. After thorough examination and tests, we select healthy volunteers. Also, we run Covid-19 tests to check if they have the pathogens of the virus or antibodies,” said Joshi.Also Read: US Coronavirus expert Anthony Fauci apologises for casting doubt over UK’s approval of Pfizer vaccineMeanwhile, government-run JJ hospital, which has also received approval to start clinical trials for Covaxin, has started screening volunteers for the procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-hospital-continues-to-wait-for-covaxin-to-begin-clinical-trials/story-pYnytNjl5EHaBaSmbQ6V5K.html
04-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: Big blow to BJP as MVA seems set to bag four of six seats in legislative council||In a major setback to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has almost won four out of six seats in legislative council elections. Though the results for two seats of teachers’ constituencies are yet to be announced officially, the margin between the top two candidates is huge and unlikely to change.Three graduates’ constituencies from Aurangabad, Nagpur and Pune, two teachers’ constituencies from Pune and Amravati, and local bodies constituency in Dhule-Nandurbar went to polls on December 1. Out of the six seats, four have virtually been bagged by MVA comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress. Independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik, who is leading in Amravati teachers’ constituency, is also likely to support the ruling alliance in the Upper House.Abhijit Wanjari of Congress has defeated BJP’s Sandip Joshi with a huge margin from Nagpur graduate constituency. The BJP had retained the constituency since its inception and was represented by Union minister Nitin Gadkari five times and also by late Gangadharrao Fadnavis, father of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Similarly, in Pune, NCP’s Arun Lad has won in graduates’ constituency while and Congress’s Jayant Asgaonkar is leading with a heavy margin in teachers’ constituency. Both the seats have spelt failure for the BJP.NCP’s Satish Chavan has won from the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency for the third time in a row. His margin was more than 57,000 votes and he defeated BJP’s Shirish Boralkar.In Amravati teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik was ahead of his nearest rivals Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena with a comfortable majority.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Amrish Patel won bypolls from Dhule-Nandurbar local bodies constituency by defeating Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s Abhijit Patil by 234 votes. Patel polled 332 votes, while Patil got 98 votes. Congress leaders have expressed surprise over the defeat as MVA has 213 members in local bodies, while BJP’s strength is 199. Patel had changed sides to join BJP by quitting Congress ahead of the assembly polls last year.This is being seen as a big victory for the ruling MVA which has announced to contest all the elections, including that to the local bodies, together in the future. Ruling party leaders have said that it is a token of acceptance of the MVA leadership. “BJP has been decimated in 24 districts in the state during the council elections which were fought directly. This is ‘Maharashtra Express’ of MVA,” said former chief minister, public works department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan.“The results are not as per our expectations as we were expecting more seats to win. We miscalculated the combined power of the three ruling parties under MVA,” said Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-big-blow-to-bjp-as-mva-seems-set-to-bag-four-of-six-seats-in-legislative-council/story-z99J3fZeiRD6VFc9W3tMYP.html
04-12-2020||India||Revival of US navy formation focused on Indian Ocean, partnership with India: US Official||The US Navy’s move to revive a tactical formation focused on the Indian and Pacific Oceans is aimed at emphasising the growing importance of the region and the strategic partnership with India, a top American defence official has said. Kenneth Braithwaite, secretary of the US Navy or the senior-most civilian official in the department of the navy, made the remarks while testifying before the US Senate armed services subcommittee on Wednesday. Braithwaite had last month announced the US Navy’s plan to re-establish the First Fleet, one of the “numbered fleets” or major tactical units, and deploy it in the “crossroads between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans”. Asked by a senator during his appearance before the Senate subcommittee whether the move is meant to emphasise the Indo-Pacific’s growing importance and the strategic relationship the US has with countries such as India and members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, he replied: “That’s exactly right, senator.” Braithwaite said the First Fleet will be reconstituted to improve the US posture in the Indo-Pacific and the formation will be given the “primary responsibility for the Indo and South Asian region as an expeditionary fleet” with an “agile, mobile, at-sea command”. “This will reassure our allies and partners of our presence and commitment to this region, while ensuring any potential adversary knows we are committed to global presence to ensure rule of law and freedom of the seas,” he added. Also Read: China defends dam on Brahmaputra, India hits backThe US move assumes significance because of the current focus on China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, especially the South China Sea. The US and other members of the Quad – India, Australia and Japan – have said they are committed to freedom of navigation and a rules-based order in this region. The First Fleet, which functioned from January 1947 to February 1973, is being revived because the Japan-based 7th Fleet covers the maritime territories of 36 countries in the area between Hawaii and the India-Pakistan border. Braithwaite said this causes “formidable challenges” for the 7th Fleet in covering a massive expanse of water. Also Read: Army chief to visit Saudi Arabia, UAE from SundayThough Braithwaite had said last month that the revived First Fleet could be based in Singapore, he told the Senate subcommittee it would initially function without a land-based headquarters. “We are still determining...where that fleet would operate from. But its major focus would be on the Western Pacific and the Eastern Indian Ocean,” he added. The US Navy currently has seven active numbered fleets. Each numbered fleet has task forces and other units for specific operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revival-of-us-navy-formation-focused-on-indian-ocean-partnership-with-india-us-official/story-DtX0f3hNJ41DetJOAarn6N.html
04-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine could be ready in next few weeks, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told an all-party meeting on Friday that in next few weeks, Indian manufacturers would be able to produce the much-awaited Covid-19 vaccines. He also gave enough indication that India will use indigenously made vaccines as he talked about cheap but effective vaccines. Both Moderna and Pfizer candidates are much higher priced than India’s potential immunisation candidates. Talking about India’s vaccine preparations, the Prime Minister said, “Experts believe we don’t have to wait for a long period to get a vaccine. It is understood that in next few weeks, Covid vaccines will be ready. The government is waiting for a go-ahead from the scientists.” While the steeply-priced Pfizer vaccine has already got emergency authorisation from UK and vaccination there is set to start next week, Prime Minister Modi indicated that his government is likely to wait for a vaccine that is made in India. “The world is looking at a cheap but effective vaccine against Covid-19. The world is looking at India. You can be assured our scientists are working hard. Eight Covid vaccines are at different stages of preparedness in India. This includes the three Indian vaccines that are at different stages of trials.” Also Watch | ‘Healthcare and frontline workers, elderly will be vaccinated first’: PM Modi Also read | India registers 36,595 Covid cases in last 24 hours, total recoveries exceed 9 millionThe Prime Minister also added that teams of Central and state governments are working together for vaccine distribution. The PM, for the first time, also laid down the principles of vaccine administration. “The first priority would be given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and old people with comorbidities.” He also told the parliamentary leaders of different parties that India has the best expertise and capacity in vaccine distribution—indicating the existing vaccine network of universal immunisation. “We have a large and experienced network in vaccination. We will fully use it.” The expansive network of India’s long-standing universal immunisation programme will provide the crucial logistical support for the government for administering Covid vaccines next year, HT had reported on Monday. Officials involved in the planning told HT that they expect the existing infrastructure and human resources would be sufficient to vaccinate the first 30 million Indians or the priority groups 1 and 2. But India might need to substantially beef up its capacities if it needs to give vaccines to the priority group of aged population. Also Read| Frontline workers, elderly to be vaccinated first: PM Modi at all-party meet“Out of the 239,000-strong force of vaccinators of the existing immunisation programme, at least 150,000 workers would be used for administering Covid vaccines to the first two priority groups tentatively from January to March, 2021,” said a top government official. “Similarly”, the officer added, “the existing 29,000 cold storage chains would be enough to store and distribute 60 million vaccines required for the two priority groups during this period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-could-be-ready-in-next-few-weeks-says-pm-modi/story-FWlb0pZCuhgeyLSDMvMlpN.html
04-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir DDC candidate shot at, Omar slams attackers||Unidentified gunmen attacked a district development council candidate (DDC) in South Kashmir’s Kokernag area while polling for the third phase took place in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.This is the first attack on any DDC candidate since the election process began last month. The candidate who was shot at has been identified as Anees ul Islam. He was attacked near Sagam in Kokernag. People familiar with the development said that Anees had recently joined the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari. Officials said that he has been shifted to a hospital. Doctors treating the candidate said he has sustained a bullet injury but is stable. Police and Indian Army personnel have reached the spot of the attack for investigations.Former J&K chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice president, Omar Abdullah said the attack was carried out by forces inimical to peace.Also Read: Farmers’ protest brought Centre to its knees, tweets Mehbooba Mufti“Disturbing reports coming in from Kokernag in South Kashmir of an attack on a DDC election candidate. I hope & pray that he survives the attack. Elections have always brought out the worst in those forces that have remained inimical to peace in Kashmir,” tweeted Omar Abdullah.Three tier security arrangements are in place while the DDC polls, to elect 280 candidates, are being held in eight phases in the UT. So far, 25.58% votes were recorded in the third phase of polling till 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-candidate-shot-at-omar-slams-attackers/story-dgcjKD0YPcFz139a4AD1RM.html
04-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers’ protest enters 8th day, leads to traffic snarls in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Traffic snarls continue on Delhi borders as farmers’ protests enter Day 8Commuters to and from Delhi continued to suffer as multiple borders connecting the national capital to surrounding states remained sealed on Friday as farmers carried on with their protests against the three agricultural reforms introduced by the central government for more than a week now. Read MoreBlow to BJP, MVA candidates leading in polls for 4 Council seats in MaharashtraThe Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the ruling parties Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, had an edge over the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as alliance’s candidates were leading after a second round of votes counting in the graduates’ constituencies of Aurangbad, Pune and Nagpur and the teachers’ constituency of Pune. Read moreRBI keeps repo rate unchanged, stance ‘accommodative’The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept its key lending rate unchanged for the third time in a row as widely expected amid high inflation and said it will maintain an accommodative stance, implying there could be more rate cuts in the future if need arises. Read MoreIncreased risk of tooth decay in pregnancy? Here are 7 dental care tips to keep you and your baby smilingDental health and oral hygiene, if taken for granted in the daily rush of life, can lead to increased risk of tooth decay in pregnancy if cavities are left untreated to fester in the mouth. Mommies-to-be do everything to ensure healthy nine months. Read MoreNASA shares ‘how it started vs how it is going’ images of Stingray Nebula. Here’s the reason for its unprecedented fadingIt is often said that everything changes. However, the type of change the nebula Hen 3-1357, nicknamed the Stingray nebula, is going through is unprecedented. The images captured 20-years-apart by NASA’s Hubble Space Telescope show the nebula quickly fading. Read More‘I am going slightly radical’’: Aakash Chopra leaves out Shreyas Iyer from his playing XI for first T20IIndia and Australia will be playing the first T20 international of the three-match series on Friday in Canberra. After a battle in the 50-over format, the focus now shifts to T20s where both teams would be looking to gain the momentum ahead of the crucial Test series. Read MoreDelhi AQI remains in very poor category; might slip into severe zoneDelhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on December 4. At 7am, AQI was 335, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The national capital’s average Air Quality Index on Thursday was 341. On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI value between 300 and 400 is considered very poor, and that above 400 is considered severe. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-protest-enters-8th-day-leads-to-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-52oRH9Z2ASgSYaUAVQsRRK.html
04-12-2020||India||Dharmendra trolled for comment on farmers’ protest; hits delete and explains||Veteran actor Dharmendra on Friday posted an explanation on his Twitter handle after a user pointed out that he had deleted his earlier tweet on farmers’ protests near Delhi.In a tweet late on Thursday night, the actor had urged the central government to find a solution to farmers’ problems soon.“I request the government... please quickly find a solution the farmers’ problems... the number of corona cases are on a rise in Delhi... it is painful,” Dharmendra had said in the tweet. But he later deleted it.On Friday morning, a user posted the screenshot of the tweet and claimed Dharmendra must have felt helpless.The actor replied by tweeting, “I felt sad by remarks like these, and hence deleted my tweet. You can abuse me to your heart’s content, I am happy that you are happy. I am sad for my farmer brothers. The government should find a solution fast, nobody is listening to us.” Aap ke Aise hi comments se dukhi ho kar apna tweet delete kar diya tha ..ji bhar ke gaali de leejiye Aap ki khushi mein khush hoon main..Haan ..Apne Kissan bhaiyon Ke liye ..bahut dukhi hoon ..Sarkaar ko jadldi koi hall tlaash kar Leena chahie. Hamari kisi ki koi sunwai nehin.A make-or-mar round of talks between the Union government and farmers protesting three farm laws moved a step forward on Thursday after being repeatedly deadlocked, with the government agreeing to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address demands of farm unions. The farmers, however, stuck to their stand that the government should roll back all three laws.The negotiations on Thursday were the fourth round of meeting between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, as protests by thousands of agriculturalists on Delhi’s borders simmered for the seventh straight day.Meanwhile, the protesting farmers have received support from many sections of the society, including school-going children, college students, elderly and various representatives of khap panchayats.Jamidar Chattar Sabha, an organisation of youths from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and other states, have been catching eye at the farmers’ protest as over of its 150 volunteers, mostly students, have been providing free langar, tea, and other necessary items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dharmendra-tweets-on-farmers-protest-hits-delete-and-then-explains/story-zvk0pTlLoHuPJh1I5G1YYL.html
04-12-2020||India||Frontline workers, elderly to be vaccinated first: PM Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday healthcare and frontline workers and the elderly suffering from serious diseases will be inoculated on priority when the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is available. The Prime minister said, during, an all-party meet to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country, said the Centre was in talks with state governments over the price of the vaccine and the decision regarding it would be taken keeping public health as the topmost priority.“Experts believe that a Covid vaccine will be ready in the next few weeks. As soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India. Healthcare and frontline workers and the elderly suffering from serious diseases will be given priority in vaccination,” PM Modi said during the meeting. “Teams of central and state governments are working together for vaccine distribution. India has the expertise and capacity in vaccine distribution and fares better compared to other nations. We have a very big and experienced network in the field of vaccination. We will fully exploit it,” PM Modi said. Our scientists are very confident of succeeding in their endeavour of making COVID vaccine. The world is keeping a watch on the cheapest & safe vaccine. That is why the world is watching India: PM Narendra Modi https://t.co/D1WWapSxkmHe also the world was keeping a close watch on the cheapest and safest vaccine against the coronavirus disease and is looking at India. “Our scientists are very confident of succeeding in their endeavour of making Covid vaccine. The world is keeping a watch on the cheapest and safe vaccine. That is why the world is watching India,” Modi said.He further urged all leaders to send their suggestions in writing and assured that they would be considered seriously. This was the second all-party meet called by the Prime Minister to discuss the Covid-19 situation since the outbreak.Also Read| At 1,600 mn, India biggest buyer of Covid-19 vaccine doses: ReportModi had visited Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune last week to review the vaccine development work at Zydus Biotech Park, Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India (SII) respectively.India’s Covid-19 tally on Friday went over 9.5 million after 36,595 fresh cases and 540 deaths were added in the last 24 hours. The tally now includes 416,082 active cases, more than 9 million recoveries and 139,188 deaths, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-keeping-a-close-watch-on-cheapest-and-safest-vaccine-and-is-looking-towards-india-pm-modi-at-all-party-meet/story-3D7xorSJ5rEebDrLaI6VJN.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC election results 2020: AIMIM candidates win in Mehdipatnam and Dabeerpura divisions||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) registered its first wins in the counting of votes for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections 2020 on Friday.While AIMIM candidate and former mayor of Hyderabad Majid Hussain won in Mehdipatnam division, Hussain Khan emerged victorious in the Dabeerpura division.In the last GHMC election, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) won in 99 wards. The AIMIM bagged 44, with the remaining seven wards won by other parties and independents.Counting of votes in the keenly-fought GHMC elections began in Hyderabad at 8 am on Friday.The Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has set up counting centres at 30 places in the city amid tight security arrangements for the process.Out of the total 150 wards in the GHMC, polling was held for 149 wards on December 1 anda fresh poll was conducted on Thursday in one ward (Old Malakpet).The mayor’s post is reserved for a woman this time. The elections were conducted with ballot papers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Out of the 74.67 lakh voters, only 46.55 per cent exercised their franchise using ballot paper method.In the Hyderabad city commissionerate, 817 new polling stations have been set up as compared to 2016. There are 2,146 normal polling stations, 1,517 sensitive polling stations, and 167 hypersensitive polling stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-results-2020-aimim-candidates-win-in-mehdipatnam-and-dabeerpura-divisions/story-nZadelKmvTEl9aBtRmRbPM.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC election result 2020: Will repeat Dubbak by-polls win, BJP leader||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker from Telangana Arvind Dharmapuri said on Friday his party will win the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls as it did in the Dubbak by-elections in November. The counting of votes for the GHMC elections began earlier in the morning with the process being recorded with CCTV cameras installed at every table in the 30 centres, officials have said. The results will be known only in the evening or in the night as ballot papers were used in the GHMC polls amid the coronavirus pandemic.“The initial trends show BJP leading and it was expected. The transformation has started in the state of Telangana. You have seen Lok Sabha election results then Dubbak by-election and now the same will be repeated in GHMC. Let us wait till the evening, but it is a clear message to Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) that people want change,” Dharmapuri, who represents Nizamabad in the Lok Sabha, told ANI.Click here for live updates of GHMC Election 2020 resultsDharmapuri added that the GHMC elections, which were scheduled to be held in 2021, were brought forward because of the fear generated in the TRS by the Dubbak election results. He was referring to his party candidate M Raghunandan Rao’s win over the TRS’ Solipeta Sujatha by 1,470 votes in November. The BJP secured 62,772 votes, TRS secured 61,302 votes and Congress bagged 21,819 votes. The vote share of BJP in the by-election was 38.21% as opposed to the TRS’ 38.08%. With the Dubbak win, the BJP managed to secure the second assembly seat in Telangana.The TRS was seen ahead and the BJP was set to improve its strength in the GHMC polls, early counting trends indicated. The TRS was leading 53, BJP in 20, AIMIM in eight and the Congress party in one ward respectively.Also read | ‘Shape of things to come’, tweets Union minister Hardeep Puri on BJP’s early gains Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s daughter and MLC from TRS, K Kavitha, said that her party is expected to win as many as 100 seats in the GHMC polls. “We are expecting to win over 100 seats. Although many big leaders from the BJP came to campaign and made many false claims, I am happy that the people of Hyderabad did not believe in them and reposed their faith in KCR’s leadership,” said Kavitha.The mayor’s post is reserved for a woman this time. There were 817 new polling stations set up in the Hyderabad city commissionerate as compared to 2016. There are 2,146 normal polling stations, 1,517 sensitive polling stations, and 167 hypersensitive polling stations.Also read | Why Hyderabad civic polls are crucial for BJPThe Telangana Rashtra Samithi won in 99 wards in the last GHMC election, Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) got 44 and the remaining seven wards were won by other parties and Independent candidates.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-result-2020-will-repeat-dubbak-by-polls-win-bjp-leader/story-jvwohXrjrD8YaZPdHbEIHM.html
04-12-2020||India||Petiton in SC challenges bigamy under Shariat law||Five Hindu women and a NGO have approached the Supreme Court challenging the practice of bigamy permitted under Muslim personal law.The petition claimed that while there exists a clear bar under law on polygamous relationships under Section 494 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which makes it punishable, such personal laws make its provision discriminatory as other religions are unable to enjoy this benefit. The petition filed by advocate Vishnu Shanker Jain said, “In India, the irony is that bigamy has been made punishable under Section 494 of IPC, subject to applicability of personal law. The question is as to whether the State can make criminal law in such a manner which may create discrimination and same act may be punishable for someone but for others enjoyable.”Also read | PIL challenges UP ‘love jihad’ law in SC, says misuse likelyTwo of the petitioners are married women while the NGO petitioner is Jan Udghosh Sansthan based in Uttar Pradesh. The petition has sought striking down Section 2 of Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 which recognises the system of bigamy or polygamy prevalent in Muslim community. It said, “The system of bigamy is the history of past and has no place in present day scenario at International level. There is unanimity between nations that such a practice is unscrupulous, discriminatory, exploitative and anti-women, and must come to an end.”Section 494 of IPC provides that “whoever, having a husband or wife living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by reason of its taking place during the life of such husband or wife, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine”.The petition has said that there should be unanimity in the field of penal law relating to prohibition of bigamy. The petitioners have prayed that the words “in any case in which such marriage is void by reasons of its taking place” occurring in Section 494 of IPC be read down or struck down as the same is discriminatory and oppressive for women and will be hit by Article 14 (right to equality) and 15(1) (Right against discrimination) of the Constitution of India.The petition has even assailed the bigamy law under Shariat to be against a recommendation by United Nations Committee on Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) of October 30,2013, where the global rights body said, “State parties should take all legislative and policy measures needed to abolish polygamous marriages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petiton-in-sc-challenges-bigamy-under-shariat-law/story-jj8rGPTKxITgYQe3vj9QGM.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC election results 2020: ‘Shape of things to come’, tweets Union minister Hardeep Puri on BJP’s early gains||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday said that the early trends in Greater Hyderabad Muncipal Corporation (GHMC) elections indicate a change in popular mood and shape of things to come. He was reacting to the early gains made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the counting of votes.“Early trends emerging from Hyderabad indicate a change in popular mood and shape of things to come. Policies of transformative development are hard to beat and always triumph over hollow populism and fake narrative,” Puri tweeted. Early trends emerging from Hyderabad indicate a change in popular mood & shape of things to come.Policies of transformative development are hard to beat & always triumph over hollow populism & fake narrative.#GHMCElectionresults #GHMCwithBJPMeanwhile, BJP MP Arvind Dharmapuri said on Friday that the victory of Dubbaka by-election will be repeated in the GHMC polls as well.GHMC election results 2020: Track live updates“The initial trends show BJP leading and it was expected. The transformation has started in the state of Telangana. You have seen Lok Sabha election results then Dubbaka by-election and now the same will be repeated in GHMC. Let us wait till the evening, but it is a clear message to Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) that people want change,” the BJP MP from Nizamabad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The BJP was seen ahead of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) as postal ballots were counted for the 150 ward GHMC polls 2020 at various counting centres across Hyderabad early on Friday morning. Around noon, the TRS is leading on 31 seats, while the BJP on 12 after the first round of counting.However, chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s daughter and MLC from TRS, K Kavitha, said that her party is expected to win as many as 100 seats in the GHMC polls.The mayor’s post is reserved for a woman this time. Elections were conducted with ballot papers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.For the BJP, the GHMC polls re crucial as these are a precursor to the 2023 assembly elections in Telengana. The party contested the polls with the same preparations that go into contesting assembly or national elections with national general secretary Bhupender Yadav overseeing the electioneering.In the last GHMC election, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi won in 99 wards. AIMIM bagged 44, with the remaining seven wards won by other parties and Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-results-2020-shape-of-things-to-come-tweets-union-minister-hardeep-puri-on-bjp-s-early-gains/story-frVLrqmoN7hujcYN1DLBlK.html
04-12-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu launches commemorative stamp in former PM Gujral’s honour||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday urged all political parties to come together for the country’s development while calling for fostering cordial policies for coexistence with the neighbouring countries, a collective effort to counter terrorism, and increasing representation of women in positions of power.“At a time when we are facing the worst health crisis in history, all nations, especially the South Asian nations, must come together to rebuild economies, ramp up health infrastructure and protect livelihoods,” Naidu said at the launch of a commemorative stamp on late former Prime Minister I K Gujral’s 101st birth anniversary.Naidu highlighted Gujral’s achievements. He recalled how Gujral and his family were imprisoned during the Quit India Movement against the British colonialists in the 1940s.“He [Gujral] was a soft-spoken, gentle politician who never compromised on his values,” Naidu said. “He was courteous to a fault and made friends across the political spectrum. A multifaceted personality, [he] enjoyed reading and reciting poetry and authored many books,” Naidu said.He asked younger people to take inspiration from Gujral and work towards the country’s peace and development.Naidu highlighted the rise of state-sponsored terrorism in India and urged the South Asian nations to come together to fight the scourge. “The menace of terrorism can hinder the realisation of a prosperous future for all in South Asia,” he said. “The time has come for the nations to play a more proactive role and step-up efforts in isolating nations sponsoring terrorist activities and imposing sanctions against them to deter them.”Naidu called for the greater participation of women in public life and praised Tamil Nadu for being the state with the highest number of women high court judges--30. “There is a gross underrepresentation of women in the judiciary,” he said. “Leadership is not just about physical attributes. Women must be provided with the opportunity to take on leadership roles in politics, corporate governance, and civil society. History shows us that whenever women are given this opportunity, they excel.”He said the 17th Lok Sabha has the highest number of women, but they account for only 14% of its strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-launches-commemorative-stamp-in-former-pm-gujral-s-honour/story-np0sx5s4WVeCAtO9pBuG1O.html
04-12-2020||India||Wanted in six murder cases, ‘serial killer’ eliminated by MP police||An alleged serial killer, wanted in six murder cases in MP and Gujarat, was killed in an encounter with Ratlam police, late night on Thursday, said police. A resident of Dahod, Gujarat, Dilip Dewal, 38, who recently killed three members of a family in Ratlam, died on the spot while five police personnel including two sub-inspectors were injured in the encounter, they added. Ratlam superintendent of police Gaurav Tiwari said, “A special Investigation Team (SIT) of police got information on Thursday evening that Dilip was roaming near Khachrod square of the city. When police cordoned off the area and tried to nab him, he ran towards an agriculture farm. Police personnel warned him but he started firing. Police also retaliated and fired.” After the gun battle, which lasted for a few minutes, the police team inspected the field and found Dewal had been hit in the gun fire and was lying in an unconscious state. He was rushed to a district hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, said the SP. In the encounter, two sub-inspectors, Ayub Khan and Anurag Yadav, and three constables sustained injuries. “All the five police personnel are admitted in the district hospital where doctors are treating them,” said the SP without disclosing the nature of injuries to the cops. Also Read: ‘People in possession of agriculture land up to 2 acres for 50 years to become owners’: CM Chouhan A SIT was formed on Wednesday to nab Dilip after he killed three members of a family, namely Govind Solanki, his wife Sharda Solanki and daughter Divya Solanki at their Rajeev Nagar house in Ratlam on the intervening night of November 25 and 26. His accomplices Anurag alias Bobby, Gaurav Bilwal alias Golu, both residents of Ratlam and Lala Bhabor, a resident of Dahod, Gujarat, were arrested on Wednesday. The first case against Dewal was registered in 2009 for raping and abducting a woman in Ratlam. In 2017, he killed two people, including a high profile businessman, in Dahod, Gujarat. He was awarded life imprisonment in 2018 for killing the businessman but he jumped parole two years back. Since then, he had been staying in Ratlam with a changed name and had started looting people. In June 2020, he killed a woman and looted valuables from her house with the help of his two cousin brothers—21-years old Sumit Singh Chauhan and 27-years old Himmat Singh Dawal—who were arrested on Wednesday. (with inputs from Sudhir Jain from Ratlam)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wanted-in-six-murder-cases-serial-killer-eliminated-by-mp-police/story-rj6pjaHTUWLUKDAlJWrm6N.html
04-12-2020||India||NDA’s common minimum programme: Focus on 7 resolves, job generation||After forming the government last month with a thin majority in Bihar, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners have started formulating a Common Minimum Programme (CMP) to implement the promises for development and good governance.The NDA came to power in the state first in 2005. It also formulated a CMP after its return to power in 2010.“The process [for fresh CMP] has started. It will be announced soon. All our alliance partners are working on it,” said Janata Dal (United), or JD(U), leader Bashistha Narain Singh.NDA functionaries said the CMP has been necessitated as all the four alliance partners have spelt out their priorities through their manifestos. The JD (U) talked about its seven resolves-part 2 while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised 1.9 million jobs. “All those works will be given priority which can propel development in the next five years and were promised during the polls,” said an NDA leader.Also read | Poor selection, parachuting leaders spelled Cong debacle in BiharAccording to NDA leaders, the emphasis would be given to the seven-point programme of chief minister Nitish Kumar and create more employment opportunities.Ahead of the October-November polls, Kumar said he has delivered on all the seven resolves for governance made in 2015. He said if voted back to power, he would implement the freshly laid out seven-point programme.Kumar has promised irrigation for every agricultural land parcel, promotion of higher education and mega skill centres and a skills department. He announced programmes to develop entrepreneurship among women with the special assistance of ₹10 lakh. Kumar also promised to provide Rs25,000 to girls who clear their intermediate exams and Rs50,000 to graduates. He pledged clean villages, equipped with solar lights, etc.The BJP’s promise for free Covid vaccine, party leaders said, would be the highlight of the CMP.In addition to this, issues like 300,000 appointments of teachers in the next year will also be a part of the CMP.Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) dismissed the CMP as another stunt of the ruling alliance. “They did not do anything in the last 15 years and the CMP is not going to bring any change either. Corruption remains a big burning issue,” said RJD lawmaker Subodh Rai.Congress leader Rajesh Rathore said the BJP was trying to thrust its programme and policies on Nitish Kumar through the CMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-s-common-minimum-programme-focus-on-7-resolves-job-generation/story-lgE6tGHhVOcHQrQjFaYBRL.html
04-12-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman to attend Founding Day of DRI today||The Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) will have a discussion on trade-based money laundering with representatives of Australian Border Force, Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs from the UK, Customs Administration of the Netherlands and Interpol through a video conferencing on Friday, people familiar with the development said. The discussions will take place on the 63rd Founding Day of DRI on Friday through video conferencing. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will attend the celebrations along with minister of state for finance Anurag Singh Thakur. Trade-based money laundering is the process of disguising the proceeds of crime and moving value through the use of trade transactions by individuals, criminal networks, terrorists etc; in an attempt to legitimise its illicit origins. This is achieved through the misrepresentation of the price, quantity or quality of imports or exports. It has been a cause of concern for global money laundering watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) which has defined the basic techniques of trade based money laundering as over and under-invoicing of goods and services; multiple invoicing of goods and services; over and under-shipments of goods and services; and falsely described goods and services. The Centre has, for past few years, stressed on cracking down on shell companies used to transfer illegal money through international trade. Referring to the shell companies, Thakur had said in Parliament in September this year that more than 380,000 companies have been struck off the official records under companies law in the past three years. He had said that such companies are used for illegal purpose, such as tax evasion, money laundering, obscuring ownership and benami properties. DRI is an important enforcement agency under the ministry of finance that deals with countering organised crime groups engaged in smuggling of contraband goods such as arms, ammunitions and explosives, narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, gold and diamonds, counterfeit currency notes, wildlife items, hazardous and environmentally sensitive materials and antiques. The directorate also has expertise in unearthing commercial frauds, plugging leakage of government’s tax revenue and countering trade based money laundering and black money. It has Customs Mutual Assistance Agreements with over 60 countries, where thrust is on information exchange and learning from the best practices between customs administrations. In Financial Year 2019-20, the DRI detected 412 cases of smuggling resulting in seizure of contraband worth Rs1,949 crore. Also, it arrested 837 economic offenders in different cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-to-attend-founding-day-of-dri-today/story-bPo7f2J9QVjjcMpsbsmjOM.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest brought Centre to its knees, tweets Mehbooba Mufti||Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said on Friday that farmers have brought the Centre to its knees and disruption of peaceful protests shows the nervousness and failure of the government.Mufti, who was arrested on August 5, 2019 after the Centre revoked Article 370 from J&K and was released only a couple of months ago, came out in support of the protesting farmers and tweeted, “Farmers protests have brought GOI to its knees. BJP is scared of peoples power & its why a reign of repression has been unleashed in J&K since illegal abrogation of Article 370. Not allowing any peaceful medium for dissent shows their nervousness & failure on all fronts.” Since her release, Mufti had called for protests in J&K against various laws and government orders, calling them anti-people. Recently, she was not allowed to travel to south Kashmir’s Pulwama to meet the family of PDP youth president Waheed Parra who was arrested by NIA. Parra is contesting DDC polls from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-brought-centre-to-its-knees-tweets-mehbooba-mufti/story-5O4JwM5Hh2Z7oYMJhGzXcM.html
04-12-2020||India||Maharashtra to ease, expedite procedure for mangrove land transfer to forest department||The Maharashtra government has decided to expedite and ease the transfer process of mangrove areas under the control of state agencies to the forest department.During a review meeting held on Thursday by state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray with the revenue, forest, environment departments, and district administrations on the protection status of Maharashtra’s mangrove forests, it was decided that the revenue and forest departments would work together to speed up protection of the salt-tolerant trees.While the Maharashtra government has notified 15,312 hectare (ha) as reserved forest under the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1,500 ha is yet to be transferred by the revenue to the forest department for better protection as per directives of the Bombay high court in September 2018. Additionally, state agencies need to hand over approximately 2,000 ha.Also read | Uran fishermen allege indiscriminate destruction of mangroves, oppose JNPT’s park proposalAgencies such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority have to demarcate, identify, and transfer mangrove areas under their jurisdiction first to the revenue department, which will then verify their submissions and transfer areas to the forest department.Thackeray said, “In some places, the revenue and forest department data does not match, and there have been isolated stretches, formerly identified as mangrove areas, which has been deleted since trees were not identified on them. So, to address this, we have decided that both departments (revenue and forest) should work in tandem and state agencies can hand over mangrove areas under joint supervision for speedy transfer and protection of such areas.” From next month onwards, the entire process would be expedited, he said.During Thursday’s meeting, data were presented for four districts - Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, and Raigad. For Mumbai suburban, data showed total mangrove area notified, as per the forest department record, was 3,948.5 ha while the same according to the revenue department was 3,723.4 ha. The revenue department claimed the entire mangrove land had been handed over to the forest department but the latter said 242 ha was yet to be handed over. An area of 27.48 ha was proposed for deletion while an inquiry into land rights settlement claims was pending across 1,750 ha by the sub-divisional officer. State bodies such as Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation were yet to hand over mangroves under their jurisdiction. Similar discrepancies were identified for land transfer between forest and revenue department data for other districts.“The idea is to get the undeclared mangroves under protection,” said Thackeray. He added that the first intent was to ensure all mangrove forests are protected under the IFA. “The confusion as to how much area belongs to which state agency will be clarified when all state bodies jointly study and assess each forest patch,” he said.Thackeray added that it was decided on Thursday that the Mangrove Cell and the Mangrove Foundation should put together a mangrove protection plan. “Using environment compensation funds from various infrastructure projects... a plan must be formulated for expediting the process of declaration, checking the error margin of why deletion of mangrove area is taking place, and ensuring overall protection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-ease-expedite-procedure-for-mangrove-land-transfer-to-forest-department/story-xGMmdKJGg56zhJb3G5kLaM.html
04-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Singhu, Tikri borders remain closed; several arterial roads blocked||Several arterial roads -- some very busy and others sparsely used -- continued to be blocked for traffic on Friday as farmers’ protests at Delhi borders entered the ninth day. While the Singhu and Tikri borders have been closed for the ninth and the eighth consecutive day respectively, several other roads were closed more recently as farmers either landed at those points or used them to make inroads into the city. Apart from the roads connecting with Haryana, the Ghazipur border on the NH-24 has been fully closed for traffic and the Chilla border on the Noida Link Road is closed for motorists from Noida to Delhi, the traffic police updated on its Twitter handle. For motorists that side of the city, the Delhi Traffic Police advised the use of Apsara, Bhopra and DND borders for entering Delhi.Also read | Security deployment increased as number of protesters swell at Delhi bordersThe Haryana side of the border, meanwhile, was even more affected as the police have closed eight big and small border points. These include the Singhu and Tikri borders, and the border points at Jharoda, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari and Sabori. In addition, at the Jhatikara border, only motorcyclists are being allowed. And at Badusarai border, police are allowing only motorcycles and cars.For motorists wanting to enter Haryana from Delhi, traffic police said the following borders remain open: Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar, Dundahera and Badarpur-Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-singhu-tikri-borders-remain-closed-several-arterial-roads-blocked-for-traffic/story-T1dJSmqJLCk1G9mSmdDJaO.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC election results 2020: During the first round of counting, TRS takes lead in 31 wards||As the first round of counting of votes got underway on Friday for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) was leading in 31 wards, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 12 and Congress in one. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM)’s Majid Hussain, meanwhile, registered first win in the elctions, from Mehdipatnam division.The counting of votes began at 8am at various counting centres across Hyderabad amid tight security. There are a total of 1,965 postal ballots in 150 divisions of the 150 ward Hyderabad civic body. While the BJP led during postal ballot counting, TRS took the lead when the actual counting of votes begun.Earlier, TRS leader K Kavitha expressed confidence her party would win more than 100 seats, as against 99 it currently has in the GHMC, having been victorious in 2016. “We are expecting to win over 100 seats. Although many big leaders from the BJP came to campaign and made many false claims, I’m happy that people of Hyderabad did not believe in them and reposed their faith in KCR’s leadership,” Kavitha said while speaking to news agency ANI. We are expecting to win over 100 seats. Although many big leaders from BJP came to campaign and made many false claims, I'm happy that people of Hyderabad did not believe in them & reposed their faith in KCR's leadership: Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Kavitha #GHMCElections pic.twitter.com/TYKTjrJ0McDuring the high-pitched campaigning, the BJP fielded several heavyweights, with Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, party president JP Nadda and youth wing chief Tejasvi Surya canvassing in the IT hub. The BJP also raised its pitch to rename Hyderabad as ‘Bhagyanagar’ as well as over the alleged presence of Rohingyas and illegal immigrants in the city, promising a “surgical strike” if it wins the mayoral polls.The planks raised by the BJP during campaigning triggered a war of words with the Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM).Voting for the GHMC elections took place on December 1; the turnout, however, was dismal. In the 2016 elections, the AIMIM was second with 44 seats, followed by the BJP with four seats, the Congress with two and the Telugu Desam Party last with a single seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-results-2020-bjp-ahead-of-trs-as-postal-ballots-are-counted/story-Tkgao1ZzjZBdNeH6n5Qr1I.html
04-12-2020||India||India registers 36,595 Covid cases in last 24 hours, total recoveries exceed 9 million||India’s coronavirus (Covid-19) tally on Friday went over 9.5 million after 36,595 fresh cases and 540 deaths were added in the last 24 hours. The total cases now include 416,082 active cases, over 9 million recoveries and 139,188 deaths, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. Today is the 27th day when the country’s daily Covid-19 tally stayed below the 50,000-mark. The last time daily new cases crossed the 50,000-threshold was on November 7. The active cases continued to remain below 500,000 while recoveries constitute over 94 per cent of the total caseload. According to the ICMR, over 14 million samples have been tested up to December 3 with 1,170,102 samples being tested on Thursday. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to interact with leaders of several political parties from both Houses of the Parliament to discuss the Covid-19 situation in India. This is the second all party meet called by the Centre to discuss the virus situation since the outbreak. The global Covid-19 tally has now climbed to over 65 million out of which have lost their lives and over 45 million have recovered till now. The United States, which continues to be worst-hit country logged over 210,000 infections in last 24 hours which pushed the overall tally to over 14.5 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-36-595-covid-cases-in-last-24-hours-total-recoveries-exceed-9-million/story-hvwjVdzlg2pY9wTtwtPwaL.html
04-12-2020||India||Sensex, Nifty hit record highs after RBI revises GDP forecast||Domestic shares hit record highs on Friday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept interest rates steady amid persistent high inflation, while also retaining its accommodative monetary policy stance. The NSE Nifty 50 index was up 0.80% at 13,239.05 as of 10:42am and the S&P BSE Sensex was up 0.80% at 44,993.92, hitting record highs. The rupee strengthened to 73.72 against the dollar.Rate-sensitive financial stocks also rose after the policy announcement. The Nifty Banking index, which surged nearly 24% in November, was up 1.27%. UltraTech Cement Ltd rose as much as 6.2% to a record high, a day after the cement manufacturer said it would invest 54.77 billion rupees to expand capacity.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said India’s prospects have brightened with progress on Covid-19 vaccines, consumer confidence has turned positive and projected real GDP for the current financial year to contract just 7.5%.All 53 analysts and economists in a Reuters poll conducted in November said they did not expect any change in rates at the three-day policy meeting ending Friday. “RBI has been extremely proactive in terms of providing support to the economy and to the market in whichever way possible,” said Avneesh Sukhija, senior financial analyst at BNP Paribas India.The decision taken by RBI on Friday is in continuation from October’s decision of entering a revival mode from survival, Sukhija added. Including Friday’s session, the benchmark indexes have hit record highs for 11 of the last 18 sessions, boosted by progress in developing a working coronavirus vaccine. They added more than 11% in November on record inflows from foreign institutional investors.The RBI has already cut its key interest rate by a total 115 basis points this year to revive growth and cushion the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-hits-45-000-for-the-first-time-after-rbi-revises-gdp-forecast/story-nADVDhSkOENeOcqi5z693N.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC polls: Counting of votes begins in Hyderabad||The counting of votes for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election began on Friday morning.After campaigning by regional and national political parties, voting for the GHMC elections was held in 150 wards on December 1.The mayor’s post is reserved for a woman this time. Elections were conducted with ballot papers in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In the Hyderabad city commissionerate, 817 new polling stations have been set up as compared to 2016. There are 2,146 normal polling stations, 1,517 sensitive polling stations, and 167 hypersensitive polling stations.In the latest polls city is witnessing a triangular contest among the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), the The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), and the The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), which recently bagged the Dubbak Assembly seat in a recent bypoll. The top brass in the BJP, including Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, National President JP Nadda and Union Minister Amit Shah have campaigned for this election. In the last GHMC election, the TRS won in 99 wards. AIMIM bagged 44, with the remaining seven wards won by other parties and Independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-counting-of-votes-begins-in-hyderabad/story-hywB0SS415Chz9t7BIxyWO.html
04-12-2020||India||Bengal assembly polls: BJP forms 117-member election management team||With just around five months to go for the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a 117-member election management team as a part of the biggest election machinery the party has ever put in place in the state.The team has been divided into 31 units, with each tackling a particular aspect of the party’s poll preparations during the campaign--coordination, data collection, booth management, and social media management, etc.“While some cells comprise multiple state leaders, including MPs and MLAs, and have a party veteran in-charge and co-in charge of them, a few cells have just one state leader,” said a BJP leader.The BJP is buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in which it got 40% of the vote share and bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in the state.Also read | BJP targets 10million Bengal households to counter TMC govt’s biggest outreachElections to the 294-member state assembly are expected sometime around April and May.The state machinery would be working under the supervision of Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda. Shah and Nadda are expected to camp in West Bengal for a few days every month till the elections.The BJP has for the first time sent five of its central leaders to take stock of the party’s organisational preparedness up to the booth level. BJP functionaries said 294 leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit. They would be part of 45-member teams to be set up for each constituency.The BJP has also appointed a separate media team to appear for TV interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-forms-117-member-election-management-team-for-2021-bengal-assembly-polls/story-FS1Mqs8ZPTMH1BFY2pUowN.html
04-12-2020||India||RBI keeps repo rate unchanged, stance ‘accommodative’||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday kept its key lending rate unchanged for the third time in a row as widely expected amid high inflation and said it will maintain an accommodative stance, implying there could be more rate cuts in the future if need arises to support the economy hit by the coronavirus pandemic. The repo rate was left unchanged at 4% while the reverse repo rate or the key borrowing rate stayed at 3.35%.RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted unanimously to keep the repo rate unchanged. He also said the economy was rebounding faster than expected from a coronavirus-pademic induced slump earlier in the year but warned signs of recovery were far from being broad based. “MPC decided to continue with accommodative stands of monetary policy as long as necessary, at least till current financial year and into next year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 while ensuring that inflation remains within the target,” Das said. “MPC decided to continue with accommodative stands of monetary policy as long as necessary, at least till current financial year and into next year to revive growth on a durable basis and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 while ensuring that inflation remains within the target,” Das said.Repo is the rate at which the central bank lends funds to commercial banks when needed and RBI uses it as a tool to control inflation. Reverse repo rate is the rate at which the RBI borrows from banks.RBI has slashed the repo rate by 115 basis points or bps since late March to cushion the shock from the coronavirus crisis and sweeping lockdowns to check its spread. However, inflation has remained consistently above the upper end of the RBI’s mandated 2%-6% target range every month barring March this year, with core inflation also remaining sticky.Das also said that the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate and the bank rate remained unchanged at 4.25%. The central bank also changed its FY21 real GDP target, sees economy contracting by 7.5% from an estimation of a 9.5% contraction earlier. “The real GDP growth for FY21 is projected at -7.5% vs -9.5% projected earlier and H2FY21 is expected to show positive GDP growth,” Das said.Indian economy that shrank 23.9% in the first quarter of 2020-21 mainly due a nationwide lockdown because of Covid-19 pandemic, saw some improvement in the second quarter as contraction reduced to 7.5%. However, the retail inflation continued its surging streak for the ninth month in a row to reach 7.61% in October, highest since May 2014.Das said on Friday that the MPC expects this trend to persist and that the outlook for inflation has turned “adverse.” The MPC sees inflation in the current quarter at 6.8% before cooling slightly to 5.8% in the Jan-March quarter. Das also noted that consumer confidence for the next year has turned positive. RBI had last revised its policy rate on May 22, in an off-policy cycle to perk up demand by cutting interest rate to a historic low. The 26th meeting of the rate-setting MPC with three external members - Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R Varma and Shashanka Bhide - began on December 2. This is the second meeting of the members, who are appointed for a term of four years.The government moved the interest rate setting role from the RBI governor to the six-member MPC in 2016. Half of the panel, which is headed by the governor, is made up of external independent members.MPC has been given the mandate to maintain annual inflation at 4% until March 31 next year with an upper tolerance of 6% and a lower tolerance of 2%.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-addresses-news-briefing/story-fG6Y2yHBsFQjXS9sc0aFNO.html
04-12-2020||India||Another legal notice to Kangana Ranaut over ‘derogatory’ tweet||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) has sent a legal notice to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, seeking an unconditional apology for her “derogatory” tweet in which she had allegedly misidentified an old woman at the farmers’ protest in Capital as Bilkis Bano. Ranaut later deleted her tweet over the old woman after she was criticised on social media.“We have sent a legal notice to @KanganaTeam for her derogatory tweet calling the aged mother of a farmer as a woman available for Rs 100. Her tweets portray farmers protest as anti-national. We demand an unconditional apology from her for her insensitive remarks on farmers protest,” Manjinder Singh Sirsa, DSGMC’s president, tweeted on Friday. We have sent a legal notice to @KanganaTeam for her derogatory tweet calling the aged mother of a farmer as a woman available for ₹100. Her tweets portray farmers protest as antinationalWe demand an unconditional apology from her for her insensitive remarks on farmers protest pic.twitter.com/AWNfmwpIyTRanaut had tweeted that Bano also joined the farmers’ agitation over the new farms laws at various border points of the national capital. She retweeted the post with photographs of two elderly women, including Bano, and wrote that the “same Dadi” who featured in Time Magazine was “available in 100 rupees”.Also read | Advocate files petition seeking suspension of Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter accountBefore this, a Punjab-based lawyer also sent a legal notice to Ranaut over her now-deleted tweet. Advocate Harkam Singh said Ranaut should have authenticated information before posting it on social media and demanded an apology over her tweets, in which she allegedly misidentified the woman.“I sent a legal notice for a tweet misidentifying Mohinder Kaur as Bilkis Bano with an insinuation that she (Kaur) was available as a hired protestor for Rs 100. The notice gives Ranaut seven days to issue an apology failing which a defamation case will be pursued,” Singh said according to news agency ANI on Wednesday.“It is to inform you that the said lady is not a fake lady. Her name is Mahinder Kaur and she belongs to Bathinda. She is the wife of farmer Labh Singh Nambardar. She in her life, has always remained connected with fields and filed work and she is the wife of a farmer,” he said in his notice dated November 30.Diljit Dosanjh, Prince Narula, Sargun Mehta, Himanshi Khurana and several other actors have slammed Ranaut for her tweet.Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to demand a repeal of the Centre’s three new farm laws. The protesting farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana as well as Uttar Pradesh, are worried the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. The government has been in talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-legal-notice-to-kangana-ranaut-over-derogatory-tweet/story-JiyFBoKoF0OdHyR668K5EI.html
04-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan questions price of RT-PCR tests in Tamil Nadu||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan on Thursday questioned why the Tamil Nadu government was not reducing the price of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19 that costs Rs 3,000.“What is the mystery behind the fact that Tamil Nadu is the only state to continue with the tariff fixed in June even after several states have reduced the tariff?” he tweeted in Tamil. He added the RT-PCR test fee is Rs800 in Delhi, Rs980 in Maharashtra, Rs1,200 in Rajasthan, and Rs1,000 in Meghalaya.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere are 224 approved testing labs in the state. The government conducts the tests free of cost at its 67 labs. But 157 private labs in the state charge up to Rs3,000 for the RT-PCR tests and an additional Rs500 for home collection after it was capped.“We may be revising it [the test price] as a core committee is deliberating on it,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.Tamil Nadu is the only state to strictly stick to RT-PCR tests, which are the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-questions-price-of-rt-pcr-tests-in-tamil-nadu/story-1UAZB3cGSdbkFVAzE4wrUK.html
04-12-2020||India||Covid-19 antibodies found in 72% samples, says ICMR study||Neutralising antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, were found in 72% of the samples tested at an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) institute, according to a study published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR). The study found antibodies were also present in asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Neutralising antibodies defend cells from the virus.“...to say anything conclusively about protection against re-infection needs to be studied further,” said one of the authors of the study, requesting not to be identified.A total of 343 blood samples, of which 89 were positive, 58 negative for Sars-Cov-2, 17 cross-reactive, and 179 serum from healthy individuals were collected and tested at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology in Pune from March to May.“Among 89 serum samples from SARS-CoV-2 real-time RT-PCR confirmed patients... 64 (71.9%) were found positive and the remaining 25 serum samples (28.1%) negative,” says the study. “Of the 89 COVID-19-positive patients, 59 (66.3%) were symptomatic and 30 (33.7%) were asymptomatic.”Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todaySerum samples from Covid-19 confirmed patients (n=89) using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in Pune and Alappuzha in Kerala were taken for the study.The symptomatic patients had cough in 48 cases (81.4%), fever in 36 (61%), sore throat in 16 (7.1%), breathlessness in 11 (18.6%), body ache in 9 (15.3%), headache in 5 (8.5%), nasal discharge 2 (3.4%) and diarrhoea in 2 (3.4%).Of the 59 symptomatic patients, 42 (71.2%) showed the presence of antibodies. Among 30 asymptomatic patients, 22 showed them (73.3%). Among the 25 (28.1%) neutralising antibody negatives, 11 patients were positive (7 symptomatic and 4 asymptomatic), according to the researchers.Samples were collected within 2 weeks after RT-PCR confirmation from 58 Sars-Cov-2 RT-PCR-negative patients.“Understanding NAb [neutralising antibody] response among Covid-19 patients is a crucial requirement because the presence of neutralizing antibodies would provide greater assurance of protection in the absence of approved and validated preventive and therapeutic options… The role of cellular immune responses (T cells or cytokines) in the recovery of such patients needs to be explored,” the study says.“More systematic studies with controlled follow up of patients and titration of NAb among the recovered patients will provide useful information for passive antibody therapy against SARS-CoV-2 virus infection. Further, it is pertinent to study the protective role of NAb during reinfection in recovered Covid-19 patients.”Experts say that merely detecting antibodies is not enough.“What is crucial is to know the quality of antibodies, and whether these offer immunity against the disease, and for how long,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-antibodies-found-in-72-samples-says-icmr-study/story-7kMoOwK71ZTn1YimwS8GWP.html
04-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi Updates: Thiruvananthapuram airport shut for 8 hours||Authorities in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday suspended flight operations at the international airport for eight hours from 10am to 6pm to ensure safety ahead of Cyclone Burevi’s landfall across the southern districts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said Burevi may make its landfall in Kerala on Friday and has issued a red alert of heavy to very heavy rains of over 20cm in 24 hours and a cyclone warning for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala coasts.“The airfield of Trivandrum airport is closed from 1000-1800 hrs IST on 4.12.20 due to Cyclone Burevi considering aircraft & passenger safety. Passengers booked for tomorrow’s flights are requested to contact Airlines concerned for revised timings,” Trivandrum airport tweeted.Also read | Cyclone Burevi weakens into deep depression; holiday in Kerala, PuducherryIt also shared a revised flight schedule and said air travellers should get in touch with the airlines they are flying with for the latest updates. REVISED FLIGHT SCHEDULE ON 4.12.2020 IN VIEW OF @AAITVMAIRPORT CLOSURE FROM 1000-1800 HRS ON 4.12.2020 DUE TO CYCLONE BURAVI. ALL PASSENGERS ARE REQUESTED TO GET IN TOUCH AIRLINE CONCERNED FOR LATEST UPDATES @AAI_Official @aairedsr pic.twitter.com/qPYnOvpZa1The weather bureau has said in its latest bulletin that Cyclone Burevi has weakened into a deep depression and would cross the Tamil Nadu coast on Friday. Cyclone Burevi, which crossed the Sri Lanka coast on Wednesday night, would hit the Tamil Nadu coast as a cyclonic storm, the weather bureau had earlier forecast. It had also issued a red alert for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala.“Deep Depression over Gulf of Mannar lay centered at 2330 IST of 3 Dec about 40 km southwest of Ramanathapuram. To cross Ramanathapuram and adjoining Thoothukudi districts within a few hrs with wind speed of 50-60 kmph. To weaken further into a Depression by 4th Dec mrning,” IMD said in the bulletin.Also read | Cyclone Burevi moving away from Sri Lanka, damage has been minimal: OfficialsThe Kerala government has declared a public holiday for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki in the state on Friday. In Tamil Nadu, there is a holiday in six districts of Virudhanagar, Ramanathapuram, Thirunelveli, Thuthukudi, Thenkasi and Kanyakumari owing to the landfall of Cyclone Burevi. Flight services at Madurai airport have also been suspended till 12pm and officials have said that the Tuticorin airport will be closed on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-thiruvananthapuram-airport-shut-for-8-hours/story-RcrcTX2eelkmmyoaf4jclI.html
04-12-2020||India||Congress monitoring developments in BJP-JJP ties in Haryana over farmers’ agitation||The Congress is keeping a close watch on the developments in the ruling alliance in Haryana, where the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is under pressure to review its ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation.A Congress functionary said on the condition of anonymity that his party has adopted a “wait and watch” policy and insisted that the ruling coalition will “collapse on its own” due to the mounting pressure on the JJP to withdraw its support to the BJP over the agitation by farmers demanding an immediate repeal of three farm laws enacted in September.Farmers have been staging protests at several border points of Delhi since last week.Also read | Ambala MC polls: Former Congressmen to debut own partiesThe ruling coalition suffered its first setback when independent legislator from Charkhi Dadri Sombir Singh Sangwan withdrew his support to the government, calling it anti-farmer. He also resigned as chairman of the Haryana Livestock Development Board.Sangwan’s exit has sounded alarm bells in the ruling camp and put pressure on JJP and other supporting legislators to review their ties with the BJP as the agitation is gaining momentum.In the 90-member Haryana assembly, the BJP has 40 legislators, JJP 10, Congress 31, the Indian National Lok Dal and the Haryana Lokhit Party one each besides seven independents.The JJP has said its leader Dushyant Chautala will resign as the Haryana deputy chief minister if the minimum support price is discontinued.Upbeat over its victory in the Baroda by-poll, the Congress has decided to keep a close watch on the developments and not get “actively involved” in bringing down the Manohar Lal Khattar government.“The best-case scenario for us is mid-term elections rather than having an alliance with JJP,” said a Congress leader from Haryana. “Even if JPP withdraws its support to BJP, there is a possibility of the state being put under President’s rule and the assembly in suspended animation during which anything can happen.”Former chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda has reportedly said some JJP legislators are in touch with his party functionaries but insisted that it was for Chautala’s party to decide whether to stand by farmers or stay in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-monitoring-developments-in-bjp-jjp-ties-in-haryana-over-farmers-agitation/story-fpywakwcSQ8YmvXbc7fkbK.html
04-12-2020||India||At 1,600 mn, India biggest buyer of Covid-19 vaccine doses: Report||India has emerged as the biggest purchaser of confirmed vaccine doses at 1,600 million as countries are securing shots to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which has already killed 1.5 million people globally, a study by the US’ Duke University showed. India has so far registered over 9.57 million cases till now and 139,188 people have died. The European Union is in the second position with nearly 1,600 million doses. While, the United States, which continues to be the worst affected nation, has managed to purchase 1,000 million vaccine doses.The study, ‘Launch and Scale Speedometer’, analysed data up to November 30 on vaccine procurement and manufacturing to track the flow of procurement and better understand global equity challenges. The North Carolina-based university conducted research to identify Covid-19 vaccine candidates and status, ongoing negotiations of procurement and manufacturing, virus burden in a country along with allocation and distribution plans. “Countries with manufacturing capacity, such as India and Brazil, have been successful in negotiating large advance market commitments with leading vaccine candidates as part of the manufacturing agreements,” the study showed.Japan, Canada and the United Kingdom have purchased less than 400 million confirmed vaccine doses till now. Duke University pointed out that there will not be enough vaccines to cover the entire global population until 2023 or 2024. The study also revealed that high-income countries held 3.8 billion confirmed vaccine doses, middle income held 829 million doses while low-income countries held over 1.7 billion doses.“Most high-income countries have been able to negotiate purchases through the investment of large amounts of public funds into research and development of Covid-19 vaccines and leveraged purchasing power to make large-scale deals across a portfolio of vaccine candidates,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-1-600-mn-india-biggest-buyer-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-report/story-FJIRb979HhyWiSpVbMhVHM.html
04-12-2020||India||CPIM’s All India Kisan Sabha plays key role in building solidarity for farmers’ protest||The CPIM in India had long mastered the art of issue-based support. It’s farmer arm, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), increasingly widened the scope of such pacts to stage big-ticket protests such as the ongoing farmers’ agitation in the National Capital Region. For the AIKS, a key participant along with Punjab Kisan organisations’ coordination committee and several other organisations, in the ongoing protests, the experience of 2014 movement against the land bill and the 2018 long march in Maharashtra came handy this time. When the NDA government brought the land bill in 2014, the AIKS tried to form a broad-based movement joining hands with more than 300 organisations representing tribals, activits, forest right movement, Dalits and even fishermen. And after the Mandsaur incident, where farmers died during protests, the AIKS reached out to other organisers for an issue-based pact and formed All India Kisan Sangharsh coordination committee (AIKSCC). “AIKSCC brought together more than 250 organisations who might not agree with each other on all issues. But we formed an issue-based unity around two common agenda to fight together: assured remunerative price and freedom from debt. In the course of United struggles consensus on broader issues developed,” said Vijoo Krishnan, joint secretary of Kisan Sabha. It is the AIKSCC that held long negotiations with farm bodies in Punjab and Haryana and other solidarity groups to launch a massive protest against the new farm laws of the NDA government. The kisan long march in Maharashtra had proved the organising power of the AIKS but this time, in the rice bowl of India, they found the new laws as the perfect cause to expand their issue-based support and join hands with more farmer bodies. “The solidarity between farmers and workers, students, women, activists and even professionals such as lawyers and doctors is unprecedented,” adds Vijoo, “we also have plans to intensify and broaden the protests across the country. Efforts to portray it as a Punjab specific movement is far from the reality of consistent protests across India. Our organisations are focused on building solidarity for the ongoing farm agitation in Delhi.” The farm wing’s tactical line of issue-based help also comes when the CPIM and the Left parties have taken a fresh approach to issue-based pacts with outfits and parties outside the leftist periphery. The Left parties joined hands with the RJD and Congress after a long time in Bihar, clinching impressive results. It has already announced seat pacts—not alliances—with the Congress in Assam and West Bengal and with DMK in Tamil Nadu. When asked why it took such a long time to organise protests as the farm bills were cleared in August, Vijoo said, “You have to consider that there are partial lockdowns and Covid-19 pandemic is far from over. Our leaders had to negotiate with many organisations and held several online meetings as well as in villages. It was a meticulously built unity. I don’t think we are late.We had numerous protests across the country from June 5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-s-all-india-kisan-sabha-plays-key-role-in-building-solidarity-for-farmers-protest/story-tqJdSAzEvrILDpm0OveiGP.html
04-12-2020||India||Court stays UP govt’s move to recover damages from anti-CAA protestors||The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Thursday stayed all proceedings and coercive action till next hearing against Syed Saif Abbas Naqvi, who was issued recovery notice for the anti-CAA protests by the Uttar Pradesh government.A division bench of justices Alok Singh and Karunesh Singh Pawar ordered the state government not to take any coercive action against Naqvi till the next hearing of the case.“Learned counsel for respondents (state government) is granted four weeks’ time for filing a counter affidavit. Thereafter, two weeks is granted to the petitioner (Syed Saif Abbas Naqvi) for filing a rejoinder affidavit,” ordered the court.“In the meantime, no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioner,” the court said.The Yogi Adityanath government had issued an order on March 3, by which the petitioner and others were held jointly as well as separately responsible and liable for damages amounting to Rs 67 lakh. The court has fixed the next hearing for the case in January along with the bunch of other related writ petitions.The order was hailed by those accused of damaging public property during the anti-CAA protests in Lucknow in December last year. They alleged that the state government’s move of issuing recovery notices was illegal.In total, four recovery notices were issued against 57 protestors to realise an amount of Rs 1.55 crore.The accused also challenged the competence of additional district magistrates (ADMs), who had served notices for the violent anti-CAA protests in Lucknow.Also Read: Shivpal Yadav calls Akhilesh’s 1 seat offer a joke, seeks socialist front against BJP“We welcome the court’s stand. State government’s stand of sending recovery notices to the innocent people was an illegality,” said Saif Abbas.Similarly, retired IPS SR Darapuri, who was also one of the accused, also welcomed the order.“Additional district magistrates don’t have the power to send recovery notices. It’s an illegal act. I am sure justice will prevail,” said Darapuri, whose matter too is pending with the court.Deepak Kabir, a social activist who was also accused in the violence that swept the state capital last year, too, welcomed the development.“Since the beginning, we maintained that the government’s move of serving recovery notices is illegal. We are happy that the court has stayed all proceedings and has given (us) four weeks’ time,” said Kabir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-up-govt-s-move-to-recover-damages-from-anti-caa-protestors/story-pYDUtieqNomKmNg5Z5wW9L.html
04-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s air quality remains in very poor category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi AQI continues to stay in very poor categoryDelhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Friday morning. At 7am, the air quality index (AQI) was 335, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The average AQI on Thursday was 341. Read moreCyclone Burevi likely to emerge in Arabian Sea, may re-intensifyCyclone Burevi had weakened into a deep depression over Gulf of Mannar close to Pamban by Thursday evening. It is likely to cross Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts in Tamil Nadu on Friday morning. Read moreReality check bites touring Indian teamThis India Australia series is slowly losing its charm. If the unavailability of Rohit Sharma and Virat Kohli for the major chunk of the series wasn’t enough of a dampener, India have gone and lost the one-day series. Read moreRechargeable Jeep Wrangler set for 2021 launch, claims to be ‘out of this world’Jeep Wrangler, known for tackling a wide variety of terrain challenges with arrogant levels of ease, will be launched in a plug-in rechargeable version coming in early 2021. Read moreTenet movie review: Christopher Nolan’s latest mind-bender is not worth the wait, and definitely not worth risking your life forEnigmatic to a fault and exhaustingly dense, Christopher Nolan’s latest sci-fi spectacle leaves you with the unshakable feeling that you walked into the screening 15 minutes late. Read moreBride tests positive for coronavirus 3 days before wedding, undeterred gets married in safe Tangled-inspired ceremonyA bride, with just three days to her big day, tested positive for Covid-19. Undeterred, however, she decided to go forward with the wedding but in a unique, and of course, safe way. Read moreDurgamati: Bhumi Pednekar on comparisons with Anushka ShettyAfter making us laugh and cry, Bhumi Pednekar is all set to scare us with her new film, Durgamati The Myth. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-air-quality-remains-in-very-poor-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3ek2ostHbk5OiuEAxui7XM.html
04-12-2020||India||PM to chair all-party meeting on Covid-19 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to interact with leaders of various political parties from both Houses of Parliament on Friday to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country. Floor leaders of all parties from the Lok Sabha as well as the Rajya Sabha have been invited for the virtual meeting to be held from 10.30am onwards. This will be the second all-party meeting called by the government to discuss the Covid-19 situation since the outbreak of the pandemic. The first meeting was held on April 20 amid a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, health minister Harsh Vardhan and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi will also attend today’s meeting. The floor leaders of different parties who are expected to attend the meeting include Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury (Lok Sabha) and Ghulam Nabi Azad (Rajya Sabha) of the Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Lok Sabha) and Derek O’ Brien (Rajya Sabha) of the Trinamool Congress, Midhun Reddy (Lok Sabha) and Vijayasai Reddy (Rajya Sabha) of the YSR Congress Party. The government is likely to brief the leaders about steps taken to deal with the pandemic and the progress made in vaccine development and distribution. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted about the meeting, hoping that the PM will also clarify by when every Indian will be given Covid-19 vaccine. “In today’s all-party meeting, we hope the PM clarifies by when will every Indian get free Covid vaccine,” he wrote.Also read | Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Modi, seeks priority Covid 19 vaccination for stateThe Prime Minister has held multiple meetings – the last one on November 24 – with chief ministers, laying special emphasis on states with high Covid-19 caseload to review the situation there and offer suggestions and also discussed the vaccine administration and distribution. On Monday, he held a virtual meeting with three teams working on developing and manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine. He had also visited pharmaceutical companies in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune on Saturday to review coronavirus vaccine development work there. India has recorded the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the world after the United States but is one of the countries with the lowest deaths per million population globally, according to the Union health ministry. The meeting also comes a day after Chowdhury’s letter to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla urging him to convene a short winter session of the House to discuss several issues, including the farmers’ agitation and preparation of the Covid-19 vaccine. In his letter, Chowdhury said the winter session be convened with all the Covid-19 protocols in place to help the people understand the important issues the country is facing at present. “There are a number of very important issues that the nation is facing in present times. The most notable among them are the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the status/preparation of the Covid-19 vaccine,” the letter read. Chowdhury also listed issues such as economic slowdown, unemployment, continuous stand-off along the India-China border and unabated ceasefire violation along the India-Pakistan border for immediate discussion in Parliament. “There is a need for a thorough and transparent debate/discussion on all the above-mentioned important issues,” he said. Last month, Birla had said the Lok Sabha Secretariat is ready to hold the winter session but the dates will be decided by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. Chowdhury’s demand was also supported by his party colleagues Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor. Tewari demanded that the winter session of Parliament be convened at the earliest to debate various pressing issues facing the country like the ongoing farmers’ protest against agriculture reform laws, Chinese aggression and the Covid-19 crisis. He said parliamentarians “owe it to the country to lead by example by not avoiding our duties” because of Covid-19. “It is all the more important to convene the Parliament for the winter session in view of the farmers’ uprising when tens of thousands of farmers from different parts of the country are protesting around Delhi to seek the repealing of three controversial agricultural laws,” the former union minister said. “And the Parliament is the best forum to debate and deliberate on these while keeping in view the concerns and demands of the farmers,” he added. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states have been camping at border points of Delhi for over a week now to protest the Centre’s three agriculture reform laws which were enacted in September. Tewari said various parliamentary panels such as the standing committees and joint parliamentary committees are already holding regular meetings. “There is no logic or reason to skip the winter session of the House. Skipping an entire session of Parliament will not only set a bad precedent but will send a wrong signal across the country,” he added. “The show must go on,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-chair-all-party-meeting-on-covid-19-today/story-TQYctgU7rPwkkgON1FNzwN.html
04-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi weakens into deep depression; holiday declared in Kerala, Puducherry||Cyclone Burevi has weakened into a deep depression and would cross the Tamil Nadu coast on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin. Burevi, which crossed the Sri Lanka coast on Wednesday night, would hit the Tamil Nadu coast as a cyclonic storm, the weather bureau had earlier forecast. It had also issued a red alert for south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala.“Deep Depression over Gulf of Mannar lay centered at 2330 IST of 3 Dec about 40 km southwest of Ramanathapuram. To cross Ramanathapuram and adjoining Thoothukudi districts within a few hrs with wind speed of 50-60 kmph. To weaken further into a Depression by 4th Dec mrning,” IMD said in the bulletin.It also said that heavy to very heavy rainfall is “very likely” at a few places over south Tamil Nadu and at isolated places over Kerala and Mahe during the next 24 hours. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely at isolated places very likely over north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the next 24 hours. Heavy rainfall was very likely at isolated places over south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Lakshadweep on Friday, it added.Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday spoke to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and assured all help to the states. Before this, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Wednesday discussed the situation with the chief ministers and also assusred them all possible support from the Centre.Also read | High alert in Kerala as Cyclone Burevi set to lash southern coastThe Kerala government has declared a holiday in five districts for Friday as the state remains on high alert with heavy rains expected under the influence of Cyclone Burevi. A public holiday has been declared for the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki in the state, the statement issued by the state government said. “A public holiday for all government offices including public sector undertakings has been declared for the five districts in the state,” the statement said.It said the disaster management authority and concerned services, emergency services and election-related services will function normally. The international airport in Thiruvananthapuram will remain shut from 10am to 6pm on December 4. More than 2,000 relief camps have been opened in Kerala, it added.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan held a high-level meeting with representatives of the armed forces, Coast Guard, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), various department heads, DGP and chief secretary. “As IMD alerted the state, Kerala took all necessary precautions including a complete ban on fishing. District Collectors are making all preventive efforts. 2891 relief camps opened. A 24-hour control room with helpline numbers have been started,” said Vijayan.The statement said IMD has predicted that the course of the storm will be through the border areas of Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts and the government, along with various departments and the army, were ready to face the contingencies.Flight services at Madurai airport have been suspended till 12pm and the Tuticorin airport will be closed on Friday. Government and private schools in Puducherry will remain closed on Friday due to continuous rains triggered by Cyclone Burevi, an official order said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-weakens-into-deep-depression-holiday-in-kerala-puducherry/story-D15rZMyhsGt31QzFYO18FP.html
04-12-2020||India||14-year-old abducted, gang-raped by three men in Nainital: Police||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by three men in Uttarakhand’s Nainital, police officials said on Thursday. She was found unconscious in a forest, the officials said.According to officials, the girl was kidnapped by the accused on Wednesday evening. “The girl was kidnapped by three men on Wednesday evening when she was alone at home while her parents were out for some work,” said revenue police sub-inspector Praveen Hyanki.“They then took her to the jungle where they took turns to rape her. The three men then left her there before threatening to kill her if she told anyone about the heinous act,” said Hyanki. The girl knows the three accused as they live in the same area, he said.The incident came to light when villagers found the girl lying unconscious in the jungle on Thursday morning, he said. “After identifying her, the villagers informed her parents who rushed to the spot and took her to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to a higher centre in Haldwani,” said Hyanki. The girl has sustained serious injuries, he added.The girl’s father has filed a complaint against the three men, officials said. “We have received the complaint and will soon register a case. The girl is at present undergoing treatment at the hospital,” Prateek Jain, sub-divisional magistrate of Koshyakutoli sub-division in Nainital, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-year-old-abducted-gang-raped-by-three-men-in-nainital-police/story-DboXssJjrmVCGQgcC2UpsO.html
04-12-2020||India||Cyclone Burevi likely to emerge in Arabian Sea, may re-intensify||Cyclone Burevi had weakened into a deep depression over Gulf of Mannar close to Pamban by Thursday evening. It is likely to cross Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts in Tamil Nadu on Friday morning with wind speed of 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph bringing heavy rain to south Tamil Nadu and parts of south Kerala.There is, however, a possibility that Burevi will emerge in the Arabian Sea and re-intensify, scientists said. With its weakening into a deep depression, concerns about widespread damage or disaster in south of the state or Kerala from a cyclone have been put to rest. “The wind speed has reduced so we are not expecting damage. But there are chances that the depression will merge in Arabian Sea. We cannot say right away what its track or intensity will be. Once it moves over the Arabian Sea we can make some projections. Burevi’s track (Bay of Bengal to Arabian Sea) is not common but it may not be the first case,” said M Mohapatra, director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also read | Thiruvananthapuram airport to remain closed on Friday as IMD issues red alert in five districtsScientists are also intrigued by Burevi’s track which made landfall over Sri Lanka close to north of Trincomalee between 10.30 and 11.30pm on Wednesday as a cyclonic storm with a wind speed of 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph. It crossed the narrow strip Palk Strait and the Pamban area and will cross Tamil Nadu as a deep depression. “I cannot say right away that this is the first time we are seeing this track of a cyclone moving over Sri Lanka and India but I have no memory of such a track. Also, some models are indicating that the depression will emerge in the Arabian Sea in a day or two. Its re-intensification from a depression cannot be ruled out,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.Burevi lay over Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram district coast on Thursday night. The associated wind speed is about 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph. The deep depression is likely to move west-southwestwards and cross Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts. It is very likely to weaken further into a depression (wind speed 40-50kmph gusting to 60 kmph) later on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-burevi-likely-to-emerge-in-arabian-sea-re-intensify/story-5A999VeRVfE5lAwUBhnOPN.html
04-12-2020||India||GST revenue shortfall: Chhattisgarh opts for govt’s borrowing option||Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh has become the latest state to accept the central government’s offer to borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of state administrations to meet a Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in their share of revenue from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) this fiscal year, largely on account of the pandemic. Jharkhand is the lone state to hold out. Thirty members of the GST Council – 27 states and 3 Union territories -- have formally accepted the first borrowing option proposed by the Centre in August this year, an official in the Union government said, requesting anonymity.“Government of Chhattisgarh has communicated its acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The number of states who have favoured Option-1 has gone up to 27. All states except Jharkhand and all the three Union Territories (UTs) with legislative assembly have decided in favour of Option-1,” the Union finance ministry said in a statement on Thursday.At the 41st GST Council meeting on August 27, the Centre offered two borrowing options to states to meet their revenue shortfall in the current financial year. Two days later, it specified that under the first option, states would not have to pay either the principle or interest if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore (later raised to Rs 1.1 lakh crore) to meet the shortfall because of implementation issues. They would have to bear significant interest costs if they chose the larger borrowing option of Rs2.35 lakh crore that included revenue shortfall because the Covid-19 pandemic, which was described as “an act of God”.Initially 10 states – mostly administered by non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties -- objected and insisted that the Centre borrow the entire amount and reimburse them for the shortfall without imposing any direct interest burden on states. They were Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal.The Union government eventually agreed to do on and on October 23 set up a special borrowing window for the purpose. It has already borrowed Rs30,000 crore on behalf of the states and passed it on to them.“The funds borrowed through the special window were released to the States and UTs on 23rd October, 2020, 2nd November, 2020, 9th November, 2020, 23rd November, 2020 and 1st December, 2020. Now the State of Chhattisgarh will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-revenue-shortfall-chhattisgarh-opts-for-govt-s-borrowing-option/story-VeDQ9mC4loQrbOq7Ix9ceK.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC election results today: A high-stakes battle for BJP, TRS||Votes in the bitterly-fought elections to the 150-ward Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will be counted on Friday. Poll officials have made elaborate arrangements for the process and set up centres at 30 places where more than 8,000 personnel will be engaged in the counting of votes. The counting process would be recorded on CCTV cameras installed at every counting table, officials have said. Ballot papers were used for the poll and consequently, the results are likely to be known only in the evening or in the night.The polls in the city assume political significance as 24 assembly segments fall under the GHMC limits. In the last GHMC elections in 2016, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the state had swept the election as it won 99 of the 150 wards. The municipal elections are also crucial for the BJP, party functionaries aware of the details said, as it has set itself the target of expanding its footprint in the state. “The party hopes to establish itself as a serious contender,” said a senior party functionary. Its recent win in the Dubbak assembly constituency by-poll has given the BJP a toehold to carve out space for itself in the TRS bastion.Also read | Hyderabadis remain lukewarm to GHMC polls, only 42% turn out to voteThe Telangana State Election Commission had decided to conduct the GHMC elections with ballot papers after obtaining the views of major political parties, the health department in view of the coronavirus pandemic and taking into consideration various relevant issues.Election campaignThe turnout of the voters on December 1 was an unimpressive 46.55 per cent or 34.50 lakh out of the total 74.67 lakh voters even though the run-up to the poll saw a high-pitched campaign by parties.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) conducted a spirited campaign to win the GHMC polls to boost its chances in the assembly elections to be held in 2023. The party has drafted its general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who was its in-charge for the Bihar assembly elections, to supervise the poll preparations in Hyderabad.Union home minister Amit Shah, party president JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, who is Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, party MP and BJYM national president Tejasvi Surya were the leaders who participated in the campaign.The BJP highlighted the TRS’ “alliance” with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and sought votes to provide clean and transparent administration in the city. The TRS, however, denied any alliance with the AIMIM.Also read | GHMC polls: BJP only knows ‘jumla’ and ‘hamla’, says KTR on last day of campaignThe TRS’ campaign was led by its working president and state municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, while party president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao addressed a public meeting. The state’s ruling party also deployed several state ministers and legislators for canvassing in the city.The Congress’ poll battle was led by its state president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and working president A Revanth Reddy (both MPs) and other senior leaders.The Telegu Desam Party (TDP), once a major force in the state, sought to revive its fortunes highlighting the development witnessed in the city, including in the IT sector, during N Chandrababu Naidu’s regime as the chief minister in undivided Andhra Pradesh.War of wordsThe BJP’s Telangana president and lawmaker Bandi Sanjay Kumar found himself in a row following his comments that his party would conduct a “surgical strike” in the old city here, if necessary, to send away Rohingyas and Pakistanis after it wins the post of Mayor in the polls.The AIMIM’s leader Akbaruddin Owaisi in a poll campaign earned the wrath of his opponents by asking whether the ‘samadhis’ of former prime minister PV Narasimha Rao and TDP founder NT Rama Rao, built on the Hussain Sagar lake bank, would be removed as he questioned the eviction drive against “poor people” residing near water bodies.Polling to the GHMC passed off peacefully, barring minor incidents of clashes among the activists of the TRS, BJP and AIMIM. However, the state election commission ordered repolling in all 69 polling stations of Ward Number 26 after it was found that the symbol of the CPI(M) was printed in the ballot paper instead of the CPI’s.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-election-results-today-a-high-stakes-battle-for-bjp-trs/story-HKwmGdwkud6E7WpD1fcmJN.html
04-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM sets deadline for Mahakumbh preparations amid credit war over Ganga status||All temporary works for Mahakumbh 2021, being held in the holy city of Haridwar in Uttarakhand will to be completed by Jan 31, 2021, while permanent works will be completed by Dec 31, 2020, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced after a whirlwind tour of Haridwar on Thursday to review the preparations for the largest and longest religious gathering in the world which begins in January.Expressing satisfaction over the current pace of works of permanent nature such as new bridges, Ganga ghats, flyovers, broadening work of national highways 58 and 72 and other related projects, Rawat said the deadline for Kumbh mela administration, for completion of temporary works, has been set as January 31. “All the permanent nature works will get completed by December 31, while temporary works will get completed by January 31, early next year, for which, I have given directives to mela administration and nodal departments. We will be holding a grand kumbh fair and mela administration is ensuring time-bound completion of works and their good quality,” said Rawat. Rawat’s inspection comes in the backdrop of Akhada Parishad representatives and many prominent saints expressing concern recently over the slow pace of Kumbh infrastructure works. Some seers have also complained of delay in allocation of land to Akhadas for the four-month-long Kumbh stay in Bairagi camp area. The chief minister also instructed for proper labelling of Mansa Devi and Chandi Devi shrine routes and ordered renovation of ashrams of saints and Akhadas before the Kumbh fair. Rawat offered prayers to deity Ganga and performed rituals at the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkumd at Har-Ki-Pauri. Also Read: Mahakumbh 2021 prep is changing face of Haridwar, here’s howCommenting on former Congress chief minister Harish Rawat’s silent protest in Haridwar, the CM alleged that the Congress leader was ‘double-faced’ and couldn’t be trusted even by his fellow Congressmen. Citing his government’s decision to repeal the Harish Rawat government’s 2016 order labelling the stretch of Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri as Ganga canal escape channel, Rawat said, “Our government is doing mass development works and also correcting the wrongdoings of previous Harish Rawat led Congress government,”. Also Read: Akhada Parishad opposes recognition to all-female ‘Akhada Pari’ during Mahakumbh 2021Meanwhile, Harish Rawat hit back at the CM on the issue of nullification of the Har-Ki-Pauri escape channel order issued by his government in 2016 and claimed that it was only due to him that the BJP government was forced to repeal the notification. “I accepted my government’s mistake of labelling Har-Ki-Pauri as an escape channel when it is very much part of the main Ganga. But for the past three and a half years, the BJP-led government and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat didn’t act. I went to Akhadas and Ganga Sabha representatives, raised this issue and now after such a long time, when Assembly election neared and local priests started an indefinite agitation at Har-Ki-Pauri, the BJP government nullified the said order,” said Rawat, who is staging a silent protest at Kissan ghat against alleged atrocities on farmers protesting at Delhi-NCR border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-sets-deadline-for-mahakumbh-preparations-amid-credit-war-over-ganga-status/story-HDn5YpUxQYdkz1nn564snM.html
04-12-2020||India||GHMC poll results LIVE updates: No clear winner emerges, BJP makes major gains||The results of 149 seats of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has now been declared. The Telangana Rashtriya Samiti has won 56 seats, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has won 43 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party has recorded wins in 48 seats. The initial results show that the AIMIM could emerge as a kingmaker as it looks unlikely for TRS to secure the magic number - 76. Congress has won 2 seats so far and has been pushed pushed to the sidelines. The Telangana Pradesh Committee Chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy has resigned taking responsibility of the party’s dismal performance. The results show that BJP has become the main challenger to the ruling TRS in Telangana. Union minister G Kishan Reddy has said that Telangana has paved the path for BJP in the state as citizens are growing tired of the TRS rule, news agency ANI reported. The polls are being seen as a three-way battle between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP, in fact, went all out in its campaign for the December 1 polls, with prominent leaders like Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, part president JP Nadda and youth wing chief Tejasvi Surya, among others, campaigning in the IT hub.Also Read | GHMC election results today: A high-stakes battle for BJP, TRSFollow all live updates here:8:26 pm: Results of 149 constituencies declared; TRS fails to reach magic numberAfter the results of 150 constituencies were released, there has been no clear winner. The Telangana Rashtriya Samiti has won 56 seats, BJP candidates have secured wins in 49 constituencies and AIMIM has won in 41 constituencies. Congress has been pushed in the sideline and managed to win 2 seats. The result in Neredmet constituency has been withheld as dispute arose over voter using ink mark to vote rather than the Swastika symbol. 7:17 pm: Union minister G Kishan Reddy says Telangana has rejected dynastic ruleUnion minister G Kishan Reddy told ANI that BJP has been able to amass a large number of wins in the civic polls. He told ANI that BJP has successfully brought down the vote share of both TRS and AIMIM. He said, “TRS had 99 seats in Hyderabad, this has come down to 55 now. We had 4 seats and we have won 50 as of now. The number of seats of AIMIM has also gone down, the same goes for TRS. BJP has today emerged as a strong party.”6:15 pm: TRS maintains lead with 45 seatsTRS continues to lead with 45 seats. BJP is trailing with 29. AIMIM gains two more seats and now it has 36 seats. 5:30 pm: BJP and AIMIM in close contestOut of 150 divisions, results for 99 has been declared. TRS is leading with 41. BJP and AIMIM are in close contest with 22, 34 seats respectively. 4:01 pm: BJP extends its lead across 34 seatsBJP has won two seats so far but trends show the national party leading in 34 seats. 3:42 pm: TRS leading in 47 seats, AIMIM wins 23 seatsTRS has won 11 seats so far but has extended its lead in 47 seats. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has won 23 seats and is leading in 11. 2:12pm: Five more AIMIM candidates victorious as wellAIMIM’s Mirza Mustafa Baig (Riyasat Nagar), Mohammad Saleem (Doodh Bowli), Mohammad Khadir (Ramnaspura), Syed Sohail Qadri (Patherghati) and Shabana Begum (Barkas) also victorious.2:05pm: TRS’ Pushpa Nagesh victoriousTRS candidate wins from RC Puram division.2:04pm: TRS leading in 70 seats, BJP slips to thirdTRS takes lead in 70 seats while the AIMIM is second with 45, BJP and Congress leading in 30 and four seats respectively.1:30pm: AIMIM’s Rafat Sultana wins third seat for partyAIMIM wins third seat in the GHMC polls as Rafat Sultana wins Ahmednagar division.1:28pm: TRS candidate Sunitha Reddy wins from Mettuguda divisionAnother TRS candidate victorious, Sunitha Reddy wins from Mettuguda division.1:17pm: Congress’ Sirisha Reddy wins from AS Rao divisionCongress candidate Sirisha Reddy wins from AS Rao division.12:58pm: AIMIM wins another seat, TRS victorious as wellAIMIM wins second seat as Hussain Khan wins from Dabeerpura division; TRS’ Rajkumar Patel wins in Yousufguda division.12:52pm: Initial leads in first round show TRS at 53, BJP 20, AIMIM 8, Congress 1 Initial leads show TRS ahead in 53, BJP, AIMIM, and Congress in 20, eight and one respectively.12:11pm: AIMIM’s Majid Hussain wins from Mehdipatnam divisionAIMIM candidate Majid Hussain registers first victory of these elections, wins from Mehdipatnam.11:50am: TRS now leads in 21 wards; BJP and AIMIM in seven eachTRS now leading in 21 wards, BJP and AIMIM in seven each.11:39am: TRS takes lead in eight wards, BJP ahead in sixFirst round of results begins; TRS takes lead in 15 wards, BJP ahead in six wards and AIMIM in two.10:43am: Message to TRS that people want change, says BJP MP D Arvind“The transformation has started in the state of Telangana. You have seen Lok Sabha election results then Dubbaka by-election and now GHMC. Let us wait till the evening, but it is clear message to TRS that people want change,” says BJP MP D Arvind. The transformation has started in the state of Telangana. You have seen Lok Sabha election results then Dubbaka by-election & now GHMC. Let us wait till the evening, but it is clear message to TRS that people want change: Telangana BJP MP D Arvind #GHMCPolls pic.twitter.com/cNNROl9bFy10:38am: BJP establishes lead in 82 divisions, TRS in 31, AIMIM and Congress in 16 and fourBJP surges ahead in 82 divisions, TRS in 31, AIMIM and Congress in 16 and four.10:20am: BJP establishes lead in postal ballots, gets majority postal votes in 72 divisionsBJP way ahead with lead in 72 out of 125 divisions, TRS trailing in second at 35, followed by AIMIM (17) and Congress (one).9:56am: Out of 86 divisions, BJP ahead in 50 seats, TRS in 25Postal ballots counted for 86 divisions; BJP and TRS lead in 50 and 25 respectively.9:46am: Counting underway for GHMC pollsCounting of votes for the GHMC elections currently underway. Telangana: Counting for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections underway; visuals from LB Stadium counting centre. #GHMCPolls pic.twitter.com/RP486Dw7xy9:15am: BJP now ahead in 30 seats, TRS in 15Out of 45 divisions, BJP now ahead in 30 seats and TRS in 15, trends show.9:03am: Early trends indicate BJP ahead in 20 divisions, TRS in 12BJP now surges ahead in 20 out of 32 divisions, TRS leads in 12.8:45am: BJP establishes edge in postal ballots, leads in 9 divisions; TRS ahead in 3BJP establishes slight edge in postal ballots, leads in nine out of 12 divisions; TRS ahead in three.8:32am: First result likely only after 11amCounting being done through ballot paper method. First result expected only after 11am.8:10am: Counting of votes beginsCounting of votes for the GHMC elections 2020 begins. Counting for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections begins. #Telangana https://t.co/VxDKDtSsgs8:00am: Expect to win over 100 seats, says TRS leader K KavithaWe are expecting to win over 100 seats. Although many big leaders from BJP came to campaign and made many false claims, I’m happy that people of Hyderabad did not believe in them, says TRS leader K Kavitha. We are expecting to win over 100 seats. Although many big leaders from BJP came to campaign and made many false claims, I'm happy that people of Hyderabad did not believe in them & reposed their faith in KCR's leadership: Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Kavitha #GHMCElections pic.twitter.com/TYKTjrJ0Mc7:28am: The BJP fielded all its big guns during campaigningUnion home minister Amit Shah, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, party chief JP Nadda and youth wing chief Tejaswi Surya were among star campaigners for the BJP.7:11am: Ruling TRS currently has 99 seats in the civic bodyTelangana’s ruling TRS currnetly has 99 seats in the GHMC, followed by AIMIM (44), BJP (4), Congress (2) and TDP (1).7:00am: Counting of votes for 150-ward GHMC polls to begin at 8amCounting of votes for the GHMC polls will begin at 8am in 30 polling centres across Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-poll-results-live-updates-counting-of-votes-to-begin-at-8am/story-5DQoNGxJ3UXYvv0YscplFL.html
04-12-2020||India||IB chief to J&K interlocutor: Dineshwar Sharma, the man who excelled in different roles||Dineshwar Sharma, the administrator of Lakshadweep and former Intelligence Bureau (IB) chief, died at the age of 66 on Friday in a hospital in Chennai, from complications related to a lung ailment. Tributes poured in from political leaders across parties including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, and former J&K chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, who all praised him for his knowledge and skills but most importantly his ability to connect with everyone. Sharma was slightly built and quiet but he was not averse to speak truth to power, and was always willing to invest time and effort on complex issues. That made him a natural choice for the Modi government which decided to appoint him special representative for Jammu & Kashmir on October 25, 2017. His post was equivalent to the post of Cabinet Secretary. Sharma, as J&K interlocutor, pursued dialogue with various stakeholders in J&K till the BJP-PDP coalition collapsed in 2017. It was he who recommended releasing first time stone pelters from jail. PM Modi tweeted on Friday after his death: “Administrator of Lakshadweep Shri Dineshwar Sharma Ji made long lasting contributions to India’s policing and security apparatus. He handled many sensitive counter terror and insurgency ops during his policing career. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti”. Mehbooba Mufti said in her tweet as interlocutor Sharma tried his best to restore bridges of trust and goodwill between J&K and rest of the nation. Omar Abdulla said: “Dineshwar Sharma was a wise and sensible man who understood Kashmir. Unfortunately he was an interlocutor for a government that wasn’t interested in listening but that isn’t a reflection of either his efforts or his abilities. I’m sorry to hear of his untimely demise. May he RIP”. His batchmate and former CBI Director Anil Sinha said: “I have lost my brother, my friend and my family member.” Sharma was IB chief for a fixed two-year term from December 31, 2014. Sharma joined the Intelligence Bureau as Assistant Director in January 1991 in Kashmir when the insurgency was at its peak there. During his service, Sharma handled a number of assignments including counter insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ib-chief-to-j-k-interlocutor-dineshwar-sharma-the-man-who-excelled-in-different-roles/story-XETvKkh9XiKCQRBSIJSxnO.html
04-12-2020||India||Covid: SC seeks report from Himachal govt regarding treatment of patients||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a status report from the Himachal Pradesh government regarding the treatment of Covid-19 patients in different hospitals, infrastructure and facilities available therein.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah issued notice to the Himachal Pradesh government and asked it to file a status report after an advocate apprised it that there are several issues like lack of oxygen, lack of beds in the state.The bench, while taking note that guidelines with regard to wearing of masks and keeping social distancing are not being followed in almost all of the states, asked the Centre and states to file suggestions in this regard so that it can issue appropriate directions to implement the guidelines and to ensure the compliance.“It has been pointed out that guidelines with regard to wearing of masks and keeping social distancing are not being followed in almost all of the states. It is submitted that even though there are stringent regulations including imposing of fine on non-wearing of masks, yet desired results have not been achieved,” the bench noted in its order.“It has also been submitted that there has been large public gathering including political, religious, ceremonial where the social distancing is given a go-bye and there are no appropriate mechanisms to check such social gatherings,” it added.The order said that the Solicitor General and other counsel appearing for different states have requested time to give appropriate suggestions so that appropriate directions may be issued by the court to implement the guidelines and to ensure the compliance.“The suggestions may be given by December 7, 2020,” it said.The bench was hearing a suo motu case pertaining to the management of Covid-19 crisis and mishandling of dead bodies.The court has posted the matter for hearing on December 9.During the hearing, the bench remarked that “many vegetable markets where social distancing is required but is not being followed, look into this from that angle - the issues of super spreader start from here. These are the most vulnerable spots.”Senior Advocate KV Vishwanathan appearing for Delhi government contended that ICU beds now stand at 5,010.Vishwanathan told the court that tests have gone up in Delhi.“Cases are going down. Being monitored at highest. We don’t want to be adversarial,” Vishwanathan said.After an advocate said prices for Covid-19 tests and treatment need to be regulated in the Assam, the bench said that under Article 32 it cannot regulate how much a hospital in the state charges.Later, the bench asked the Assam government to see into whether the issue of Covid-19 treatment charges can be looked into and what can be done about preventive measures to be taken during political rallies.The counsel also pointed out that Assam will see elections in the coming year and mechanisms need to be put in place in light of pandemic. The bench said it will pass an order in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-sc-seeks-report-from-himachal-govt-regarding-treatment-of-patients/story-3A3buEWssAaOaVgvYCD77M.html
04-12-2020||India||China defends dam on Brahmaputra, India hits back||India on Thursday said China must ensure its hydropower projects don’t infringe on the water rights of lower riparian states, even as Beijing asserted its right to build a dam on the lower reaches of the Yarlung Zangbo river close to the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China’s plans to build a “super” dam on Yarlung Zangbo in Medog county of the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) have triggered fears about far-reaching consequences for water security in India’s northeastern states. The trans-border Yarlung Zangbo, which originates in TAR, flows into Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, where it is known as the Brahmaputra and plays a crucial role in the local economy. “As a lower riparian state with considerable established user rights to the waters of trans-border rivers, the government has consistently conveyed its views and concerns to Chinese authorities and urged them to ensure that the interests of downstream states are not harmed by any activities in upstream areas,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. The development, coming against the backdrop of the dragging border standoff in the Ladakh sector of the LAC, has the potential to further complicate bilateral relations. India has noted reports of China’s plans to build a super dam and the government carefully monitors all developments on the Brahmaputra river, Srivastava said. The Chinese side has informed India on several occasions it is “only undertaking run-of-the-river hydropower projects which do not involve diversion of waters of the Brahmaputra”, he said. “We intend to remain engaged with China on the issue of trans-border rivers to safeguard our interests,” Srivastava said. Issues concerning trans-border rivers are discussed with China through an expert-level mechanism, set up in 2006, and diplomatic channels. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying brushed aside apprehensions about the project while asserting China’s “legitimate right” to build projects on the lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo. She held out the assurance that any project will account for the interests of downstream states such as India and Bangladesh. “When it comes to use and development of cross-border rivers, China always acts responsibly. We have a policy featuring development and conservation, and all projects will go through science-based planning and assessment with due consideration for its impact downstream and taking into account interests of upstream and downstream regions,” she said when asked about the project. “The development of lower reaches of Yarlung Zangbo is in early stages of planning and assessment. There is no need to read too much into that,” she said. China, India and Bangladesh have for long had “good cooperation” in sharing hydrological information, flood reduction and contingency management, and Beijing will continue communications through existing channels, Hua said. International experts said that although details about the massive project are not publicly available, it could impact lower riparian states and the environment of TAR once completed. Ameya Pratap Singh, a doctoral candidate at Oxford University, who has written on India-China relations, said India needs to be on alert. From India’s perspective, the risks are flooding, water scarcity, diversion of water and consequent unrest in the North-east, he said. Liu Xiaoxue of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, a government-affiliated think tank, said the dam was an opportunity for China and India to cooperate but New Delhi’s apprehensions will remain.“My opinion is that it will surely benefit both sides, leading to mutual prosperity. But given the huge deficit of political mutual trust between India and China, there is no doubt it will result in a strong resistance from the Indian side,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-defends-dam-on-brahmaputra-india-hits-back/story-Z9fTogaquykvrYVXhgxbfK.html
04-12-2020||India||Govt announces 2 new army posts with focus on reforms||The government on Thursday announced the post of a Deputy Chief of the Army Staff, or DCOAS, (Strategy) with an aim to bring about structural reforms in the army, about two years after the plan was envisaged.The government also announced another new post of Director General (Information Warfare) at the army headquarters, confirmed an official, who is from the security establishment and is aware of the developments.This official, who requested anonymity, denied that the developments were connected with the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Border tensions between India and China have reached new heights in the aftermath of a clash in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The clash resulted in the deaths of 20 Indian soldiers, including a commanding officer, and an undisclosed number of Chinese soldiers. The current Director General of Military Operations (DGMO), Lt Gen Paramjit Singh, is set to become the first DCOAS (Strategy), the official said. He added that the need for this particular post had been highlighted in several surveys and studies done as part of the army’s restructuring efforts.Officials said the post of DCOAS (Strategy) was created to deal with military operations, military intelligence, strategic planning and operational logistics. The process for this began in 2018 and was finally cleared by the government on Thursday, the official said. It was not immediately clear who the new Director General (Information Warfare) would be.The move according to officials in the know, will have its advantages as it will reduce the burden of work of the Vice Chief of Army staff. “The Vice Chief already sees all of the Chief’s files...so, with this, one task will be reduced. The DCOAS will oversee the work of the Director General of Military Operations (DGMO) and that of the Director General Military Intelligence (DGMI),” said a second official.At present, the DGMO and the DGMI report to the Vice Chief. In the new structure, they are expected to report to the DCOAS (Strategy).Lt Gen (retired) Deependra Singh Hooda said the move will ensure that there is just one person (the DCOAS) in charge of military operations and intelligence. “So you get a comprehensive picture,” he said. “It’s a good idea as it will enable better operational planning.” The creation of the Director General (Information Warfare) post is being seen as recognition of the emerging trends in warfare. “Earlier there was just an ADGPI (Additional Directorate General of Public Information) who looked at things with the lens of the media,” said Lt Gen Hooda. “Now, this new officer will work at how to deal with fake narratives and all kinds of current challenges that it poses.”But there was criticism in some quarters as well. “When you don’t even have a formal security strategy, what is the point of the new post (DCOAS)?” said Lt Gen (retired) HS Panag. “There will be someone handling strategy in army, someone in navy and someone in air force. And they will all be rudderless.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-2-new-army-posts-with-focus-on-reforms/story-xFxDBjwEBz5fre6SpDWjxN.html
04-12-2020||India||Can’t bar convicted leaders from polls for life: Govt to SC||Convicted lawmakers cannot be debarred from contesting elections for life, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday in response to a petition that sought convicted legislators to be treated on par with convicted bureaucrats, who are debarred for life from government service.Making a distinction between bureaucrats and members of Parliament or state legislatures who are convicted of serious offences under the Indian Penal Code or other special laws, an affidavit filed by the ministry of law and justice said that while public servants were governed by”‘service conditions,” such conditions do not exist for lawmakers. Instead, MPs and MLAs are governed by the Representation of the People Act (RP Act), which prescribes a six-year disqualification from contesting polls for an offence that is punishable with a prison sentence of two years and above.The affidavit came in response to an application moved in a pending PIL filed by lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. In his main petition, Upadhyay had sought debarment of convicted lawmakers for life. However, in the application, he added a subsequent prayer, challenging the validity of Sections 8(1), 8(2), 8(3) and 9(1) of RP Act, 1951, which disqualifies a convicted legislator for a period of six years and five years (under Section 9(1)).Upadhyay questioned the different standards of punishment for convicted lawmakers on one hand and convicted public servants on the other and demanded that the same rule of debarment must be applied to MLAs/MPs on contesting elections or for heading a political party.The affidavit said: “There are no specific service conditions laid down in respect of elected representatives albeit, the fact that the people’s representatives are public servants. The elected representatives are ordinarily bound by the oath that they have taken to serve the citizens of their constituency in particular and the country in general. Their conduct is bound by propriety, good conscience and they are expected to generally work in the interest of the nation.”The affidavit said that while the issue of debarment for life was pending in the main petition filed by Upadhyay, there was no need to entertain the amended application, which challenged the RPA provisions with regard to disqualification of MPs/MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-bar-convicted-leaders-from-polls-for-life-govt-to-sc/story-3mULA5y2I5Wl8Jc0mJJjyJ.html
04-12-2020||India||FIR against 14 under new law on conversion||A case was registered on Thursday against 14 people under a recently introduced Uttar Pradesh law to punish forced religious conversions of women after interfaith marriage, the police said .Superintendent of police Sushil Ghule said the case was registered on the basis of a complaint under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance-2020 at Chiraiyakot police station in Mau district. The police said the complainant alleged that his 30-year-old daughter was kidnapped by a person he identified as Shabab Khan aka Rahul for religious conversion. He filed the complaint against Shabab Khan and 13 of his acquaintances, stating that the wedding of his daughter had been scheduled for November 30 but on the eve of the marriage Khan kidnapped her with the intent of converting her religion. “Three teams have been deployed to arrest all the accused and recover the woman. We will soon get a breakthrough as we have some important clues,” Ghule, the superintendent of police of Mau, said.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel approved the ordinance promulgated by the state against forced and dishonest religious conversions on November 28. The first case under the new law was registered within hours against a Muslim man d in Bareilly the same night. He was arrested later. The ordinance has provisions to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage.”The state cabinet cleared the law earlier in November, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, which involves Muslim men marrying Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages with the intention of changing the woman’s religion will be declared null and void.Under the provisions of the new law, the violation has been made a cognizable and non-bailable offence. The new law provides for a jail term of up to 10 years in some cases for violators and treats forced conversions as a non-bailable offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-14-under-new-law-on-conversion/story-BHCRVeOnDGBCdmuGCT7rkI.html
04-12-2020||India||PIL challenges UP ‘love jihad’ law in SC, says misuse likely||Two lawyers and a legal researcher have filed a petition in the Supreme Court challenging an ordinance promulgated by the Uttar Pradesh government outlawing religious conversions by way of marriage, arguing that the law could be misused to falsely implicate couples belonging to different faiths who marry out of their free will.The petition, filed on November 30, also challenged the validity of a 2018 Uttarakhand law that prohibits conversion of religion by way of marriage.Terming the UP ordinance, promulgated last month and signed by governor Anandiben Patel, and the Uttarakhand law to be against public policy and the society at large, the petition demanded that they be scrapped by the top court for violating the fundamental rights of citizens who decide to marry people who belong to other faiths.The Uttar Pradesh ordinance outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women but one that has been rejected by courts and experts. “This ordinance can become a potent tool in the hands of bad elements of the society to... falsely implicate anyone...there are probabilities to falsely implicate persons who are not involved in any such acts and it will be a grave injustice if this ordinance is passed,” said the petition.The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020” was promulgated on November 24. The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to Rs 15,000 for those convicted under the law. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to Rs 25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.Criticizing this law, former Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur in a recent online lecture on November 29 said: “Giving a backseat to freedom of choice, dignity and human rights, a stringent ordinance related to marriage and forcible conversion has recently been passed in Uttar Pradesh.” He cited the SC’s 2018 verdict upholding the freedom of choice of an adult woman to marry a person of her choice in the Shafin Jahan v Ashokan KM case of 2018, popularly referred to as the Hadiya case. The persons behind the petition are advocates Vishal Thakre and Abhay Singh Yadav and law researcher Pranvesh, who is based in Allahabad. This is the first petition to challenge a law on this subject. “The Ordinance passed by the State of Uttar Pradesh and law passed by Uttarakhand are against the public policy and society at large and violates basic structure of the Constitution,” the petition said.Similar laws are being contemplated by BJP-ruled states of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Haryana and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-challenges-up-love-jihad-law-in-sc-says-misuse-likely/story-7OzNMkWSQpnITQ8lFlqCYM.html
04-12-2020||India||India’s masala king, founder and face of MDH, dies at 97||Mahashay Dharampal Gulati, who died on Thursday at the age of 97 after a cardiac arrest, earned several sobriquets over the years: MDH Uncle, Dadaji and Masala King. It was the last that most aptly described the man behind the New Delhi-based masala maker MDH Private Limited, who single-handedly made the packaged, ready-to-use, spices popular across the country. Dressed in a red turban, white sherwani (long coat) and a pearl necklace, the moustached, bespectacled, ever-smiling Gulati was the face of his brand, featuring in almost all its ads over the decades. MDH is short for Mahashian Di Hatti, which is Punjabi for the “shop of a respectable man”.Gulati’s was one of the remarkable post-partition refugee success stories. Born in 1923 in Sialkot, Pakistan, Gulati came to Delhi in September 1947. Starting as a tangewala (horse-cart puller) in Delhi, he built MDH, started by his father Chuni Lal Gulati as a small shop in Sialkot in 1919, into a ₹2,500- crore brand. After selling his horse cart in 1948, he bought a small wooden khokha (makeshift shop) at Ajmal Khan Road in Karol Bagh, where he started grinding and selling spices under the brand name Mahashian Di Hatti. The packaged masala was among MDH’s first innovation. The cardboard box pack launched in the late 1940s carried Gulati’s image. As the business picked up, in 1954, he set up a spice store in Karol Bagh, and in 1958, handed it over to his brother Satpal Gulati. Today, it is famous as Roopak Stores. Gulati always believed in the power of adverting, and MDH was one of the first companies to launch an aggressive print ad campaign in 1948, placing advertisements in Pratap, a popular newspaper among Punjabi refugees those days. In 1984, when the company launched its first TV ad, he was once again its brand ambassador. “People ask me why I don’t get Shah Rukh Khan or Amitabh Bachchan to promote my masalas. Why should I ride on their success to promote my brand? I am the man behind the success of my product, so shouldn’t I be promoting it,” he told HT 2009. MDH was formally incorporated as Mahashian Di Hatti Private Limited in 1965 and today has 19 factories. Beginning in the 1980s, new rivals kept entering the market, but MDH products — today there are about 45 — remained popular as ever. “The secret of his success was his passion and indefatigable energy. He brought a personal touch to whatever he did. He was very punctual, disciplined and visited his factories every day. For the past 50 years, he worked almost 18 hours a day and was in his office from 9am to 6pm every day,” said Rajinder Kumar, executive vice president of MDH. “He used to say that he knew about his brand and consumers and so liked to promote it himself...” added Kumar. Gulati became the highest-paid CEO in the packaged consumer goods business in 2017, drawing a salary of ₹21 crore — most of which went to charity. Conferred Padma Bhushan for his contribution, he also ran a number of educational institutes and a super-specialty hospital, Mata Chanan Devi Hospital, in Delhi. In 2012, he published his autobiography, Tangewala Kaise Bana Masalo ka Shahenshah, which translates as “how a tangewala became the masala emperor” .  President Ram Nath Kovind, Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Piyush Goyal, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra mourned the passing of Gulati. “Dharm Pal ji was very inspiring personality. He dedicated his life for the society. God bless his soul,” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-masala-king-founder-and-face-of-mdh-dies-at-97/story-1hCbIbRcdE2xIrLEjMoQkL.html
04-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US registered 2,760 deaths on Wednesday, according to the New York Times. This is the highest daily death toll in the country since the beginning of the pandemic (caveat: just like the death toll on any other day, this does not mean 2,760 people died from Covid-19 on Wednesday, just that their deaths were recorded on that day). There’s a high probability that this number will increase in the coming days. According to the New York Times, hospitalisations in the US have now exceeded 100,000. On Wednesday, the US had 5.57 million infections, according to worldometers.info -- a staggeringly high number, it’s almost 40% of the total of 14.3 million cases the country has seen thus far. US’S DEADLIEST WAVEThe third wave of infections in the US, the rush of hospitalisations and the spate of deaths can be attributed to opening up, the onset of winter and the holiday season. Experts are also dreading the impact of Thanksgiving, which they expect to start showing up by late this week.The country has seen a little less than 14 million cases, according to the NYT database (there has always been some divergence between the two readings). In the week to December 2, the US saw 164,024 daily cases on average (according to the NYT database). Last week it crossed the 200,000 mark in terms of daily cases for the first time. The third wave of infections, the rush of hospitalisations, and the spate of deaths, can be attributed to opening up, the onset of winter, the holiday season – experts are dreading the impact of Thanksgiving, which they expect to start showing up by late this week – and, of course, the stupidity of people. Show me a superspreader event and I will show you one idiot, perhaps more. It’s going to be a long, dark winter for the US.HOPE AHEADSometime before December 15, though, the US Food and Drug Administration is almost certain to approve the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine. And before Christmas, it could approve the second. The agency is expected to take a decision on the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech on December 10, and on the one developed by Moderna on December 17.Sometime before December 15, though, the US Food and Drug Administration is almost certain to approve the country’s first Covid-19 vaccine. And before Christmas, it could approve the second. The agency is expected to take a decision (or at least critical steps towards taking an eventual decision) on the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech on December 10, and on the one developed by Moderna on December 17. Given what we know of the results of the trials for both vaccines, regulatory approval for both is almost a certainty. The UK has already approved the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine (this happened on Wednesday), and media reports in the US point to some level of angst that FDA is taking its time. A report in AFP quoted Moncef Slaoui, the scientific adviser to Operation Warp Speed, the US government programme that has ploughed billions of dollars into vaccine developers – it is probably the Trump administration’s biggest success – as saying that vaccinations in the country could start in the middle of December and that by the “end of February, we will have potentially immunised 100 million people”. Excluding those below the age of 18 years, who will not be administered the vaccine till much later in the year (and this is not just in the US, but everywhere; Dispatch 217 on Thursday explained why), this will cover around 40% of those who need vaccines. Earlier this week, the executive in charge of supply and distribution for Operation Warp Speed told MSNBC that all Americans who want vaccines will have it by June.In both the UK and the US, which will be the first countries to start vaccinating people with shots that have cleared Phase 3 trials – Russia and China are also vaccinating people under emergency use, but the final results of trials are still awaited in the case of the two vaccines approved by the former, and the three by the latter – the challenge for administrators and health officials is to convince everyone to get vaccinated. Both countries have a significant population of anti-vaxxers.With the UK, the US, and other rich countries hogging much of vaccine supply though, 2021 is likely to result in a new kind of inequality – and because vaccines are relevant from the perspective of both lives and livelihoods, this will only accentuate existing fractures between the global north and the global south.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jGRphTmop1e8iZYxyXyAxL.html
04-12-2020||India||‘No mask violates the right to life of others’, says Supreme Court||People not wearing masks in public spaces are violating the fundamental right to life of everyone else, the Supreme Court said on Thursday as it implored all states to enforce the guidelines on wearing masks and social distancing scrupulously in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic.At the same time, the apex court stayed a Gujarat high court order that sought to punish those not wearing masks in public by assigning them to Covid-19 centres to perform non-medical duties, terming the punishment “disproportionate”. A bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan regretted that people have been recently showing a lack of will to follow the guidelines meant to prevent the spread of the virus, and the authorities were apathetic in implementing the norms on masks and social distancing.“Those who are not wearing masks are affecting fundamental rights of others. They may hamper health of other people,” remarked the bench, which also included justices RS Reddy and MR Shah.When solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the Gujarat government, said there was nothing to show that the police could be encouraging the trend, the bench retorted: “Truth can easily be seen. And we are not talking only about one state but the problem across the nation.”The court added that these guidelines and standard operating procedures had been issued by the Union health ministry and states too, but the major hurdle was of their implementation.“There is a lack of will everywhere. There is no implementation. Everybody is moving without masks in markets, malls, marriages and all kinds of ceremonies. There are more than 1,000 people in a marriage ceremony? How is this happening? What is police doing,” the bench asked Mehta.It also took a dim view of large gatherings in marriages and processions, observing that some states had even done away with the necessity of seeking prior approval from the authorities for organising such congregations.Mehta accepted that it was a pan-India problem, and that certain urgent measures, including imposition of a higher fine on violators, can be ordered by the apex court.At this, the bench reiterated that enhancing the fine may not suffice until there is proper implementation.Mehta, on behalf of the Gujarat government, had sought a stay of the high court order to send those not wearing masks in public to perform non-medical duties in Covid-19 centres as punishment.The bench concurred with the solicitor general that such punishment may pose serious health risks even to non-Covid-19 persons, and stayed this part of the order. But at the same time, the court underlined that the stay order cannot be construed as encouraging people to not wear masks.Thus, the bench directed Gujarat’s additional secretary, home, to ensure the requirement of wearing mask and social distancing were rigorously implemented. It also directed the state police to make certain all guidelines are implemented in the state.It further asked all state governments to submit suggestions by Monday on how to control public gatherings and ensure compliance with the requirement of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.The bench said it will consider issuing directions for all states after the responses are received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-mask-violates-the-right-to-life-of-others-says-supreme-court/story-XMLlKDyaj9itnReh61rLTO.html
04-12-2020||India||Govt agrees to review farmers’ key demands||A make-or-mar round of talks between the Union government and farmers protesting three farm laws moved a step forward on Thursday after being repeatedly deadlocked, with the government agreeing to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address demands of farm unions. The farmers, however, stuck to their stand that the government should roll back all three laws. The negotiations on Thursday were the fourth round of meeting between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, as protests by thousands of agriculturalists on Delhi’s borders simmered for the seventh straight day. Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, led the government side, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers. “The government has no ego issues. The talks were with an open heart. Farmers’ leaders raised several issues and gave us their views on them. We have assured them that each of the points raised by them will be reviewed by the government and we will meet again on December 5,” Tomar said after the discussions. While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda to raise farm incomes and spur investments in the sector. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The government enlarged the group of farmers’ representatives from 35 to 40 for Thursday’s meeting in response to the farmers’ demand. The farmers’ side for the first time included a women’s representative, Kavitha Kuruganti of the Forum for Women Farmers’ Rights. “The farm minister said the government may bring amendments. We pointed out that if a law goes wrong on its very objective, then its various provisions are bound to go wrong. That is what happened here. That farmers have been left to fend for themselves in their market interfaces,” said Kuruganti. In the last meeting on December 1, which was inconclusive, the agriculture minister had suggested that farm leaders identify specific issues related to the farm-reform Acts. The farmers’ delegation spoke at length about what they saw as threats to their interests because of the reforms. These included the danger of existing notified government-controlled markets collapsing because a proposal to set up free markets in competition with traditional ones that give farmers assured prices for staples. A new contract-farming law could imperil the landholding rights of farmers, the farmers said. They also demanded the government reverse all penalties on farmers for crop-residue burning under a new anti-pollution ordinance promulgated in October. The farmers also sought a review of a bill that provides for direct cash payments to farmers to offset costs of electricity for farming in lieu of the existing practice of providing subsidised power supply. “We will go back review each of these provisions. We will see how we can bring parity between existing Agricultural Produce Market Committees (regulated markets) and free markets. We may bring new measures to strengthen APMC markets,” Tomar said. The farm minister also said the government would review the impact of a power supply amendment bill pending in Parliament on farmers and review a recent law, which provides for settlement of disputes between farmers and traders at the magistrate level. Farmers have demanded that they be free to approach civil courts to settle such disputes. The farmers also sought a legal guarantee to federally fixed MSPs so that no private buyer can purchase any major farm produce below state-set threshold prices. The government assured the farmers that the MSP system, under which it buys staples at profitable rates, will continue but did not commit to a law prohibiting sale of any major farm produce below state-set support prices, as sought by farmers. The farmers concluded by saying that the issue is not about “any one particular clause”, but about the “direction in which the government is pushing farming in India”, said Avik Saha, secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKCC). Jagmohan Singh, a farm leader who was part of the talks, said farmers unanimously demanded a repeal of the “three black laws”. “All our objections and fear will go if the three laws are taken back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-agrees-to-review-farmers-key-demands/story-VxKFdGZDsIKiab2SbEzb8I.html
04-12-2020||India||Naga body cautions against short-term gains after Governor’s controversial remarks||The Forum for Naga Reconciliation (FNR), an assemblage of Naga people from diverse backgrounds focused on reconciliation and peace building through dialogue, on Thursday urged Naga leaders and Government of India to avoid politicking for short-term gains amid a massive row triggered by Nagaland governor RN Ravi.Ravi, who is also the Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, in a recent message had hailed the controversial 16 Point Agreement signed between the Naga People’s Convention (NPC) and the government of India which led to the formation of the state of Nagaland in 1963. H ealso unveiled a memorial to commemorate the contributions of the “founding fathers” of the state at the Raj Bhavan in Kohima on December 1.Both his remarks and the memorial are being seen as attempts to create fissures in the Naga society and continue to draw flak.The FNR in a statement asserted that the 16 Point Agreement was one of the historical events seen to have decisively fragmented the Naga political movement and induced situations for division and disunity.“The failure of the 16 Point Agreement led the Government of India to sign the ‘Framework Agreement’ with NSCN (IM) in 2015 and the ‘Agreed Position’ with NNPGs in 2017. Yet, the recent public display to idolize the 16 Point Agreement reveals the true hand behind the gestures of peace. If the intention was to win the hearts of the Nagas, this policy and approach demonstrates lack of acumen and prudence,” the FNR said. It pointed out that while the majority of Naga people across Nagaland rejected the 16 Point Agreement of 1960 and Shillong Accord of 1975 which were signed with the government of India, the consequences of these events led to bitterness, loss of human life, suspicion, distrust, fragmentation of Naga land and division.The FNR said that honest discussion, healing, forgiveness and reconciliation are required around those historical events, but the trauma and wounds are still raw and sensitive, provoking the worst out of one another.“It, therefore, is not surprising that the Indian State and its agencies with guile and statecraft have actively steered the statehood narrative intensifying division and simultaneously normalising complacency and conformity among the Naga populace. But to what end? A divided Naga house is in nobody’s long term interest,” the FNR stated.Maintaining that Nagas are united in their historical and political rights even if their opinions and approaches were divided, the forum said Nagas are learning to use their differences to heal and it would be beneficial for all, including the government of India and Naga neighbours, to encourage and support a “reconciled and healed Naga people”.“To meet the transforming needs of our contemporary realities both Naga leaders and Government of India need to avoid politicking for short-term gains,” the FNR said while calling for the need to be political with statesman-like character and diplomatic qualities that are based on sincerity and respect.Earlier, the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), the Naga Students’ Federation and apex tribal body, the Naga Hoho, had condemned the governor’s statement with similar sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-body-cautions-against-short-term-gains-after-governor-s-controversial-remarks/story-djla004AM4e2OU2Cu7VC5M.html
04-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee speaks to protesting farmers; sends emissary to meet them at Singhu border||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee spoke to the representatives of the farmers protesting against contentious farm laws and sent an emissary to meet them at the Delhi-Haryana border on Friday. This comes a day after she threatened a nationwide protest if the Centre did not scrap the laws that allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions.“The CM [chief minister] made at least four calls to different farmers’ groups from Haryana and Punjab. They shared their demands with the chief minister and thanked her for her solidarity. They also expressed their gratitude for all her support to farmers and the land movement in the past,” Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, a lawmaker of Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) said. “[Derek] O’Brien, TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader, spent four hours meeting various groups of farmers who have parked their tractors and other vehicles on the highway at the [Delhi-Haryana] Sighu border.”The TMC’s top leadership was expected to meet later on Friday to chalk out their future course of action against the farm laws including the Essential Commodities Act. “...We will discuss how the Essential Commodities Act is impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices. The central government must withdraw this anti-people law,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the three laws, saying they will hurt their incomes even as the government has maintained they will enhance them. They say the laws are a precursor to the withdrawal of government support for farming and will replace existing middlemen with more powerful corporate entities.Fourteen years ago, on this day (December 4), Banerjee started her 26-day hunger strike while intensifying the Singur movement in West Bengal against forcible land acquisition.“14 years ago on 4 Dec 2006, I began my 26 day hunger strike in Kolkata demanding that agricultural land cannot be forcefully acquired. I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by Centre. #StandWithFarmers,” Banerjee tweeted on Friday.The BJP responded to the CM’s move later. “Kisan mandis in West Bengal exist only on paper while farmers in the state are not getting the minimum price and selling their produce at distress rates. Potatoes are selling at double the normal rates. But what rates are the farmers getting? The TMC is merely trying to divert the attention away from the state,” said BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-speaks-to-protesting-farmers-sends-emissary-to-meet-them-at-singhu-border/story-Js94pYm5hVZGKMelWzxuHM.html
04-12-2020||India||Expelled BJD MLA arrested in Tata Motors job scam||Four days after he was expelled from Odisha’s ruling Biju Janata Dal, three-time MLA and former minister Pradeep Panigrahy was arrested by the CID in a cybercrime case in which he allegedly defrauded several youths promising them jobs in Tata Motors.CID officials who had picked Panigrahy this evening from his official residence in Bhubaneswar arrested him under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act 2000 accusing him of collecting money on behalf of Akash Pathak , falsely promising jobs in Tata Motors. The sub divisional magistrate’s court in Bhubaneswar remanded him judicial custody for 14 days. Akash Pathak, son of senior Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Abhay Pathak is already in jail since last week in a disproportionate assets case filed by the vigilance department. Over the last few days several youths in Gopalpur, the constituency of Panigrahy, had accused Pathak of promising them jobs in Tata Motors posing as managing director of Tata Motors passenger car division.Tata Motors too had accused Pathak of impersonation and forgery and had lodged a complaint with the CID after it was revealed that Pathak conned many people by introducing himself as MD (in-charge) of Tata Motors passenger car division. Panigrahy’s wife Sujata said the case was an attempt to frame her husband. “Several persons identifying themselves as CID officials came to our residence at Unit-6 and took my husband with them in a vehicle informing me that they were taking him to the Economic Offence Wing office. If anything happens to my husband, I will drag everyone to the court and chief minister Naveen Patnaik alone will be responsible for this,” she said.Vigilance and CID officials said they are further probing huge deposits into Panigrahy’s accounts. There were at least four instances when around Rs 2 crore was deposited into his bank account by 5 different people. Similarly, Rs 50 lakh was transferred from the account of Panigrahy to Akash Pathak.Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday began a probe into money laundering charges and financial affairs of suspended IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak and his son Akash who had made 20 trips to different cities of the country during lockdown using chartered flights. Joint Director (ED), Madhav Chandra Mishra said the agency would probe all the allegations of money laundering and other deposits and investments made by the father-son duo. The vigilance department which is interrogating the father-son duo has so far found Rs 16.05 crore including cash deposit of Rs 10.76 crore in their bank accounts raising suspicion of benami transaction and money laundering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-bjd-mla-arrested-in-tata-motors-job-scam/story-RBzOrkH5t27obMmE115juI.html
04-12-2020||India||Cyclone Amphan led to $14 billion economic losses, says global report||Super cyclone Amphan, which made landfall in the Sunderbans near the India-Bangladesh border in May this year, is estimated to be the costliest tropical cyclone on record in the North Indian Ocean with economic losses amounting to about $14 billion, according to the World Meteorological Organisation’s (WMO) provisional report on the State of Global Climate released on Wednesday. The cyclone caused large-scale evacuation of residents of coastal areas in India and Bangladesh where 129 lives were lost in the cyclone. Amphan reached the category 5 equivalent intensity (a wind speed greater than 156 mph, according to the UK Met Office) while over the Bay of Bengal and weakened before landfall to a category 2 storm but led to extensive damage in Kolkata and surrounding areas. Around 2.4 million people were displaced in India, mainly in West Bengal and Odisha, and 2.5 million in Bangladesh. While many returned soon afterwards, damage to more than 2.8 million homes resulted in displacement of thousands, the WMO statement added.This year is also very likely to be one of the three warmest years on record globally since temperature record-keeping began in 1850, according to the WMO report.The global mean temperature for January to October 2020 was around 1.2 degree Celsius above pre-industrial levels, dangerously close to breaching the 1.5°C threshold that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) said will mark a menacing milestone in the warming of the planet. Data sets used by WMO suggest that 2020 is the second warmest year on record, preceded only by 2016 and followed by 2019. The exact rankings for each data set could change once data for the entire year are available.A 1.5°C rise in average temperature over pre-industrial times is the threshold beyond which many regions, including India, will record extreme temperatures; increases in frequency, intensity, and/or amount of heavy rainfall and an increase in intensity or frequency of droughts in some regions, IPCC warned last year in a special report titled Global Warming of 1.5 Degrees.At a global mean temperature of 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels in the first 10 months, this year has already been dominated by extreme climate events, including excessive heat, wildfires and floods and a record-breaking Atlantic hurricane season, which added to the crisis posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. Heavy rain and flooding affected the Sahel, the Greater Horn of Africa, India and neighbouring areas, China, Korea and Japan, and parts of south-east Asia at various times of the year, the report said. Over 2,000 deaths were reported during the monsoon in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Myanmar. India experienced one of the two wettest monsoon seasons since 1994. August was the wettest month on record for PakistanThe warmest region this year was northern Asia, particularly the Siberian Arctic, where temperatures were more than 5°C above average. Siberian heat was at its peak in June, when it reached 38°C at Verkhoyansk on June 20, the highest known temperature anywhere north of the Arctic Circle. This fuelled the worst wildfire season in an 18-year-long data record, in terms of carbon dioxide emissions released by fires, according to the WMO. The number of tropical cyclones globally was above average in 2020, with 96 cyclones as of November 17 in the northern hemisphere and the 2019-2020 southern hemisphere seasons. “Only 4% of the global tropical cyclones occur in the Bay of Bengal. These cyclones do not usually grow as intense as the cyclones in the Pacific or Atlantic but the damage is larger because of the vulnerability and exposure. These 4% cyclones cost about 80% of the global fatalities and a huge economic loss,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-amphan-led-to-14-billion-economic-losses-says-global-report/story-FWbYlDCccVSgIDNna93W5L.html
04-12-2020||India||India orders Wikipedia to delete map that shows Aksai Chin in China||The Union government has asked Wikipedia to take down a map that shows Aksai Chin as a part of China, issuing a strongly-worded letter to the United States-based nonprofit, according to officials familiar with the matter.Wikipedia is one of the most popular repositories of information online, and works on a volunteer-based model to compile the information, distinct from social media platforms that have recently been pulled up over similar issues.The contentious Wikipedia page, which links the incorrect map, is on Bhutan-India relations and talks about the ties between the two countries.The secretary of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology Ajay Sawhney issued the order to Wikipedia on November 27. A senior government official said he had invoked section 69A of the Information Technology Act that empowers the government to order intermediaries to block public access of any information.“The secretary further adds that it violates the territorial integrity of the country, and it is well within the power of the ministry under section 69A to order it to be taken down,” said one of the officials, asking not to be named.“The secretary has satisfied himself that the map has been wrongly depicted,” this person said. In the order, this person added, the secretary states that the content posted on the website is done with the intent to “defame” the country and has the “potential to disturb the sovereignty and harmony of the nation”.“As can be seen from its public talk page, Wikipedia’s volunteer editors are in fact currently reviewing and working to ensure that the Bhutan-India Relations article and image meet Wikipedia’s quality standards,” Wikipedia told HT via email. This, however, is not the first time the government has taken up the misrepresentation of the map of India this year. In September this year, the government served Twitter with a notice over a similar map issue — the geotag for Leh showed it as a part of China. The government had asked Twitter to provide an explanation on why action should not be taken against the micro-blogging website. Twitter has since resolved the issue.The use of an incorrect map in Wikipedia was brought to the notice of the ministry when a Twitter user tagged the Union home ministry and asked them to take strict action against the website. The contentious Wikipedia page is titled Bhutan-India relations and talks about the bilateral ties between the two countries. It talks about the military cooperation between the two countries, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Bhutan in 2014.Although the ministry has not specified a time frame within which to remove the map, it has been monitoring the website to see when action would be taken. As of Wednesday evening, HT could access the incorrect map.If Wikipedia fails to respond in a timely fashion, officials said, then two legal options are available to the ministry. It can either initiate action under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, which can result in the imprisonment of the parties concerned, or invoke section 69A to block access to the website in India.The latter has been invoked to ban over 250 mobile applications, mostly with links to China, including popular short video platform TikTok and multiplayer game PUBG since the standoff between the two countries at the Line of Actual Control in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delete-map-that-shows-aksai-chin-as-part-of-china-india-tells-wikipedia/story-TCT6rUz89TU2wrN8k7HwOL.html
