05-12-2020||India||Jewellery worth lakhs go missing from check-in bag of Bengaluru-bound couple, FIR lodged||A passenger couple, who travelled from Darbhanga to Bengaluru onboard Spicejet flight no SG-494 on December 2, have alleged theft of gold jewellery worth nearly Rs 5-6 lakh from their check-in baggage. Durgesh Kumar, a software engineer, along with his wife Nikeeta and a kid, was flying to Bengaluru from Darbhanga airport on December 2 when the lock of one of his baggages was broken and jewellery was stolen from the box. The couple discovered the theft only after reaching Bengaluru. Jaiprakash, Durgesh’s relative from Muzaffarpur, has lodged an FIR ( 545/2020) at Sadar police station in Darbhanga. When contacted, Station House Officer of Sadar Police Station, Girija Baitha said that the police were investigating the case. A case under section 379, 34 of the India Penal Code has been registered.He, however, said that the CCTV footage at Darbhanga airport didn’t provide many clues as surveillance camera could not cover the area beyond the luggage dropping point after scanning. What happened thereafter is not clear.Earlier, Durgesh had complained to Bengaluru airport police in this regard. However, they responded that the jewellery was not stolen from the airport after reviewing the surveillance footage at Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru.The Bengaluru police concluded that the jewellery might have been stolen from the bag during the transit of baggage after scanning was done at Darbhanga airport.Also read: ‘People have right to demonstrate...’ - UN spokesman on farmers’ protestDurgesh, a native of Motihari, meanwhile, alleged that he did not doubt that jewellery might have been stolen by unscrupulous ground staff at Darbhanga airport. The lock was broken and the luggage tag of Spicejet was pasted over it. “During security scanning at Darbhanga Airport, the concerned staff assured me that it was quite safe to carry the jewellery in check-in baggage. He didn’t ask me to fill up any declaration form regarding the same. There were a couple of ground staff listening to our conversation,” he quipped. The FIR also mentions the name of six ground staff who were on duty. Darbhanga airport was started in a hurry and not all the strategic points have been brought under coverage of surveillance area, the passenger alleged. According to an informed source, at smaller airports after the scanning of luggage, the responsibility to transfer the bag from terminal to cargo rests with the concerned airliner’s staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jewellery-worth-lakhs-go-missing-from-check-in-bag-of-bengaluru-bound-couple-fir-lodged/story-5Lemnex8dev0NfAQhs5HNK.html
05-12-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath launches app to locate free Covid-19 test centres||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday launched a mobile application that gives users the locations of free Covid test centres within a radius of five kilometres in the state.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Launching the “Mera Covid Kendra” app, Adityanath said it was an initiative of the state government to help people who want to get themselves tested for the virus.Stressing that the state government has been making efforts at every level to check the spread of Covid-19, Adityanath said all districts of Uttar Pradesh have free testing facilities, and rates have been fixed for tests done in private labs.It is because of the high number of tests being conducted that the state has managed to check the spread of the infection, he said, adding this is a result of inter departmental coordination and teamwork.The chief minister congratulated frontline Covid warriors and the Health department, saying conducting over two crore tests, the highest for any state in the country, was an achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-launches-app-to-locate-free-covid-19-test-centres/story-VL7KA4HYD02RitTnfoslRK.html
05-12-2020||India||‘People have right to demonstrate peacefully, let them’: UN chief’s spokesman on farmers’ protest||Authorities should allow people to exercise their right to demonstrate peacefully, UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ spokesman has said regarding the farmers’ protest in India.The remarks came close on the heels of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau saying his government had conveyed its concerns about the farmers’ protest to India, and Indian-origin British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sending a letter on behalf of a group of lawmakers to foreign secretary Dominic Raab on the issue.India dismissed Trudeau’s remarks as interference in the country’s internal affairs and summoned the Canadian envoy on Friday and told him the comments have the potential to damage bilateral ties. There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the UN spokesman’s comments or the British MP’s letter.When Stéphane Dujarric, spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, was asked about the farmers’ protest at a daily news briefing on Friday, he replied, “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.”Also read: Maun vrat, food from langar - Key takeaways from farmers’ protestThe reporter who asked the question also contended the farmers involved in the protest were being met with “repressive measures” and this had a bearing on India’s democracy. Dujarric responded by saying, “We want to see people have a voice in their lives.”Thousands of farmers have been protesting for more than a week at the borders of Delhi against a set of laws to liberalise farm trade and open up agricultural markets. The government is trying to end the protest through talks with the farmers’ leaders. Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the farmers’ protest, telling a Facebook video interaction on Tuesday that the situation in India was “concerning”. He added, “Let me remind you, Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest. We believe in the importance of dialogue and that’s why we’ve reached out through multiple means directly to the Indian authorities to highlight our concerns.” On Friday, the external affairs ministry summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks by Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties. The ministry also said the comments by Trudeau, some cabinet ministers and MPs amounted to an “unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”.Also read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhIn a separate development, British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi sent a letter on behalf of 35 MPs to foreign secretary Dominic Raab seeking “an urgent meeting... to discuss the deteriorating situation in Punjab and its relationship with the Centre”. Dhesi also asked Raab to make a representation to his Indian counterpart about “the impact on British Sikhs and Punjabis with longstanding links to land and farming in India”.Dhesi wrote in the letter that several British MPs had written to both Raab and the Indian high commission in London about “the impact of three new Indian laws on exploiting farmers and those dependent on farming in India”. “This is an issue of particular concern to Sikhs in the UK and those linked to Punjab, although it heavily impacts other Indian states,” Dhesi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-have-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully-let-them-un-chief-s-spokesman-on-farmers-protest/story-9fd1RmPzzvLATcHcmAGExH.html
05-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate construction work of Agra metro project on Dec 7||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the construction of the Agra Metro Rail Project (AMRP) on December 7 at 11.30 am through video conference.Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries will also attend the event that will be held at 15 Battalion PAC parade ground in Agra.A PMO release said that Agra Metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and connects major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands.Apart from benefiting 26 lakh residents of the city, the project will also cater to more than 60 lakh tourists who visit Agra every year.It will provide environment-friendly Mass Rapid Transit System to the historic city. The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crore and it will be completed in 5 years.The Prime Minister had, on March 8 last year, inaugurated the Agra Metro project along with the commencement of commercial operations of Lucknow Metro on the entire 23 km long North-South corridor from CCS Airport to Munshipulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-construction-work-of-agra-metro-project-on-dec-7/story-h5dFSm2suzn4pFjHUIEg4M.html
05-12-2020||India||Tourists violating Covid-19 preventive norms in Nainital to be fined||To check the spread of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand’s famous tourist hill town of Nainital during Christmas and New Year, the municipal body of town has decided to issue challans to tourists who do not follow Covid-19 preventive norms.Tourists who do not wear masks or fail to maintain social or physical distance will be challaned.According to officials, following the directions of Uttarakhand High Court, a district monitoring committee has been formed in Nainital for preventing further spread of coronavirus disease. The committee has given instructions to the police, administration and municipal bodies to strictly ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed in the upcoming tourist season.Additional district magistrate, KS Toliya, has directed all civic bodies, including Nainital, Bhowali and Ramnagar Palika, Bhimtal, Kaladhungi, Lalkuan Nagar panchayat, to conduct a checking drive and challan tourists who do not follow the rules.CS Martoliya, municipal commissioner of Haldwani-Kathgodam municipal corporation, confirmed the development and said, “We will conduct drives to ensure that tourists are wearing masks and following social distancing. Different teams have been made to check tourists coming from other states. If they are found to be violating the norms, they will be fined.”Also read: Joe Biden’s China plan and India’s roleIn August, the Uttarakhand government had announced that those not wearing masks in places will be fined between Rs 200-500. First-time offenders will have to pay a fine of Rs 200 and second-time offenders will have to pay a fine of Rs 500.Uttarakhand has so far reported over 76,000 Covid-19 cases of which over 69,000 have recovered successfully. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.51 per cent and over 1,200 Covid-19 positive patients have died in the state so far. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum Covid-19 positive cases (22,149) followed by Haridwar (12,295), US Nagar (10,410) and Nainital (8,799). The state health department has so far tested 13.96 lakh people of which results of over 16,900 are pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourists-violating-covid-19-preventive-norms-in-nainital-to-be-fined/story-VFYK40NPAeB7cDaNslE0HO.html
05-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs 3,758 crore as ‘Nivar’ relief from Centre||The Tamil Nadu government has asked the Centre to provide a financial assistance of Rs 3,758 crore for relief and restoration work in the cyclone ‘Nivar’-ravaged districts of the state. The sum is the estimated loss to human lives in terms of compensation, property, cattle and installations and infrastructure of various government departments, including TANGEDCO and civic bodies, state Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R B Udayakumar said on Saturday. This was conveyed to the visiting Central team when it held a meeting with senior officials at the Secretariat here, the Minister told reporters.Also Read | Rajinikanth’s aides urge him to project himself as CM candidate The state officials, following an instruction from the Chief Minister K Palaniswami, briefed the team about the losses and sought immediate disbursal of Rs 3,108 crore to take up the restoration work without delay. “We have sought Rs 650 crore as temporary relief and Rs 3,108 crore for taking up relief and restoration work on a permanent basis,” Udayakumar said. Nivar, which ravaged at least 18 coastal districts, had caused widespread damage to crops and property, when it crossed the coast between Puducherry and Tamil Nadu on November 26. The eight-member team, which arrived this evening, split into two groups to assess the damage in south and north Chennai, Chengalpattu, Puducherry, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Ranipet and Vellore districts. The team would wrap up the visit by holding a discussion with the Chief Minister on December 8, Udayakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-seeks-rs-3-758-crore-as-nivar-relief-from-centre/story-1LzSGNdA4EaHKRZW9Yp9QP.html
05-12-2020||India||FIR lodged against Tejashwi, others for demonstrating against farm laws in prohibited area||At least 18 leaders of the RJD, Congress and the Left Parties, including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, have been booked for staging demonstration in prohibited area without permission. Tejashwi Yadav and those from allies Congress and CPI held demonstration in front of gate number four of the Gandhi Maidan during the day in protest against the new farm laws. An FIR was lodged against 18 named and 500 unnamed persons in this connectioin with the Gandhi Maidan police station under various sections of the IPC and the Epidemic Act, police sources said.Also Read | RJD to stage dharna to support agitating farmers, urges Bihar cultivators to join inThe FIR has been registered for allegedly violating the government orders and putting peoples lives at risk by holding demonstration near the historic Gandhi Maidan in the heart of the city, a police official said on condition of anonymity. He said these people have violated Covid-19 norms as per which every individual has to maintain social distancing besides wearing masks and taking other preventive measures against the virus.Besides, Tejashwi those named in the FIR included RJD leaders Shyam Rajak, Brishen Patel, Alok Mehta and Mrityunjay Tiwary, the police official said. Some Congress and CPI leaders have also been named in the FIR, he added.Earlier in the day,a senior Patna district administration official had said that dharna inside Gandhi Maidan is not allowed as it is a ‘prohibited area’. If any individual, political party or organisation have to hold a sit-in they can do so at Gardanibagh which has been declared as designated place to stage dharna, the official added. Besides, the administration has to ensure that Covid-19 rules are strictly adhered, he said adding that gathering or any sort of procession, dharna are not allowed at any public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-lodged-against-tejashwi-others-for-demonstrating-against-farm-laws-in-prohibited-area/story-HCC6gdG5Q7VsbUcXAZnTyO.html
05-12-2020||India||Maun vrat, food from langar, returning awards: Key takeaways from farmers' protest||Thousands of farmers initially from Punjab and Haryana and later from other states started a protest on November 26 against three farm laws that they fear will corporatise farming. Braving police resistance and freezing weather, they have now reached Delhi — with several groups laying siege to various borders of the national capital — engaged in talks with the Centre. The protest as it is going on has established several hallmarks.No politician allowed to speak at farmers gatheringAmid allegations that the protest is politically motivated, the farmers’ organizations had said in the beginning that no political leaders will be allowed to give a speech from the protest platform. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Jan Adhikar party chief Pappu Yadav visited the protest site at Ghazipur border and pledged their support. On Saturday, singer, actor Diljit Dosanjh visited Singhu border and addressed the farmers. “Farmers have created a new history. This history would be narrated to future generations. Farmers’ issues should not be diverted by anyone,” Diljit said. Several Punjabi singers, including Gurshabad Singh Kular and Harf Cheema, performed at Singhu border on Saturday.Also Watch | Farmers in ‘maun vrat’, demand for proposal before next meeting Also Read: Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat BandhRefusing government hospitality at meetingsThe protesters have opened a community kitchen at Singhu border which supplied the lunch of the union leaders who went to Vigyan Bhawan for the meeting with the Centre. This happened both on Thursday and Saturday as the leaders refused to accept government hospitality.Maun vrat During Saturday’s meeting, the union leaders went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ reply on whether the laws will be withdrawn or not. Some of the leaders also showed the ‘yes’ or ‘no’ placard refusing to take part in the consultation.Returning awardsAfter Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal (Padma Vibhushan) and Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Dhindsa (Padma Bhusan) returned their awards, several sportspersons are also ready to return their awards in support of the protest. “We have left for Delhi today and will join the farmers’’ protest,” said former wrestler Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee. Other former sportspersons who are headed to the national capital are Dhyan Chand awardee hockey Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna awardee Kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh had announced that they would return their awards.Farmers have been protesting since the bills were passed in September. The first round of talks with the Centre had taken place in October, but the farmer leaders had walked out from that meeting as no minister was present. This was followed by the second round on November 13. The last three rounds have taken place after ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest began.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maun-vrat-food-from-langar-returning-awards-key-takeaways-from-farmers-protest/story-1FKKMkFWZlhaXQ98oMRlSP.html
05-12-2020||India||Advocate writes to AG seeking consent to initiate contempt proceeding against Prashant Bhushan||An advocate has written to Attorney General K K Venugopal seeking his consent to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks made during a recent interview to a newspaper.The letter by advocate Sunil Kumar Singh claimed the November 29 interview of Bhushan makes an “insinuation that Supreme Court of India does not function in an impartial manner.” According to the lawyer, the contents of the interview were prima facie “contumacious” and a “gross insinuation against the entirety of the top court”.“This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court, that the Supreme Court of India is not an independent and impartial institution but is willing to kowtow to the government. It is highly objectionable and audacious. It is a malicious attack on the hon’ble Supreme Court,” the letter stated.Also Read | Attorney General denies consent for contempt proceedings on BhushanThe lawyer claimed that such statements were “mala fide and motivated to denigrate the highest judiciary as part of an orchestrated campaign.” “The statements made by Prashant Bhushan are of a very serious nature. They are mala fide and motivated to denigrate the higher judiciary. The insinuation against the entire Supreme Court of India that it is not an independent and impartial institution but is willing to kowtow to the government is clearly calculated to undermine the public confidence in the independence and impartiality of Supreme Court of India,” the letter stated.Terming Bhushan a “chronic contemnor”, Singh said despite being there many contempt proceedings before the Supreme Court pending against him, he is not desisting from making “irresponsible, contemptuous and contumacious statements” against the honourable judges of the apex court.Earlier, the attorney general had declined consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Bhushan for his tweets in which he was critical of Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde being provided a special helicopter by the Madhya Pradesh government, saying the activist-lawyer later expressed regret.The Supreme Court had on August 31 imposed a “nominal fine” of Re 1 on Bhushan after he was convicted of criminal contempt for his two tweets against the judiciary, observing it was “showing magnanimity” instead of handing out any severe punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advocate-writes-to-ag-seeking-consent-to-initiate-contempt-proceeding-against-prashant-bhushan/story-9FKezkngvQqfxJrRjCwg1I.html
05-12-2020||India||ICMR study reveals unsafe injection exposure as cause of HIV surge in UP’s Unnao||“Unsafe injection exposure during treatment-seeking” and “receipt” of intramuscular injection in the past five years were reasons behind surge of HIV infections in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district in 2017-18, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday.The ICMR released its findings from a case-control study conducted on the sudden increase in the detection of HIV among attendees of an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) located in a district hospital in Unnao in 2017. “Through the study and evidence generated, it was established that ‘unsafe injection exposure during treatment-seeking’ and receipt of intramuscular injection in the last five years were independently associated with HIV sero-reactive (presence of antibodies) status,” the ICMR said in a statement.Also Read | Bill Gates hails Indian-origin couple for pioneering work in fight against HIV, Covid-19The findings have helped establish that the infection arising from blood transfusion, undergoing invasive surgical procedures, tattooing, tonsuring of head or skin piercing was not related to the surge in the cases. The ICMR said the study was done on individuals detected HIV seroreactive during November 2017-April 2018 from three locations -- Premganj, Karimuddinpur and Chakmeerapur in Bangarmau block of Unnao.The study participants were interviewed based on various risk practices and invasive treatment procedures, it said.“They were also tested for HIV and other bio-markers reflecting unsafe injecting and sexual exposures. Along with this, secondary data analysis on three time points was performed which revealed a rising trend of HIV among attendees of specific ICTCs in the district,” it said.Speaking about the study, the corresponding author, Samiran Panda, director of ICMR National AIDS Research Institute, Pune, said, “The study has been critical to understanding the outbreak and the challenges associated with unsafe injection practices.” “A comprehensive approach to tackle the problem should be adopted with interventions like increasing access of auto-disabled syringes and needles, empowering the local communities and implementing effective regulatory practices across care settings,” Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-study-reveals-unsafe-injection-exposure-as-cause-of-hiv-surge-in-up-s-unnao/story-zk6TEZlXLPD8xlT9oqLHEI.html
05-12-2020||India||Farm leaders hopeful govt will repeal laws but will continue with Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said that the Bharat Bandh announced on December 8 will go as planned despite repeated assurances from the Centre regarding resolving issues concerning the farm bills.“The government will prepare a draft and give (it to) us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh will go on as announced,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmer leaders earlier on Saturday said that they do not have any qualms when it comes to staying put on roads and said that they will continue to hold agitations if the government does not listen to their demands. A farm leader told ANI, “We’ve material with us to last a year, we’ve been on (the) road for the past several days. If the government wants us to stay on the road, we’ve no problem.”Farmer leaders are hopeful that the government will repeal the newly introduced farm laws and are firm that they do not seek any amendments. Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said, “We said at the beginning of the meeting that our demand is the withdrawal of laws, don’t want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally, we were told that the next meeting will be held on December 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws.”The fifth round of talks over the three bills - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill - between farmers and the union government remained inconclusive. Farmers fear that these will pave the way for private players to enter the market and affect MSP procurement.Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar who along with Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash attended the meet tried to alleviate the concerns raised regarding MSP and said that the system will not be affected and called the doubts baseless. The Centre has said that it will resolve every query and strengthen APMCs if needed in order to address the concerns raised by farm leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leaders-hopeful-govt-will-repeal-laws-but-will-continue-with-bharat-bandh/story-TyvOoZLRf4LCfOdew1ZJYP.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers deny government’s hospitality during fifth round of talks||Meeting the government for the fifth time on Saturday with their demands for scrapping the three new farm laws, union leaders decided to have their own tea and food, ferried from their langar (community kitchen) at Singhu border, where thousands of farmers are protesting for over a week. The fifth round of talks began at 2.30 PM and was attended by 40 representatives of various farmer organisations. Union leaders said they had their own food and tea during a break, rather than having what was arranged by the government at Vigyan Bhawan, the meeting venue. During their last meeting on Thursday also, the farmer leaders had their own lunch, tea and even water. Farmers’ leaders had earlier on Thursday told the government to focus on resolving the issues instead of trying to be a good host by offering lunch.  Thousands of farmers have been camping at various borders of the national capital as part of their protest against the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding talks with the representatives of the farmer groups at the Vigyan Bhawan. Enacted in September, the laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector by removing middlemen and allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have been worried that the new laws will eliminate the safety cushion of a Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement system, while rendering ineffective the mandi system that ensures earnings for various stakeholders in the farm sector. On Wednesday, agitating farmers demanded that the Centre convene a special session of Parliament and repeal the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-deny-government-s-hospitality-during-fifth-round-of-talks/story-RjsKP0JnUgg8tfBkloBCII.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot alleges, ‘BJP out again to topple my govt’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘BJP out again to topple my govt,’ alleges Rajasthan chief minister Ashok GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday again blamed the BJP for trying to topple his government, four months after a political crisis, triggered by the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s rebellion, was resolved. Read moreFarmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9Even after four hours of consultation for the third time after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began, the farmers and the Centre could not reach a common ground on Saturday and the next meeting will be held on December 9, ANI reported. Read more New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha speaker Om BirlaLok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Saturday gave details about the new parliamentary building highlighting that the new building will be able to host proceedings with 1,224 parliamentarians during sessions. Read more 2nd T20I, Preview: In-form India aim to cash in against injury-plagued AustraliaHow things have changed over the course of the week. Last Sunday, India were on the cusp of enduring a series defeat against Australia. But following a couple of wins, including the 11-run victory in Canberra on Friday, India have staged a gutsy comeback in the tour to stand on the verge of a T20 series win. Read moreFardeen Khan undergoes dramatic weight loss, fans shower his new photos with love and say ‘good to see him back’Actor Fardeen Khan seems to have lost weight. In new photos outside casting director-turned-filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra’s office, he is seen looking considerably leaner, much to the delight of fans. Read moreMira Rajput is a vision in quirky white chanderi silk cape worth Rs 35kEven after not being from tBollywood industry, Shahid Kapoor’s wife Mira Rajput has made a name for herself as a fashionista. The diva has a girl-next-door vibe and a sartorial sense that everyone not only relates with but also looks up to. Read moreKid’s viral haircut video gets remixed with Bollywood songs. Perfect ‘lip-synching’ is must-watchIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you have seen the viral video of an adorable kid named Anushrut. The recording shows the child being less-than-pleased about getting a haircut. Read moreWatch: Farmer protest: Diljit Dosanjh visits Delhi border after Kangana Ranaut fight||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-rajasthan-chief-minister-ashok-gehlot-alleges-bjp-out-again-to-topple-my-govt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xVRYbrefezjNHc5QCukVaJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Seeing their families’ plight, farmers’ children don’t wish to get into agriculture||As thousands of farmers dig their heels in at Delhi’s borders bracing chilly winter winds and preparing for a long fight to press for their demands, some rue that seeing their plight, their children no longer wish to get into agriculture.Hasseb Ahmed, who has been on a sit-in against the Centre’s new farm laws here at the Ghazipur border since last Saturday, says he has two school going children, who are busy with their online classes back in his village in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh, want a better standard of living.His elder son is in Class 12, while the younger is in class 9. “Neither of them wished to get into farming. They have their ambitions and want to land a good job. They say they don’t want to be farmers,” Ahmed said.Also Read |  Farmers’ group hold silent protests at government meeting; want ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to their demands“With the price that we are offered for our crops, all we can afford to give them is food and basic education. Nothing beyond that. They get disappointed to see that despite all the handwork that goes in it, we don’t receive appropriate returns,” he added.Another farmer, Sita Arya, who is from Amroha district in Uttar Pradesh, said her children too were slowly trying to detach themselves from farming. “They are even ready to sit in a bidi, tabocco or a paan shop to earn a living.” “We work day and night on the fields but don’t get the required profit. Getting into farming is like falling into a pit. Unless there is profit, our children don’t wish to get into it. If only the government had focused on turning farming into an employment opportunity and set a standard price for our crops, our children would not have been so against this profession, which is in every sense the backbone of this country,” she added.Agitating farmers have stressed that unless their demands are met and the new farm laws repelled, they will not move anywhere from the borders of the national capital and their protest will continue.Daryal Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from UP, pointed out that the young people in his village were ready to work even under a trader for Rs 2,000 but they do not wish to become farmers.“For ages they have seen their families struggle to get farm loans. Whatever money they make out of farming, a good portion of it goes into repaying the loan, and they are left with a meagre sum. How do we change their perceptive? Has any government ever acted for the farmers till date,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seeing-their-families-plight-the-farmers-progeny-don-t-wish-to-get-into-agriculture/story-bQ6775EDo50XXVWGTVi5UN.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Leave path of agitation,’ agriculture minister urges farmers ahead of December 8 Bharat Bandh||As the protesting farmers on Saturday made it clear that there will be no change in their protest schedule, including the proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged the farmers to leave the path of agitation and come to the path of discussion. The next round of discussion is scheduled to be held on December 9 after the Centre sends the farmers’ organisations a new draft.“I’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Govt has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution,” the minister said.Though talks are going on, the agitating farmers have not softened their ground. They have maintained that the protest will never become violent, but will continue unless the Centre fulfils their demands. On Friday, the unions announced a Bharat Bandh for December 8 and threatened to block more roads leading to Delhi. All toll plazas will be occupied on that day, the unions have announced.As farmers have occupied Delhi borders, traffic in and around the city has been hit. Borders closedSinghu, Lampur, Auchandi, Safiabad, Piao Maniyari, and Saboli borders. National Highway-44 is closed on both sides.Tikri and Jharoda borders are closed for all traffic. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers.Chilla border on Noida link road and Ghazipur border on National Highway 24 are also closed.Alternative routes to go to HaryanaDhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri National Highway-8,Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leave-path-of-agitation-agriculture-minister-urges-farmers-ahead-of-december-8-bharat-bandh/story-D6z9Dz8095n2tmx5UIooaL.html
05-12-2020||India||Despite Opposition unity in Bihar, we emerged victorious: BJP’s Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Saturday came heavily on the opposition parties as he kick-started his 120-day nationwide tour from Dehradun, Uttarkhand. Addressing a gathering in Dehradun, Nadda lashed out at Congress party and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) while hailing its victory in the recently held Bihar Assembly elections“Marxist-Leninist ideology had made Bihar a bloodied land. ‘Gunda Raj’ joined hands with them.” “Then Congress joined them. The Congress which has gradually started opposing the nation while opposing Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he added.“They opposed abrogation of Article 370. Imran Khan (Pakistan Prime Minister) goes to United Nations Security Council (UNSC) with argument of Rahul Gandhi,” Nadda also said, adding, “former defence minister P Chidambaram says they will bring back Article 370.”“Even when all of these people came together, we emerged victorious in Bihar with your blessings. That is the strength of BJP and PM Modi,” Nadda also said.BJP fought Bihar elections in alliance with Janata Dal (United) Party and other regional parties, including HAM.In a bid to strengthen the party machinery in every nook and corner of the country for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, BJP national president JP Nadda is undertaking a 120-day nationwide tour.He launched his 120-day nationwide tour on Friday by visiting Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyalaya in Shantikunj, Haridwar.Earlier in November, BJP national general secretary, Arun Singh had said that Nadda during his country tour will give priority to visiting the constituencies where the BJP had lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-emerged-victorious-in-bihar-even-when-all-opposition-parties-came-together-nadda/story-Led4QU3rRt5FgXtrNVVB8O.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group hold silent protests at government meeting; want ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer to their demands||Farmers’ group went on a ‘maun vrat’ (vow of silence) during their fifth round of talks with the government and sought a reply in ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on their key demand of repealing the three new farm laws, union leaders said. As their meeting with three union ministers, including Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, continued for nearly four hours, farmer leaders told the government to reply in “black and white” that whether it will repeal the laws or not.“Farmer union leaders are sitting on a ‘maun vrat’,” Punjab Kisan Union leader Ruldhu Singh said.Kavitha Kuruganti of AIKSCC (All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee) said the government was not responding to the pinpointed question of farmer leaders.Gurlabh Singh Mahal, legal advisor to Punjab Kisan Union, also said the farmer leaders wanted the government to answer in ‘Yes or No’. Some farmer leaders present in the meeting were seen putting finger on their lips and holding a paper written ‘Yes or No’ on that.“All members of delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side is trying to draw us out. But there is utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-hold-silent-protests-at-government-meeting-want-yes-or-no-answer-to-their-demands/story-vzZvqVcIwdaE0h2DtTVJYK.html
05-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan sets up ‘Maiam women’s task force’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday announced setting up a ‘Maiam women’s task force,’ as part of his party’s efforts to ensure equality and more role for them in various activities.This was an attempt at ensuring the subject of women’s equality was not a mere talk but give them better role in the party’s affairs, Haasan said in a statement here.“Towards that, a new Maiam Women’s Task Force is being formed,” he said.Women office-bearers and those belonging to families of party functionaries can join the initiative to take forward various activities, he said.Also Read | Kamal Haasan criticises government inquiry on Anna University VC “Those not connected to the party, but interested in public welfare and that of Tamil Nadu will work along,” he said. The task force will primarily focus on general welfare across the state and involving women interested in alternative politics in the party’s activities among others, he added. Meanwhile, the actor-politician extended his support to beleaguered Anna University Vice-Chancellor MK Surappa, facing government inquiry over allegations of corruption and irregularities in the premier technial varsity here. He alleged Surappa was being targeted for being ‘honest’ and said “when one is hunted down for his honesty, I won’t be a mere spectator.” The Makkal Needhi Maiam won’t keep quiet,” he said in a video message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-sets-up-maiam-women-s-task-force/story-NrvG2XVyAGQQRtl24lrf9N.html
05-12-2020||India||Charge sheet filed against Arnab Goswami says accused ignored Anvay Naik’s suicide threat||The charge sheet filed against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and two others in a 2018 abetment of suicide case says that the accused did not pay heed to victim Anvay Naik’s threat that he would end his life if his dues were not cleared by the trio.The charge sheet also said that Naik, who was under mental stress due to non-payment of dues by the accused, first strangled his mother Kumud, a partner in his business, before hanging himself to death.The police on Friday filed the charge sheet before a court in Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district, where the case for alleged abetment of suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother has been registered.Besides Goswami, the other two accused named in the charge sheet are Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda.“The victim (Naik) had told them (accused) that he would commit suicide if they don’t pay his dues. However, the accused ignored his threat and told him to do whatever he wants,” the charge sheet said.“The accused didn’t pay his dues, which caused mental stress to Naik. He first strangulated his mother, thinking that she might land in trouble as she was also a partner in his business,” it said.Naik later wrote a suicide note and then hanged himself, the charge sheet added.Police said that they have relied on the purported suicide note as the “dying declaration”.Naik’s handwriting has been matched with the writing in the suicide note and forensic report indicated that he was not under pressure while writing it, police said.Police had earlier said that in his suicide note, Naik, who owned Concorde Designs Pvt Ltd, had claimed that he was ending his life due to non-payment of dues by Goswami, Firoze Sheikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Nitish Sarda of Smartworks.Police said that as per the note, the three firms owed Naik’s company Rs 83 lakh, Rs four crore and Rs 55 lakh respectively.The court will take cognisance of the charge sheet on December 16, Rahul Agarwal, advocate for one of the accused, said on Saturday.The accused trio has been charged under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 109 (punishment for abetment) and 34 (common intention).As many as 65 persons were named as witnesses in the charge sheet that runs into 1,914 pages.Police have listed statements of family members and staff of Naik, call data records, and information retrieved from electronic devices as evidence in the case.In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that he has ordered a fresh probe in the case after a complaint by Adnya Naik, daughter of the architect Anvay Naik.Goswami, Sheikh and Sarda were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in the case, but they got bail from the Supreme Court on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charge-sheet-filed-against-arnab-goswami-says-accused-ignored-anvay-naik-s-suicide-threat/story-ZDOEx3WxmhIAs9LIwnsXpL.html
05-12-2020||India||Women protesters at Ghazipur border face inconvenience due to lack of clean toilets||Sita Arya, 34, who is part of the farmers’ protest at the Ghazipur border, wakes up at 4 am and walks nearly two kilometres to use a public lavatory. This has been her routine for the past few days as there are no clean facilities available at the demonstration site.“If we use toilets at the protest site, if not of the coronavirus, we will die due to the unhygienic conditions of the toilets,” Sita, who hails from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh, said, citing instances where women were forced to defecate in the open. Sita, who is herself a farmer, is among 50 other women from various parts of UP who have been camping at the border for the last five days along with their male counterparts as part of the protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.The uncleaned temporary toilets have forced the protesting women to either use empty plots or agriculture fields nearby. The women protestors complained that even though temporary toilets have been set up by the authorities at the border, none of them can be used as they are in a very unhygienic condition and stink because there is no facility to clean them after usage.This has compelled Sita to wake up early morning daily just to use a toilet.She along with two other women walk around two kilometres from the protest site and pay Rs five to use the toilet and Rs 10 to take a bath there.The protesting woman said unhygienic toilets and defecating in the open are not the only problems, their safety is also a big concern. They are compelled to spend sleepless night under the flyover, another woman protester said. “Our safety is in our hands,” said the women, who take turns to sleep in the night. They said at least three women stay awake all night to ensure that the group of women can sleep in peace.“We take turns to sleep at night. We have to look out for our own safety. Since we are under the open, we need to stay extra vigilant especially at night because any outsider can enter the area. “So we take turns to sleep,” said Seema, another protestor, who has left her two young children back home at her village to participate in the protest.Forty-year-old Jayanti, who along with her husband came from Shahjahanpur district said, “We will continue to protest here until our demands our met. We don’t have proper sanitization facilities, lack hygienic toilets, no space to change clothes but still we are ready to fight our battle.” Sita said the woman have no other option than walking through the empty road early morning to use the toilet. She said “Are we even left with any option? I sit for ‘havan’ here and without taking a bath, I cannot perform the rituals. “We don’t have bathing facilities and the temporary toilets set up here are so unhygienic that once used, it cannot be used again because it is not being cleaned on a regular basis.” Recalling an incident where a woman had to defecate in an empty plot due to uncleaned toilets, Sita said “Yesterday afternoon, one of our women wanted to go to the toilet. But when she went to the jungle area behind, a man came there and she had to run from there. This is how unsafe it is for women and then our Prime Minister has given the call of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-protesters-at-ghazipur-border-face-inconvenience-due-to-lack-of-clean-toilets/story-tYg9eeV1mpnjublwQ9yc5M.html
05-12-2020||India||New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on Saturday gave details about the new parliamentary building highlighting that the new building will be able to host proceedings with 1,224 parliamentarians during sessions.“This will be one such temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat that will reflect the diversity of the nation. It will be 17,000 sq.m bigger than the old Parliament building,” Birla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Birla also said that the new Parliament building will be earthquake resistant and more than 11,000 people will be involved in building the Parliament. On September 29, Tata Projects Limited was awarded the contract for construction of the new building.Birla told PTI that the new building will cost Rs 971 crore and will span across 64,000 sq.km. area.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform Bhumi Pujan and lay the foundation of the new building on December 10.Birla also said that a new complex will be built for MPs of both houses at the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan.The deadline for completion of the new Parliament building is 2022. The Central Public Works Department, which is the ministry of housing and urban affairs arm for implementation of the project, has specified that at least 50% of the workforce involved in the construction of the new building will be skilled in stone masonry, carving, and fresco, according to an October 17 HT report.The CPWD said it would ensure that all safety protocols are maintained during the construction in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-will-be-temple-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla/story-5DktkUrfknNzOCg3wbsY7K.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: No headway yet, next meeting to be held on December 9||Even after four hours of consultation for the third time after the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began, the farmers and the Centre could not reach a common ground on Saturday and the next meeting will be held on December 9, ANI reported. The proposed Bharat Bandh on December 8 will go on as announced, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Rakesh Tikait said. It has been learnt that the government side sought some more time to come up with some concrete proposals to which the farmers’ leaders agreed. Click here for live updates farmers’ protestsBefore the protests began on November 26, both the sides met twice to deliberate over the concerns. However, the meetings have recorded some developments as the farmers have accepted the government’s standpoint on minimum support price that MSPs won’t be done away with. The government has also agreed to proper registration of traders. But the discussion is hitting the wall as the farmers are now stern in their demand of a complete withdrawal of all the three laws. All eyes were on Saturday’s meeting as the farmers earlier said that this was the last chance and the government, on the other hand, assured that a solution will come out after Saturday’s meeting. The meeting assumed much importance as ahead of the meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi was briefed about the current situation. Earlier, Union home minister Amit Shah, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh discussed farmers’ issues. Coming out of the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said the government will prepare a new draft and the future course of action will be decided on that. Meanwhile, the Bharat Bandh that the unions have called will be on track, he said. “Government will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they will consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their roll-back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced,” Tikait said.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways minister Piyush Goyal, who is also in-charge of the food ministry, addressed Saturday’s meeting. Tomar requested senior citizens and children who are at various protesting sites to go home, as the talks between the two sides will be going on. The farmers maintained their stand throughout that they don’t want amendment as the laws, they said, have been designed to make government and corporates benefit, not the farmers. The leaders also said that they are well-equipped to go on with their protest. They will not indulge in any violence. “Intelligence Bureau will inform you what we are doing at the protest site. If the government wants us to stay on road, we have no problem,” a leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-no-breakthrough-yet-next-meeting-to-be-held-on-december-9/story-vey13iUMtYj22PWWxb9sUK.html
05-12-2020||India||Republic TV official, another accused get bail in TRP scam||A court here on Saturday granted bail to Republic TV’s western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh, arrested last month in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam.Singh, who is also assistant vice president at Republic Media Network, had been arrested on November 10.The sessions court also granted bail to Vishal Bhandari, a former employee of Hansa Research Agency, who had been arrested on October 8 in the case.The order was passed by judge D S Deshmukh.Also Read | TRP Scam: Hansa Research hid info on commercial interests with TV channels says Mumbai PoliceThe police began to probe the alleged scam after ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa about rigging of TRP by some channels.BARC has engaged Hansa to install and maintain barometers which record TV viewership data at sample households on which TRP is based. Advertising revenue of channels depends of the TRP numbers.It was alleged that some of these families were being bribed to tune into certain channels to ramp up their TRP.In a charge sheet filed last week, the police alleged that Bhandari, who was a relationship manager with Hansa, paid money to sample households to tune into Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Republic TV.Republic TV had denied wrongdoing.The police have arrested a total of 12 persons in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-tv-official-another-accused-get-bail-in-trp-scam/story-X4pPzsb3oo65CrK6T5qshK.html
05-12-2020||India||Pakistan opens heavy fire in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch, Kathua||With no let-up in ceasefire violations, Pakistan opened heavy fire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district and along the International Border (IB) in Kathua district on Friday and Saturday, prompting India to hit back in equal measure.“Pakistani Rangers opened fire on forward posts and villages along the International Border in Kathua district,” officials said on Saturday.Firing from across the border started around 9.50 pm on Friday in the Hiranagar sector’s Pansar Border Outpost area, drawing a strong and an effective retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), they said.Also read: Top BJP leaders add fuel to speculations of TMC heavyweight switching sidesThe officials said that firing between both the sides continued till 3.35 am, but there was no report of any damage on the Indian side.Pakistani troops also fired for a few minutes in Gurnam and Karol Krishna border outpost areas in the same sector, they said.Pakistan also violated ceasefire in Balakote sector of Poonch district on Saturday, said a defence spokesperson.“At about 1140 hours (11.40 AM) Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Balakote sector. Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” he informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-kathua/story-LWBPlVOmvS24hUrhsyc7zM.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Hats off to all of you’: Diljit Dosanjh visits Singhu border, praises farmers||After extending his support to the cause of the protesting farmers on social media, which led to an ugly spat with actor Kangana Ranaut, singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh on Saturday joined the farmers’ protest at Singhu border and addresses the protesters from the stage. “We have only one request to Centre..please fulfil the demands of our farmers. Everyone is sitting here peacefully and entire country is with farmers,” Diljit said. Diljit’s presence at the gathering was a surprise as Delhi Police said they had no prior information on Diljit as he came to the site from Haryana.WATCH | Farmer protest: Diljit Dosanjh visits Delhi border after Kangana Ranaut fightClick here for live updates farmers’ protestsThe protesting farmers earlier decided that they would not allow any politicians to speak from their platform. Lauding the farmers for embarking on this ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest amid freezing cold, police resistance, the singer said, “farmers have created a new history. This history would be narrated to future generations. Farmers’ issues should not be diverted by anyone.”On Friday, Diljit posted two photos of the farmers’ protest with #standwithfarmerschallange. Rab Da Roop 🙏🏾🙏🏾#farmerProtest #standwithfarmerschallange pic.twitter.com/kaEcZlFHVk Diljit’s visit to the Singhu border comes as the crucial talks between the farmer union leaders and the Central ministers are going on at Vigyan Bhawan. Protests will continue in the peaceful way it has been going on if the Centre doesn’t agree to withdraw the laws, the farmers have already warned. They have also called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 and threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital.The overall protest against the three farm laws that the farmers fear will coporatise farming has gathered steam on Saturday as farmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reached UP-Delhi border.The Centre has reiterated that it is open to address all concerns raised by the farmers. The union leaders too are stern on their point that they won’t settle for anything short of the withdrawal of the laws. They have made it clear that they don’t want any amendment. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had earlier urged the farmers to withdraw their protests as talks are going on. On Saturday, the minister urged the senior citizen and the children at the protest sites to go home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diljit-dosanjh-attends-farmers-protest-at-singhu-border-says-entire-country-in-with-farmers/story-ZH4J4LX3NqJ851DBg7RyvI.html
05-12-2020||India||SpiceJet flight undershoots runway in Guwahati; DGCA grounds 2 pilots, pending inquiry||A SpiceJet plane undershot the runway while landing at the Guwahati airport on Friday, but no one was hurt in the incident, senior DGCA officials said. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation has grounded the two SpiceJet pilots who were operating the SG960 Bengaluru-Guwahati flight, they said on Saturday. “They (pilots) have been off-rostered. It (matter) is under investigation,” one of the officials told PTI. Officials said that while the plane landed before the designated point on the runway, none of the passengers were affected.ALSO WATCH | Amid cyclone, plane skids off runway in Mumbai  “However, some of the runway lights were damaged while landing the SG960 Bengaluru-Guwahati flight,” an official said. SpiceJet did not respond to PTI’s queries on this matter. It was not clear how many passengers were on board the plane when the incident occurred. The SpiceJet plane, which has registration number VT-SLL, is fit for flying and has conducted multiple flights post the runway incident on Friday, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flight-undershoots-runway-in-guwahati-dgca-grounds-2-pilots-pending-inquiry/story-zsmDgaWDXc0ZvWasZ8E0hL.html
05-12-2020||India||Bereaved father seeks Delhi HC’s intervention in bringing back Covid-19 infected son’s body from Jordan||A bereaved father has moved Delhi High Court on Saturday seeking direction to Delhi International Airport Limited to grant permission for repatriation of the body of his son, a migrant labourer who succumbed to Covid-19 on November 4 in Jordan, in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Jahiruddin, through his advocate Subhash Chandran KR told the court that his son Abdul Kalam, 26, an Indian Citizen passed away at his workplace in Jordan due to Covid-19. After the intervention of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Jordan office and Embassy of India at Jordan, the employer has agreed to meet the expenses for sending the mortal remains of Kalam to India. Thereafter, Embassy of India completed the formalities for repatriation of Kalam’s remains and Emirates Airline has agreed to carry his body from Amman to Delhi Airport.According to the petition, Lawyers Beyond Borders (LBB) India, an international organization advocating for the rights of migrants made arrangements for receiving, transporting and cremation of the Covid positive dead body with the help of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal (SBS Foundation, Delhi) as per the request of ILO and Embassy of India at Jordan.The petitioner also pointed out the work of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, a Non-Governmental Organization and said that it has cremated more than 525 Covid positive dead bodies so far adhering to proper corona protocol to handle the bodies.Unfortunately, even after completion of most of the formalities, Embassy of India informed the petitioner that Delhi International Airport Limited authorities have objected for sending the body of Kalam to Delhi Airport.“It is pertinent to mention that staffers at Delhi Airport need not handle the dead body of Abdul Kalam at all as SBS Foundation have already given an undertaking to the concerned authorities for receiving, handling and transportation of the Covid positive body of son of the petitioner. All they need to do is to issue entry passes to 4-5 volunteers from SBS Foundation along with a hearse van/ambulance for receiving the body from airport/cargo/receiving point at Delhi Airport,” the petitioner said.Mentioning that Ministry of Health had issued guidelines and framed Standard Operating Procedure for bringing back mortal remains of Covid-19 patients/suspects into India, the petitioner submitted that Indian airports are already granting permission for transportation of Covid positive bodies in domestic carriers.Henceforth, the petitioner urged the Delhi High Court to issue direction to Delhi International Airport Limited to issue entry pass to hearse van/ambulance along with 4-5 volunteers of SBS Foundation for receiving the body of Abdul Kalam from airport/cargo/receiving point at Delhi Airport in accordance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.The petitioner also told the court that through Lawyers Beyond Borders, he sent a memorandum to DIAL requesting for permission to repatriate mortal remains of Abdul Kalam but no reply has been received yet.The matter is likely to be heard next week in the Delhi High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bereaved-father-seeks-delhi-hc-s-intervention-in-bringing-back-covid-19-infected-son-s-body-from-jordan/story-jL87t24Pjc4oSyzqavoSgO.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Join service only after ensuring self-protection’: Tripura govt doctors appeal co-workers||Protesting against alleged attacks on doctors during their duty and claiming that no safety has been ensured to them, Tripura government doctors made an online appeal to their co-workers to be in service only after ensuring their protection by themselves and withstanding insults by outsiders.The appeal was made after a doctor, Dr Tamal Sarkar was attacked by some people at a hospital in Khowaion Thursday after he refused to visit a patient outside the hospital during his hospital duty hours.The All Tripura Government Doctors’ Association ( ATGDA) made this appeal through social media recently and claimed that as doctors are responsible to cater proper health services to the patients in hospitals, likewise the government has the responsibility to ensure safety to the doctors. They also claimed that such assault on doctors also happened in different hospitals in different times.The doctors’ association asked its members to become mentally prepared to protect themselves as the administration is busy in doing much more vital jobs.Also read: Covid-19 virus type has changed since June, says expert in Pune“You all need to become mentally prepared while working in a government hospital, that anyone can come and slap or punch you anytime for any or no reason. If you silently accept such insult, then do government service. Otherwise, leave the job and join politics, contest elections, do business or open paan shop or any other thing. Your dignity will be maintained. No one will slap you,” the ATGDA wrote on Facebook.“If they are unable to ensure protection to the health workers, then it is our misfortune. We have accepted this misfortune and that’s why we will not appeal for this (safety) to anyone anymore,” said ATGDA.They also said that if the health workers don’t feel secure in their workplace and cannot provide services to the patients, then the hospitals with tiles, modern equipment, medicines and tall speeches could not improve health care services for the people.However, they also added that the government or administration will take legal action against doctors if they are found doing anything wrong or showing negligence towards their duty.Director of Directorate of Health Services Dr Subhasish Debbarma said, “The concerned chief medical officer lodged a case in this regard. He also forwarded a report of the incident to me today (Saturday). We will forward the same to the state government. They will decide their course of action.” However, he said that he is not aware of any such social media post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/join-service-only-after-ensuring-self-protection-tripura-govt-doctors-appeal-co-workers/story-NHbyY0A94CdwlU3DavGLKO.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: BJP leader G Krishna Reddy hints at secret coalition between AIMIM, TRS and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together,’ says Kishan Reddy hinting at AIMIM-TRS Hinting at a secret coalition going on between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and AIMIM for the mayor and the deputy mayor posts in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy on Saturday said. Read MoreCovid-19 vaccine update: Bahrain gives nod to Pfizer, India’s purchase will cover 60% population, Moscow begins mass vaccinationAfter the United Kingdom gave nod to the emergency use of Pfizer vaccine, the worldwide race for vaccinating people has become more intense. After the UK, Bahrain has become the second nation in the world to grant an emergency authorisation for Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Read More NGT rejects review plea against Mercedes on false emission readingsThe National Green Tribunal (NGT) has junked a plea seeking review of its order dismissing a petition alleging falsification of emission readings by car manufacturer Mercedes-Benz. Read More‘Would you rather be on the beach or gawk at it from space?’ asks NASA while sharing this imageLaying on a beach whilst listening to sounds of the waves crash onto the shore as sea breeze lightly blows through one’s hair sounds ideal. Read MoreSonam Kapoor Ahuja-Anand Ahuja throw romance in the air like confetti and these mushy messages are proofMaking us wonder where our Cupid got struck, Bollywood’s dapper couple Sonam Kapoor Ahuja and Anand Ahuja painted the Internet red with love. Read More‘Very few players come like him’: Mohammad Kaif names India batsman who reminds him of Rahul DravidIrrespective of how a great a modern-day batsman one is, a comparison with Rahul Dravid is considered a big deal. Dravid, one of India’s greatest batsmen of all time, had a stellar India career filled with numerous batting accomplishments, but it was his demeanour that people still remember Dravid for. Read MoreCyclone Burevi: Orange alert issued for four districts in Kerala for Dec 6Cyclone Burevi remained practically stationary for 30 hrs over Tamil Nadu’s Rameswaram. Severe waterlogging was witnessed in Rameswaram & Puducherry following heavy rainfall. Residents of Rameswaram also suffered power outages due to the cyclone. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-bjp-leader-g-krishna-reddy-hints-at-secret-coalition-between-aimim-and-trs-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Pvhosuhv1MUOJxrdBPQrZM.html
05-12-2020||India||A day after theft gang busted, MP police ask villagers to share details of their children||The Madhya Pradesh police on Saturday asked residents of three villages in the state’s Rajgarh district to share details of their children away from their homes or face tough action. This came a day after the Delhi Police busted a gang and arrested five people for having children from the region commit thefts at weddings in the National Capital Region and some other big cities. The gang’s alleged leader, 26, has told investigators the villagers “leased” their children aged between 9 and 15 to them for a year at Rs 10 to 12 lakh for the thefts. The gang would allegedly use them to steal items at weddings. “The gang members used to train these kids to mingle with people at high-profile weddings,” said Delhi police’s additional commissioner Shibesh Singh. He added they have taken two juveniles into custody. A Madhya Pradesh police officer, who did not wish to be named, said over 15 children from three villages left in August and September to join the gang. He added their parents and other villagers refused to accept this. The Madhya Pradesh police were tracing these children. “We are yet to receive any communication from the Delhi Police,” said Bhopal division’s additional director general Upendra Jain. “We have registered six cases against parents in the past two years for giving their kids on annual contract to gangs. Now, we have asked the local police station Pachore in Rajgarh to get all the details of the kids, who are not present in the three villages...We will take tough action against those who will not share details.” He said they were holding a campaign with the help of the district administration to bring these children into the mainstream. “We enrolled them in schools and also counselled their parents. Many people have discontinued this old-age profession of wedding theft but a few people are still involved in the thefts.” Child rights activist Prashant Dubey asked the state government to take more corrective measures to save these kids. “A large number of children are becoming part of these gangs as not only parents but villagers get good money from gangs to keep it secret. The police should maintain a proper record of the kids and others. The regular monitoring of the movement of these kids is very necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-after-theft-gang-busted-mp-police-ask-villagers-to-share-details-of-their-children/story-vN8qUMrk7QjuNRei5lh31I.html
05-12-2020||India||Hyderabad, Delhi airports ready for Covid-19 vaccine transportation||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserting that a Covid vaccine could be ready within weeks, Delhi and Hyderabad airports’ air cargo services are all set to play a pivotal role in its distribution through state-of-the-art time and temperature-sensitive distribution systems.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19As per the Delhi airport, it has two cargo terminals with world-class infrastructure that provides a GDP (Good Distribution Practice)-certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo.With the capacity to handle over 1.5 lakh metric tonne cargo per annum, the Delhi airport facility has state-of-the-art temperature-controlled zones with separate cool chambers ranging from -20 degrees to 25 degrees Celsius, which would be extremely conducive for the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccines.Delhi airport authorities said that besides the cool chamber, it also has “cool dollies” at the airside that ensure an unbroken cool chain during temperature-sensitive cargo movement between terminal and aircraft.“The terminals have separate gates dedicated for fast movement of vehicles carrying vaccines in and out of the airport. In line with the Ministry of Civil Aviation’s vision to create metro airports as transshipment hubs, the Delhi airport has set up a dedicated Transshipment Excellence Centre spread over an area of 6,500 square m at the airside that will help in the fast movement of vaccines through transshipment,” a Delhi airport spokesperson stated.The Delhi airport’s QR code-based e-Gate Pass facility will provide an automated process for paper documentation and reduce human interface, thereby making the fast movement of imported vaccine deliveries.Notably, in the recent past, the Delhi airport had acted as a hub to distribute millions of PPE kits across the country. Meanwhile, GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC), located at the centre of one of the vaccine production regions in the country, is also a key stakeholder in the global vaccine logistics with facilities such as modern temperature-sensitive pharma and vaccine storage and processing zones.“GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo boasts of India’s first Pharma Zone with GDP-certified temperature-controlled facility for handling temperature-sensitive cargo. The terminal is equipped with various temperature zones from -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius and with state-of-the-art equipment and cool containers to cater to product-specific requirements,” said a Hyderabad airport spokesperson.Also Read | Covid vaccine will be in India within weeks: PM ModiThe spokesperson stated that the freighter parking stands are just 50 m away from the terminal, thereby minimising the ramp exposure timing and ensuring a quick turn around of the aircraft.The airport also recently launched the latest cool dollies to eliminate any temperature excursions and to maintain the unbroken cool chain.The GHAC also boasts of one of India’s largest storage facility for cool containers like envirotainer, c-safe, unicooler, and vaqtainer within its premises to make sure the service is available for customers 24x7.The GHAC has also taken several paperless initiatives like e-reception, e-OOC, e-LEO, e-AWB among others to minimise human interface.During the Covid, the GHAC operated 24x7 to provide unhindered air cargo service delivering medical supplies, and perishables to the frontline warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-delhi-airports-ready-for-covid-19-vaccine-transportation/story-VT7nM9XrZBsrh5tbaEiYgN.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together,’ says Kishan Reddy, AIMIM says no decision on alliance yet||Hinting at a secret coalition going on between the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and AIMIM for the mayor and the deputy mayor posts in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy on Saturday said Owaisi and KCR eat biryani together and they fought the elections together too. “Hyderabad is mini Telangana. People showed support and gave blessings to BJP with 48 seats. People are against Asaduddin Owaisi. Neither Owaisi nor KCR nor anyone else can stop BJP from forming govt in 2023,” Reddy said.The TRS has emerged as the single largest party as it won 56 wards but it is still short of 20 wards to claim the stake in GHMC. The BJP stood second with 48 wards and AIMIM finished third with 44 wards. WATCH | GHMC polls: TRS wins 55 seats, BJP emerges 2nd largest party, secures 48 seats Reports said talks have begun between the parties and Kishan Reddy alleged that KCR has planned a meeting at his home to figure out the way ahead with the AIMIM. If there is an alliance between the TRS and the AIMIM, then it won’t be the first time for GHMC. In 2010, Congress and AIMIM shared the mayor post for two years each. This time, the mayor post is reserved for a woman candidate.However, Owaisi said his party has not decided anything on mayor and deputy mayor election. “Until the State Election Commission does not officially declare the result of the 150 wards in the municipal elections, the question of the mayor and the deputy mayor does not arise. Our party still has not discussed this matter,” Owaisi said.Though AIMIM contested against the TRS, am alliance between the two in which the TRS may get to keep the mayor post and the AIMIM may get the deputy mayor post is possible. Owaisi too praises KCR and TRS after the announcement of the results on Friday as he said, “TRS in our opposition but in Telangana, it is a formidable political party, it has to be accepted. It represents the regional sentiment of Telangana. I am sure K Chandrashekar Rao will review the party’s performance in these elections. I am sure he will be a big challenge for the BJP.”On Saturday too, Owaisi heaped praises on KCR as he said, “GHMC is a part of Telangana but mainland Telangana has a regional aspiration with a different political demography. KCR reflects all of these. TRS is a formidable force in mainland Telangana. KCR should think about the result. He’s an able politician.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-and-kcr-eat-biryani-together-says-kishan-reddy-hinting-at-trs-aimim-alliance/story-PKIDa3ADY1xGHtomGNa4RK.html
05-12-2020||India||Row over naming of Kerala science institute campus after RSS ideologue||Kerala’s ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), and opposition Congress have opposed the move to name the new campus of Thiruvananthapuram’s Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar and have demanded that it be named after some well-known scientist. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the first phase of the premier research centre’s new campus was ready and it will be named after Golwalkar, who headed the RSS until the 1970s. RSS is the ideological fountainhead of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party at the Centre.“Golwalkar’s main contribution was hatred and division. We want the institute to be named after a senior scientist or some other national leaders,” said CPI (M) leader M A Baby.The Left has suggested the new campus be named after Dr Palpu, who was the chief medical officer of the erstwhile Mysore kingdom. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to have the new campus also named after late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. “It is big paradox that a research institution is named after the ideologue of an organisation that was responsible for many riots in the country,” he said.Shashi Tharoor, the Congress member of Parliament from Thiruvananthapuram, has also opposed the move.Congress lawmaker K S Sabarinathan said the Sangh Parivar—RSS and its affiliated bodies—is on a name-changing spree. “Many cities in North India have been renamed under its diktats. The same ploy is being used here. We will oppose it.” He said former chief ministers K Karunakaran and A K Antony toiled to set up the RGCB two decades ago and it was unfair to name the new campus after Golwalkar. The BJP has justified the decision saying there is no written agreement that all major institutions should be named after either India’s first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru or the Gandhi family members. “Let the world know there are many national heroes,” said BJP leader Sandeep Warrier. “Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was not a BJP or RSS leader. Modi took the initiative to build a befitting memorial to the tall leader [in Gujarat]. There is only a flyover in the name of P V Narasimha Rao, who ruled the country at a critical juncture [in the 1990s],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-naming-of-kerala-science-institute-campus-after-rss-ideologue/story-lKNARf20wRnEeEbqwermCP.html
05-12-2020||India||Cong says several BJP leaders are associated with actor Rajinikanth’s political party||The Congress said on Saturday it’s too early to make an assessment on the likely impact of Rajinikanth’s party in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, citing lack of clarity on ideology, programme and electoral roadmap of the proposed outfit.The party’s in-charge of Tamil Nadu affairs, Dinesh Gundu Rao also claimed that “many of the BJP people” are associated with the Tamil superstar now.He said Rajinikanth’s party is not yet registered, his proposed outfit’s ideology and programme are not known and there is no clarity on whether it will fight next year’s Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu independently or strike an electoral alliance.“Once that clarity comes, we will be able to assess (the possible political impact of the party); right now, it’s too early to say”, the former Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President told PTI.“What is his party structure, what exactly he is going to do, no body knows”, the Karnataka MLA and a former State Minister said.“Till then, how can we judge anything?” “Is he going to be with the BJP... what he wants to do...that all has to be seen”, the son former Chief Minister late R Gundu Rao added.Rajinikanth announced on Thursday he would launch a political party in January 2021 to contest in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-says-several-bjp-leaders-are-associated-with-actor-rajinikanth-s-political-party/story-rGt9PeAn2pgpBmM31su0TK.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Govt will benefit from farm laws, not us’: Farmers’ leaders at meeting with centre||As the deadlock over contentious farm laws entered ninth day on Saturday, farmers’ leaders and government are holding a fifth round of talks at Vigyan Bhavan, Delhi. During the meeting, the farmers insisted on a commitment from the government’s side while asserting that they “don’t want any further discussion and want to know what they have decided,” news agency ANI reported.“We have material with us to last a year. We’ve been on road for past several days. If government wants us to stay on road, we’ve no problem. We won’t take path of non-violence,” news agency ANI quoted farmer leaders as saying at the meeting.ALSO WATCH | Farmer protest: Parliament gherao threat amid talks; PM Modi meets ministers“We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer,” they also said, as per ANI report.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab are protesting in and around Delhi against the three farm laws, passed by Parliament in September. While the Central government has assured that the laws are in favour of the agriculture sector, farmers have raised concerns regarding the Minimum Support Price (MSP). They also fear that after these laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporates.Click here for live updates farmers’ protestsBefore Saturday’s talks, four rounds of negotiations have taken place between Union ministers and farmers’ representatives. Among them, two rounds of talks took place amid the ongoing protests. So far, the talks have been inconclusive.However, the Centre did agree to review the recently enacted legislation and bring amendments if required to address the farmers’ demands after Thursday’s discussion. The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, the agitating farmers called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’, a nationwide strike, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi.The call for the Bharat Bandh was supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-any-further-discussion-farmers-leaders-ask-centre-its-decision-over-farm-laws/story-nM7hVy7ejpTJMvBCY3yuPM.html
05-12-2020||India||JD(U) leader who was a former village head shot dead||Ruling Janata Dal (United) functionary Rajesh Kumar Raman, who was a former village head, was shot dead in Bihar’s Bhagalpur district on Friday evening. Raman’s supporters said they caught one of the assailants, Ratan Kumar Shah, and lynched him. Shah’s post-mortem report suggested he died of two bullet injuries. Police said Raman earlier survived an attack in November 2019. Bhagalpur senior police superintendent Ashish Bharti said raids were on in Munger and Khagaria to nab the accused. He added it would be premature to comment on the motive behind the killing as police were investigating the matter. Bharti did not rule out the involvement of hired assassins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-leader-who-was-a-former-village-head-shot-dead/story-lMgZ5rsHzZpdl7KjgjjGGI.html
05-12-2020||India||Youth ready to contribute for self-reliant J-K, says LG Manoj Sinha||Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said that the youth is ready to become entrepreneurs and contribute for self-reliant Jammu and Kashmir.Delivering a keynote address at the IIT-2020 Global Summit, organised by PanIIT USA, he also said that growth prospects depend on inclusive, people-centric policies to create sustainable development.“The young population is ready to be an entrepreneur and contribute to ‘AatmNirbhar Jammu Kashmir’. We have a conducive environment, a robust grass-root democratic system and talented young men and women armed with new ideas to set up innovative business and services,” he said.“We are devising new path, new policies, new technological tools to strengthen our business ecosystem for the post-pandemic world,” he said.The Lieutenant Governor also suggested four mantras for the ‘Present’ and a ‘New Future’-Peace, Progress, Prosperity and People-First.“In order to create sustainable development, our growth prospects must depend on policies that are inclusive, people-centric. We are nourishing our business ecosystem to life and engineering the sustainable future,” he added.Sinha said now that we are becoming a ‘remote society’ in which virtual is the new normal, there is a hasten demand for closer cooperation between the academia and the industry.“In India we have an oasis of talent, it may look like a small drop on the global stage, but they are tributaries of a great river of technology innovation and evolution. IITs and IITians have again demonstrated their capabilities by coming up with innovative solutions to tackle Covid,” he said.He further emphasised that the ‘appetite for solutions’ that is in harmony with nature and humankind is much more today to ‘facilitate the smoother transformation from withering away pre-covid to post-covid era world is eagerly awaiting for’.The Lieutenant Governor said that the world economy would require an extensive focus on at least 6 sectors- Infrastructure, Services, Industries, Start-ups, Agriculture and Technology where new entrepreneurs would need handholding and other assistance.“The industry sector in today’s environment requires a new language - of re-engineering, of creative solutions, of transforming small and medium enterprises,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-ready-to-contribute-for-self-reliant-j-k-says-lg-manoj-sinha/story-bGTuvwBd2qyDnNqkmKHYkJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Several AAP members in Goa resign alleging interference from Delhi||Amidst allegations of ‘undue’ interference by the team deputed from Delhi to Goa, Elvis Gomes, the former state convenor of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), party leader Sidharth Karapurkar, and several other core group members resigned from the primary membership of the party on Friday.While tendering his resignation, Gomes alleged that AAP despite opposition from within the party is compromising on the core values it propagated.“For the past two months, we had problems with how the Goa unit of AAP was running with a team from Delhi camping here. We were having a problem working on the instructions of the Delhi unit. We feel that for running a party, autonomy should be given to the regional units. We were told that ‘Swaraj’ is the voice of the people, but there is no ‘Swaraj’ in getting instructions,” said Gomez told reporters.He said that with him, various regional teams have also resigned from their primary membership because AAP is not following the values it stood for.“We were influenced by the India Against Corruption movement, but now they are taking in people facing criminal charges. The people who joined voluntarily in 2016 were all honest people. They came to the party for the message of no corruption, no criminalisation, and no communalisation,” he stated.Gomez added that things were going smooth with the party in Goa, and then the team from Delhi came and started working without taking them into confidence.“Then it felt like there were two units of the party working independently in the state. Our volunteers have tried to resolve the issues. They met the senior national leaders and also wrote to them, but when any satisfactory answers were not given, we resigned,” he stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-aap-members-in-goa-resign-alleging-interference-from-delhi/story-p7K4qz4AHeHLbqGj3MjjWJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Proposal to commute Rajoana’s sentence yet to be sent to President, Centre tells SC||Fourteen months after it declared that Balwant Singh Rajoana will not hang in former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case, the central government has revealed in the Supreme Court that the papers related to the commuting of the sentence are yet to be placed before the President of India. Additional solicitor general KM Nataraj informed a top court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, that the file was yet to be sent by the Cabinet to the President for granting Rajoana pardon under Article 72 of the Constitution, despite a recommendation of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to the effect in September 2019. Article 72 empowers the President to grant pardons and issue other orders to suspend or remit the remaining part of the sentence of convicts. Beant Singh and at least 16 others were killed in an explosion outside the Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh in 1995. Rajoana was sentenced to death in 2007 by a special court. While he refused to file a mercy petition, Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), the apex religious body of the Sikhs, filed a petition on his behalf before the President in 2014. The decision to commute his death penalty was taken ahead of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev in 2019, but with the decision yet to be implemented, Rajoana moved the Supreme Court in September this year, asking for clarity. In the apex court, ASG Nataraj submitted: “No decision has gone to the President. The Cabinet has to send the file to the President but it hasn’t happened so far.” He pointed out that appeals by some of the other convicts in the former CM’s murder case are still pending in the top court. Unconvinced by this submission, the bench said that someone in the government seems to be “highly mistaken” that appeals by other convicts have anything to do with Rajoana’s clemency. “This petitioner has not filed an appeal in this court. Your letter in September 2019 to the Punjab government says that commutation has to be processed under Article 72 which has nothing to do with pendency of any appeal. You answer a question in law. Once the central government has decided to commute the death sentence, it had to proceed,” the bench told the law officer. It emphasised that a deputy secretary in the MHA must have written to the Punjab government’s chief secretary about the decision to commute only after such a decision was taken by someone competent. “Now we are asking you why has this not been processed so far? Your argument about pending appeals by others is untenable. If you have communicated to Punjab that you have commuted his sentence on Guru Nanak Jayanti, it means you have already decided to do it,” added the court.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Rajoana, pressed for an early hearing since the convict has been in jail for more than 25 years now. The court accepted his request and fixed the matter for a hearing in the first week of January.Former SGPC president Bhai Gobind Singh Longowal and its honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh, criticised the government for dragging its feet in spite of publicly announcing the decision to commute his death sentence. “SGPC has been repeatedly making requests to all authorities in the government to end this injustice but nothing seems to be moving while Rajoana’s sufferings prolong. SGPC is providing the best legal assistance to him and we hope the Supreme Court will come to his rescue,” they told HT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposal-to-commute-rajoana-s-sentence-yet-to-be-sent-to-president-centre-tells-sc/story-p7IK8MtQpe7J8x1OyMKcvJ.html
05-12-2020||India||We want ‘natural death’ of TMC, don’t want President’s Rule in West Bengal: BJP leader||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samik Bhattacharya said his party do not want President’s Rule to be imposed in West Bengal, adding that they want “natural death” of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). “We don’t want Article 356 (President’s Rule) in West Bengal. It is Mamata Banerjee and her party who are inviting Article 356. We want the natural death of the TMC and in 2021, this will happen as the people of Bengal desperately want BJP,” Bhattacharya said. Earlier, BJP MP Saumitra Khan has said there is a possibility that Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar may ask Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to prove the majority in the state Assembly.“The Governor may all of a sudden ask Chief Minister to prove the 149 figure (majority). There is a possibility,” Khan said at an event here on November 28.Over the past several months, Dhankhar has been at loggerheads with Banerjee over several issues. Banerjee had earlier also accused Dhankhar of running a “parallel administration” in the state.The BJP made deep inroads in West Bengal winning 18 parliamentary seats in the state 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Several TMC leaders have also joined the BJP ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls.In 2016, the Trinamool Congress had bagged a total of 211 seats in the 294-member state Assembly while BJP could win only three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-natural-death-of-tmc-don-t-want-president-s-rule-in-west-bengal-bjp-leader/story-zwioQmPC6J21Sg5yeOXMhI.html
05-12-2020||India||Khalistan Liberation Force narco-terror case: NIA files supplementary chargesheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a supplementary charge-sheet in Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) Narco-terror case in the NIA Special Court, Punjab’s Mohali.The agency filed the charge-sheet against “narco-terrorist” Dharminder Singh alias Dhana (32) under sections 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections 25, 27, 27A and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.“The accused used to receive Heroin smuggled from Pakistan from accused Jajbir Singh Samra and further distribute/sell it to local traffickers. The proceeds so generated used to be deposited with Jajbir Singh for further strengthening the activities of KLF,” NIA said in a release.Earlier, a charge-sheet was filed on May 29 against ten accused persons namely Jajbir Singh Samra, Harpreet Singh, Varinder Singh Chahal, Nirmal Singh alias Neeldhari, Satpal Singh, Hiralal, Harjit Singh alias Bagga, Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, Harmeet Singh and Jasbir Singh alias Shera under sections 120B of IPC, Sections 13, 17, 18 & 40 of UA (P) Act, Section 21, 25, 27 A, 29 of NDPS Act in the Special NIA Court, Mohali, Punjab.According to the NIA release, the case arose out of PS Tarsikka, Amritsar (Rural) FIR no. 75 dated May 31, 2020, under sections 21 and 29 of NDPS Act. “It pertains to the seizure of 500 gms of Heroin and drug money Rs 1.20 lakh on 31.05.2020 from accused Jajbir Singh Samra and two others.The case was re-registered by NIA on January 22, 2020, and an investigation was taken up.“Role of Harmeet Singh alias PhD, Pakistan-based self-styled Chief of Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada, a Dubai-based international drugs smuggler and money launderer, has prominently emerged in running a Narco-terror network to strengthen the terrorist activities of KLF.The NIA investigation has revealed that a network of persons consisting of narco-traffickers, militant elements and Hawala Operatives based in Punjab, Delhi and Dubai was operating at the behest of Harmeet Singh and Jasmeet Singh Hakimzada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalistan-liberation-force-narco-terror-case-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet/story-vUrpFVooYUhRcmWS0Y5iQM.html
05-12-2020||India||Draw definite plan for labourers’ rehab: HC tells MP govt||The Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed the state government to draw a definite plan to rehabilitate the migrant workers, who returned to the state after being rendered jobless during pandemic Covid-19 outbreak.It also expressed dissatisfaction over the information provided by the state government about the steps it has taken for these labourers.A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Yadav and Justice V K Shukla gave the direction on Friday.“We are not satisfied by the chart produced by the state and its functionaries. Instead, they are required to draw out a definite plan to rehabilitate these migrated labourers so that they can earn livelihood in their home state,” the court said in its order.“Let the needful be done by the next date (of hearing) along with the status report qua other facilities that are being extended to the labourers, who have been identified for extending benefits under respective schemes,” it said.The court’s direction came after a social organisation raised objection to the way the government filed a reply to its petition, the petitioner’s counsel Shanno S Khan counsel said.The government’s reply carried only a chart and some information, but there were no details about the nature of job provided to the labourers, who are natives of Madhya Pradesh, and returned home during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, she added.The government’s reply stated that there are about 7,40,440 migrant labourers registered during the pandemic and employment was given to 44,634 of them, the counsel said.“There are no details about various welfare schemes meant for the labourers, including provision of loan under Centre/state schemes and how many labourers got benefit of MNREGA,” Khan added.Social organisation Bandhua Mukti Morcha had filed the petition seeking direction to the state government to grant relief to the labourers, who returned to MP from other states during the pandemic.The court has fixed the next date of hearing for January 18, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draw-definite-plan-for-labourers-rehab-hc-tells-mp-govt/story-7eRbxhVIJmuz7zePrQee8O.html
05-12-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks refund of‘exorbitant money’ charged for RT-PCR tests||A plea was filed on Saturday in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure refund of “exorbitant” amounts charged by private labs and hospitals for conducting Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests to detect Covid-19. The interim application has been filed by lawyer and The Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader Ajay Agrawal in his pending Public Interest Litigation(PIL), in which he had sought fixing of uniform rate of Rs 400 across India, as done by Odisha, for the RT-PCR test. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, on November 24, had issued notice to the Union Health Ministry on Agrawal’s PIL and had sought its response within two weeks. The fresh plea said that when hospitals and laboratories were charging Rs 4,500 for the test, the actual cost, including that of the testing kit, was between Rs 800 to Rs 1,200, and even now, “exorbitant rates” are being charged in various states when the total cost incurred is about Rs 200 only. “This exorbitant over and above amount charged from poor and innocent people of this country needs to be refunded immediately as it is not only unrealistic and unreasonable but shocking. “In a country like India where crores of people are living Below Poverty Line and the country’s GDP has gone down to minus 23.9 per cent (-23.09 per cent) during the lockdown period, and therefore, this over charged amount be refunded to the affected people forthwith,” it said. The exorbitant money taken from the people is nothing but extortion and the responsible persons be punished and the excess amount be refunded at the earliest, it said. The plea said that Odisha has fixed Rs 400 as the maximum rate for RT-PCR test after examining and analysing all aspects. “For the last several months these private labs and hospitals were looting the poor people of this country. Like in Delhi the notification was issued on 18.6.2020 fixing the maximum rate Rs 2400 and the cost of the kit and other things used in the test has gone down in the month of April-May itself, at the rate which is available at present,” it said. Agrawal, in his PIL in which the interim plea has been filed, had sought direction for fixing the maximum rate as Rs 400 for RT-PCR test for Covid-19 uniformly all over India. While issuing the notice, the top court had said that the PIL would be heard with another pending plea of Sachin Jain pertaining to the cost of treatment for Covid-19. “There is no other cost as the machines used for the RT-PCR test are already there with the laboratories as they conduct a large number of tests. And the matter is concerned with 135 crore citizen of the country as everybody is worried about the coronavirus and forced to get their test done at this exorbitant price,” the PIL said. The plea alleged that the owners of the private laboratories and hospitals are using the calamity into opportunities for minting crores and crores of rupees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-refund-of-exorbitant-money-charged-for-rt-pcr-tests/story-HDlcmtdWMcNEuduvqz1TnK.html
05-12-2020||India||Maharashtra forms five-lawyer panel for coordination on Maratha quota||The Maharashtra government has set up a coordination committee of five lawyers in connection with the hearing before the five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court regarding lifting of interim stay on the Maratha quota.State PWD Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota, said this in a statement issued on Saturday.He said that as per the state’s demand for vacation of the interim stay on Maratha reservation, the top court’s Constitution bench will hear the government’s petition on December 9 at 2 pm.“If members of the Maratha community, historians, researchers wish to give suggestions,they should communicate with this coordination committee of lawyers. It will study the suggestions and forward them to the government lawyers appearing in court,” Chavan said.In September this year, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of Maharashtra’s 2018 law Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act that granted 16 per cent quota to the Maratha community.The government had filed an application seeking vacation of the apex court’s stay amid protests from pro-quota organisations.The Bombay High Court, while upholding the Act, had earlier said that 16 per cent reservation was not justified and that the quota shouldn’t exceed 12 per cent in jobs and 13 per cent in admissions to educational institutions.The Supreme Court had said that appeals challenging the high court order were required to be considered by a larger bench. Accordingly, the hearing will take place before a five-judge Constitution bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-forms-five-lawyer-panel-for-coordination-on-maratha-quota/story-51FJ06BKO6n5nWhG74B3CO.html
05-12-2020||India||Stop commenting on our leadership if you want stable govt: Cong leader to Maha allies||The Congress on Saturday appealed to its allies in the ruling Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) to refrain from commenting on the party’s leadership if they want a “stable” government in the state. Congress’s state working president Yashomati Thakur, who is also a minister, made the appeal after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said Rahul Gandhi’s leadership seems to lack “consistency”. Pawar’s remarks came in an interview with Marathi daily Lokmat. In a series of tweets in English and Marathi, Thakur referred to interviews and articles of MVA leaders. “…I must appeal colleagues in MVA if you want stable govt in Maharashtra, then stop commenting leadership of Congress. Everybody should follow the basic rules of the coalition. Our leadership is very strong and stable,” said Thakur. “Formation of MVA is the result of our strong belief in democratic values,” she said. NCP and Shiv Sena leaders have played down Pawar’s remarks saying they have no connection with the stability of the three-party state government. NCP spokesman Umesh Patil said Pawar’s statement must be taken positively looking at his age and experience. “Thakur’s comment on the stability of the government is unnecessary. There is good coordination within the MVA. Just recently, we saw celebrations on the first anniversary [of the government]. The alliance registered wins in the [legislative] council elections [on Friday].” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said whatever Pawar might have said about Rahul Gandhi has nothing to do with the stability of the MVA government. “I have always stood behind Rahul Gandhi when his leadership was being damaged. Sharad Pawar is a tall leader. The opposition parties in the country consider Pawar their leader. When an experienced leader like him says something, it must be viewed as directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-commenting-on-our-leadership-if-you-want-stable-govt-cong-leader-to-maha-allies/story-NsaT9Vll5FyO2lGfqF2NlN.html
05-12-2020||India||India’s active Covid-19 caseload at 409,689 lowest in over 4 months||With a one-day jump of 36,652 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India’s infection tally has surpassed 9.6 million while as many as 9,058,822 people have recovered pushing the recovery rate to 94.20%, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s daily bulletin on Saturday. Reviving hopes for a return to “normalcy”, the country’s active caseload has dropped below 0.41 million. Of the total 9,608,211 total confirmed cases in India, only 409,689 are active, which means the active caseload stands at 4.35%.“India’s total active caseload has dropped below 4.10 lakh (4,09,689) today. This is the lowest after 136 days. The total active cases were 4,11,133, on July 22,” the health ministry said in a statement.Also, the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the everyday cases registered from the last eight days, the ministry added. A total of 42,533 people has recovered and/or been discharged from Covid-19 designated hospitals in the last 24 hours. The rising recoveries have also improved the recovery rate to 94.28%, according to the health ministry. “The gap between recovered cases and active cases is nearing 86.50 lakh and presently, stands at 8,649,133,” the statement said.The drop in active cases comes at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is set to get a Covid-19 vaccine within weeks. While briefing an all-party meeting on the preparations for “cheap and safe” Made in India vaccines, PM Modi assured the political leaders that immunisation would start as soon as scientists give a go-ahead.“There are 8 potential vaccines at different stages of trials and their production will be in India. Three indigenous vaccines are also at different levels of trials. Experts believe it will not be a long wait for a Covid vaccine. It is believed that in the next few weeks, a Covid vaccine will be ready. As soon as scientists give the green signal, immunisation will start in India,” the PM at the virtual meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-19-caseload-at-409-689-lowest-in-over-4-months/story-lbrQsOtkKcWT7Qcg9lMZdM.html
05-12-2020||India||Traders down shutters, feel the heat as Delhi border blockade continues||As thousands of farmers continued to camp on Delhi’s borders demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws passed in September, traders and shopkeepers around the protest sites have expressed concerns over the mounting losses and said the government should intervene to resolve the impasse at the earliest. Rampal, a motor mechanic whose workshop is located next to the protest site at the Singhu border, said he has been working on machines he got before the protests began and his new customers are only the farmers. “I have decided not to take any money from them. In fact, I leave my shop open through the night and go home so that if any farmer needs to use the tools, they do not have to return disappointed,” he said. Ajeet, who sells snacks and soft drinks at the Singhu border, said his daily business has shrunk to Rs 2,000-3,000 from Rs 10-15,000. “If this continues for long, how will we pay the rent this month? The farmers are protesting for their cause and we should not bear the brunt. The government should immediately break this deadlock,” he said. Most businesses around Rampal’s workshop and Ajeet’s shop have remained closed for days. These include banks, alcohol shops, offices of property dealers, restaurants and outlets that do not cater to the farmers. Shyam Singh, the chief caretaker of Cost To Cost, an outlet selling branded clothes and electronic goods, said that most employees have been sent on leave. The outlet has placed a large hoarding outside its gates to ensure outsiders do not get a view of the premises. “We live in constant fear of the protests turning violent, but fortunately nothing has happened after the first day,” he said. Among businesses that have remained open are primarily small eateries and those catering to farmers’ needs. The scene is quite similar at the Tikri border. There are six fuel stations around the protest site and though they have remained open, there are hardly any sales. Neeraj Verma, an employee at a petrol pump in Tikri, said the only customers he receives are farmers themselves or local motorcyclists managing to find their way to the station. A showroom of Maruti Suzuki has remained closed since day one of the protests. “Cars have been promised to customers but they are not able to take delivery,” said Bhupender Negi, a cashier at the showroom. Near the Tikri protest site is the busy Hira Market. Shops in one row are in Delhi and those on the opposite side are in Haryana. Businesses on both sides have suffered. Tarun Gupta, a grocery wholesaler, said he had just begun recovering from the losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown when his business was jolted again. “We hear that farmers intend to stay here for months. We will be destroyed. My business is just 10% of what it was before the protests,” said Gupta. Right across his shop, a garments store is getting customers—mostly farmers. “Earlier we would get customers travelling on the highway. Now, only those on motorcycles or on foot are able to access our shop. People are worried about venturing into this market,” said Rahul Mishra, an employee at the store. “When we fell short of essential items, these shopkeepers stood for us. We wish our protest did not harm these businesses, but the government would not agree to our demands otherwise,” said Hardeep Singh, a farmer. He said he would take back some clothes home as “mementos”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traders-down-shutters-feel-the-heat-as-delhi-border-blockade-continues/story-N8wmLH4FjrE1nu8P5RsaHI.html
05-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan criticises government inquiry on Anna University VC||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan on Saturday backed Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa, who is facing a probe over corruption charges. “When he was appointed, we did raise questions if no one else is qualified in Tamil Nadu for this post,” said Haasan. “That question remains but Surappa is an honest man who is being hunted down for his honesty”. He added his party Makkal Needhi Maiam would not be mute spectators even though they “may differ with Surappa’s political ideology”. The Tamil Nadu government last month asked retired high court judge P Kalaiyarasan to look into charges of financial irregularities and malpractices against Surappa. “They have formed an inquiry commission based on an anonymous letter written by a coward,” said Haasan. Surappa has said the government should have checked with him before ordering the inquiry since the complaints were anonymous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-criticises-government-inquiry-on-anna-university-vc/story-rzss2uw0NeEnUqD3qGi8GJ.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP govt only understands language of street protests, says Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury on farmers stir||Ahead of the farmers scheduled meeting with the Union ministers on new farm laws, senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Saturday said the BJP-led government at the centre only understands language of street protests. He said the party had sought more consultation and scrutiny of the legislations through Parliament Standing Committee, but the plea was turned down and instead Congress MPs were suspended from Parliament when they opposed it. “When Congress opposed the anti-farmers Bills, the ruling party accused us of undermining the interest of farmers, and even suspended our members in Parliament when division was sought before clearance of the legislations,” Chowdhury,leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, said in a series of tweets. “Now the same government has been forced to bow down and concede to demands of the farmers in a very reluctant manner,” he said. The Congress leader said the present central government only understands the language of agitation.Also Read | Stalin stages protest against farm laws in Tamil Nadu “Now the same government has been eager for more discussion with the agitators...government only understands the language of agitation on the streets,” he said. Farmers are scheduled to meet Union ministers for the fifth-round of talks on the new farm laws Saturday after the government conveyed its proposals or concessions which it can offer to them, sources said. Ahead of the crucial meeting with the protesting farmer organisations, Union ministers, including Rajnath Singh and Amit Shah, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deliberate over proposals likely to be made to the agitating groups, they said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal were also present in the meeting with the prime minister.The fourth-round of talks between the government and the agitating farmer unions Thursday had failed to end the standoff over the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-only-understands-language-of-street-protests-says-congress-leader-adhir-chowdhury-on-farmers-stir/story-bO3P2apphXOJi7P04Oy4PL.html
05-12-2020||India||Villagers in Chhattisgarh district protest over mining nod, arrest of 6 tribals||Thousands of farmers have been staging a sit-in in Chhattisgarh’s Naryanpur district over mining permission given to a company and against the arrest of six tribals last week. They blocked a road, which connects Narayanpur district headquarters to Abujmaad forest, on Friday. Tribal leaders of the Bastar region have supported the protest and demanded an immediate release of the six alleged Maoists. Tribal leader Arvind Netam, who met the protestors, said the area comes under a reserve forest and hence permission should not have been granted. “Thousands of trees will be cut if the mining starts… the permission should be taken back,” said Netam. Netam alleged six innocent tribals have been arrested and they should be released immediately. Dasharatha Kashyap, a member of a tribal organisation, said the mining lease was granted without consulting the local village council. He added it is a serious issue. “The tribals are protesting to save their water, forest, and land. The government will have to accept their demands… otherwise, [the protest] will continue,” said Kashyap. Narayanpur district collector Abhijit Singh said he has not received any demand in writing yet. “We have provided food and drinking water to the protestors and they have been allowed to meet the six arrested tribals. A team of administrators will meet them today [Saturday],” he said. Police superintendent Mohit Garg said the protest site is remote and blamed Maoists for forcing about 2,000 tribals to protest. “The villagers have been forced to join from as far as the Maharashtra border, Bijapur, Sukma, Dantewara.” He said the six arrested tribals were actively involved in planting IEDs. “…Maoists have lost their crucial supply line and safe haven and that is why they are agitated and forcing people to protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-chhattisgarh-district-protest-over-mining-nod-arrest-of-6-tribals/story-lqfbcSmh0AtixR8cU0hPUK.html
05-12-2020||India||Safety primary criteria in vaccine development: Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech after Anil Vij contracts Covid-19||Covaxin, the vaccine indigenously developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, is currently the most promising among the candidates in the country. Bharat Biotech recently announced the beginning of Phase 3 trials of Covaxin among 26,000 volunteers across 25 sites in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It is the largest clinical trial conducted for a Covid-19 vaccine in India.“Safety is our primary criteria in vaccine development. Inactivated vaccines technology has delivered the safest form of vaccines for the past several decades, as apposed other new and unproven technologies. The vero cell manufacturing platform used for COVAXIN has delivered more than 300 million doses till date, with an excellent safety track record,” the company said in a statement on Saturday.The statement came after Haryana health minister Anil Vij tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was admitted to a hospital. Vij, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, volunteered to be a part of the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in Haryana on November 20. He was administered a trial dose but it’s not immediately clear whether he was given the vaccine candidate during the trial or a placebo.Here’s everything you need to know about Covaxin and its trial phases:1. The Phase 3 trials of Covaxin is the only efficacy trial being conducted in India for Covid-19 vaccines, to determine its suitability to the diverse Indian population.2. Trial volunteers will receive two intramuscular injections approximately 28 days apart. The vaccine efficacy will be determined 14 days after the second dose. The trial is double-blinded and randomised — the investigators, participants and the company will not be aware of who is assigned to which group — where 50% of subjects will receive the vaccine and 50% of subjects will receive a placebo.3. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity data. Volunteers who wish to participate in this trial should be over 18 years of age.4. In case of any adverse event, the reporting process is as per CDSCO-DCGI guidelines according to which volunteers can contact the principal investigator at the site or during active follow up. The principal investigator determines the severity of the adverse event after which reports are submitted to site Ethics Committees, CDSCO-DCGI, Data Safety Monitoring Board and Sponsor.Click her for the complete coverage of the Coronavirus pandemic5. Bharat Biotech, the company which is developing Covaxin, has in two decades conducted more than 80 clinical trials, across 18 countries, in 600,000 subjects and has supplied more than 4 billion doses, to more than 80 countries. Bharat Biotech is one of the few companies to conduct human challenge studies at Oxford University, United Kingdom. The company is also conducting other clinical trials in the US and the UK. 6. In India, the Phase 3 trials of India’s first Covid-19 vaccine have begun in Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Gujarat, Odisha and Madhya PradeshBesides the Hyderabad-based firm’s Covaxin in the country, four other potential vaccines are under various phases of the human clinical trial. Serum Institute of India is conducting Phase 3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine and the indigenously developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has completed Phase 2 trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/safety-primary-criteria-in-vaccine-development-covaxin-maker-bharat-biotech-after-anil-vij-contracts-covid-19/story-1v50cEAGMCDKFjzLDY4uSN.html
05-12-2020||India||Calcutta HC closes petition last heard 23 years ago||The Calcutta high court on Friday closed a petition filed 23 years back about a hospital’s failure in handing over a newborn to his mother after his birth after the officials stumbled upon the plea’s file gathering dust in one of the court’s cupboard for over two decades. The matter was last heard on December 22, 1997. A division bench of chief justice TB Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee lamented the “great misfortune” that the matter remained pending for so long while closing it. “Though different directions were issued with the further order to the registry of this court to list the matter after three months [from December 22, 1997], it is a matter of great misfortune that this matter is listed today [Friday] after 23 years of hibernation of this file in the cupboard of the high court,” the bench said. The court directed the police to have a case registered and investigate the matter when it was last heard in December 1997. “We are in a judicial system. We cannot afford to stack files without the same being listed in spite of judicial orders,” the bench said. The bench added it should consider initiating action for misconduct against officers responsible, more so because it was a Habeas Corpus petition. “When matters are not listed by the office of the high court in spite of judicial orders, it may, at least in certain situations, be appropriate that the courts should consider initiating action for misconduct against the officers concerned for having deflected the course of justice by disobeying judicial orders for posting a case,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-closes-petition-last-heard-23-years-ago/story-PlggPGR3PQT5aWTiA8FTKI.html
05-12-2020||India||Gulabi Gang to be formed in Indore next month||Asserting that the security of women and children can’t be left alone to the government as rape and sexual harassment cases are increasing, Gulabi Gang, a women support group, is all set to come to Indore next month, said Commander Purnima Verma.“Next month we are likely to form a Gulabi Gang in Indore as youngsters here are on the verge of getting destroyed mainly because of drug and alcohol abuse. The Gulabi Gang will start a movement against it,” Verma, who is also the Maharashtra in-charge of Gulabi Gang, told ANI.Verma said as a moral principle, society has to come forward for the protection of women and children.“In Chindwara, we have established a women’s self-defense training centre, which is the country’s first-of-its-kind by Gulabi Gang. Here, we train women in aikido, judo, karate, desi akhada (country wrestling) and the use of chilli spray, besides other means of self-defence. Besides, physical safety, we also train women to be mentally strong to overcome dangerous circumstances. We will open more such centres in Madhya Pradesh,” she said.On Love Jihad, she said the government should have all the details of registration of marriages in temple or mosque. “Every state should have its own laws on this. The parents should take moral responsibility for what their children are doing.”She went on to talk about their fight to bring the OTT platforms under the censor board, slamming film and television producer Ekta Kapoor and Vice-President, Content, Netflix India, Monika Shergill. “It does not seem that they have dedication towards the country. I appeal to the government to boycott their production houses.” On drugs in Bollywood, she said it has always been there and now it is coming to light as the suicides are “actually murders”. “Whether it is Divya Bharti or Jia Khan, many suicides have come to the fore that indicate murder, so there should be an enquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulabi-gang-to-be-formed-in-indore-next-month/story-PIJpw07QgVzLlDVWd1bjVO.html
05-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt to procure 52 forest produce items||The Chhattisgarh government will now procure 52 forests produces in the state with an increase of seven new ones, officials said on Saturday. “The seven new minor forest produces that were added to the list of forest produces procured at minimum support price by state government includes Kusmi seed, Reetha fruit (dry), Shikakai, Satavar roots, Kaju Guthli, Malkangani seeds, and Mahul leaves,” said forest minister Mohammad Akbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-to-procure-52-forest-produce-items/story-3j1u288l7ED4pAr5bG36hI.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine should be given free to everyone, says NCP’s Nawab Malik||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an all-party meeting on Covid-19 vaccination in the country, Maharashtra Cabinet Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik has said that Covid-19 vaccine should be given free to every citizen of the country.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Speaking to ANI, Malik said, “The Prime Minister held an all-party meeting and now they are saying State and Centre will decide the price, how can it be? In Bihar, they have given the assurance that vaccination will be free. We demand vaccine should be given to each Indian free of cost.”During an all-party meeting on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi informed the opposition leaders that the Centre is in talks with all the state governments over the price of the vaccine and that the decision regarding the pricing will be taken keeping public health as the topmost priority.He said that a Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be ready in the next few weeks, and as soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India.“Teams of central and state governments are working together for the vaccine distribution. India has the expertise and capacity in vaccine distribution and fares better compared to other nations,” said PM Modi.“As soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India. Healthcare, frontline workers, and the elderly people suffering from serious diseases will be given priority in vaccination,” he stated while asking suggestions from the representatives of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-should-be-given-free-to-everyone-says-ncp-s-nawab-malik/story-lXJHAnsI5T09p1CsfrN2aM.html
05-12-2020||India||Stalin stages protest against farm laws in Tamil Nadu||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) President MK Stalin on Saturday held a protest rally in Salem against the farm laws introduced by the central government and also extended support to farmers’ agitation.“We went to the Court against the laws. Kerala and Punjab have already approached Court. Our Chief Minister says he’s a farmer first, why has he not taken any step?” he asked.Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said: “Farmers have waged war against Modi. PM Modi says he is the son of a poor family and campaigned that no farmers will die. But in reality, thousands of farmers died. If PM is really a son of the poor, he should convene a Parliament session and solve it amicably. DMK will continue to support farmers protest in Delhi.”The DMK chief said that there is no mention of minimum support price (MSP) in the farm laws and farmers are demanding that only. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The fifth round of talks between the Centre and farmer union leaders will take place today.Key routes at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained choked as thousands of farmers held demonstrations for the tenth consecutive day in their quest to get the three farm laws abolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-stages-protest-against-farm-laws-in-tamil-nadu/story-ddcJnXrZuzGZDPEbTkXGGP.html
05-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh govt increases procurement number of minor forest produces from 7 to 52||In a bid to help the forest dwellers, the number of minor forest produces procured in Chhattisgarh has been increased from seven to 52 in the past two years, an official statement said on Saturday.“As per the vision of Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and in the larger interest of forest dwellers, the state government has taken an important decision of increasing the number of minor forest produce procured at support price in Chhattisgarh from 31 to 38 and of procuring 14 minor forest produces at the support price decided by the sangh,” the statement said.Forest Minister Mohammad Akbar informed, in this way, the number of minor forest produces procured at support price has been increased from seven to 52 in just two years.The seven new minor forest produces that were added to the list of forest produces procured at support price by state government includes kusmi seed, reetha fruit (dry), shikakai, satavar jad, kaju guthli, malkangani beej and mahul leaves.Similarly, 14 minor forest produces to be procured at the support price includes Pallas (flower), White Musli (dry), Indrajou, Patal Kumhara, Kutj, Ashwagandha, Amla (raw), Savai grass, kanta jhadu, Tikhur, Behan Lakh-Kusumi, Behan Lakh, bel (raw) and berries (raw).Speaking about the development, Chhattisgarh Minor Small Forest Produce Association Managing Director Sanjay Shukla said that Pallas (flower) will be procured at the rate of Rs 1,000 per quintal at the support price fixed by the Association.“Similarly, white musli (dry) will be purchased at the rate of Rs 65,000, Indrajou at Rs 15,000, patal kumhara at Rs 3,000 and kutaj (bark) at the rate of Rs 1,100 per quintal, Ashwagandha will be procured at the rate of Rs 32,500, Amla raw at Rs 2,800, Savai grass at Rs 1,400 and kata jhaadu at Rs 2,300 per quintal,” Shukla said.The 31 small forest produces, which were being purchased at support price earlier, were sal seed, harra, tamarind seeds, chironji kernels, mahua seeds, kusumi lac, rangini lac, kal megh, bahera, nagarmotha, kullu gond, puwar, bel guda, honey, kata jhadu and Mahua flower (dry), Jamun seed (dry), Kaunch seed, Dhawai flower (dry), Karanja seed, and Amla (with seed) and flower tamarind (seedless), Giloy and Bhelwa, basil seed, cumin seed, Tamarind seed, Behera Kacharia, Harra Kacharia, Neem seed.According to officials, the state government has also been providing bonuses in addition to the procurement of Kusumi Lakh, Rangini Lakh and Kullu Gond at the support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-govt-increases-procurement-number-of-minor-forest-produces-from-7-to-52/story-zsubo10Xte2T1x84JzFUWP.html
05-12-2020||India||NGT junks review plea alleging falsification of emission readings by Mercedes Benz||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has junked a plea seeking review of its order dismissing a petition alleging falsification of emission readings by car manufacturer Mercedes Benz. The NGT dismissed the plea saying there is no tangible material to support that there has been violation of law. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said that the review application is an attempt for re-hearing, which is not permissible. “It is submitted that there was a prospectus dated May 12, 2020, on the website of the German Federal Motor Transport Authority, KBA, indicting the company which by itself was enough for taking action. We do not find any ground to revisit the order,” the bench said. The NGT on October 19 had refused to entertain the plea alleging falsification of emission readings by the company. “We find that neither the applicant claims to be a victim nor there is any material showing the loss suffered by the applicant. Nor he has shown his representative capacity to safeguard the rights of people who may not be able to directly take the remedy. In absence of adequate particulars, we do not find it appropriate to entertain this application,” the tribunal said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Tanuj Mittal alleging falsification of emission readings by Mercedes Benz. The plea stated that as per the prospectus issued by the company in May, the installation of cheat device in the engine and findings recorded by the German Federal Motor Transport Authority are mentioned.On this basis, the plea sought action be taken against the management of the car manufacturing company||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-junks-review-plea-alleging-falsification-of-emission-readings-by-mercedes-benz/story-zi3XDkcVocJgoHNZBT5hgL.html
05-12-2020||India||Add a boost of nutrition to your diet||Pear is a powerhouse of nutrition. They are an excellent source of fiber, potassium vitamins A, B, C, and E, folic acid, mineral salts, sugars, iodine, iron and calcium. They are Sodium free, fat free and cholesterol free which may reduce the risk of heart disease. “Pears are a fruit that needs more attention. They are special because of their nutritional properties and we often seem to miss it in our shopping baskets. Pears are an excellent source of fiber, potassium and Vitamin C. A single medium pear contains nearly 24 per cent the daily fiber needs – and is only 100 calories,” says Kinita. If you trying to manage your weight, pears are a great option. They help fill up small tummies. Pears are also portion-controlled and portable, so they make for a healthy snack.Sometimes people think that since fruit naturally contains sugar, eating fruit is not appropriate for managing diabetes. This is not true! Pears are not only full of vitamins, minerals, water, and fiber but are also low on Glycemic Index. Foods high in fiber, such as pears, taste sweet without having the deleterious effect of spiking blood sugar. They are now seasonlessIf you thought pears is only available in summer that’s not true anymore. Telling us about the same, Sumit Saran, India Representative for USA Pears say, “USA Pears perfectly complement the Indian Pear season. The Indian Pears season ends in October and USA Pears start arriving in the market from November giving Indian consumers more choice. India is one of the key growth markets for USA Pears. We have launched a large consumer outreach program in India by partnering retailers and media.Things you can make with pearChefs say pears are versatile and can be used to cook many innovative dishes. “I am a fan of pears since it’s a versatile fruit and can be used in different ways right from appetizer to desserts. It fits in all kind of cuisine significantly and is quite handy to use. Poached pear with feta, semi dried tomato and garden greens, Pear and cilantro marinated chicken kebab, Pear millefeuille with jaggery, Pear Malpua with Rabri, Pear achar, Pear lassi Malai, Pear kulfi and Pear and sriracha stuffed paneer tikka are a few dishes you can make,” says chef Nishant Choubey. USA Pears presents HT CITY SPOTLIGHTIn conversation with nutritionist Kinita Kadakia Patel, chef NISHANT CHOUBEY and brand representative, SUMIT SARAN. Date: 5th December 2020Time: 5pmLive on: https://www.facebook.com/hindustantimes/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ht-spotlight/add-a-boost-of-nutrition-to-your-diet/story-VhCvMT534MtvWYdCGpE1OO.html
05-12-2020||India||UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric says farmers’ ‘have a right to demonstrate peacefully’||People have a right to demonstrate peacefully and authorities should let them do so, spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said on the farmers’ protests in India.India has called the remarks by foreign leaders on protests by farmers as “ill-informed” and “unwarranted” as the matter pertained to the internal affairs of a democratic country.“As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so,” Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, said on Friday.Dujarric was responding to a question on the farmers’ protest in India.Reacting to the comments by the foreign leaders, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said, “We have seen some ill-informed comments relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country.” In a terse message, the ministry further added that “it is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes.” On Friday, India summoned Canadian High Commissioner and told him that the comments made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and others in his Cabinet on the farmers’ protest constituted an “unacceptable interference” in the country’s internal affairs and these actions, if continued, will have a “seriously damaging” impact on the bilateral ties.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting for the last nine days at the borders of Delhi against three farm laws. Dubbing these laws as “anti-farmer”, these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. The government and the farmers unions are scheduled to hold the fifth round of talks on the new farm laws on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-spokesperson-stephane-dujarric-says-farmers-have-a-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully/story-5UrpAcwbJqkI4ib5hIt6jP.html
05-12-2020||India||Rajasthan CM approves amnesty schemes for mandi traders||Keeping in view the Covid-19 impact, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has provided relief to the mandi traders and land allottees by approving two amnesty schemes submitted by the Agricultural Marketing Department.According to a state government’s release, on the instructions of Gehlot, “interest waiver scheme” has been implemented in various Agricultural Produce Market Committees of the state for 75 per cent interest waiver on interest payable in respect of Mandi fee, allocation fee and other dues for disposal of cases.“Under this scheme, valid licensees of Mandi committees as well as non-licensed holders such as retail shops/plot allottees/farmers plot allottees and other allottees of mandi premises will also be eligible to avail this scheme. Under this scheme, on 30 September 2019, the entire outstanding amount can be deposited by December 31, 2020, of 25 per cent interest,” the release said.The scheme will be applicable to the outstanding mandi duty on sugar and agricultural commodities imported from April 27, 2005, to December 31, 2019, for agricultural processing from outside the state.The agro-processing unit obtained from the mandi committee will be eligible to take advantage of this scheme. Under this, a provision of 75 per cent exemption in the remaining basic mandi duty and 100 per cent exemption in interest and penalty has been made.A copy of the bills and other documents of imported agricultural commodities will have to be attached along with the application for exemption on the remunerative outstanding mandi duty. The scheme can be availed till March 31, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-approves-amnesty-schemes-for-mandi-traders/story-3EJFdTw56GYVVRlVQGgzwI.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: 36 British MPs write to Dominic Raab in support of farmers’ protests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with IndiaThirty-six British MPs from various parties - including some of Indian origin and others representing many constituents with links in Punjab – have written to British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, asking him to raise the issue of farmers’ agitation with the Narendra Modi government. Read MoreHaryana health minister Anil Vij tests Covid-19 positive, weeks after first Covaxin doseHaryana health minister Anil Vij, who was administered a dose of Covaxin last month, said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been admitted to a hospital. Read MoreAll states accept Rs 1.1 lakh crore borrowing option to meet GST shortfallAll states and Union territories have decided to go for the first option given by the Centre to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation with Jharkhand becoming the latest state to join the list, the government said on Saturday. Read MoreThird aircraft carrier an operational necessity to counter expansionist ChinaIndian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh has pitched for a third aircraft carrier with the Narendra Modi government calling it a necessity in the current security environment in Asia. Read MoreReddit shares picture of ‘floating’ Christmas tree. Would you try it?With December having begun, it is safe to say that the festive season is upon us. If you’re currently decorating your house with fairy lights and various winter-themed ornaments. Read MoreMank movie review: David Fincher demolishes Hollywood mythmaking in delicious new Netflix filmAlternately hard-nosed and dewy-eyed, Mank is the most fiendishly entertaining movie about movies since Ben Affleck’s Argo. It’s satirical but sweet, weary but vengeful — it’s unlike anything director David Fincher has ever made. Read MoreBhumi Pednekar shows who’s the boss in Rs 1 lakh outfit at Durgamati promotionsChannelling her inner girl boss vibe while promoting her upcoming film Durgamati, Bhumi Pednekar recently stunned in a gorgeous power suit and we can’t help but take fashion inspiration. Read More‘Govt committed to principle of reform, perform & transform’: PM ModiWhile delivering a keynote address at IIT 2020 Global Summit via video conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that his government is fully committed to the principle of reform, perform and transform. He said that India is witnessing a sea change in the way it works. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-36-british-mps-write-to-dominic-raab-in-support-of-farmers-protests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-njhG6lIDbI5jwfQSz3PIOJ.html
05-12-2020||India||China plants its flag on moon as lunar probe takes off for earth||China has become the second country in the world to unfurl its flag on the moon after the United States, which put its flag on the lunar surface some 50 years ago. China’s National Space Administration released pictures of the five-starred red flag on the moon, taken by the Chang’e-5 spacecraft’s camera. The spacecraft “unfolded the five-star red national flag, a genuine one made from fabrics, marking a first in the country’s aerospace history,” the Chinese state media said.Chang’e 5 is the third Chinese spacecraft to successfully land on the moon and the first to take off from it again. It is the latest achievement for Beijing’s ambitious space program, which also has an orbiter and rover heading for Mars.The Chang’e, named after the Chinese moon goddess, is also scheduled to bring back the first lunar samples in four decades. China is now the third nation in the world, after the United States and the Soviet Union, to collect lunar samples for scientific purposes.The soil and rock samples obtained from the moon by the Chinese spacecraft are expected to provide information about the moon’s origin, geological evolution, lunar volcanic activity, and also offer insights into solar activities in the universe, according to the mission team. The space probe is expected to land in Inner Mongolia on December 16. From there, the samples will be transported to specialised labs for analysis.The tradition of unfurling flags on the moon was started by the United States. The US planted the first flag on the moon during the manned Apollo 11 mission in 1969. Five more US flags were planted on the surface during subsequent missions till 1972.During its first manned mission to the moon, a Lunar Flag Assembly kit was designed and sent aboard the Apollo mission, astronauts assembled the flag and put it on the lunar surface. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) specially designed a flag that would not droop due to the lack of atmosphere in the moon.Chang’e-5’s successful mission vindicates President Xi Jinping’s “space dreams”. The latest mission sets the tone for the upcoming slew of ambitious targets, which includes creating a rocket capable of delivering payloads heavier than those Nasa and the private spaceflight firm SpaceX, a lunar base, and a permanently crewed space station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-plants-its-flag-on-moon-as-lunar-probe-takes-off-for-earth/story-77oITjrOb9IYXwxRa94DHL.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Social activist asks India to make travel smoother for Indians in US to their homeland||A prominent social activist here has requested the Indian authorities to initiate measures such as granting emergency visas on departure to help Indian-origin families travel to their homeland for health or other emergencies amid the Covid-19 pandemic.India’s aviation safety regulator DGCA has extended the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger flights till December 31. The restrictions, however, will not apply on international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).In the absence of regular flight service on overseas routes, special international flights are being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July.Jaipur Foot USA Chairman Prem Bhandari said he has written to the Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, as well as the Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola and Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla outlining some of the hardships faced by Indian-origin families in travelling to India for emergency reasons and suggesting measures that can be taken to ensure smoother travel for these families. Bhandari said in the letter that there should be more clarity in information that educates travellers on visa eligibility and required travel modalities. In the letter, he suggested that all airlines flying into India under the air-bubble arrangement should proactively verify that travellers with foreign passports have eligible visas at the time they book their tickets. Key airlines in the air-bubble programme and relevant government departments should advertise eligible and ineligible visas for travel on their websites and on social media platforms, he said. Bhandari voiced appreciation for the efforts made by the Indian government to facilitate smooth travel for many stranded travellers during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The progress made since May 2020 in gradually restoring travel, offering multiple options and keeping safety upmost is truly commendable. These tireless efforts have resolved many travel grievances by NRIs and their immediate family members in a very difficult time,” he said. In the letter, he cited a few instances where Indian-origin families were facing difficulties in travelling to India, including cases where families were not allowed to board as some members of the family, mostly minor children, had unexpired multi-entry visas and tourist visas. Noting that the continued suspension of tourist visas is creating difficulty, Bhandari said during the difficult times presented by the pandemic, the only reason for Indian-origin families to travel to their homeland is for emergencies such as death, funeral in family, work-visa related matters and not for tourism. “Corona-related deaths of relatives in India has become a compulsive cause for an otherwise avoidable travel endeavour for them to reach India at the earliest possible,” he said. Bhandari suggested that holders of Indian passport/PIO/OCI card be allowed to travel with their US-born minor children under the age of 14 with any unexpired visa obtained anytime without applying emergency visa at consulates. He added that in case it is difficult to carry out these measures, authorities may consider either granting Emergency Visa on Departure (E-VoD) or restoring immediate e-Visa process for approval online. In October this year, the Indian government had decided to restore with immediate effect the validity of all existing visas, except electronic, tourist and medical category visas, almost eight months after their suspension following the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent imposition of a nationwide lockdown.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had also granted permission to all Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders and all other foreign nationals to visit India for any purpose, except for tourism. When the Covid-19 virus hit India, the government had taken a series of steps to curtail the inward and outward movement of international passengers since February, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-social-activist-asks-india-to-make-travel-smoother-for-indians-in-us-to-their-homeland/story-rIUWkzw3Gh5cT4fsLMgViI.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Last day of discussion’: Farmers ahead of talks with Centre on farm laws||Farm union leaders and the government will meet for the fifth round of talks on Saturday to resolve the deadlock over the three new legislation enacted earlier this year. Delhi’s border points remained choked as thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states are holding demonstrations for the ninth consecutive day.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal are meeting at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi Hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Here’s what farmers and their leaders have said so far on the issue:1. “The government has just been issuing dates. All the organisations have unanimously decided that today is the last day for discussion,” a protesting farmer said.2. Farmer leader Rampal Jat, president of Kisan Mahapanchayat, said that if Saturday’s talks are not concluded on a positive note, farmers from Rajasthan will march along National Highway-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar. “The government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that minimum support price will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar,” said Jat.3. A protester said they are hoping Saturday’s meeting with the government will be positive. “We won’t stop until the government agrees to our demands. We will make the movement bigger,” he added.4. “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the central government then we will gherao Parliament,” another farmer said.5. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Harvinder Singh Lakhwal has called for a Bharat Bandh on December 8 if the government does not withdraw contentious farm laws, enacted in September. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” said Lakhwal. “Yesterday (Thursday), we told the Government that the farm laws should be withdrawn. On December 5, effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be burnt across the country,” news agency ANI quoted Ladkhwal as saying. “We have given a call for Bharat Bandh on December 8,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-day-of-discussion-farmers-ahead-of-talks-with-centre-on-farm-laws/story-DeF5H2eOP5Ow1iDdP0z4JL.html
05-12-2020||India||Jharkhand man chased for Rs 3.5cr GST fraud turns out to be a daily wage worker||A daily wage labourer earning Rs 198 per day under the rural jobs guarantee scheme or MGNREGS was in shock when a police team reached his thatched house in Raipahari village under Mosaboni block of East Singhbhum district in Jharkhand on Thursday to arrest him for alleged non-payment of Rs 3.50 crore in goods and services tax (GST).The police team from Mosaboni was equally shocked to see that the accused named in the multi-crore tax evasion case was actually living hand-to-mouth. 48-year-old Ladun Murmu, named in the official records as the managing director (MD) of MS Steel, has been charged with GST evasion of Rs 3.50 crore over transactions of Rs 5.58 crore, according to the FIR lodged by the Jharkhand state GST department. “The police team had gone to arrest the MD of a fake company MS Steel, Ladun Murmu, on the basis of an FIR lodged by the GST department for non-payment of GST even after a notice was served on the firm in this regard last year. The team found Ladun to be a poor daily-wage worker under MGNREGA and realised that the conmen set up a fake company in his name using his duplicate PAN and Aadhar cards. A special police team has been asked to do a detailed investigation into the case,” said Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP).Ladun was released late last evening from police detention after strong protests by the villagers. Ladun clarified that he had no clue how was he made the MD of a company when his MGNREGA enlisting earned him no more than Rs 198 a day, making it an everyday struggle to make both ends meet.“My nephew Baila Murmu had taken my cooperative bank passbook, PAN and Aadhar cards in 2018 on the pretext that after submission of these, I will receive Rs 2000 per month from the government in my bank account. Baila handed over the documents to his son-in-law Sunaram Hembram, a resident of Galudih Dewli. Sunram, in turn, handed my documents to Sushant Kumar Samanto who lives in Sonari, Jamshedpur. I have no idea what happened thereafter and no money came to my bank account either,” said Ladun.Also Read: Jharkhand, the only remaining state, accepts Centre’s Rs 1.1L cr borrowing option He added that commercial tax officials had visited his house in September last year and handed him a notice for payment of Rs 3.50 crore as GST due to him. As he couldn’t pay anything, a case was lodged against him at Mosaboni PS under section 70 of GST Act and IPC. “My statements were also recorded in Jamshedpur GST court where I was asked seven questions about the company. I had denied forming any company or any knowledge of any transactions. I am a poor daily wage worker, where would I get so much money. I can’t even dream of any such company, please forgive me Sarkar. My wife died last year and I am struggling to survive with my son,” said Ladun. Also Read: In new policy, Jharkhand to tap private investment for boosting tourismAs per the FIR lodged by the state tax officer (STO) Santosh Kumar after the expiry of GST payment notice, MS Steel had sold steel worth Rs 5.58 crore to Trinetra Traders, Omkar Traders Trinath Enterprises, Alam Metal Stores, Sidhuja Steel and Subhadra through 87 E-way bill in November-December 2018-19 fiscal. The state GST department is now under fire for allotting GST registration number (No-20AWVPM0673QIZV) to MS Steel on the basis of Ladun Mumru’s PAN and Aadhaar numbers, allegedly without verification.Jamshedpur divisional joint commissioner of state GST department, Sanjay Kumar Prasad said they have already provided the secret code number of the laptop/computer and server through which the GST registration application and accompanying PAN and Aadhaar details were uploaded for MS Steel. “We are helping the police to arrest the real culprits,” said Prasad.“Such GST frauds were rampant across India earlier. But now some checks and balances have been in place after the Government of India made PAN and Aadhaar mandatory for GST registration. Yet, fraudsters have still been registering fake companies by uploading fake or duplicate scanned copies of PAN and Aadhaar cards. Another such case was cracked by the police last month involving Rs 1 crore GST evasion. Half a dozen such GST fraud cases are under probe in Jamshedpur division,” added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-man-chased-for-rs-3-5cr-gst-fraud-turns-out-to-be-a-daily-wage-worker/story-VQI4qc21wQ8ChJNNrxzEkI.html
05-12-2020||India||Mizoram’s first solar power plant commissioned||Mizoram’s first solar power plant has been commissioned at Tlungvel about 58 km from here, an official said on Saturday. The grid connected 2 megawatt solar photovoltaic (SPV) solar power plant was opened by state Power minister R Lalzirliana on Friday, he said.Speaking on the occasion, Lalzirliana said that Mizoram has made its entry into the solar map of the country with the commissioning of the 2 MW SPV solar plant.He said that the commissioning of the solar power plant was a milestone in the history of the state.Besides solar energy, the hydroelectric potential of the state must be harnessed to produce more power so that the vision of the government with respect to self sufficiency in power can become a reality, he said.The minister said that a 20 MW solar power plant and 5 MW solar power plant are being currently constructed at Vankal in Khawzawl district and near Saitual town respectively.State assembly deputy speaker Lalrinawma also attended the event.According to an official of state Power and Electricity department, the construction of the newly commissioned solar power plant started in August, 2018 and was completed for a trial in November this year.The power plant was constructed with Rs 14 crore funds wholly provided by the state government, he said.While Rs 213 lakh was spent on civil and general components, Rs 11.87 crore was spent for solar and electrical components.The SPV power plant is spread over 5 acres and has 5,340 solar modules. The solar plant is expected to generate 3 million units annually.Operation and maintenance of the solar power plant will be overseen for the next five years by the company, which installed the solar plant.It is expected to generate Rs 169 lakh in revenue annually, according to the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-s-first-solar-power-plant-commissioned/story-VRqeDceY2RErHmpOCez3iN.html
05-12-2020||India||Haryana health minister Anil Vij tests Covid-19 positive||Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been admitted to a hospital. “I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona,” he tweeted. I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona.Vij, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, volunteered to be a part of the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in Haryana on November 20. He was administered a trial dose. However, it’s not immediately clear whether he was administered the vaccine candidate during the trial or a placebo. I Will be administered trial dose of Coronavirus vaccine #Covaxin a Bharat Biotech product Tomorrow at 11 am at Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantt under the expert supervision of a team of Doctors from PGI Rohtak and Health Department. I have volunteered to take the trial dose.Also, the antibodies against the infection build up only after a specific number of days pass after the second dose of the vaccine is taken, since it is a two-dose vaccine, according to a health ministry official who did not want to be named. The official said this was not solely in the context of Vij, who got just one dose -- of either the vaccine or a placebo. Vij’s media coordinator, Vijender, Chauhan said the minister was in Chandigarh on Friday afternoon and had reported fatigue later. “He got tested himself today morning and the result is positive. The staff will be tested today itself,” Chauhan said. Bharat Biotech had said that phase 3 trials would involve a total of 26,000 people and be conducted at 25 centres across the country. “After successful completion of the interim analysis from the phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech received Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for phase 3 clinical trials in 26,000 participants in over 25 centres across India,” the company had said in a statement. This will be India’s first phase 3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest such trial ever conducted in the country, the statement added.According to top officials of the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) in Kolkata, the results of the phase-III trial of the indigenously developed coronavirus vaccine candidate, Covaxin, will be available in November 2021. The interim report may be available by May 2021 at the earliest, they added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-tests-covid-19-positive-was-administered-covaxin-last-month-as-part-of-phase-3-trials/story-NVmq3W27TQSN3fi8TUJozN.html
05-12-2020||India||World Soil Day 2020: Theme, significance and history||Every year December 5 is celebrated as World Soil Day to bring people’s focus and attention on the importance of healthy soil as well as stress on the importance of sustainable management of soil resources. In 2019, the day was celebrated in more than 100 countries through 560 events.Here’s everything you need to know about World Soil day:World Soil Day 2020The theme of World Soil day 2020, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) campaign, is “Keep soil alive, protect soil biodiversity”. By encouraging people around the world to engage in proactively improving soil health, the campaign aims to fight soil biodiversity loss. If the fertility of the soil is not ensured, it could threaten global food supplies and thereby food safety. Therefore, according to FAO, the campaign aims to raise awareness of the importance of maintaining healthy ecosystems by addressing the growing challenges in soil management, fighting soil biodiversity loss and encouraging governments, organisations, communities and individuals around the world.History of World Soil DayWorld Soil Day became an international day after the International Union of Soil Sciences (IUSS) recommended it in 2002. Under the leadership of Thailand and within the framework of the Global Soil Partnership, FAO supported the formal establishment of World Soil Day. The FAO Conference unanimously endorsed World Soil Day in June 2013. It even requested its official adoption at the 68th United Nations General Assembly. As a result, in December 2013, the UN General Assembly responded by designating December 5, 2014, as the first official World Soil Day.The day also corresponds with the official birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand, who had officially sanctioned the event. In 2016, this day was officially recognised in memory and with respect for the monarch after he died in October 2016 working as the head of state for seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-soil-day-2020-theme-significance-and-history/story-Jny184ZBa1mCvdFwfim0WO.html
05-12-2020||India||At all-party meet, leaders warn PM of misinformation on Covid vaccine||New Delhi Leaders cutting across political parties hailed India’s efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic but cautioned the government on the hurdles lying ahead at the all-party meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, people familiar with the matter said on Friday. Even as many Opposition parties are up in arms against the Union government over the three new farm laws and are supporting the farmers’ protest in the national capital region, most political leaders stood by the government on the Covid issue. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, said the pandemic should be a part of India’s national security policy, given the devastating impact of Covid on the lives of millions of Indians and the economy. Azad said the political leadership must be ready to counter the possible misinformation campaign over vaccines in the near future, according to the people cited above.In the second all-party meeting with Modi since the pandemic, Azad mentioned how he took a jab of H1N1 vaccine along with Zydus scientists to dispel public fears and malicious rumours. While he maintained that India’s Covid management was “very good” in terms of the country’s size and population, he demanded that vaccines should be affordable and cold chains be set up across the country. The Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay sought “the PM’s advice” to the states and read out from a paper on how West Bengal was taking innovative measures to combat the pandemic. He said the Union government should extend full support to all vaccine producers. The DMK’s TR Balu asked the Prime Minister to take “a serious note” of the fact that the virus spread from China but “their Covid tally remains lower than most of the country”. The DMK leader also sought uniform rates for RT-PCR tests and suggested mobilising public sector units, CSR (corporate social responsibility) and government funds to create a buffer stock of vaccines. At this point, Balu picked up the farmers’ protests and said they were suffering in the cold weather of Delhi. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told him to stick to Covid. Balu hit back, saying the minister should not interrupt when he is talking to the PM. YSRCP leader Vijayasai Reddy asked for a financial package from the centre for Telangana as the state government spent a large amount on bio-safety of hospitals. Lauding India’s fight against Covid, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said it was clear there were huge differences between many advanced nations and India, which was in a far better position in tackling the outbreak. While Pawar, a partner in Maharashtra’s coalition government, asked for the Centre’s help for the economic revival of states, RCP Singh of the JD(U) spoke about strengthening the cold chain to the last mile||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-all-party-meet-leaders-warn-pm-of-misinformation-on-covid-vaccine/story-J1RM0EZYmKbkF9d9uNfQeL.html
05-12-2020||India||UP’s Dandupur railway station to be renamed as Maa Barahi Devi Dham||The Dandupur railway station situated between Pratapgarh and Badshahpur on Lucknow-Varanasi rail section will now be named Maa Barahi Devi Dham.The Union government has given its consent after which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave his nod to the renaming of the railway station.Giving this information on Twitter, the Chief Minister’s Office posted that a notification would be issued in this regard after getting approval from the chief minister.There has been a long-standing demand to change the name of Dandupur railway station in Raniganj tehsil of Pratapgarh.Yogi Adityanath has initiated the process to give recognition to local religious and spiritual sites while respecting public aspirations.Many express and passenger trains, including Kashi-Vishwanath Express, Rae Bareli-Jaunpur Express, Lucknow-Varanasi Intercity, and other trains have a halt at Dandupur railway station. There is a temple of Maa Barahi Devi in Parasrampur village, six kilometres from the railway station and an annual fair is organised there that is visited by a large number of devotees.Many railways stations have been renamed so far. Allahabad Junction is now known as Prayagraj Junction, Allahabad City was renamed as Prayagraj Rambag, Allahabad Chhioki has been changed to Prayagraj Chheoki and the name of Prayagghat has been changed to Prayagraj Sangam. In October 2017, the name of Mughalsarai Junction, which is a prominent station in Uttar Pradesh near Varanasi, was changed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-s-dandupur-railway-station-to-be-renamed-as-maa-barahi-devi-dham/story-nSaohbnmVYw08VAY04WpdN.html
05-12-2020||India||Kolkata to enforce ‘no helmet, no fuel’ rule from December 8||The Kolkata Police will launch the “no helmet, no fuel” campaign from December 8 to February 5 as part of efforts to check fatalities because of two-wheeler accidents. “No petrol pumps in the city shall sell petrol to any such two-wheeler rider who arrives at the petrol pump without a helmet or is carrying a pillion rider without a helmet,” said a police officer.Earlier authorities in Noida, Aligarh and Bengaluru enforced such rules. “We welcome the rule. But sometimes it becomes difficult to enforce such a rule without police protection,” said a petrol pump owner in Kolkata. Nearly half of over 1.8 million vehicles registered in Kolkata in 2019 were two-wheelers. The number of two-wheelers went up from around 83,00,00 to around 93,00,00 between 2017 and 2019. “It has been observed that the number of cases involving two-wheeler riders riding without helmets and carrying pillion riders without helmets has gone up manifold despite prosecutions,” said a second police officer. The police registered around 93,855 cases of rash driving in 2019. One out of every three such rash driving cases, around 32,600 cases, involved two-wheelers. According to the police’s annual review, they pursued 96,00,00 prosecutions in 2017. Around 11,000 involved violation of the helmet rule. The number of such prosecutions went up to over 2.1 million in 2019. It included over 60,00,00 cases involving two-wheeler drivers without helmets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-to-enforce-no-helmet-no-fuel-rule-from-december-8/story-z0WKZdmJbWu2Wlni92cclM.html
05-12-2020||India||The steady rise, and sharp fall of BJD lawmaker Pradeep Panigrahy||Till less than a year before Pradeep Panigrahy’s expulsion from the party on Sunday and his arrest soon after, the Biju Janata Dal legislator was considered the first among equals in the 23-year-old regional party and one of the very few with direct access to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. That Patnaik immensely trusted the 56-year-old Panigrahy became clear back in 2004 when the chief minister named him to oversee his assembly constituency Hinjili in Ganjam district for nearly a decade. Panigrahy delivered and was rewarded with a party ticket in 2009 from the seaside Gopalpur constituency from where he has won on a trot three times. The dream run ended this week when Panigrahy was arrested by police officers investigating Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak and his son Akash Pathak, who were arrested last week on charges of holding disproportionate assets. The Pathak family had come to the notice of investigators for flying in and out of Odisha in chartered planes on at least 20 occasions during the Covid lockdown. The MLA, who also travelled with them on many occasions, faces charges of cheating, forgery and impersonation. Before he was arrested, Panigrahy insisted that he was innocent but the police don’t believe him. There was a time when this would have been unthinkable. Ramesh Chandra Chyaupatnaik, president of BJD in Ganjam district, recalls the influence that Panigrahy wielded. “While we needed an appointment to meet the CM, Panigrahy did not because the CM was fond of him. He had earned the CM’s trust,” said. Ahead of the 2019 assembly elections, Panigrahy was given charge of 12 of the 15 assembly constituencies of the undivided Ganjam district. Unlike many politicians of Odisha who worked their way up, BJD leaders said Panigrahy, who had been president of the Berhampur University Students’ Union in 1994, had it easy. He had a very humble beginning as an advocate in the local courts, but it was the ambition that set him apart from fellow lawyers. When the Tatas came to Ganjam to build a 10 million tonne port-based steel plant in Gopalpur in association with Nippon Steel of Japan, Panigrahy was among the first to sell his land for the project that others from the area were opposing. It helped the JB Patnaik government tide over the public agitation and was followed by the government acquiring around 3,000 acres of the land under the emergency clause of Land Acquisition Act in 1997-98. The proposed steel plant, however, never took off and Tatas, a few years ago, turned it into SEZ. Former Chhatrapur MLA N Narayan Reddy, who played a crucial role in the public agitation against the Tatas, said Panigrahy seemed to parachute to power. “Any grassroots politician would have supported the public agitation against a corporate. But Panigrahy did not help... Santosh Satpathy, then district collector of Ganjam had introduced Panigrahy to JB Patnaik as he had expressed solidarity for Tata’s land acquisition,” said Reddy. After Naveen Patnaik became chief minister for the first time in 2000, Panigrahy was made president of Berhampur central cooperative bank. A few years later, he became the chief minister’s nominee to nurture the Hinjili assembly constituency which fuelled his rise in the party. Among all the BJD politicians of Ganjam, he was the youngest at that time and educated too. By most accounts, he soon became the chief minister’s favourite too. Despite his faltering English, it was his can-do ability that probably endeared him to the anglophile chief minister. His stock also went up when in 2003 he obtained Ph.D in law from Berhampur University on “Conservation of Biodiversity under International Law with special reference to Law in India”. In 2006, his name cropped up in a hooch tragedy of Ganjam involving the death of 40 people, but a commission of inquiry cleared him of any role 2 years later. In 2009, he got the BJD ticket for the first time from Gopalpur. He won. But the victory, Pradeep Panigrahy’s rivals and party colleagues said, seemed to change him. It was the arrogance of power, said Ganjam BJD leaders. There were also allegations that were levelled at him. President of BJP’s Ganjam district unit, Bibhuti Jena, who lost to him in the 2019 assembly election, said Panigrahy had always been rude to people. “He used official machinery to browbeat his opponents as well as common people. The BJD too turned a blind eye to his actions,” said Jena. As per Panigrahy’s own admission early this week, Patnaik told him not to bother about his Hinjili constituency in 2013 that BJD leaders said would ordinarily have implied a loss of trust. But, in 2014, Patnaik made him minister of three departments including the rural development, higher education and science and technology. He was dropped from the cabinet in 2017 but was still seen to be powerful. He was made BJD’s Ganjam district president in 2015 despite the district having 3 senior cabinet ministers. In 2019, he was made responsible for 15 assembly constituencies of undivided Ganjam district in recognition of his organisational skills. His troubles started soon after when he was blamed for the party’s defeat in 3 of the 15 constituencies. He retained his own seat Gopalpur by a slim margin of 2,600 votes, the lowest margin in Ganjam district. There were allegations that he had sabotaged the BJD’s prospects in these constituencies. BJD leaders said they noticed that his access to the chief minister ended soon after. His rivals within the party had claimed he was in talks with BJP for a possible switch. Political analyst Rabi Das said Panigrahy was perhaps the last BJD politician who enjoyed unfettered access to the chief minister who had come to depend on his team of trusted bureaucrats. “He was among the senior BJD MLAs whom the coterie wanted to be cut down to size. In the BJD’s churn, Panigrahy was up against a powerful section,” said Das. That he was out of favour became evident when he wrote several letters to the chief minister, to demand that Odisha bring back migrant workers from Gujarat during Covid lockdown and then to complain that the state government was ignoring local MLAs in the fight against Covid-19. “I raised the issues of mismanagement in Covid centres as well as the treatment procedures of Covid patients. This probably did not go down well with some bureaucrats,” Panigrahy said days before his arrest. Now in jail over charges of forgery, the 56-year-old politician may have to fall back on his legal acumen to see him through the troubled days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-steady-rise-and-sharp-fall-of-bjd-lawmaker-pradeep-panigrahy/story-Xeq1GPZmddBWPUsAXWYHZP.html
05-12-2020||India||Pro-Kannada outfits call for Karnataka bandh: Here’s what you need to know||Karnataka will witness a shutdown on Saturday called by several pro-Kannada organisations to protest the state government’s move to set up a development board for the Maratha community. These organisations had said on Friday that they will go ahead with the bandh demanding that the government give up its decision to form the Maratha Development Authority (MDA).Vatal Nagaraj, who is leading the agitation, said the agitation is for Kannada pride and alleged that the government threatened various organisations using police to withdraw support to the Karnataka bandh but it will not work. “I want to tell Yediyurappa -- You withdraw the ‘Authority’ (MDA), I will garland you at the Vidhana Soudha. But don’t threaten us. We will not get scared of it,” Nagaraj said, according to PTI.Here’s what you need to know:1. These pro-Kannada organisations are up in arms against the formation of the Maratha Development Authority, which the chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced on November 14 and earmarked Rs 50 crore for the ‘overall development of Maratha people’.2. Various factions of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (Forum for the Protection of Karnataka), Jaya Karnataka, Karnataka Nava Nirmaana Sena, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sena, Ola and Uber taxi drivers’ association, auto-rickshaw drivers association and a few others have called for the 12-hour strike.3. The shutdown is scheduled from 6am to 6pm, however, essential services have been exempted.4. The state government has indicated that bus and train services would run as per the normal schedule. Metro services will operate as usual in Bengaluru. The Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation buses will also run as usual.5. Petrol pumps will also remain open and hotel owners and travel operators have said they will not close their businesses but have extended moral support to the bandh.6. According to Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant, permission has not been taken for the shutdown. Pant said action will be taken against anybody trying to force business and commercial establishments to shut or disrupt normal life. Pant also said an additional 14,000 police and security personnel would be deployed to ensure law and order.7. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has appealed to the organisations to not go ahead with the shutdown. “Kannada has been given importance and we will do even more for promoting the language,” he said on Friday.8. Yediyurappa said the development board was for the welfare of the Maratha community and not for the promotion of the Marathi language as some fear. Several border areas, including Belgavi and Bidar in Karnataka, have often seen tension between the Kannadigas and the Marathas.9. Opposition parties have criticised the setting up of such community-specific development boards and alleged that this was an electoral tactic by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meant to divert attention from its governance failures.10. According to political analysts, the move to set up MDA has electoral connotations. Assembly by-polls are due in Basava Kalyan following the death of the sitting Congress MLA B Narayan Rao and Maski apart from the vacancy caused in the Belgavi Lok Sabha seat after the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi. Maratha votes can play a decisive role in deciding the outcome in all these seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pro-kannada-outfits-call-for-karnataka-bandh-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-78uHehb25vFXFlK8VvZzyK.html
05-12-2020||India||Widespread snowfall likely in the hills due to western disturbances||Widespread snowfall is expected in the upper reaches of the Western Himalayas with two western disturbances (WD) impacting the region. The first WD started impacting the region from Friday onwards and brought rain and snow mainly to Jammu & Kashmir. The second WD is likely to be more intense and impact the region from December 7, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Both maximum and minimum temperatures in most parts of Northwest India are likely to be marginally above normal till December 10 due to clouding and a change in wind direction associated with the WDs. But the temperatures are likely to fall significantly once both WDs pass and icy cold winds from the Himalayas start blowing over northwest India, scientists said.“There is a change in wind direction to easterly already due to the WD which is why temperature is also marginally higher. Air pollution levels may go up over the weekend due to a reduction in wind speed. The second WD is likely to be more intense and bring widespread snowfall to Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Until December 10, we are expecting the minimum temperature to hover around 8 degrees C,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, who heads the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre.The air quality in Delhi and National Capital Region deteriorated on Friday. It is likely to improve marginally but will remain in the “very poor” category on Saturday and Sunday. The Air Quality Index on Friday was 382 in the “very poor” category in Delhi. Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, and Noida recorded severe air quality.Cyclone Burevi, which weakened to a depression on Thursday close to Ramanathapuram coast, remained stationary for 30 hours till Saturday morning. The associated wind speed is about 40 to 50 km per hour gusting to 60 km per hour. It is likely to remain stationary and weaken further, scientists said. Thereafter it will move west-south-westwards across Ramanathapuram towards Kerala and then weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area.“We are expecting the deep depression to degenerate in the Gulf of Mannar because the water is very shallow there. The depression, or low-pressure area, may emerge into the Arabian Sea but its intensification is unlikely. Consecutive cyclones also lead to marginal cooling of seawaters which is why there is no intensification of cyclones which develop later,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-snowfall-likely-in-the-hills-due-to-western-disturbances/story-FTLdSo51V5Id6vuEhDNO3J.html
05-12-2020||India||Government asks for mandatory warning message with online gaming ads||The Union information and broadcasting ministry has asked TV channels to carry statutory warnings whenever they carry advertisements of online gaming or fantasy sports sites.In an advisory issued on Friday, the ministry said that it has come to its notice that channels were showing ads of gaming sites but did not inform the viewers of the financial risks associated.Online gaming is associated by many with gambling and following concerns, the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) has released guidelines for issuing these ads, the ministry said.According to the guidelines, which become effective from December 15, no person below 18 years of age should be shown playing such games for real money winnings.Print ads have also been asked to display a disclaimer that playing these games may involve financial risk and can be addictive. The guidelines suggest that the disclaimer should not occupy less than 20% of the space of the print ad.Also Read: India forms high-level committee to implement Paris Agreement targetsA similar method has been suggested for audio-visual and audio ads. The guidelines suggest that the disclaimer should come after the ad and should be in the same language. They also suggest that the audio be in a normal voice.The guidelines also suggest that online gaming should not be depicted as an income opportunity or an alternate employment option. They also suggest that the people in the ad should not be depicted as more successful than others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-asks-for-mandatory-warning-message-with-online-gaming-ads/story-nJ2NXwTFjg0lc0NEr7esrN.html
05-12-2020||India||Third aircraft carrier an operational necessity to counter expansionist China||Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh has pitched for a third aircraft carrier with the Narendra Modi government calling it a necessity in the current security environment in Asia. Given that an aircraft carrier takes 18 years to build also keeping in mind the cabinet approval, as in the case of 37,000 tonne Vikrant, the Indian national security planners will have to take a call on the sea behemoth now with China planning six aircraft carriers of its own. Rising India, or what Admiral Karambir Singh defines as a five trillion-dollar economy, must have the tools of not only protecting itself but also projecting power.The third aircraft carrier has become a subject matter of debate within Indian military circles with the navy having to counter an equally potent argument on the survivability of the platform in the era of long-range stand-off weapons. China, in fact, has DF-21 missile with 1700 km range which its propaganda machines call ship killer.While the Indian Navy believes that it should not be tethered to the Indian peninsula for power project but be present on high seas and deep ocean, the current economic environment is not in favour of a machine that will cost nearly $10 billion. The navy wants a 65,000-tonne carrier with electromagnetic aircraft launch system unlike the ski jump STOBAR (short take-off, barrier arrested recovery system) onboard INS Vikramaditya and soon to be launched INS Vikrant.The counter-argument of Indian security planners is that if India invests the same kind of money into converting some of its 1,062 island territories in Bay of Bengal, Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean into military bases, then it can project air power beyond the horizon towards Malacca Straits and the Persian Gulf. The collateral benefit would be the development of the island territories as a replenishment bays for ships passing between nine degree and six-degree channels.However, the first negative against permanent bases in island territories is that they would present a more vulnerable target to a stand-off weapon like Chinese “Guam killer” DF 26 missile than a moving airfield with both aircraft and missiles on board in either the Indian Ocean or the South China Sea.With the Modi government’s doctrine post-Balakot and Uri being to extinguish the threat by hitting at the source, an aircraft carrier becomes a must-have operational requirement. The role of an aircraft carrier assumes much more significance in the context of China as Han power is buffered by occupied territories of Uighur dominated Xinjiang and Buddhist dominated Tibet, who don’t have a single issue with India. Hence, to deter Han China, India must have expeditionary force capability beyond Malacca Straits. To top it all, the geographical location of Indian island territories can project power deep into the Indian Ocean below the Bay of Bengal and south-east Asia but not towards the tip of Africa.With Pakistan’s P 3C Orion armed with 280km range air to surface Harpoon missiles, the Indian Navy warships are vulnerable to the aerial threat unless there is a carrier force to not only nullify the threat but also deter the adversary. The time lag in getting a land-based fighter to take care of the aerial threat to an Indian ship also works in favour of an aircraft carrier, whose aircraft can take out a target within a range of 300 to 400 kilometres. “The air bubble of a carrier task force is a potent deterrent to any adversary. It has a sub-surface, surface, aerial and electronic warfare platforms to nullify the threat from all dimensions. The argument that carrier is vulnerable to stand-off weapons does not work as all systems are vulnerable,” said a top Indian admiral who once commanded the INS Viraat fleet.The argument that India should go for more nuclear-powered submarines or SSNs with conventional weapons stands but a sub-surface platform cannot take care of an aerial threat carrying depth charges for anti-submarine warfare.While it is nobody’s case that a third aircraft carrier should be given a priority by the national security planners in the current economic scenario, a token amount should be set aside for getting the plans developed as getting an aircraft carrier into sea takes a whole lot of time. India should not wake up a decade later to challenge the expansionist China, which has set its eyes on the Indian Ocean through satellite states like Pakistan and Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-aircraft-carrier-an-operational-necessity-to-counter-expansionist-china/story-F1MO2L6acdR48EPw3RL15L.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP’s rise, TRS’ decline and AIMIM’s best strike rate: Key takeaways from Hyderabad civic poll results||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has emerged as the single-largest party, winning 55 of the 150 wards in the closely-fought Hyderabad municipal elections. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stole the show, making huge gains to bag 48 wards, following a strong campaign that saw several Union ministers and senior leaders visiting the city in the run-up to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls.The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) trailed the BJP, but performed well. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has emerged as the kingmaker with 44 wards and 10 ex-officio members. His party continued to hold sway in Hyderabad as it held on to its 2016 tally. The Congress, which has been pushed to the sideline, has only two seats. The results have been declared for 149 out of 150 divisions of GHMC.The TRS this time won fewer seats than it won in the 2016 elections when it had won a majority in the elections to GHMC.How parties fared in previous polls?In the last GHMC elections in 2016, the TRS won 99 wards, the AIMIM 44, the BJP four, Congress two and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) one. Before that in 2009, the Congress had bagged 52 wards, TDP 45, AIMIM 43 and the BJP four in the GHMC elections. This time, the BJP is hoping to better its tally as its vote share has gone up in the state. Its confidence also went up after winning election in the Dubbak assembly constituency.In the 2018 assembly polls, the BJP had won only one seat with just little over 7 per cent vote share. But just a year later in the Lok Sabha polls, it won four parliamentary seats with 19.45 per cent vote share. The BJP had also won the high-profile Nizamabad seat, where Arvind Dharmapuri defeated chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao’s daughter K Kavitha.The Congress, which was in alliance with the TDP, won 19 seats with 28.43 per cent vote share in 2018 assembly polls. But in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress fell behind the BJP in terms of seats and could win just three seats with 29.48 per cent vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-rise-trs-decline-and-aimim-s-best-strike-rate-key-takeaways-from-hyderabad-civic-poll-results/story-BF18rMfWvG4L0FkYGBj0zJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla among 6 named ‘Asians of the Year’ by Singapore daily||Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India, is among six people named “Asians of the Year” by Singapore’s leading daily, The Straits Times for their work in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has collaborated with the University of Oxford and the British-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca for making the Covid-19 vaccine, ‘‘Covidshield’‘, and is conducting trials in India. The other five named in the list are Chinese researcher Zhang Yongzhen, who led the team that mapped and published online the first complete genome of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that sparked the pandemic, China’s Major-General Chen Wei, Japan’s Dr Ryuichi Morishita and Singapore’s Professor Ooi Eng Eong, who are among those at the forefront of developing vaccines against the virus, and South Korean businessman Seo Jung-jin whose company will enable the making and dispensing of the vaccines and other Covid-19 treatments to the world. Collectively referred to as “the virus busters”, they are heroes of a kind, having devoted themselves to the pressing cause of resolving the coronavirus pandemic, each in their own capacity, the daily said. “Sars-CoV-2, the virus that has brought death and hardship to the world’s largest and most populous continent, is meeting its tamer in The Virus Busters,” the award citation said. “We salute your courage, care, commitment and creativity. In this peril-filled hour, you are a symbol of hope for Asia, indeed the world.” The Serum Institute was founded by Poonawalla’s father Cyrus Poonawalla in 1966. Poonawalla joined the Serum Institute of India in 2001 and became the CEO of Serum Institute with complete control of the day-to-day operations of the company in 2011. Poonawalla said that he has put USD 250 million of his family fortune into ramping up his institute’s manufacturing capacity. “I decided to go all out,” said Poonawalla, 39, who has pledged that his firm’s COVID-19 vaccines will help supply lower- and middle-income countries that face significant disadvantages in the quest to obtain them. Poonawalla said his institute is helping poorer countries level up in access to vaccines. In the big picture of ending the pandemic, commonality of purpose is key, said The Straits Times, Singapore’s mainstream daily. The Straits Times Asians of the Year have led the way, as have scores of other individuals in their own fields. When an end comes into sight, it will be due in no small part to these people who - undaunted by the tumult - have committed themselves to the sobering, much-needed work to put together an exit plan from the crisis, for humanity. “There has not been a day this year when the pandemic has not been in the news. Straits Times’ editors felt there could be no more deserving recipients this year than the people squaring up to Asia’s biggest-ever health challenge, engaged in pioneering and courageous efforts to prevent the highly contagious virus from wreaking more damage,” Bhagyashree Garekar, Straits Times’ foreign editor, said on Saturday. “In a year that is ending with a wish for great resets... Asia’s virus busters are the face of hope on the horizon,” said Garekar. Between them, the recipients of the 2020 award capture the entire trajectory of the response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In deciding to honour The Virus Busters, Straits Times editors had in mind those who have, in one way or another, enabled the complex, multi-stage process of preventing as many people around the world from getting the deadly disease in as little time as possible. “Each year, ST editors seek out a person, team or organisation that has not only made or shaped the news, but also helped contribute positively to Asia in the process,” said Warren Fernandez, editor-in-chief of Singapore Press Holdings’ English/Malay/Tamil Media Group and editor of Straits Times. “This year, we naturally looked to those involved in the fight against Covid-19, which has dominated the headlines. We debated long and hard, but finally agreed on a group of people who have done the most to help find an answer to the crisis brought on by the virus. “They are a disparate group whose collective efforts have pushed forward the search for vaccines, allowing these to be discovered and delivered with an urgency never attempted or seen before. Their commitment and actions have helped save lives and give hope to people all around Asia, and the world,” Fernandez said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-of-india-s-adar-poonawalla-among-6-named-asians-of-the-year-by-singapore-daily/story-tHZbnkbMG3mYG4IB9Xf63H.html
05-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Delhi’s air ‘poor’ could turn ‘severe’, IMD warns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air very poor, may turn severe: IMDDelhi’s air quality plunged to the far end of the ‘very poor’ zone on Friday as the wind speed and pattern changed, resulting in the slow dispersion of pollutants. At least 17 of the 35 monitoring stations had turned deep red, reaching the ‘severe’ zone on Friday. Read moreProtesting farmers call for Bharat Bandh; key talks todayFarmers agitating against three farm laws on Friday announced a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi as they hardened their position ahead of the fifth round of talks with the central government scheduled for Saturday. Read moreWait, what? Milind Soman makes jaws drop as he nails a headstand in the backdrop of Mount EverestWhile we find it hard to leave our cosy blankets and work from home cuddled before our laptop and computer screens, Milind Soman is making jaws drop at his swoon-worthy workout in the backdrop of Mount Everest. Setting travel and fitness goals soaring higher this Friday, the supermodel gave fans and fitness enthusiasts a glimpse of his intense workout session in the backdrop of a caramel setting sun with mountains “Makalu, Lhotse and Everest on the horizon.” Read more‘We are masters at trying to find a loophole in rules’: Sanjay Manjrekar feels ICC will look into ‘concussion substitute’ rule after Chahal moveIndia’s decision to bring on leg-spinner as a ‘concussion substitute’ for Ravindra Jadeja has left the cricketing world divided. Jadeja was hit on the helmet by a Mitchell Starc delivery, and even though India captain Virat Kohli did mention that it was after the end of the innings that the batsman complained of dizziness, which forced India to go for a concussion substitute, many former cricketers have called it unfair since no physio came on to check on Jadeja the moment he copped a blow to the head. Read moreNetflix StreamFest kicks off in India, here’s how you can watch Netflix for freeYou can now watch Netflix for free in India. Netflix StreamFest kicked off earlier today, and it will continue till Sunday. This is the first time Netflix is offering its services for free, and for an entire weekend. The entire catalogue of Netflix including movies, TV shows and documentaries is free for users in India. You will also have access to Netflix features such as creating profiles, parental controls, creating lists, and also downloading movies and shows. Read moreSara Ali Khan defends ‘problematic’ plot of original Coolie No 1, says ‘It’s not about Govinda duping Karisma’Actor Sara Ali Khan has urged audiences to watch the upcoming Coolie No 1 with an open mind. The film, a remake of the 1995 comedy starring Govinda and Karisma Kapoor, will feature Varun Dhawan in the lead role. Sara was asked in an interview about the ‘problematic’ aspects of the original film, in which Govinda’s character cons Karisma’s character into falling for him. She said that if one views everything through a politically correct lens, ‘any scope of humour in our lives will be lost’. Read moreHarsh Goenka’s ‘2020 in a nutshell’ video may make you nod in agreement2020 wasn’t the year we expected. This year had several world-changing, paradigm-shifting incidents, the ongoing pandemic being the biggest one among them. As the year entered its last month, many are now looking back to recollect how the it panned out. And, quite expectedly, most of them are not reminiscing happily. Read moreGHMC polls: TRS wins 55 seats, BJP emerges 2nd largest party, secures 48 seatsGHMC poll result threw up a hung house after counting of votes on Friday. No political party reached absolute majority mark of 76 in 150-seat corporation. Telangana’s ruling party TRS emerged as single largest party winning 55 seats. TRS had previously won 99 seats in 2016 GHMC elections. BJP put up a tremendous show, emerged single largest party in GHMC. BJP won 48 seats this year as compared to 4 seats in 2016 GHMC. BJP president JP Nadda congratulated party workers and the people of Telangana. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-delhi-s-air-poor-could-turn-severe-imd-warns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Z5nhmKAzBfTBFYpbMdKZzN.html
05-12-2020||India||SC rejects demand for govt nominees in trust formed for Ayodhya mosque||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected the demand to form a trust comprising government nominees to oversee construction work at the 5 acre land allotted to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board following the landmark decision of the top court in the Ramjanmbhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit in November last year.A bench of justices RF Nariman and KM Joseph refused to entertain a petition filed in this regard by two lawyers Shishir Chaturvedi and Karunesh Kumar Shukla.Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Hari Shankar Jain submitted that as per the November 9, 2019 decision of the Supreme Court, deciding the suit in favour of the Hindu parties, the Sunni Waqf Board was allotted 5 acres of land in village Dhannipur in Ayodhya district. On July 29, 2020, the Waqf Board created a trust called the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation which had no nominees from either the Central or state government.Jain said, “There is no such provision in the trust to include government nominees. On the other hand, the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust created by the Hindu side had government nominees.”The petitioners urged the court to direct the Centre to include within the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, nominees of the Central and State governments belonging to Sunni Muslim community for proper administration of the land and the construction to be raised over it.Also Read: Trust to raise over Rs700 crore from people for construction of Ayodhya’s Ram templeThe petition filed by advocate Divya Jyoti Singh said, “It is expected that the trust will get contributions from within India and also from foreign countries. It is in public interest that the central government and the state government may have all relevant information about the working of the trust to maintain public order and to ensure that no malpractices take place and the funds are not misappropriated by the trust.”The UP Sunni Waqf Board proposes to build a mosque, cultural and research centre and public utility facilities including a community kitchen, hospital and library within the 5 acre land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-demand-for-govt-nominees-in-trust-formed-for-ayodhya-mosque/story-XVw7i4D1a68Fin94jFcmmL.html
05-12-2020||India||Centre, farmers to meet for fifth round of talks today as stir over farm laws continues | 10 points||As thousands of farmers continue to agitate against the laws enacted by the government earlier this year, farm union leaders and government will meet for the fifth round of talks on Saturday to bring a solution to the deadlock over the new legislation. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, food minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, who will be present at the meeting, will deliberate on the points that farmer leaders had raised and offer possible solutions. Here’s the Centre-farmers deadlock explained in 10 points1. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020- enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament earlier this year.2. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws are “anti-farmer”, and would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here 3. The government, however, maintains that new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.4. During the fourth round of discussions on Thursday, the government said that it talked about some amendments to the controversial farm laws. Union agriculture minister Tomar assured 40 farmer union leaders that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. “The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions are held on Saturday,” he added.5. Tomar also told farmer union leaders that government is open to considering ways to strengthen APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with proposed private markets, and provide a provision for approaching higher courts for dispute resolution while asserting that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) will continue.6. The farmer leaders, however, continued to demand that the three “hastily-passed” farm laws be repealed. They said that the legislation with several loopholes and deficiencies cannot be amended. 7. As the farmers’ protest enters day 9, Delhi’s border points remain choked with thousands of farmers from Haryana, Punjab, and other states holding demonstrations.Also Read: Will stay put, join R-Day in tractors, say protesting farmers8. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has threatened that the farmers’ agitation would intensify if the government fails to meet the demands. “The government and the farmers did not reach any decision during the meeting held on Thursday. The government wants to make amendments to the three laws, but we want the laws to be completely repealed. If the government does not agree to our demands, we will continue to protest. We are looking to find out what happens in Saturday’s meeting,” Tikait said.9. The protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to the national capital if their demands are not met10. All eyes are now on Saturday’s meeting which is likely to decide whether farmer leaders will accept solutions offered by the government and end the protest or go ahead with their Bharat Bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-farmers-to-meet-for-fifth-round-of-talks-today-as-stir-over-farm-laws-continues-10-points/story-vmeyrRl6nsiMbVgN9ZzziJ.html
05-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Live Updates: Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says Centre||The fifth round of talks between the protesting farm union leaders and government to bring a solution to the deadlock over the new farm laws is going on at Vigyan Bhawan.Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his residence in New Delhi hours ahead of the talks between the government and protesting farmers over the contentious farm laws.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.The Centre has agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and bring amendments if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Follow live updates here:Tomar requests farmers to stop protesting in cold weatherI want to request protesting farmers to give up their movement so that they don't face inconvenience in this cold weather & citizens of Delhi can also live a life of convenience: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after 5th round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan today https://t.co/nn1gRw7joB pic.twitter.com/sXBb1d83olUnion minister Tomar urges farmers’ union to have faith in Modi govt’s decisionUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar after the fifth round of talks with the farmers’ union leaders asked them to have faith in the Modi govt. He thanked the farmers’ union for maintaining discipline and said whatever the govt will do, it will be in the interest of the farmers. Farmers’ leader hopeful govt will repeal lawsWe said at the beginning of meeting that our demand is withdrawal of laws, don't want amendment. We took a firm stand. Finally we were told that next meeting will be held on Dec 9. It seems govt will definitely roll back the laws: Hannan Mollah, General Secy,All India Kisan Sabha pic.twitter.com/vNCJCagTJjUnion minister Tomar urges farmers to leave agitation, join discussionI’d not like to comment on program of Unions. But I’d like to urge farmers & Unions to leave path of agitation and come to path of discussion. Government has had several rounds of talks with them and is ready for further discussion for a solution, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Bharat Bandh scheduled for Dec 8, reports ANI.Doubts on MSP baseless, ready to resolve every suspicion, says CentreWe have said that the MSP will continue, there is no threat to it. It is baseless to doubt this. Still, if someone is suspicious then the government is ready to resolve it, said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports ANI. Bharat Bandh on Dec 8 to go on as announced, says farmers’ union leaderGovt will prepare a draft and give us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws & talk about their roll back. Bharat Bandh (on 8th Dec) will go on as announced, said Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders say will hold internal discussion on govt proposal before Dec 9Central Government has said that they will send us a proposal on December 9th. We will discuss it amongst ourselves after which a meeting with them will be held that day: Farmer leaders say after the fifth round of meeting with Central Government concludes#FarmLaws2020 pic.twitter.com/GidiFmEDYXNext talk of rounds between centre, farmers’ leaders on Dec 9It was decided at the meeting that the next round of talks between farmer leaders and central government to be held on December 9th, on the request of all stakeholders reports ANI. We do not want corporate farming, law to benefit only govt: Farmers’ leadersFarmers’ leaders during the fifth round of talks said, “We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer.”  We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer: Farmers to the centre, at the fifth round of talks over farm laws https://t.co/P412cKXOXeUnion minister Tomar appeals farmers’ leaders to send children,senior citizens homeAgriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar requests the farmer leaders during the fifth round of talks to send senior citizens and children home. He said, “Iappeal to all of you to kindly ask senior citizens and children, at the protest site, to go home.”, reports ANI.Farmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Delhi borders to join protestFarmers from Bilaspur, Uttarakhand reach Ghazipur border (UP-Delhi border) & join protesting farmers stationed at Delhi-Meerut Expressway, reports ANI.Farmers’ leaders threaten to walk out of meeting if Centre fails to decide on demands raised‘The government should make a decision on our demands, otherwise, we are walking out of the meeting’, say farmer leaders participating in the fifth round of talks with the Central Government, at Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi, reports ANI. Why can’t our parliament discuss issue if Canada’s parliament can: farmers’ representativeIf Canada’s parliament can discuss the issue, why can’t our parliament do it, asks Kulwant Singh Sandhu, General Secy, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab on Canadian MPs raising the issue relating to the farmers protest in the Parliament post which the Canadian PM wrote a letter to the government of India. Farmers’ leaders have lunch carried by them to the fifth round of talks venue#WATCH Delhi: Farmer leaders, present at the fifth round of talks with Central Government, have food that they had carried to the venue. A Kar Sewa vehicle that carried food for them arrived here earlier today. They'd got their own food even during 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/hDP8cwzSGJ pic.twitter.com/XSR6m2lljSGovt gives written reply of minutes of meeting to farmers’ leadersThe government has given written response of the minutes of the meeting to the farmers’ leaders. The fifth round of talks has been paused for a 15-minute break, reports ANI. Farmers’ leaders ask centre its decision over farmers’ demandsFarmers’ union leaders during the fifth round of talks with the centre at the Vigyan Bhawan said they don’t want further discussion and instead just need a solution or commitment. They want to know what the government has decided on the demands of the farmers.Union minister Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talksUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tells farmers’ unions Centre committed to talks, welcomes feedback on farm bills, reports PTI.Farmers’ representatives bring their own food to fifth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan Delhi: A Kar Sewa vehicle carrying food for Farmers' representatives arrives at Vigyan Bhawan during 5th round of talks between Farmers Unions & Centre.Farmers are carrying their own food at the venue today. They'd got their own food even during the 4th round of talks on Dec 3. https://t.co/EzZgHcoHTr pic.twitter.com/dKDreXetkyGovt agrees to give written reply of last talks on farm laws as per farmers’ leaders demand Farmers’ representatives during the fifth round of talks regarding the farm laws asked the centre to provide a pointwise comprehensive written reply of the last meeting, the government has agreed to do so. Fifth round of meeting at Vigyan Bhawan between farmers’ leaders, Centre begins New Delhi: Fifth round of meeting between farmers' representatives and the Central government begins at Vigyan Bhawan. pic.twitter.com/L4u2LaTi1rProtest to continue until laws rolled back, says farmers’ leaderWe want to complete rollback of the laws. If the government doesn’t accept our demand, we will continue our agitation, said Harjinder Singh Tanda, state chief of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, reports ANI. Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmersUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Vigyan Bhawan to hold talks with agitating farmers.Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks Farmers’ representatives reach Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.AAP workers in Mumbai protest against Centre’s farm billAam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers in Mumbai protest against Union government over farm bill and in solidarity with farmers protesting in Delhi.Rashtriya Janata Dal holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm lawsRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) holds protest at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan against the Centre’s farm laws.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav says, “We demand that the Centre repeals the black laws.”Farmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talksFarmers’ leaders leave from Singhu border for Vigyan Bhawan to hold fifth round of talks with the Central government on the farm laws.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residenceDefence Minister Rajnath Singh leaves from the Prime Minister’s residence.Farmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre: Kailash ChoudharyFarmers’ doubts will be cleared in today’s meeting with Centre. In recent meetings, some issues were clarified. It’s Opposition’s politics, they’re instigating the protest. The meeting will be fruitful & we expect farmers will roll back protest: MoS Agriculture, Kailash ChoudharyWe are hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive: Protestor Farmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground against recent farm laws enters 10th day.“We’re hoping today’s meeting with central leadership will be positive. We won’t stop until govt agrees to our demands. We’ll make the movement bigger,” says a protestor.Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Modi’s residence in New DelhiAhead of the fifth round of meeting with agitating farmers, Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Narendra Singh Tomar reach PM Narendra Modi’s residence in New Delhi. Union Minister Piyush Goyal also reaches the Prime Minister’s residence.Government should announce to withdraw the three black laws: Kisan Mahapanchayat presidentThe government should announce to withdraw the three black laws and give in writing that MSP will continue. If any positive result doesn’t come out of today’s talks, farmers from Rajasthan will march along NH-8 towards Delhi and camp at Jantar Mantar: Rampal Jat, president, Kisan Mahapanchayat.Hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Narendra Singh TomarA meeting is scheduled with farmers at 2 pm today. I am very hopeful that farmers will think positively and end their agitation: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee prepares food for protesting farmersDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) prepares food for the farmers protesting at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana). A volunteer says, “We are providing meals three times a day.”Delhi: Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border Farmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Chilla border (Delhi-Noida Link Road) against the Centre’s farm laws.A farmer says, “If anything concrete doesn’t happen in today’s meeting with the Central government then we will gherao the Parliament.”Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic Gazipur border (UP-Delhi border) on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests: Delhi Traffic Police5th round of talks between farmers, Centre to be held todayThe fifth round of talks between the central government and farmers is scheduled to be held today.A large number of farmers have gathered in and around Delhi to protest against the three farm laws.Delegation of JJP leaders met Anil Vij and sought withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest A delegation of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) leaders met Home Minister Anil Vij seeking withdrawal of cases against farmers during protest.Digvijay Chautala said, “Home Minister has assured us that he will look into the matter and discuss the issue with Chief Minister”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-ltkccHCImhMfOKRuFSt9BO.html
05-12-2020||India||7 die as heavy rain hits Tamil Nadu||Heavy rains continued to batter Tamil Nadu on Friday leading to death of seven people and waterlogging in many parts even as the deep depression over Gulf of Mannar near Ramanathapuram weakened into a depression, officials familiar with the matter said.The India Meteorological Department said the deep depression over the Gulf of Mannar close to Ramanathapuram district’s coast remained practically stationary for 18 hours and then weakened into a depression.“The depression is likely to remain practically stationary over the same (Ramanathapuram) region and weaken into a Well marked Low Pressure Area during the next 12 hours (by early Saturday),” the latest bulletin said.A total of 27,391 people including 4,873 children have been evacuated and moved to relief camps across the state. The high-water levels have caused severe damage to crops as more than 40 hectares of paddy were damaged, officials familiar with the matter said. According to the Indian Meteorological Department’s 1pm bulletin, the deep depression is likely to remain stationary over the same region and weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours and move southwestwards across Ramanathapuram district towards south Kerala and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area in subsequent 24 hours.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had announced a public holiday on December 4 for Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Thoothukudi and urged people to remain indoors. Chief minister of Puducherry V Narayanaswami inspected flooded-areas and civic workers and machines were pressed to drain water. The union territory had declared a holiday for schools in the union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-die-as-heavy-rain-hits-tamil-nadu/story-tvpCemOGqdRxbzIB9pZTmN.html
05-12-2020||India||BJP wins three MLC seats in UP, loses Varanasi to SP candidate||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party won three of the six Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council seats for which results were announced on Friday.While the BJP managed to end the decades-long dominance of eight-time MLC Om Prakash Sharma in Meerut, it finished in the third place in Varanasi where Samajwadi Party’s Lal Bihari Yadav won.BJP’s Umesh Dwivedi won the Lucknow division teachers’ seat, Shrichand Sharma the Meerut seat and Hari Singh Dhillon the Bareilly-Moradabad seat, the results showed. Akash Agrawal and Dhruv Kumar Tripathi, both independent candidates, won the Agra and Gorakhpur teachers’ seats, respectively.This is first time that the BJP contested the Vidhan Parishad polls to the teachers’ constituencies.The biennial elections to all the 11 seats were held on December 1 after hectic campaigning by candidates and their parties. A total of 199 candidates were in the fray.The counting for the 11 seats started on Thursday and the results of the remaining are likely to be announced by Saturday, officials said.The BJP, SP, Congress and teachers’ associations contested the polls.Of the 11 seats, five are graduates’ constituencies and six teachers’ constituencies.The term of office of the MLCs from these constituencies expired on May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-three-mlc-seats-in-up-loses-varanasi-to-sp-candidate/story-noFluNFPfBnq86jR7dPokK.html
05-12-2020||India||Stan Swamy gets straw, sipper in jail, files fresh plea seeking his bag||The advocate of activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, on Friday told a special court here that Swamy has been given a straw and sipper by the Taloja jail authorities.Swamy, 83, on Friday filed three fresh applications seeking a direction to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to return his bag, a copy of his hard disk and a direction to not transfer him from Taloja jail.Swamy said he apprehends that he would be transferred from the Taloja prison near here in Navi Mumbai.Swamy, who is suffering from various health ailments including Parkinson’s disease, was arrested on October 8 by NIA.Last month, he had filed an application seeking the NIA to return the straw and sipper allegedly seized from him at the time of his arrest.The NIA, however, told the court last month that it had not seized a straw and sipper from Swamy and hence there was no question of returning those items to him.Swamy then filed an application seeking a direction to the jail authorities to provide him a straw and sipper and winter clothes.On November 26, the special NIA Court had directed the jail superintendent to file his reply on the application.On Friday, Swami’s advocate Sharif Shaikh told special NIA Judge D E Kothalikar that Swamy has been provided with straw and sipper and winter clothes by the jail authorities.Swamy had also filed a bail plea on medical grounds.The court had sought a report from the Taloja prison on his health condition.On Friday, the jail authorities told the court that they need time to submit the report, following which court posted the matter for further hearing on December 10. The court said it would also hear the three new applications filed by Swamy on December 10. NIA’s lawyer Prakash Shetty told the court that the agency does not have any items belonging to Swamy.As per NIA, Swamy was involved in the activities of the banned CPI (Maoist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stan-swamy-gets-straw-sipper-in-jail-files-fresh-plea-seeking-his-bag/story-tMyFoM1FeLgidqNlVtbTGO.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Will bring a no-trust motion against govt for failing farmers’, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda spoke to Hindustan Times about the ongoing farm agitation and his demand of bringing a no-confidence motion against the state government in the assembly. Edited excerpts: Before this, there were just the Agricultural Produce Market Committe (APMC) markets. Now there are two -- APMC market committee yards, and open market. The government may insist it will continue to give minimum support prices (MSP), but outside APMC, there is no MSP. This is the main concern of farmers. In August 2007, my government made rules under the APMC Act that no one could purchase less than the MSP prices. For crops which are outside MSP, it could be at prevailing market rate. This is the main concern of farmers.The government should just agree. It is a genuine demand and apprehension that they (farmers) may be exploited by corporates. When the crops come, the rates will be cheap, as there may be hoarding. There is no limit for hoarding now, even for essential commodities. If they are free to hoard, prices will rise according to demand and supply. I think it needs a fourth law that anyone who purchases less than MSP should be punished by law. That is not true. Even in other states, farmers are protesting as they are worried about MSP. They are coming to protest from Rajasthan, from western UP, and no political parties are participating in it. Farmers are leading the protests, but we support their demand. That’s why the Congress is asking the Governor to call an urgent assembly session. We will be bringing in a no-confidence motion against this government as this government has totally failed to handle this situation. They are not even supporting people coming to Delhi. They have no right to stop them from coming to the Capital of the country. During this corona period, for them to use water cannons or tear gas on farmers, that isn’t correct. One of the Haryana ministers said the protests are foreign funded. This is an insult to farmers and the country. That’s why we are planning to bring no-confidence vote. We want to expose their double talk - on one hand supporting the government and on the other, they are issuing statements for farmers. The two independent MLAs have already withdrawn support from the government, so the government has lost the confidence of the assembly.No. There are other MLAs also feeling upset, and they talk, but no conversation with Mr Chautala. When this government was formed in Haryana, I said ‘vote kisi ko, support kisi ko (that means vote for someone, support to someone else)’. That has come true now.That was a type of referendum against the state government. That’s why I say that the government has lost credibility.I don’t discuss internal matters of the party in public or the press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-bring-a-no-trust-motion-against-govt-for-failing-farmers-says-bhupinder-singh-hooda/story-jydgjjZedVuTSrdtUxxvAO.html
05-12-2020||India||Why a new decomposer may hold hope of dousing farm stubble fires||Desperate to control air pollution in the national capital, the Union government in October proposed heavy fines and even jail for polluters, including farmers who were burning paddy stubble, leading to the city’s deadly winter smog. Along with three new farm laws, thousands of farmers are also protesting these harsh measures, saying they cannot afford costly alternatives. But trials this harvest season indicate that crop-residue burning could be stopped, or at least effectively controlled, by a new technology that is showing encouraging results. A proprietary microbial solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) – usually referred to as the Pusa institute -- that turns biomass, such as rice stubble, into natural manure, has proved to be successful in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana, according to scientists behind the project. The Delhi government, which utilised the technology and is strongly promoting it, has also found the experiments to be a success.“ICAR’s invention, named Pusa, decomposes crop residue, including paddy straw, and turns it into manure in about 25 days, thus eliminating the need to burn paddy stubble,” YV Singh, principal scientist of microbiology at the institute, a top state-run facility, told HT. Singh said the technology showed an efficacy range of 70%-80% during in-house open trials. This paved the way for the Delhi government to adopt the technology, drenching over 800 hectares of non-basmati rice fields with the bio-decomposer in the Capital’s rural belts for free. The operation, undertaken between October 11 and November 20, cost approximately Rs 20 lakh. A Delhi government panel studied the outcomes of the trials, termed it a success, and recommended expanding its use nationally as its appraisal found that the decomposer turned “90%-95% crop residue into manure in 15-20 days”. “Delhi has found a solution to the problem of crop residue burning and now no state can now make any excuse,” Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters on November 5 after touring rice farms under the project. Assuming farmers in Punjab burn paddy straw in at least two million hectares of rice, it will cost the state Rs 571 crore to fund the use of Pusa decomposer, HT’s calculation based on the Delhi government’s costs show. This could be effectively path-breaking because the cost is just a fraction of the Rs 6,000 crore the state spends annually on subsiding various farm inputs, from cheap fertilisers to power. Farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh typically harvest paddy in October and then set their fields on fire to clear rice stalks for the next crop. Since the straw from premium basmati rice, which is mostly exported, is soft enough to be used as fodder, it does not require burning, and has little role in air pollution. The share of basmati in overall paddy output is just 2.1%, official data shows. The residue of non-basmati rice varieties, which account for the largest paddy area, is too hard to be of any economic use, and farmers have long maintained that there is no viable or cost-effective alternative to burning the unwanted stalks.Though Punjab’s farmers have increasingly switched to modern machines to efficiently harvest rice, such machines also leave paddy stalks in their wake, leading to stubble-burning, said Manpreet Singh, a farm engineering specialist at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Automated harvesters are designed to shave off the grainy part of paddy, leaving loose straw behind. Farmers find it cheaper to burn the remnants. Unlike the decreasing landholding size at an all-India level, the operational landholding size in Punjab has increased over the years, making use of larger machines viable, analysts say. Data from the national agricultural census 2011 show that average land-holding size in Punjab has gone up from 2.89 hectares (7.1 acres) in 1970-71 to 3.77 ha (9.3 acres) in 2010-11, much higher than the national average of 1.5 hectares (3.7 acres). As the westerly winds carry the smoke from the burning stubble towards the national capital, air pollution in Delhi spikes to alarming levels – the air quality index often breaches the “severe” level (400-plus) that is hazardous even for healthy individuals. Though local emissions and weather also lead to pollution spikes through the winter, the first wave exacerbated by stubble fires is the deadliest and most intense.Air pollution kills up to an estimated 30,000 people in Delhi annually, according to a 2015 report of New Delhi’s Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Scientists at IARI started on a research project two years ago for a solution to burning of non-basmati straw, a programme involving some of its top scientists and droves of PhD scholars, Singh said. The Pusa decomposer comes in the form of capsules that contain an activated package of eight strains of fungi. “I can’t make the strains public because it is a proprietary formulation and we are in talks with private firms to market it in exchange of royalty,” the principal scientist added. To prepare a solution of 25 litres, enough to cover one hectare of paddy, farmers need to add five capsules of the propreitory decomposer, along with jaggery and checkpea flour, to water. Within a week, a good layer of fungi admixture is formed. According to A. Amarender Reddy, the principal scientist at the Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (Crida), microbial agents in the solution act on the straw to make it soft, break down its components and release nutrients into the soil. Singh said scientists were gleaning lessons from actual trials in Delhi. “Field results are promising, but we are analysing the results to see if we can customise the product further to adapt to different soil environments,” Singh said. According to Reddy, the findings of trial results – like the one by the Delhi government panel -- are always represented in average terms. Any average doesn’t account for variations in individual farms, so it is possible that not every farm has uniform results, he added. The scientist said that use of the solution across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh – two other states that add to the Capital’s pollution woes – could help control the problem, but added that the solution wasn’t a silver bullet. “It is not a magic solution which you spray and stubble vanishes. It works best as part of integrated stubble-management approach,” Singh said. For instance, scientists pointed out that farmers should carry out laid-down drills, leaven the stubble with additional equipment, and adhere to prescribed temperatures while storing and spraying. In Punjab, which reports far more fire incidents than Haryana (cumulatively between October 1 and November 3, Punjab saw 79093 fire incidents this year compared to 50738 in the corresponding period last year, according to Indian Agriculture Research Institute’s satellite surveillance), the government has authorised the use of eight farm equipment, including the so-called “happy seeder”. Individual farmers can avail 50% subsidy to buy these machines, while farmer groups are eligible for up to 80% subsidy. These machines cost between Rs1.40 lakh to ₹1.60 lakh. The tractor-mounted “happy seeder” can be used to sow wheat without the need to clear the straw. “But the problem is farmers still prefer burning because of lack of awareness and cost issues,” said HS Sidhu of the Borlaug Institute for South Asia, who was one of the developers of the “happy seeder”. Analysts say more studies of the Pusa decomposer should be conducted urgently across various farm zones. If the results are encouraging, the decomposer should be included among farm technologies that are eligible for subsidy, they add.“Any technology, to be successful, needs scalability. Therefore, the government should invest in any solution that is promising. Testing across agroclimatic zones should be the way forward. Look at Covid-19. Afterall, humankind was successful in developing a vaccine in such a short time,” said Rohini Mali, an independent consultant, who was formerly advisor of food systems, FAO in Rome||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-a-new-decomposer-may-hold-hope-of-dousing-farm-stubble-fires/story-3Y3ujv4gkmLuXl2GUS7CwI.html
05-12-2020||India||TRS largest in Hyderabad polls as BJP improves tally||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) emerged as the single largest party in the Hyderabad civic polls on Friday, but was jolted by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that surged into second place, a significant achievement for a party that was a bit player in the state four years ago. The TRS won 55 of the 150 seats in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), a deficit of 44 seats from its 2016 showing of 99. The BJP won 48 seats on the back of a high-octane campaign, a huge improvement over its 2016 performance of four seats when it fought in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party.The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) largely held on to its home turf in the Muslim-majority old city of Hyderabad and won 44 seats, the same as its 2016 tally. It, however, had the best strike rate of all parties, having contested just 51 seats. The result of one seat was not declared owing to a legal battle over the ballot paper used.No single party reached the halfway mark of 76 but the TRS and the AIMIM – which fought the 2019 general elections in alliance and have friendly relations – are expected to join hands. The results pit the BJP as the primary challenger to the TRS -- which has ruled the state since it was founded in 2014 - in the next assembly elections in three years. The Congress won two seats, the same number it did in 2016. Taking moral responsibility for the poor show of the party, Telangana PCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy announced his resignation. The focus has now shifted to the mayor’s post, which was held by the TRS. In all, GHMC has 150 elected members and 52 other members, such as MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the area. Of the 52, the TRS has 38 members. This means that the mayor’s post is decided by an electoral college of 202 members, of which the TRS controls only 93 -- nine short of the halfway mark of 102. Senior TRS leader and state panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao said the people reposed their faith in the TRS despite “large-scale conspiracy” by the BJP that sought to exploit religious sentiments. “They have voted for the development and rejected divisive forces,” he said. The BJP hailed the results. “Gratitude to the people of Telangana for reposing faith in PM Narendra Modi led BJP’s politics of development,” said Union home minister Amit Shah.BJP chief JP Nadda called the results historic. “This result reflects people’s unequivocal support to Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s development & governance model,” he tweeted. In the morning, some television channels had projected a two-thirds majority for the BJP but it later turned out that the leads were due to postal ballots only. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi expressed confidence that the people of Telangana would not allow the BJP to expand its footprint. Experts credited the BJP’s performance to its spirited campaign that roped in top leaders, including Shah, Nadda, and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, polarising the Hindu vote bank in Hyderabad by promising to end “Nizam culture” and highlighting the failures of the TRS government in providing relief during heavy rainfall that lashed the city last month.Political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar said the main reason for the failure of the TRS in the GHMC was its open friendship with the AIMIM. “It has naturally given a weapon to the BJP and an opportunity to emerge as a champion of Hindus,” he said. He said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao focussed on decimating the Congress but failed to assess the threat from the BJP. “The TRS supported the Narendra Modi government in Parliament on several issues. So, how could the people believe KCR?” he asked. Other BJP leaders said the results had given the party a toehold in the TRS bastion. “There was a vacuum in opposition space. The Congress had stopped functioning as an opposition. There is also widespread anger against the TRS government for its misrule and poor response to the challenges of unemployment, Covid and more recently floods,” said P Muralidhar Rao, a former national general secretary who now in charge of Madhya Pradesh. Party national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, who oversaw the campaign, said the results showed the support that the party has in the state. “People have faith in the BJP. The party has performed well despite the malpractices that the TRS government indulged in.” Yadav added that the vote was a mandate against the chief minister.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won four seats and about 20% vote share. The recent win in the Dubbaka assembly bypoll -- which was earlier held by the TRS -- came as a shot in the arm for the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-largest-in-hyderabad-polls-as-bjp-improves-tally/story-dNWJX0y8tEHEVPN2HpluIM.html
05-12-2020||India||Covid vaccine will be in India within weeks: PM Modi||India is set to get a Covid-19 vaccine within weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday while briefing political leaders on the preparations for “cheap and safe” Made in India vaccines, assuring them that immunisation would start as soon as scientists give a go-ahead. “There are 8 potential vaccines at different stages of trials and their production will be in India. Three indigenous vaccines are also at different levels of trials. Experts believe it will not be a long wait for a Covid vaccine. It is believed that in the next few weeks, a Covid vaccine will be ready. As soon as scientists give the green signal, immunisation will start in India,” the PM said, virtually addressing an all-party meeting. Modi’s remarks, two days after UK’s authorisation for Pfizer’s dose, was seen by some as an indication that emergency approval may be fast-tracked for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is being produced by the Serum Institute of India. The other two local vaccines are unlikely to be ready in that time frame: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has started phase 3 trails but the results aren’t out yet; Zydus Cadila plans to start final trails in December.On Saturday (November 28), SII CEO Adar Poonawalla said that SII could apply for emergency approval of the vaccine within two weeks. Data from final trials in the UK and Brazil have shown the vaccine to be between 62% and 90% effective, depending on the dosage. The Prime Minister assured the political leaders that Indian vaccines will be cheap but safe. He insisted on dispelling rumours for they are “never in public interest or national interest” and, for the first time, announced the priority list of beneficiaries. “A few days ago, I had very successful talks with scientists involved in Made in India vaccines. Our scientists have high level of confidence and they are hopeful about success. We are hearing names of some foreign vaccines in the market. But world is looking for the cheap but safest vaccine. And that’s why it’s natural for the world to also look at India.”At the HT leadership summit Poonawala said the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine could become available for the general public by April-May next year and is likely to cost around Rs 500-600 for a dose for the general public. He added that the vaccine could cost less, at $3-4 (Rs 220-295), when sold to the government. Officials involved in the planning maintained that while indigenous vaccines are preferred candidates, procuring other vaccines can’t be ruled out as everything depends on the trial results. “But as of now, we are hopeful of immunising 290 million people or the first three priority groups with Made in India vaccines,” said a senior official familiar with the matter. Modi made it clear that India will utilise its existing universal immunisation network to administer the vaccines. “India has both vaccine distribution expertise and capacity; we are better than other countries in these areas. We have a vast and experienced vaccination network and we will exploit it to the hilt.” On Tuesday, HT reported that India will use the cold storage facilities and 1.5 lakh vaccinators from this network. The PM also announced that in the first leg (to be spread over first six months) priority in immunisation will be given to health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities as per the suggestions of the states. But he also added that current anti-Covid protocols, especially social distancing and masks, must be continued. All leaders who spoke at the meeting supported the government’s efforts in containing the pandemic and offered help to tackle any misinformation. They suggested strengthening of cold chains in remote areas and taking states on board. Modi assured the leaders that he has kept state chief ministers on board and added that the Centre and states are working together in the area of vaccine distribution. He said that efforts are on to augment cold chain infrastructure, and that some new schemes and programmes have been launched to this end -- a reference to amendments to the CSR rules allowing companies to spend their CSR funds for vaccine development and distribution. The Companies Act requires firms with a net worth of Rs 500 crore or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more, or net profit of Rs 5 crore or more in the immediately preceding financial year, to mandatorily spend 2% of their average net profit of the preceding three years on CSR.The PM lauded the Indian way of tackling the pandemic and said on several parameters such number of daily tests or death rates, India has fared better than advanced nations. India’s current case fatality rate is 1.4%, compared to the world’s 2.3%. “India’s fight against Covid reflects the ardent willpower of each Indian. We have fought better than many developed countries with advanced medical infrastructure. Our self-discipline, courage and resources have been incredible during this entire war. We have not thought only about our own people, but also helped other countries,” Modi said. But he also said that even as we are at the doorstep of vaccines, “the same people’s participation, the same scientific approach and coordination is needed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccine-will-be-in-india-within-weeks-pm-modi/story-zEsTyHjlUgtgNPj0VWbpKP.html
05-12-2020||India||Economy bottoming out; rebound not broad-based||The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has decided to keep policy rates unchanged while retaining an accommodative stance. It also believes that the economy is already out of contraction zone and will register positive growth in the quarters ending December (0.1%) and March (0.7%). This means that the Indian economy has bottomed out from its pandemic shock. The fact that MPC expects the annual GDP contraction in 2020-21 to be 7.5% and not 9.5%, a number it projected in its October meeting shows that the recovery has been faster than expected. However, evidence from the latest forward looking surveys of RBI also shows that the possibility of a deceleration in the ongoing recovery cannot be ruled out. MPC’s assessment also indicates that the nature of challenge facing the economy could actually be shifting in nature from the immediate task of ensuring an unlocking of the economy. Here are four things worth keeping in mind while looking at the economy going forward.1 Base effect will make growth rate numbers a bit misleading in the futureThe Indian economy was losing growth momentum even before the pandemic inflicted a huge disruption to economic activity. GDP growth was 8.2% in March 2018. It fell continuously in all quarters until June 2020, except in March 2019. GDP growth was 4.1% in the quarter ending December 2019 and just 3.1% in March 2020. The June and September quarters have seen an annual contraction in GDP. Going forward, this will have a favourable base effect on GDP growth rates.  This means that disproportionately higher growth rates need not mean that the economy is adding to its historical incomes at a very fast pace. For example, even with a 25% growth rate in the quarter ending June 2021, the absolute GDP level would still be lower than the June 2019 level.2 Consumer Confidence Surveys show an unequal recoveryWhile the overall economy is supposed to be out of the contraction zone, this has not translated into an increase in incomes for majority of the population. The latest Consumer Confidence Survey (CCS), which was conducted in the first half of November shows that more than half of the respondents continue to report a fall in income and employment.  While perceptions about general economic situation and employment seem to have bottomed out, incomes and non-essential spending have fallen compared to September levels. This suggests that the ongoing economic recovery is being driven by a small section of the economy. Experts have been talking about the current economic recovery being led by profits rather than wages, which could put a squeeze on mass demand going forward. To be sure, CCS is conducted in urban centres and does not capture the mood in rural areas -- and by all accounts agriculture is doing well.3 Inflation is moving beyond food itemsMPC has struck a note of caution on the inflation situation, which has begun to percolate outside food items. A good winter crop might not be enough to bring down food inflation which has entered double-digit growth since September.  “While cereal prices may continue to soften with the bumper kharif harvest arrivals and vegetable prices may ease with the winter crop, other food prices are likely to persist at elevated levels”, the MPC resolution noted. Higher food prices will continue to put pressure on household budgets and adversely affect non-food demand. Consumer Price Index (CPI) data shows that core inflation – the non-food non-fuel component of CPI basket – has been steadily rising in the past few months along with food inflation.With international crude oil prices firming up on expectations of a global revival in demand, the government might have to reconsider its high taxes on petroleum products as well. Brent crude prices ($48.7/barrel on December 3) have regained March levels .4 Will credit growth pick up?A lot of experts believe that the better-than-expected performance in the September quarter was a result of a favourable confluence of pent-up demand and festive demand. Speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that while these factors might have played a role in the economic recovery, businesses have started planning for fresh investment and the recovery will gain more strength.  A good way to check whether or not this is happening would be to track the demand for non-food credit in the economy. Latest data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy shows that non-food credit growth seems to have bottomed out and has started recovering in November after having fallen for a long time. If this recovery sustains itself going forward, it could be an early indicator of revival in business sentiment and perhaps investment demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-bottoming-out-rebound-not-broad-based/story-9VC3oHOAngL24wvU7gckxK.html
05-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth’s aides urge him to project himself as CM candidate||Tamil superstar Rajinikanth is being persuaded to project himself as the chief ministerial candidate for 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, a close aide said Friday, a day after the actor announced his intention to launch a political party by January 2021 and contest the assembly election.“He (Rajinikanth) has taken a firm stand that he will not be chief minister,” said a person considered close to the actor. “He had taken this decision even before announcing his political entry in December 2017. We are trying to convince him to rethink.”In March, this year, Rajinikanth said that he had no desire to be the chief minister. “I will be the party chief,” said Rajinikanth. “We will make a youngster who is educated, farsighted, self-respecting and affectionate to sit (in the chief minister’s chair). That person will govern. The party will critique but not interfere with their work. But, it won’t be like parallel power centres. This is my plan,” the actor had said.Political analysts attribute Rajinikanth’s risk-averse personality for not wanting to be the chief minister candidate and that was the reason for him not to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“He will probably have a 5% vote share which can go up to a maximum of 8%, depending on his promises and if he projects himself as the chief minister candidate,” said political analyst Sriram Seshadri. “This number is a luxury for Rajinikanth. He’s realised that and done a fair assessment of himself and the ground reality. He would probably like to be in a kingmaker’s role so his stature remains.” On Thursday, Rajinikanth made two appointments for his yet to be launched party - his confidante Tamilaruvi Manian as supervisor while an former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member R Arjunamurthy as chief coordinator.“His aim is to change the system,” said Manian. “He wants to return people’s goodwill by putting up better candidates as legislators and a chief minister. He’s practicing a detached attachment approach.” Rajinikanth is keen to hit the ground for campaigning, say his associates despite his age and health condition amidst the Covid-19 pandemic which puts him under a high-risk category. Rajinikanth will make further announcements about the party on December 31. The topic of a chief ministerial candidate is dominant in the current scenario where the upcoming polls are the first in the absence of Dravidian stalwarts such as AIADMK’s J Jayalalithaa and DMK’s M Karunanidhi.In October, after days of negotiations and tussle within the AIADMK, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam announced that chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami will continue to the leader for the top post when they pitch for a third consecutive term. In the opposition DMK, there is no difference of opinion within the camp or with its allies. The DMK lead alliance would fight under MK Stalin, who has been groomed by Karunanidhi for this job for several decades.Rajinikanth’s contemporary Kamal Haasan will contest as the chief ministerial face of his party Makkal Needhi Maiam which made its electoral debut in 2019 parliamentary polls with a 3.7% vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-s-aides-urge-him-to-project-himself-as-cm-candidate/story-XwtYBZeML03AgkAcr7sldM.html
05-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers call for Bharat Bandh; key talks today||Farmers agitating against three farm laws on Friday announced a nationwide strike, or Bharat Bandh, on December 8 where they said they will block all toll plazas and roads leading to Delhi as they hardened their position ahead of the fifth round of talks with the central government scheduled for Saturday.Four rounds of negotiations, conducted between three Union ministers and farmers’ representatives, have so far failed to break the deadlock between the two sides as thousands of cultivators continued their stir just outside Delhi’s borders for the eight straight day. On Thursday, the Centre had agreed to review the recently enacted legislation and “bring amendments” if required to address the farmers’ demands. The farmers, however, have stuck to their stand and said that they did not want amendments to the new laws but want them rolled back entirely.Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chadoni said on Friday that if the Centre does not accept their demands during fifth meeting on Saturday, they will further intensify their agitation.“In our meeting today, we have decided to give a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 during which we will also occupy all toll plazas,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, one of the groups involved in the talks. “We have planned to block all roads leading to Delhi in the coming days if new farm laws are not scrapped,” he said, addressing a press conference at Singhu border that connects Delhi and Haryana.“Yesterday (Thursday), we told the government that the farm laws should be withdrawn,” he told reporters, adding that the farmers will burn effigies of the government and corporate houses on December 5, and that sportspersons will return their medals in solidarity with the farmers on December 7. However, he did not divulge the details of sportspersons who would be returning their medals. The call for the Bharat Bandh was supported by various other farmers’ organisations. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said, “We need to take this protest forward.”The government, meanwhile, insisted that it was approaching the issue with an “open mind”. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said after the talks that the government has no ego and it was discussing the issues raised by farmers with an open mind. “The government will discuss points that emerged at the meeting on Friday and hopes that talks will move towards finality when the next round of discussions is held on Saturday,” Tomar had said.Thursday’s talks were led by Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, a lawmaker from Punjab, while representatives of some of the biggest farmers unions in the country, mainly from Punjab, spoke for the farmers.Tens of thousands of farmers were out on the streets around Delhi again on Friday, forcing police to shut a majority of roads connecting the Capital from neighbouring satellite towns such as Gurugram and Noida.While the farmers want the three farm laws approved by Parliament in September to be revoked, the government has leaned on its new reform agenda to raise farm incomes and spur investments in the sector. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-key-talks-today/story-dz93LBwHY3yeskYiZnSgJO.html
05-12-2020||India||Serial killer targeted strangers for fun. His family called him ‘Psycho Razi’: Cops||His family back in Bihar, by his own admission, called him “Psycho Razi”, 22-year-old Mohammad Razi told the Gurugram police after his arrest, but it was the desire to make something of himself, to show the world that he could achieve something, he added, that made him start killing people.The Gurugram police said that Razi may have been involved in at least 10 murders in Gurugram, Delhi, and Bihar. He was arrested on Thursday from Gurugram’s Iffco Chowk, a week after he allegedly killed three men on three consecutive days in Sector 29 and Sector 47, police said. Investigation is ongoing, and the alleged killings outside the state are yet to be authenticated.CCTV footage from eight cameras of all three spots had one common factor -- Razi. So the police launched a manhunt and on Thursday, they got their man. A resident of Khalilabad village in Bihar’s Araria district, Razi worked as a labourer at different construction sites in Gurugram. Before he moved to Gurugram in September, he worked at a roadside eatery and a guest house near Jama Masjid. Until July, when he moved to Delhi, he worked in Nepal, according to Gurugram’s police commissioner KK Rao.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said Razi’s modus operandi was the same: he would drink along with his victims, stab them, and, in some cases, dismember the bodies. “He had no motive but revealed that he enjoyed killing people and believed it was an easy way to become famous. He is a drug addict and used to spend money, which he stole from his victims to buy alcohol,” he said. During questioning, he shared chilling details of his criminal past and said he started killing people in Gurugram and nearby areas in October for “fun” after drinking. It was only later that he started robbing them as well. His targets were people in parks and other uncrowded areas. Most of them were strangers to him.“He boasts that he has killed many strangers in Delhi’s parks and in Bihar due to which he had to run away from those locations before police could identify him. He has named a few parks in Delhi and areas in Bihar, but we are yet to identify the murder cases,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Sangwan said Razi would be assessed clinically and psychologically.“He has no regrets. He said his family never supported him and always blamed him for bringing misfortune to them,” the officer added. Razi told the police that on November 23, he went to Leisure Valley Park and interacted with a few people but didn’t find any potential victims. He later met a man in his late 20s who worked at a construction site and offered him a drink from the bottle he was carrying. “Both of them finished a bottle of whisky and Razi then started pretending that he was under the influence of alcohol and stabbed the man in the neck, chest and stomach. He left him bleeding and walked out of the park,” said Sangwan adding that the body is yet to be identified. Razi also carried a water bottle with him everywhere -- to wash his hands after killing people. He would invariably revisit the scene of the crime, police added. On November 24, Razi met a security guard in Sector 40, befriended him, and offered him a drink. After several drinks, Razi stabbed the guard in the chest and stomach. He took out the guard’s wallet, mobile phone and shoes, and fled. The killing was in a park in a green belt, police said. The deceased was identified as Akhilesh Kumar, a security guard of a private company who was deployed in Sector 40. On November 25, Razi went to Sector 47 searching for his next victim; he found one sleeping in an open ground used to store pipes. Police said the area is right in front of the state vigilance office in Sector 47. “He smoked a joint and had some drinks with the man,” said Sangwan. Then, he stabbed the man five times,separated the head from the body and walked with the severed head to Kanhai village.He apparently told the police that he wanted to frame a friend of his for the murder. “So I threw the head near his room and returned to Sector 29 and slept that night,” Razi allegedly said to the police. The police control room received a call about a headless body, later identified as that of Rakesh Kumar of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. The victim’s Aadhaar card was found lying near the body. A special team was formed to arrest the criminal. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that there have been at least 20 murder cases registered in the past three months, with some not being solved yet. “He has been involved in a few cases in Delhi but we are yet to recover any details. We are coordinating with the Delhi police and a team will be sent to find out more about his past and murder cases reported from the close vicinity of where he worked.” Razi was produced before a court on Friday, which sent him to police remand for three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gurugram-serial-killer-targeted-strangers-for-fun-his-family-called-him-psycho-razi-cops/story-nML5nPT6tkCwjCyBW1nBvK.html
05-12-2020||India||AAP Goa unit’s ex convener, general secretary quit, allege party now compromised||Former Aam Aadmi Party State convener Elvis Gomes and former general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar along with a bunch of volunteers resigned from the primary membership of the party alleging that it was being remotely controlled from Delhi bypassing the local leadership and had long abandoned its core principles. Gomes, who was the AAP’s convener appointed ahead of the 2017 legislative assembly elections and helmed the party in the state for nearly five years before tendering his resignation from the post in mid-September saying he was only quitting the post and not the party, now decided to sever all links with AAP along with many members of his leadership team. “We who had joined the party had done so with the hope, looking at the constitution, at the promise of alternative politics and the promise of the party’s avowed commitment to the three C’s -- there will be no communalism, corruption and criminalization. But as time passed we began to wonder whether the party was still committed to its core values and after much thought we decided that we would have to leave the party,” Gomes who had quit the civil service to join the party back in 2016, had said. “After the Delhi elections this year, a team from Delhi has been camping in Goa like it is their permanent destination. That was the first attack on the Goa unit, yet we took it in our stride. We began to wonder about our role and our autonomy in the party. We had heard of the high commands of other parties in which people from Delhi come down meet people and head back. Here they came and were running a parallel unit of the Goa AAP,” he alleged.Gomes had helmed the AAP team in its elections back in 2017, but fared poorly with the party’s candidates losing their deposits in all but one of the 39 constituencies that they contested in. Gomes who was projected as the CM face of the party also lost his deposit. Former AAP general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar alleged that the party was now open to admitting those with criminal antecedents and willing to compromise on the issues of corruption and communalism which made continuing in the party untenable. “Communalism has crept in the party. They now don’t want a Catholic person to lead the party. And because they don’t want a Catholic they are searching for a Hindu, but cannot yet find one. A person with a criminal background was admitted into the party and when local leaders questioned the party leadership, they were ignored,” Padgaonkar said. The AAP countered the allegations saying that they were baseless and intended to mislead the party. “They have made allegations in a bid to mislead people. It doesn’t hold any water. We felt that our party was falling behind so we were strengthening the party. When we declared the CM’s face last time it was also a decision from Delhi. There is no high command culture in this party. It is the people who take decisions. Whatever decisions are taken after consulting the people,” State convener Rahul Prabhu Mhambrey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-goa-unit-s-ex-convener-general-secretary-quit-allege-party-now-compromised/story-fyQCVXpuQwmsN82QpQ0SLO.html
05-12-2020||India||RJD to stage dharna to support agitating farmers, urges Bihar cultivators to join in||The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Friday announced its support to the farmers agitating in and around Delhi seeking the repeal of three recent farm laws and decided to stage a dharna in the state capital on Saturday.RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who will lead the dharna near Mahatma Gandhi statue at Gandhi Maidan, also urged the farmers of the state to join in the protest, claiming that the new farms laws were brought in without consulting the stakeholders and would badly hit them in the long run.Criticising the BJP government for not honouring its promises, Tejashwi said that the Centre was out to discontinue the system of minimum support price (MSP) for the agricultural produce and allow the corporates to take over farming. “What did the BJP do with its promise to fix MSP by an additional 50% of the total cost of production? Once the corporates take over, farmers would not be able to get the MSP,” claimed the RJD leader.He also said the new laws will enable big players to stock as much quantity of grains and other farm products as possible, since the stock limit has been done away with. “Once the grains, pulses, potatoes, onions, etc. are exhausted from the farmers’ possession, corporates would scale up the market price of the commodities exorbitantly,” he claimed.Tejashwi also took a serious view of excluding the RJD from the all-party meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the strategy to fight Covid and said it was unfortunate that the PM sought to ignore the party that emerged as the largest one in the just concluded state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-to-stage-dharna-to-support-agitating-farmers-urges-bihar-cultivators-to-join-in/story-5Pk0BaMVk26yRUHDTlfyII.html
05-12-2020||India||FTA talks with EU stuck due to bloc’s reluctance: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said negotiations for a free trade agreement between India and the European Union were stuck for the last six years due to reluctance of the grouping. The talks for the FTA have been stalled since May 2013 when both sides failed to bridge substantial gaps on crucial issues, including on data security status for the IT sector. Asked during an online interactive session whether the talks were stalled due to India’s reservations against FTAs, Jaishankar vehemently dispelled it and said: “It is not a question of principle. India has nothing in principle against free trade agreements or preferential trade agreements.”   Launched in June 2007, negotiations for the proposed agreement have witnessed many hurdles as both sides have major differences on crucial issues.Giving a run down of the developments relating to the proposed FTA, Jaishankar said at the 6th Edition of MED dialogue that India was negotiating on it with the European Union till 2013 but the deal could not be closed.   “There was a change of government in 2014. The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered to the EU that they would like to reopen and continue those negotiations. In fact, it was the EU which took the stance from 2014 that look, right now we have other priorities, we do not know whether we are ready.” “So for the last six years, and I say this as someone who sat in the room, heard my own leaders say this, heard the responses from the EU leadership. The reluctance to engage from 2014, this I can testify personally, is not from the Indian side. It is from the EU side, even today,” he added. The external affairs minister said he had visited Brussels twice in the last one year and brought up the issue with the concerned commissioner.“In the last one year, I have been to Brussels twice, and brought up the subject with the commissioner mandated to deal with us. And that was pretty much the answer I got which was that we need to think this through, we are not sure we want to do this at this time,” he added.Asked about India pulling out of the  Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) last year, he said it had to take the decision as its concerns were not addressed.“The idea that there would have been great benefits waiting for us at the end of the rainbow, sorry I do not buy that,” said Jaishankar about observations that India would lose out for pulling out of the RCEP.The RCEP deal sealed last month comprised 10 member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and five of the bloc’s dialogue partners - China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand.Asked about India’s relations with the US, Jaishankar said it is on an upswing because there is a structural convergence between the two countries. “I am very confident that India-US relations will continue to do well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fta-talks-with-eu-stuck-due-to-bloc-s-reluctance-jaishankar/story-pY7YxqSo38VuttH0Og9kdN.html
05-12-2020||India||SIT recommends annual firing practice, handbook and job chart for UP cops||The special investigation team (SIT), which investigated the Kanpur ambush case, has recommended annual firing practice for up to inspector rank policemen, handbook for police station management and functioning and job chart to fix accountability of constables to additional director general (ADG) rank officers, said senior police officials’ privy to the SIT report. They said SIT has made these recommendations to the state government after finding major faults in police training, cops’ lack of knowledge about basic duties, delay in action and absence of clarity on fixing accountability, while investigating the Kanpur ambush case. One SIT member said faulty police working allowed slain gangster Vikas Dubey to expand his empire gradually in nearly three decades that finally emboldened him and his aides to attack the police team that raided his house in Bikru village of Kanpur on the intervening night of July 2 and 3. He said the police team had high fire power as compared to Dubey’s gang, but still they could not retaliate when they were attacked as they lacked practice of using weapons like semi-automatic pistols, Insas and AK-47 rifles. He said the first suggestion is about mandatory annual training and practice of using firearms for lower rung police personnel from constable to inspector rank. “The SIT has suggested setting up firing ranges at every divisional headquarters and that inspector general (IGs) or deputy inspector general (DIG) of ranges should be responsible to carry out annual training,” he said added, “At present there are nine firing ranges, mostly at police training centres in the state.”The SIT member said most of the police personnel, who survived the ambush, had stated during enquiry that their weapon got stuck or they failed to load the firearm when they tried to retaliate. He said another suggestion was to prepare a handbook for police station management that should contain entire legal provisions, work flow, standard operating procedures for handling each case and situation, maintaining case diary and important circulars issued from time to time. He said this will make the lower rung cops understand their duties and remain aware about measures to be taken while investigating or pursuing any case till the end, including the judicial proceedings. He said it has been seen in the Bikru case that negligence and lacklustre approach as well as unawareness about their duties helped Dubey carry out his nefarious activities despite being convicted in a murder case and having multiple case registered against him. He said the suggestion to the state government was to ask the rules and manuals wing of the state police to prepare a handbook about police functioning. The official said the handbook should also be included in the recruitment training process as well. The SIT member said another suggestion was to prepare a job chart for constable to ADG rank officials to fix accountability in case of any incident. He said SIT found in the enquiry that every officer tried to pass the buck on to the other in taking action against Dubey and his gang. He said the job chart should have detailed work profile of everybody from top to bottom in the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-recommends-annual-firing-practice-handbook-and-job-chart-for-up-cops/story-hhjQpt8ArEY0VYqh7lcLBI.html
05-12-2020||India||‘Can’t even build their roads’: Rajnath Singh’s stinging jibe at Pakistan||In a veiled swipe at Pakistan, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said countries which are unable to protect their sovereignty and cannot even build roads or do trade on their own become like India’s ‘neighbours’.Singh’s comments are seen as an indirect reference to Pakistan where China has been rapidly enhancing its influence in an increasing number of areas including trade and infrastructure development.In an address at an online event, Singh also highlighted the effective response by India’s armed forces in dealing with various security threats including the challenge to the country’s territorial integrity or confronting cross-border terrorism.  “Countries which are not able to protect their sovereignty become like our neighbours. Those who can neither make their own ‘road’, nor walk on it, nor do trade themselves, nor stop anyone else from doing trade,” he said.China is implementing a $50 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) besides developing the Gwadar port on the Arabian Sea. Several major Chinese companies have been playing a major role in Pakistani economy in the last few years.In his remarks, the defence minister also said that India’s “brave soldiers” were fearlessly engaged in protecting the country’s borders when people were largely confined to their homes in view of the rising cases of coronavirus.Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for the last seven months. Indian troops had strongly responded to multiple attempts by the Chinese military to intimidate them. Multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded any concrete outcome to resolve the border standoff.“When Covid-19 cases were on the rise, we sat in our homes helplessly, but our brave soldiers were fearless and bravely engaged in protecting the borders. They not only protected the border with promptness, but also made supreme sacrifice when needed,” he said.Singh further said: “Whether it is to win in multidimensional wars to protect India’s integrity, and sovereignty, or to counter terrorist activities from across the border, our armed forces have responded to challenges with great vigour.” The event was organised by the Kendriya Sainik Board (KSB) on the eve of the Armed Forces Flag Day. The KSB is the apex body of the government that formulates policies for rehabilitation and welfare of ex-servicemen and their dependants.India has been observing December 7 as the Armed Forces Flag Day since 1949 to honour those soldiers who valiantly fought on the borders to safeguard the country’s honour.The defence minister also appealed to people to make contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, and even referred to donations made by the citizens during the 1962 war with China.“In the war of 1962, the people of this country had happily donated ‘hot wool to warm blood’ at the call of the nation. There was no count of money or jewellery. This is our feeling towards the nation,” he said.He also mentioned how people of Bardhana Khurd village in Rajasthan had decided that one son from each family will be sent to the border knowing very well what could have been the result of going to the frontier.The government had constituted the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF) for the welfare and rehabilitation of the ex-servicemen (ESM) community.There are more than 32 lakh exservicemen and around 60,000 are added each year due to superannuation. “We must come forward with a ‘big’ and ‘open’ mind in fulfilling responsibility towards the security of our nation,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-even-build-their-roads-rajnath-singh-s-stinging-jibe-at-pakistan/story-ntMDNy7AtjtpZvnvdHxLIM.html
