06-12-2020||India||Opposition parties back Bharat Bandh, Sharad Pawar to meet President on December 9 | 10 points||The ongoing protest by the farmers against the three farm bills went from strength to strength on Sunday as several political parties, including the Congress, Shiv Sena, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, extended support to the nationwide strike on December 8, a day before the next round of talks are held between the two parties. The protest, which entered its 11th day on Sunday, has so far been limited within Punjab, Haryana, Delhi. But with more farmers marching towards Delhi, and farmers’ unions of other states, trade, transport, bank unions extending their support to the protest, the impact of the nationwide strike will be felt far and wide.Here are the top 10 updates of the protest:1. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah also issued a joint statement backing the proposed day-long strike. The Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, TRS, DMK, SP, AAP, Trinamool Congress, RJD, JJM and the Left parties have supported the strike. देश के आन-बान-शान हैं हमारे मेहनती किसान।देश के मालिक को मजदूर बनाने के केंद्र सरकार के षड्यंत्र के खिलाफ़ झारखण्ड में भी होगा उलगुलान।किसान अन्नदाताओं के पक्ष में झारखण्ड मुक्ति मोर्चा परिवार 8 दिसंबर को भारत बंद का पूर्ण समर्थन करता है।2. Not only opposition parties, NDA allies also came forward to support the farmers. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) supported the bandh call. Another BJP ally that has supported the protest is Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) which however refrianed from joining hands for the nationwide shutdown.3. NCP chief and former union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9.  Meanwhile, a letter written by Pawar in 2010 to then Dekhi CM Shiela Dikshit surfaced on social media in which Pawar, as the agriculture minister, had urged the CMs to amend the APMC Act in their states to allow private sector. 2010:@PawarSpeaks Ji,in UPA wrote to CMs in Aug'10 to undertake APMC reforms to encourage participation of pvt sector2011:Pawar Ji writes again to all CMs in Nov'11 about need for APMC reforms2020:Pawar Ji says his party will oppose farm laws #किसान_नहीं_कांग्रेस_परेशान_है pic.twitter.com/NR3nIC8Qxu4. BJP general secretary BL Santosh shared an old newspaper article on Twitter which claimed farmers wanted coporators to procure wheat. Hitting out at the protesting farmers, he wrote, “This was in 2008 . Farmers of Punjab & Haryana demanding allowing of corporates in agri marketing . Just understand the duplicity of the same unions now.” This was in 2008 . Farmers of Punjab & Haryana demanding allowing of corporates in agri marketing . Just understand the duplicity of the same unions now . #FarmersWithModi pic.twitter.com/J8axVbOkba5. India’s first Olympic medallist in boxing and party leader Vijender Singh threatened to return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award if the central government does not withdraw the farm laws. 6. Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) also extended support to the protest by farmers. A 10-member team will reach Delhi on Monday to meet the farmers.7. Minister of state for agriculture Kailash Choudhury said on Sunday that the laws will not be repealed. Amendments can be made if necessary, he said. 8. With protests being intensified, Delhi’s Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders remained closed o Sunday. 9. Sunny Deol, BJP MP from Punjab’s Gurdaspur, on Sunday said he stands both with the party and with the farmers. The government always thinks of farmers’ betterment, the actor-turned-politician tweeted. pic.twitter.com/a9imr724lg10. Services that are likley to be disrupted on Tuesday include the supply of milk, vegetables and grocery, transport and banking.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — the acts that they apprehend will corporatise farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-back-bharat-bandh-sharad-pawar-to-meet-president-on-dec-9-10-points/story-VmhrQKhGFbSXXEsNNN9eKK.html
06-12-2020||India||Satellite imagery shows China setting up border villages between India, Bhutan||Satellite imagery has emerged of China setting up villages in hitherto uninhabited stretches on its disputed borders with India and Bhutan, particularly in Arunachal Pradesh, with experts saying the move could be aimed at buttressing Beijing’s territorial claims.Several villages have come up in the tri-junction between India, Bhutan and China, and the move follows the upgrading and construction of Chinese military facilities, including heliports and missile bases, all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the aftermath of the 2017 standoff at Doklam.Imagery shared by the open-source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter on Sunday showed what appeared to be five new border villages built near Bum La, the border pass located between Cona county in Tibet Autonomous Region and Tawang district in Arunachal Pradesh.In a tweet, @detresfa said there is evidence of “new villages and accommodation similar to what was seen in Pangda village, Bhutan” in the vicinity of Bum La. The relocation of people to these villages “promises China with better border surveillance and patrols through a network of herders,” the tweet said.Also read: ‘Will Centre entirely fund vaccines?’ Amarinder Singh writes to PMSatellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US company, was cited by NDTV to show that at least three villages have come up in an area about five kilometres from Bum La. The imagery suggested construction of these villages, which are on the Chinese side of the LAC, had continued even as thousands of Indian and Chinese troops faced off in Ladakh sector of the LAC. One image from Planet Labs dated February 17 showed only one village with some 20 structures in the area. A second image dated November 28 showed three additional villages in the same area with a total of about 50 structures. The villages are located about a kilometre from each other and connected by new roads. Satellite imagery that emerged last month showed China has built a village called Pangda some two kilometres within territory claimed by Bhutan on Doklam plateau. This imagery also showed China has built a road in the same region that goes about nine kilometres inside Bhutanese territory. Pangda is located about 10 kilometres from the site of the 2017 standoff. In August, Chinese state media reported on how the government has improved infrastructure in villages close to the Arunachal Pradesh border. State-owned Global Times tabloid cited authorities in Yadong county of Tibet Autonomous Region as saying that 27 households with 124 people had “voluntarily moved from... Yadong county to Pangda village in September”.Also read: Covid-19 - How states are preparing for vaccination driveIn 2017, Chinese president Xi Jinping had also written a letter to Tibetan herdsmen living near the Arunachal Pradesh border to “set down roots” and safeguard “Chinese territory”.Strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney pointed to the new villages near Bum La and said building border villages to “fortify claims and escalate cross-frontier intrusions is integral to China’s territorial aggrandisement”. Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security analyst for Force Analysis, said the new villages were clearly part of a strategy to “push Chinese presence and strengthen claims on disputed areas”.“We have seen the relocation of civilian populations into sparsely populated and disputed border regions by other countries, for example, by Morocco in Western Sahara. The Chinese are doing the same, so that they can infringe on the border and potentially build a case for their territorial claims,” he said.A report released in September by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy, had said that China has more than doubled the number of airbases, air defence positions and heliports near the LAC since 2017. China began building at least 13 new military facilities near the LAC after the standoff at Doklam, and work on four heliports began after the current tensions in Ladakh, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/satellite-imagery-shows-china-setting-up-border-villages-between-india-bhutan/story-9lECh2DZ0cvHpvxfszKwHM.html
06-12-2020||India||Pawar as agri minister sought amendment in APMC Act, role for private sector: Report||With NCP chief Sharad Pawar backing farmers’ protest against the contentious agri reforms, government sources on Sunday pointed out that as the agriculture minister in the UPA dispensation he had asked chief ministers to amend the APMC Act in their states to allow the private sector to play an important role in the field. Sharing the content of some letters he had written to various chief ministers, the sources claimed that the BJP-led NDA government has made the same set of changes in the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act as pushed by Pawar when he was the union minister. Pawar is scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new agrarian laws after the NCP joined other opposition parties in supporting the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called on December 8 by farmer unions, which have demanded the repeal of the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws. The government sources said Pawar in a 2010 letter to the then Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit that the agriculture sector needs well-functioning markets to drive growth, employment and economic prosperity in rural area of the country. “This requires huge investments in marketing infrastructure including cold-chain. And for this, private sector participation is essential, for which an appropriate regulatory and policy environment needs to be in place,” his letter said, calling for amending the state APMC Act. In a letter on similar lines to the then Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Pawar had underlined the need for  investments in post-harvest and marketing infrastructure from the farm gate to the consumer and said “private sector needs to play an important role in this regard”. Pawar was the union agriculture, consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister in the then Manmohan Singh-led government. Earlier on Sunday, Pawar asked the Centre to take serious cognisance of the ongoing farmers’ protest and said if the deadlock continues, the agitation will not be limited to Delhi and people from across the country will stand by the protesting farmers. The ruling BJP has accused the opposition of playing politics on the matter and noted that the manifesto of the main opposition party, the Congress, had also batted for some of the reforms the Modi government has ushered in. Prominent opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah issued a joint statement on Sunday supporting the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8 by farmer groups and pressed the Centre to meet the legitimate demands of the protesters. Protesting farmer unions have demanded the repeal of all three laws Parliament had passed in the last session. The government has been holding talks with union leaders, and the next round of dialogue is scheduled for December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-as-agri-minister-sought-amendment-in-apmc-act-role-for-private-sector-report/story-5vyVUV9pgHcbEOV20CbwTP.html
06-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir DDC polls phase 4: 7 lakh voters to decide fate of 249 candidates||More than seven lakh voters will decide the fate of 249 candidates contesting in the fourth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The polling will be held between 7 AM and 2 PM in 34 constituencies -- 17 each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions. Besides DDC elections, polling will be held for panchayat bypolls in 50 vacant sarpanch seats and 216 vacant panch seats falling within the DDC constituencies, an official spokesman said. So far, three phases of the maiden DDC elections, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the reorganization of the erstwhile state last year, were held on November 28, December 1 and December 4, registering a voter turnout of 51.76 per cent, 48.62 per cent and 50.53 per cent, respectively. In the fourth phase, out of the total 280 DDC constituencies in the Union Territory, 34 are going to poll, the spokesman said. In the 17 DDC constituencies of Kashmir division, 138 candidates, including 48 women, are in the fray. In Jammu division, 111 candidates, including 34 women, are contesting in this phase. “There were 123 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 4th phase and out of these 45 have got filled unopposed. There shall be a contest in 50 constituencies and 137 candidates, including 47 women, are in the fray,” the spokesman said. Similarly, he said, out of the total 1,207 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 416 have got filled unopposed and there is no contest in these constituencies. Polling would take place in 216 panch constituencies and there are 478 candidates in the fray including 129 women, the spokesman said. In the 4th phase, he said, 7,17,322 electors are eligible to cast their votes -- 3,76,797 men and 3,40,525 women. Amongst them, 3,50,149 are from Jammu division and 3,67,173 from Kashmir division, the spokesman said. He said there are 1,910 polling stations across the union territory for this phase -- 781 in Jammu division and 1,129 in Kashmir division Of the 1,910 polling stations, 1,152 are hyper-sensitive, 349 are sensitive and 409 have been categorized as normal. The spokesman said all arrangements for this phase are in place. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, adequate arrangements have been made to ensure safety of all stakeholders, including voters. He said sanitiser, thermal scanners and face masks have been arranged at the polling stations to ensure that SOPs issued by the authorities concerned are strictly followed at the polling stations. Special polling stations at Women College Gandhinagar, Jammu and Girls Higher Secondary School Udhampur have been set up to facilitate physical voting by Kashmiri migrants, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-polls-phase-4-7-lakh-voters-to-decide-fate-of-249-candidates/story-F7JNdWc8e9sdM69dBPtZOP.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mehbooba Mufti seeks votes for Pulwama nominee Waheed Parra in DDC polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DDC polls: Mehbooba Mufti seeks votes for Pulwama nominee Waheed ParraPeoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday sought votes for Waheed Parra who is contesting the district development council (DDC) polls from Pulwama. Read moreCBI files fresh case against Unitech’s Sanjay Chandra, family in alleged multi-crore fraudThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Unitech Ltd. former managing director, Sanjay Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and elder brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating Canara Bank of Rs 198 crore, people familiar with the development said. Read moreChetan Bhagat shares encounter with street vendor selling his books, netizens have mixed reactionsAuthor Chetan Bhagat shared a video of his interaction with a street vendor who tried to sell him his own books. The encounter received many reactions from netizens ranging from people calling the meeting wholesome to branding it as unnecessary. Read morePriyanka Chopra and Sonam Kapoor lend support to farmers’ protest: ‘Their fears need to be allayed’Actors Priyanka Chopra and Sonam Kapoor have come out in support of protesting farmers. Farmers across the country have been staging a massive protest against the government’s new agriculture laws, which they fear will leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Read moreShehnaaz Gill looks stunning in white and gold saree, photos go viral. Get the lookShehnaaz Gill has her hands full with Tony Kakkar’s latest music video Shona Shona, which has already racked up to 40 million views, with alleged beau Siddharth Shukla. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 2nd T20I: Hardik Pandya heroic seals T20I series for IndiaIndia have taken an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match T20I series against Australia with a thrilling six-wicket win in the second match at the Sydney Cricket Ground. Read moreFarmers’ protest: AAP supports Bharat Bandh call; Delhi border traffic divertedFarmers’ protest at Delhi border entered 9th day on Sunday. Farmers have been protesting against Centre’s farm laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar to meet MoS Kailash Choudhury and MoS Parshottam Rupala. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mehbooba-mufti-seeks-votes-for-pulwama-nominee-waheed-parra-in-ddc-polls-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FDXEENCUF8pOwfCFScWQEN.html
06-12-2020||India||‘Will Centre entirely fund vaccines?’ Amarinder Singh writes to PM, seeks priority allocation for Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking clarification of Covid-19 vaccine funding and also urging him to prioritise Punjab for vaccine allocation. The CM has said that Punjab has a higher mortality rate because of the age profile of the population and because of high co-morbidities. Singh said the vaccines currently under consideration would not perhaps reduce transmission but will help in prevention. Hence, the best use will be in preventing serious illness in the most susceptible groups — the elderly — the population of which is high in Punjab. A statement released by the CMO said the CM has also sought clarity as to whether the Covid-19 vaccination would be entirely funded by the Centre, including the cost of vaccines and vaccination supplies. Singh also sought to know whether the definition of frontline workers for the purpose of immunization could be expanded to include administrative officials and other essential staff. How the general population will be vaccinated, whether those who have once been infected with Covid-19 are eligible for vaccination are a few issues that Singh sought clarity on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-centre-entirely-fund-vaccines-amarinder-singh-writes-to-pm-seeks-priority-allocation-for-punjab/story-zv4EEHTy3LriSka1N4naaM.html
06-12-2020||India||CBI files fresh case against Unitech’s Sanjay Chandra, family in alleged multi-crore fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Unitech Ltd. former managing director, Sanjay Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and elder brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating Canara Bank of Rs 198 crore, people familiar with the development said. Ironically, Sanjay Chandra was released from Tihar jail after 43 months on Friday evening after a trial court in Delhi granted him interim relief for four weeks considering his aggrieved medical condition. He was last arrested in April 2017 by Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) for allegedly cheating homebuyers who had invested in company projects. Unitech Ltd, which used to be a construction giant before the company was embroiled in 2G spectrum scam, is facing multiple investigations by various agencies including CBI, ED and Delhi Police. Sanjay Chandra is already facing trial in 2G spectrum scam. He was first arrested in 2011 by the CBI for allegedly conspiring to get telecom licence for his company. Also read: India dials up ties with Gulf countries, sharpens the contrast with PakistanTo give relief to about 30,000 homebuyers, in January this year, the Centre decided to take over the company and appoint nominee directors so that unfinished housing projects can get completed. The move was approved by the Supreme Court. In its latest FIR, filed on the complaint of Canara Bank, the CBI has alleged that Unitech had availed different credit facilities from it which it failed to repay. As directors of the company, Sanjay Chandra, Ramesh Chandra and Ajay Chandra had given personal as well as corporate guarantee to the bank and had mortgaged properties as collateral security. It has further alleged that the company has illegally sold the properties mortgaged as collateral security without informing the bank. The Supreme Court had appointed M/s Grant Thornton to conduct a forensic audit of Unitech, which revealed that the company had diverted, siphoned off and misappropriated funds. “Out of Rs 14,270 crore collected from 29,800 homebuyers, around Rs 5,063.05 was potentially not utilized for construction/execution of 74 identified projects. Similarly, Unitech availed Rs 1,805.86 crore from six financial institutions, out of which Rs 763.06 crore was not utilized for projects,” states the complaint filed by Canara Bank, reviewed by HT. Grant Thornton report further revealed that between 2007 and 2019, three subsidiaries of Unitech made investments of Rs 1,745 crore in 10 companies in Cyprus, it added. When contacted, Unitech’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal declined to comment on the fresh case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fresh-case-against-unitech-s-sanjay-chandra-family-in-alleged-multi-crore-fraud/story-ZnoPDvpREMuBW24Ti89crI.html
06-12-2020||India||In RTI response, Health ministry says not aware where records related to Covid-19 vaccine expert group are kept||The Union Health Ministry has said in response to an RTI application that it does not know where records related to agenda circulated in meetings of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 are held.Venkatesh Nayak of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative had approached the ministry seeking details of the constitution and working of the expert group such as dates of meetings, a copy of the detailed agenda circulated in relation to every meeting, presentations made before its members, and material it had shared with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Nayak had also sought to know the amount of sitting fees and every other remuneration or allowances payable to the chairperson and every member of the expert group and the amount of sitting fees and every other remuneration or allowances actually paid to them.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was constituted under the chairmanship of Member (Health) of Niti Aayog V K Paul on August 7 to prepare a strategy for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine.The information on these points was not provided by the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), saying the details of meeting, agenda and material circulated during the meetings do not come under the definition of “information” which can be shared under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The CPIO said that details of the amount of sitting fees and every other remuneration or allowances payable to the chairperson and other members of the expert group are not available with the immunisation section of the ministry.Nayak filed an appeal before a senior official in the ministry challenging the order of the CPIO. The official ruled that the CPIO does not have information and does not know where the information can be.The application was also transferred to the Indian Council of Medical Research and the MEA.The ICMR said it does not have information sought by Nayak.On the NEGVAC material shared with it, the MEA cited exemption clause of national security and related issues to deny the records.Nayak said both the CPIO and the first appellate authority not knowing about the physical location of NEGVAC’s papers despite the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) servicing this body is “truly perplexing”.“How can people’s meaningful participation be ensured if the MoHFW does not place in the public domain details of NEGVAC’s working. There is a statutory requirement of proactive information disclosure under Sections 4(1)(c) and 4(1)(d) of the RTI Act about NEGVAC’s working. MoHFW and other public authorities involved in the vaccination roll-out plan have a statutory duty to make all facts and figures public along with the underlying reasoning for their decisions and actions under these provisions,” Nayak said.He said he would approach the Central Information Commission to challenge “the actions and omissions of MoHFW and MEA”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rti-response-health-ministry-says-not-aware-where-records-related-to-covid-19-vaccine-expert-group-are-kept/story-LsmaqGl3wNQUijFCSzqkbK.html
06-12-2020||India||President should lay the foundation stone of new Parliament building: Cong’s Punia||Ahead of the bhoomi pujan for the new Parliament building to be performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 10, Congress leader P L Punia on Sunday said that the foundation stone should be laid by the President instead.“I don’t want to raise any question on the need for a new building of Parliament. But my point is that since Parliament is a constitutional institution, the foundation stone of its new building should be laid by the President of the country,” Punia said, adding the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government is doing this with the intention of etching their name on the new building. “It is very unfortunate,” he said.“Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal has rightly said changing the edifice is not enough, change the way you function within, the way Parliament has been downgraded, and procedures bypassed,” Punia added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the new Parliament building and perform bhoomi pujan on December 10.The construction will begin this month. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members against the present strength of 543, whereas Rajya Sabha chamber will be able to accommodate 384 seats against the current strength of 245 members.The maximum seating capacity in the Lok Sabha chamber is expected to be 1,272 for joint Parliamentary sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-should-lay-the-foundation-stone-of-new-parliament-building-cong-s-punia/story-TkqPK0AqhRaDQHlexWmmoN.html
06-12-2020||India||Karnataka Assembly’s winter session from December 7 likely to be stormy||The winter session of the Karnataka Assembly starting here Monday is likely to be a stormy affair amid speculations that the ruling BJP might introduce bills against cow slaughter and “love jihad.” The House will also debate on the subject of ‘One Nation, One Election’ on December 14 and 15, making it the first legislative Assembly to do so, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said.While Congress has announced it will resist any move by the government against inter-faith marriages and cow slaughter, the BJP would try to corner its rival by raising the recent attacks on Bajrang Dal activists in Shivamogga and the alleged role of the opposition party in the Bengaluru violence in August.The BJP may also rake up the multi crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) investment scam in which a former Congress MLA was arrested by the CBI recently.On Saturday, the BJP’s Karnataka state executive had adopted resolutions for the passage and implementation of legislations against inter-faith marriages and cow slaughter in the state.Karnataka Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan has already indicated that the anti-cow slaughter bill will be introduced during the the state legislature session starting from December 7.Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had said the state will have a law against “love jihad”, and that officials have been directed to gather information on an ordinance promulgated in Uttar Pradesh in this regard.“Love jihad” is a coinage used by right wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.Further, the controversial Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) and Development Amendment bill and the Karnataka Land Reforms amendment bill, pending in the legislative council for clearance, may be debated again.The bills could not be cleared in the monsoon session as the ruling BJP does not have adequate numbers in the upper house despite emerging as the single largest in the council after winning four MLC seats in the recent election.The BJP has 31 seats, Congress-- 28, JD(S) -- 14 and one independent in the legislative council.The Congress may also rake up the the delay in cabinet expansion and the alleged suicide attempt by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s political secretary N R Santosh.Speaker Kageri said all precautionary measures have been taken in view of Covid-19 for the ensuing session.As done last time, wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing would be made mandatory, he said.Wherever social distancing was not possible, fibre sheets have been put up, he told reporters.He said more than 10 bills will be taken up for discussion in the session.Further, the House will discuss ‘One Nation, One Election’ on December 14 and 15, the last two days of the session, Kageri said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently said ‘One Nation, One Election’, was the need of India as polls taking place every few months impact development works.Meanwhile, Congress leader Siddaramiah held discussions with his party MLAs regarding the session starting tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-s-winter-session-from-december-7-likely-to-be-stormy/story-vsXt1exN9qQfxICUT2Ah6O.html
06-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand to create export hub in all 13 districts to promote local products||Uttarakhand’s industrial department would soon set up export hubs across all 13 districts to promote local products and give them a bigger market in the country and abroad, said officials. As per the initiative, the export hubs in each district would sell some specific products from each district where their production is more. The development has come about a month after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, on the occasion of state foundation day, had announced that the Uttarakhand would have its export policy to promote its products in a much bigger market. He said that the products, including the agricultural produce, would be marketed under an umbrella brand named ‘Holy Himalayas’ which would give the consumers a feeling of “Himalaya’s purity”. An official from the state industry department on the condition of anonymity said that once established, each export hub in the districts would supply specific products. “The department has chalked a policy for the initiative. Under that the export hubs in all 13 districts would supply specific products to the market of the respective district,” said the official. Also read: India dials up ties with Gulf countries, sharpens the contrast with PakistanHe added, “As per the policy framed, Bageshwar district would supply organic wool, Champawat would supply ironware, Dehradun - maize products and Uttarkashi - apples. Similarly, Almora would supply pickles, Chamoli - fish, Haridwar - sugarcane products, Nainital - Aipan handicrafts, Pauri Garhwal - wooden handicrafts, Pithoragarh - carpets and Rudraprayag- honey.” He also informed that the remaining districts Tehri Garhwal and US Nagar would supply “honey and bakery products respectively.” Economic advisor to the CM, Alok Bhatt, while terming it an important development, said that it will greatly help in providing a bigger market to the local products. “The growth centre initiative to arrest the migration from rural areas and their development has significantly improved the production of local products. However, there lies an issue of providing them with a proper market due to lack of proper connectivity. These export hubs would help in resolving the issue,” said Bhatt. He said, “If the supply is increasing, then it has to be absorbed in the demand. The export hubs will enable them to reach the national as well as foreign market.” Director of the state directorate of industries, Sudhir Nautiyal, on the development said, “At present Uttarakhand contributes about 0.48 per cent of the total exports of the country. This move will help in improving it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-create-export-hub-in-all-13-districts-to-promote-local-products/story-xXwIG9PmN7o38aegKMWWFL.html
06-12-2020||India||Covid-19: How states are preparing for vaccination drive||Primary groundwork for vaccine storage, distribution has been laid by all state governments as Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a recent all-party meeting has said that India is prepared to start vaccination. As soon as scientists give the nod, vaccination will start, the PM has said. The states are likely to follow an identical model in which healthcare workers will be vaccinated first. Front line workers will be vaccinated next. All people above 50 will be vaccinated in the third lot while people below 50 but with co-morbidities will get the vaccine in the fourth slot. India biggest buyer of Covid-19 vaccineIndia has purchased 500 million doses of the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, one billion from the US company Novavax and 100 million doses of the Sputnik V candidate from Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, according to the US-based Duke University Global Health Innovation Center, as on November 30.How states are gearing upSome state government have revealed data regarding their cold-storage, vaccine centres etc.Gujarat: The Gujarat government has said it has already put together the cold chain infrastructure for the storage and transport of vaccines. It has also readied teams of vaccinators. There will be 27,796 vaccination centres and 15,534 teams for vaccinating.It has already prepared a list of priority citizens. It has identified four groups to get vaccines first: Healthcare workers, corona warriors apart from health care workers, people above 50, people below 50 with co-morbidities. Andhra Pradesh: Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has recently announced in the Assembly that the state is getting ready to vaccinate one crore people in three months. Vaccines will be stored at 4,065 cold chain facilities in the state while 29 refrigerated vehicles will transport vaccines. Asha workers will be trained to inject vaccines to people.Delhi: The Delhi government has started enrolment of healthcare workers for Covid-19 vaccination and instructed all the healthcare facilities -- institutions, nursing homes, OPDs and clinics -- to send names of their healthcare workers for the enrolment process by December 5. Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital has become the first vaccine storage facility. The procurement is being done centrally. State government were asked not to approach vaccine makers individually. The vaccination will be done through e-VIN (Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-how-states-are-preparing-for-vaccination-drive/story-FHB6L6B5E17gLwRAQShZpN.html
06-12-2020||India||‘IAF fully prepared to transport millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine across country’||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is fully prepared to pitch in for the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine to the farthest reaches of the country using its extensive fleet of transport aircraft, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.Though there has been no official request so far from the government to the armed forces to assist in the delivery and distribution of the vaccine, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that there are no doubts about the IAF’s capability to transport millions of doses across the country.“There has been no formal request till now for the IAF to help in the transportation of a Covid-19 vaccine. But we do have a formidable fleet of transport aircraft and we can pitch in at short notice if required,” said one of the people.“There are no doubts about the IAF’s capabilities to carry such supplies to all parts of the country,” the person added.Also read: Pune hosp starts Sputnik V phase two trials, volunteers under observationThe IAF’s transport fleet includes eleven C-17 Globemaster heavy-lift aircraft, each of which can carry up to 75 tonnes of cargo, C-130 Hercules aircraft, which can carry up 19 tonnes, and workhorses such as the Il-76s and An-32s. The people cited above said, if required, smaller aircraft such as the Dorniers and even helicopters can be used to ferry the vaccines to remote areas with smaller airfields.It is understood that the military has worked out modalities that will have to be put in place for transporting vaccines if there is a request from the government. This will primarily involve moving vaccines from the 28,000-unit cold storage network and ensuring the doses reach remote areas without losing their efficacy.“The vaccines will be transported in special boxes and there will be no need to reconfigure the aircraft to carry them. It’s not as if the aircraft will have to be modified in any way,” the person cited above said.The IAF recently demonstrated its heavy-lift capabilities by transporting thousands of troops and thousands of tonnes of fuel, food, supplies and equipment to the Ladakh sector, where the Indian Army is engaged in a dragging standoff with Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The IAF also has extensive experience of airlifting medical supplies and equipment during contingencies both within the country and in the neighbourhood. Even before the pandemic, IAF aircraft have ferried medicines and other essential supplies to neighbouring countries such as the Maldives. They have also transported currency notes during the demonetisation drive and electronic voting machines (EVMs) and other equipment during elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-fully-prepared-to-transport-millions-of-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-across-country/story-dRiQ6dyoMIAAgOeGNQl55L.html
06-12-2020||India||India dials up ties with Gulf countries, sharpens the contrast with Pakistan||Foreign minister S Jaishankar will travel to Qatar and Kuwait and his deputy, V Muraleedharan to Oman later this month as part of India’s continuing outreach to Gulf countries that is described by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as India’s extended neighbourhood, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday as Indian Army chief General MM Naravane preps to begin his visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE).Jaishankar, who had focused on deepening ties with West Asia through the Covid pandemic, addressed the Gulf Cooperation Council leaders at the annual political dialogue last month and later travelled to the UAE and Bahrain.“India shares warm, close and multi-faceted relations with the Gulf countries underpinned by historic cultural, religious and economic linkages,” a government official said, underlining how New Delhi - after reaching out to countries in the immediate neighbourhood for the past few weeks - had put the spotlight on West Asia.The dates and the specific agenda for the two ministerial visits to Qatar, Kuwait and Oman later this month are still being worked out.Officials told Hindustan Times that a key focus of this heightened engagement at this point was to protect the interests of Indian workers who were employed in the West Asian countries before the coronavirus pandemic disrupted economic activity and plunged the global economy into a contraction.India is asking the Gulf countries to start opening its doors to the thousands of workers who had come back during the pandemic. This was also one of the central themes of Jaishankar’s address to the GCC Troika in early November, urging the GCC leadership to facilitate the return of Indian workers and professionals eager to resume work through sustainable travel bubble arrangements.Officials believe that New Delhi’s efforts to reach out to the Gulf countries through the peak of the pandemic when India sent not just medicines but medical teams to countries in the “extended neighbourhood” had held the country in good stead. The Indian gesture was reciprocated by the West Asian countries as well. Like when the UAE was packing off immigrants from every other country following the outbreak of the pandemic, India requested Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to go slow with repatriating Indian nationals because the state governments didn’t have the infrastructure to deal with the influx. The request was immediately accepted.Six West Asian countries - UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain - accounted for nearly 70% of all Indians who live abroad. UAE is home to the largest number of Indians, 3.4 million, which was approximately a quarter of all NRIs around the world. Another 2.6 million were in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain were home to another 2.9 million NRIs.Between them, they sent home nearly half of India’s total foreign remittances of US 80 billion.The World Bank, back in October, had projected a 9% decline in foreign remittances to India due to the Covid-induced restrictions and disruption in economic activity across the world.Officials said India is working closely with UAE which stopped giving work and visit visas for nationals from 12 countries including Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan, seen as a fallout of Islamabad trying to challenge Saudi Arabia’s leadership of the Muslim world and its stand against the UAE’s peace deal with Israel that paved the way for UAE-Israel relations. According to a report in the Nikkei Asian Review over the past week, many of the job opportunities that Pakistani workers are losing are going to Indian workers.Indian officials said that UAE’s visa ban on Pakistan was just one aspect of Islamabad’s growing diplomatic isolation. Pakistan’s embarrassing moments when its request for a side event on Kashmir was turned down at the recent Organisation of Islamic Cooperation foreign ministers meet was another.Indian officials also cite a change in Malaysia’s approach towards South Asia after Mahathir Mohamad’s exit. There are clear indications that Malaysia is looking at its relationship with India from a broader perspective. This change led New Delhi to reduce the duty on palm oil last month, prompting Malaysian foreign minister Hishammuddin bin Tun Hussein to tweet his thank you note to foreign minister Jaishankar. Messaged HE @DrSJaishankar, India's Foreign Minister to say thanks on behalf of 🇲🇾 Malaysian smallholders! India has announced a 10% reduction of basic customs duty on crude palm oil to 27.5%. This could further ⬆️ Malaysia's #PalmOil exports to 🇮🇳 which in turn could ⬆️ prices! pic.twitter.com/9mBY9Pds1EOr when defence minister Rajnath Singh and foreign minister S Jaishankar, were planning to make a transit halt in Iran on their way to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting in Russia this September, Tehran requested for meetings with the Indian leaders and turned the halt into a bilateral visit. It was during these meetings that Iran indicated that it was keen to restore its energy relationship with India and it emerged that New Delhi and Tehran were on the same page as far as Afghanistan is concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-lines-up-visits-to-gulf-countries-sharpens-the-contrast-with-pak/story-rACiWqmyh3kKsK3NX5eqBL.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Fuel stations to remain shut in Haryana on December 8||Extending support to Bharat Bandh call given by several farmer organizations, Haryana Petroleum Dealer Welfare Association (HPDWA) has decided to shut all the fuel stations in the state on December 8.The decision was taken at a state-level meeting of members of HPDWA at Panipat on Sunday.“As our Anndata’s (farmers) are on the roads for more than a week, we have decided to support their agitation and all the fuel stations in Haryana to remain shut during Bharat Bandh on December 8,” said Sanjeev Chaudhary, state president of HPDWA.“We appeal the government to end this impasse and resolve the issue so that the farmers, their children and women, who are sitting on the roads braving the biting cold, could return to their homes,” he added.Also read: West Bengal govt distancing itself from rule of law - DhankarHe said that the ongoing agitation has affected every sector and section of society as thousands of people were not able to go to their jobs and the fuel sector is worst-affected as 40 per cent of the total fuel is purchased by farmers.The members of the association alleged that the government does not seem serious to resolve the issue even after several rounds of meetings.“The government should accept all the demands of farmers and end this agitation,” he added.Even, a three members committee of HPDWA has been formed to extend support to the farmers by opening their fuel stations for farmers at Singhu and Tikari borders of Haryana and Delhi and providing free fuel to farmers who were going to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-fuel-stations-to-remain-shut-in-haryana-on-december-8/story-RhXtYq8RblYLgbG7VYmctN.html
06-12-2020||India||Union minister V Muraleedharan says nothing wrong in naming RGCB new campus after RSS idealogue||With a controversy erupting in Kerala over the Centre’s decision to name the second campus of RGCB here after late RSS ideologue M S Golwakar, Union minister V Muraleedharan on Sunday backed the move and said there was nothing wrong in naming it after a “patriot”.“What is wrong in naming an institute after a patriot?,” the minister asked when queried by reporters about the Centre’s decision, which has kicked by a row in the state.Golwalkar was a zoology professor in Banaras University, he said and asked how the famous Nehru trophy boat race was named after former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru.“Has Nehru ever participated in any sports activity?,” Muraleedharan asked.An impromptu boat race was conducted in 1952 in honour of Nehru during his visit to Alappuzha, and it has become an annual event hosted at the Punnamada lake in August.The minister said he failed to understand on what basis Golwalkar’s name had become unacceptable.“The RGCB governing council took this decision and no one else has a role in it,” he told the media at Kasaragod.CPI leader Panniyan Ravindran said the state would not accept this decision of the Centre.He alleged that a conscious effort was being made to impose wrong facts as history.Union Health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had on Friday announced that the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for BioTechnology(RGCB), a major knowledge centre and hub for mid and high level innovation, will be named as ‘Shri Guruji Madhav Sadashiv Golwalkar National Centre for Complex Disease in Cancer and Viral Infection.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had shot off a letter to the Union health minister on Saturday and urged him to reconsider the move.While the Left parties have alleged that BJP was trying to bring communal elements to the forefront, Congress has questioned the contribution of Golwalkar in the field of science and technology in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-v-muraleedharan-says-nothing-wrong-in-naming-rgcb-new-campus-after-rss-idealogue/story-DYuGiVtcdWVuKZbjh2TSBM.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: West Bengal governor says state government distancing itself from rule of law and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal govt distancing itself from rule of law: DhankarWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has distanced itself from rule of law and the soul of BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, is getting deeply hurt. Read morePune hospital starts Sputnik V phase two trials, volunteers under observationCity’s Noble Hospital administered Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine to combat Covid-19 disease to 17 volunteers over the past three days. Volunteers are currently under observation for any medical symptoms, according to hospital authorities. Read moreNetflix’s ‘who did it better’ post has scenes from Brooklyn Nine-Nine and Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na. Here’s whyIs the coming of age Bollywood romantic comedy Jaane Tu... Ya Jaane Na one of your favourite throwback films? Do you also have the American sitcom Brooklyn Nine-Nine on top of your watch-list? Read moreSaif Ali Khan retracts ‘humane’ Raavan comments after backlash, says Adipurush will present story ‘without any distortions’Actor Saif Ali Khan has retracted his comment about portraying the demon king Raavan in a ‘humane’ manner in the upcoming epic, Adipurush. Many, including the BJP’s Ram Kadam, had objected to the comment. Read moreBe cautious in and after a relationshipSending intimate pictures used to be such a taboo thing to do—no one talked about it but everyone did it. Then people started realising sexting was a given, which led to more and more intimate pictures being sent, which led to women getting their pictures leaked on the internet. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Virat Kohli drops another sitter, still manages to run-out Matthew Wade Virat Kohli is going through a rough patch in his cricketing career. He hasn’t looked at his fluent best this year while India have also lost a lot of ODIs in 2020. On top of that, Kohli has dropped two catches in two games for India. Read moreWatch: Delhi University students join protesting farmers at Singhu borderStudents from Delhi University joined protesting farmers at Singhu border on December 5. Students have been providing help to the protesting farmers at Delhi-Haryana border. They engage in various tasks such as serving food, making posters and providing medical aid. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-west-bengal-governor-says-state-government-distancing-itself-from-rule-of-law-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HEvcyXibnEb7t0V5KJmTuO.html
06-12-2020||India||‘Like two sons of a father’: Transport unions support Bharat Bandh call||Transport unions on Sunday expressed their solidarity with the protesting farmers and said they would observe the call for the nationwide strikes on December 8. The Delhi Goods Transport Association and India Tourist Transport Association expressed their solidarity with the ongoing protests.“Farming and transporting are like two sons of a father,” India Tourist Transport Association president Satish Sehrawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He further added that 51 transport unions have decided to support farmers in their Bharat Bandh call.Delhi Goods Transport Association president Parmeet Singh Goldie said that farmers form the roots of their business hence they feel they should express their solidarity with the agitating farmers’ unions. Goldie said, “We are supporting our farmer brothers. They are the roots of our business.”On December 2, the apex body of transporters All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) had threatened to halt operations in north India in support of agitating farmers’ unions. AIMTC represents 95 lakh truckers and other entities across the nation.AIMTC president Kultaran Singh Atwal told PTI that the apex body of transporters had from the beginning lent their support to the agitating farmers. He further added, “AIMTC has already extended its support to the farmer agitation from day one. We have decided on stopping our operations strategically starting from North India and if the government does not address the issue of the farmers, then we may decide to go for shutting down of transport operations nationwide in their support.”Bal Malkit Singh, AIMTC core committee chairman, had outlined that they will primarily halt supply truck movements in north India starting December 8 and said that it will escalate into a countrywide halt of movement of supplies if the government chooses not to address the issues.“Starting December 8, we will halt the movement of supplies in entire North India including Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. We will then escalate it to the entire country if the government fails to address their issues,” Singh said.Several transporters’ bodies believe that the protests are legitimate and have extended their support to them as 65% of their trucks carry farm produce.The Centre and the protesting farmers’ unions have not yet reached an agreement over the three laws - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. Despite assurances from the government, farmers’ unions have said that they will go ahead with the Bharat Bandh on December 8.The Centre and the farmers’ union will hold the sixth round of discussion over the laws on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-two-sons-of-a-father-transport-unions-support-bharat-bandh-call/story-RBdTdBV62ilh7uTBnKKiqM.html
06-12-2020||India||West Bengal govt distancing itself from rule of law: Dhankar||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has distanced itself from rule of law and the soul of BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, is getting deeply hurt. “I am deeply disturbed, concerned, worried and pained. The governance in the state of West Bengal is getting away from the path of the Constitution. It is distancing itself from rule of law. The soul of B R Ambedkar is deeply hurt,” Dhankhar said at a programme held to pay homage to Ambedkar on his death anniversary. “High time @MamataOfficial to ensure governance in accordance with constitution and render police & administration “politically neutral”. CS & DGP @WBPolice non responsive stance ignoring lawful accountability, letter & spirit of constitution is fraught with serious consequences,” Dhankhar tweeter later in the day. TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy reacted by saying that Dhankhar is not following ethics. “He cannot make such statements in public every day. If he has anything to say about the government he can write to the chief minister or call her up. What he is doing is not right. There is nothing wrong with law and order in Bengal. The governor cannot see the reality,” said Roy. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, took potshots at chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee at a rally held at Red Road in the heart of Kolkata. “The country is run by the Constitution drafted by Ambedkar but Bengal is run by a constitution drafted by bhaipo (nephew),” Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP national general secretary said without naming Abhishek Banerjee. He also accused young TMC Lok Sabha member of corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-govt-distancing-itself-from-rule-of-law-dhankar/story-h4FwZjuTwBrw6VgCb3rdBI.html
06-12-2020||India||Delhi: 11% of symptomatic negative cases in rapid antigen tests found Covid-19 positive in RT-PCR||Nearly 11% of those in the national capital who tested negative for Covid-19 in rapid antigen tests (RAT) but had symptoms for the disease were found to have been afflicted by the viral infection in Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test between September 1 and November 7, according to official data.Out of the 56,862 symptomatic patients who tested negative in rapid antigen tests, 32,903 were retested through RT-PCR and of them 3,524 were found Covid-19 positive, according to the data shared by health authorities in response to an RTI query filed by a PTI reporter.In order to effectively curb the spread of coronavirus infection, the Union Health Ministry had in September asked all states and Union Territories to mandatorily retest all symptomatic cases found Covid-19 negative in rapid antigen tests through RT-PCR so that no positive case is missed.For Delhi, the case positivity rate in RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for Covid-19 screening, was 20.97% in September, while it was only 4.77% when it comes to rapid antigen test, the RTI reply stated.In October, positivity rates of(RT-PCR) and rapid antigen test were 16.76% and 4.58% respectively. Between November 1 and 7 the rapid antigen positivity rate was 8.16 per cent while for RT-PCR it was 27.2 %  According to the RTI reply, out of 27,533 symptomatic negative cases in rapid antigen test in September, only 4,597 were retested through RT-PCR and 623 found Covid-19 positive. The next month, 24,737 out of 26,316 symptomatic negative cases were retested through RT-PCR and 2,300 were found to have contracted the virus.Between November 1 and 7, health authorities retested 3,569 of 4,013 symptomatic rapid antigen test negative cases and 601 were found infected with Covid-19, the RTI reply revealed.Union Home Minister Amit Shah had chaired high-level meeting on November 15 and gave 12 instructions, following a fresh spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital.However, there has been decrease in the number of coronavirus cases in the last few days in Delhi and the city’s capacity of conducting RT-PCR tests has significantly has increased.On Saturday, the national capital registered 3,419 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to over 5.8 lakh, while the death toll rose to 9,574 with 77 more fatalities. The new cases came out of a record 81,473 tests, including 35,352 RT-PCR tests and the positivity rate slipped to 4.2% from 4.78% the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-11-of-symptomatic-negative-cases-in-rapid-antigen-tests-found-covid-19-positive-in-rt-pcr/story-jwa8JCaSWg6Ctx8DDxfiDK.html
06-12-2020||India||Clashes mar outreach programmes of BJP, TMC in poll-bound Bengal||Clashes have marked the outreach programmes launched by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) earlier this week in poll-bound West Bengal. Violence have been making headlines ever since the BJP emerged as the ruling party’s principal adversary during the panchayat polls in 2018. The clashes peaked around the Lok Sabha polls last year. The assembly elections are due in about five months. The BJP has alleged that 120 of its workers have murdered in the state since the panchayat polls. On Saturday, the Barabani area of West Burdwan district was rocked by clashes between supporters of the two parties. Lakshman Ghorui, president of the BJP’s district unit alleged that five of his workers sustained bomb and bullet injuries when they were attacked by criminals backed by the TMC. “Our workers assembled around noon for a procession planned as part of the ar noi anyay (no more injustice) programme. They were attacked without provocation. One worker was hit by a bullet,” said Ghorui. Hitting back, Jitendra Tiwari, the TMC district president, said: “It is a false allegation. The clash took place between two rival groups of the BJP. Our party is not involved at all.” TMC’s local lawmaker Bidhan Upadhyay, on the other hand, alleged that workers of the ruling party were attacked by the BJP at Jamgram when they were visiting homes as part of the “duware sarkar (government at the doorstep)” programme launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier this week. A large police contingent headed by Manav Singla, assistant commissioner of Asansol-Durgapur Police rushed to the spot to control the situation. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya went to a private hospital in Durgapur on Saturday evening to see the injured party worker. “The situation is now under control,” a senior police officer of the district said on condition of anonymity on Sunday. “The BJP approached the police to seek permission for its programme but it was not given to avoid tension since both parties wanted to hit the streets in the same area,” he added. In a similar incident, several BJP workers were allegedly beaten up at Sitai in the north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district on Saturday. Nisith Pramanik, the BJP Lok Sabha member from Cooch Behar, alleged that bombs were hurled by TMC workers when BJP workers were taking part in the ar noi anyay programme. Noor Alam Hussain, the karmadhakshya of the TMC-controlled zilla parishad, denied the allegation and said the clash took place between rival groups of the BJP. Kolkata, too, witnessed some tension between two factions of the TMC in north Kolkata during a “duware sarkar” camp. There was however no violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-mar-outreach-programmes-of-bjp-tmc-in-poll-bound-bengal/story-R9xnMHGsvBFClsH5y4r3sI.html
06-12-2020||India||Mystery disease with people fainting strikes Eluru in Andhra Pradesh: What we know so far||Several people from Eluru, a city in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari, reported strange illness with symptoms like nausea, foam in mouth since Saturday, triggering fear about this unknown disease at a time when the healthcare system is already burdened with Covid-19 cases. The epilepsy-like symptoms have been so baffling and serious that doctors in Eluru admitted the patients instantly. According to ANI, 140 persons were admitted to Eluru Government Hospital and subsequently discharged after treatment since Saturday night.So far, 227 people, including 46 children, have been hospitalised. After initial panic, doctors in the government hospital on Sunday said the situation was under control. No case became serious, though the reason of the outbreak still remains unknown.What we know so far> Little is known regarding what is causing such symptoms as doctors are also baffled.> The people who have reported the symptoms are not from the same area and are not related.> The patients include a wide range of age group. Elderly and children too reported the symptoms.> The symptoms persist for 10 to 15 minutes, reports said.> Blood reports of the patients are normal, reports said.> The patients have also been found Covid-19 negative.> The areas affected include Kothapeta, Padamara Veedhi, Vangaya Gudem areas.> Examinations are on to find out whether there has been any contamination is water.Hinting at a possible case of viral infection, West Godavari district Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla told PTI that CT scan reports of the victims were also normal. Shukla has also said that there was nothing serious so far. While most patients complained of convulsions, headaches, some reported bone dislocations and muscular pains. What serves as the common link among many of the patients is that they all consumed tap water. Many of the patients have been feeling distressed as they don’t remember what happened to them for which psychiatrists and psychologists have also been roped in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mystery-disease-with-people-fainting-strikes-andhra-pradesh-city-what-we-know-so-far/story-x91eCzaituMg2CTbak4dLJ.html
06-12-2020||India||Ahead of assembly elections, Assam parties battle in semi-final BTC polls||Ahead of assembly polls in the state in March-April next year, political parties in Assam are battling it out in a semi-final to assume control of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). Polling for the council, which administers Bodoland Territorial Region covering Udalguri, Kokrajhar, Baksa and Chirang, will take place in two phases on Monday and Thursday. Counting of votes will take place on December 12. Polling for 40 seats in the council, which comes under Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, scheduled in April was postponed due to Covid-19 and the area placed under Governor’s rule. Since its formation in 2003, BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between the BJP and the BPF started souring after BTC was placed under Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. the BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while BJP is contesting 26 and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. The campaigning has been bitter and personal with senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma accusing Mohilary of large-scale corruption and the latter terming the former a bully. “There’s lack of development in BTC areas due to misrule of BPF. The large crowds at our rallies indicate the BJP will come to power in BTC this time,” Sarma said at an election rally in Udalguri district on Saturday, the last day of campaigning for the first phase of polling. Hitting back, Mohilary said at an election rally: “Sarma can be a bully in Dispur, but he has no say in BTC. We are coming back to power again and the BJP’s plan to rule BTC will fall flat.” Apart from the BJP and the BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting total 20 seats. The other prime contenders are United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting all 40 seats and Gana Surakha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania, which is fighting in 35 seats. The BTC polls would be the first election in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started and the administrative machinery and poll machinery are geared up to ensure smooth polling while maintaining all protocols. “There are 11 constituencies in our district and nearly 700,000 voters. Polling parties have gone to their stations and security arrangements are in place for Monday’s voting. Face masks, sanitisers etc. have been provided to the poll officials and social distancing will be maintained during polling,” Ranjan Sarma, deputy commissioner of Baksa district said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-elections-assam-parties-battle-in-semi-final-btc-polls/story-P0XWHkABwmzkONFgnbbSDO.html
06-12-2020||India||India’s leadership on solar, industry transition reason to believe climate goals can be achieved: UN||India’s leadership on solar and industry transition is the reason to believe the world can achieve its climate goals, a top UN official has said, asserting that as governments look to restart their economies after Covid-19, it is vital to pursue a recovery that is not only sustainable, resilient and fair, but also job-rich. UN Deputy Secretary General Amina Mohammed highlighted “encouraging news” on global efforts to overcome climate change while attending a webinar titled ‘People and Climate- Just Transition in Practice’ last week. “Today there is encouraging news: Japan and the Republic of Korea, together with more than 110 other countries, have now pledged carbon neutrality by 2050. China says it will do so before 2060. India’s leadership on solar and the industry transition is reason to believe that we can achieve our climate goals,” she said. She said the European Union and its Member States had a strong history of leadership on climate action, including the commitment to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. “It is essential that the European Union delivers on its promise to adopt a new climate target this year, by coming forward with a baseline of reducing emissions by at least 55 per cent by 2030,” she said, adding that it is also crucial for the European Union to accelerate its transition toward renewable energy. Amina stressed that there must be no new coal, and all existing coal in the European Union and in all OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries should be phased out by 2030, and by 2040 elsewhere. “And the financing of fossil fuels internationally must come to an end,” she added. The top UN official underscored that as governments look to restart their economies following the devastation from Covid-19, it was vital that they pursue a recovery that is not only sustainable, resilient and fair, but also job-rich. “The notion that we must choose between climate action and economic strength has been proven wrong. Investments in renewable energy yield three times more jobs than investments in fossil fuels,” she said. A just transition must be a managed transition, she said, urging all governments to work with stakeholders to develop a credible, just transition plans. “Meeting the climate challenge means major shifts in our economies and societies, and these will naturally bring significant impacts on people, families and communities that touch the core of their identities and well-being. A just transition cannot be an afterthought; it an integral part of climate action and a responsibility for all of us,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-leadership-on-solar-industry-transition-reason-to-believe-climate-goals-can-be-achieved-un/story-rGfwuLoCmp7zOGnV8Wpj0I.html
06-12-2020||India||India plans to allow relinquished coal-fired plants to sell power||India’s power ministry proposes letting coal-fired power plants keep selling power after completing their agreements with buyers, a letter seen by Reuters shows, despite national promises to close old plants to curb pollution.The proposal, if approved, would help old coal plants earn additional revenue, increase liquidity in short-term power markets and help distribution companies in states facing a power deficit access cheaper power, the ministry said in the draft proposal dated Friday.“It is in the consumer interest to keep the tariff of electricity as low as possible,” says the letter sent to power departments of India’s states and the heads of federal government-run utilities such as NTPC Ltd.Such a move would enable federal-run electricity generators such as NTPC “to sell power in any mode” after distribution companies exit an agreement upon the completion of the tenure, the ministry said. Power Minister R.K. Singh and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman have previously said they plan to shut old coal-fired power plants. The environment ministry has also pushed for shutting down coal plants, which account for 80% of India’s industrial pollution, if they do not comply with green laws. The outcome remains unclear. The power ministry has sought comments from the states and the heads of federal government-run power generators. A final decision on the proposal is not imminent.A senior power ministry official said on Sunday only inefficient plants would be shut down. “Cost-effective utilities that provide cheap power will still be allowed to operate. Small, inefficient plants will be shut down,” the official said.Distribution companies operated by states such as Punjab, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha want to surrender power allocated by federal government-run utilities after the plants complete 25 years, the power ministry said.The states cited reasons such as the availability of excess power and high cost of electricity as reasons for surrendering power allotted to them under the agreements. A list compiled by the power ministry in 2019 shows distribution companies wanted to surrender power generated from utilities with a capacity of 5.75 gigawatts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-plans-to-allow-relinquished-coal-fired-plants-to-sell-power/story-v6uVXLvcTMH18XQ1yaqQzL.html
06-12-2020||India||Congress, AAP, TRS, Trinamool: List of parties which are supporting December 8 Bharat Bandh||The proposed Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions on December 8 is gathering strength as several political parties have now extended support to the cause of the farmers and the call for a nationwide strike. Though the union leaders are engaged in talks with the Centre on the three agriculture bills that they are opposing, the farmers have announced that their proposed plan of the nationwide strike, a day ahead of the next round of talks with the Centre, will be on track. Normal life is likely to be hit on December 8 as the farmers now have support of several trade unions and political parties that are in power in many states. Banking and transport services are likely to be affected on December 8 as unions have already backed the strike. CongressIn support of the bandh on December 8, there will be demonstrations at all party offices, district and state headquarters. The decision to support the bandh stems from Congress’s long-maintained stance on the farm laws. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier addressed kisan rallies in Punjab after the laws were enacted.Aam Aadmi PartyDelhi Chief Minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has extended support to the bandh call. Delhi government supported the farmers when Delhi Police was mulling to detain the protesting farmers as they reached Delhi borders a few days ago. The AAP government offered Burari ground as protest site to which some groups have moved. Telangana Rashtra SamithiTelangana Chief Minister and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday extended total support to the Bharat Bandh. Rao has appealed to party workers to make the bandh successful. He said TRS rank and file would actively participate in the bandh. Rashtriya Janata DalThe Rashtriya Janata Dal has voiced support to the farmers’ protest and is supporting the call for the nationwide strike. On Saturday, Tejashwi along with a few opposition leaders of Bihar have been booked for staging demonstration in prohibited area without permission.Left partiesThe Left parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc, are supporting the farmers. In a joint statement released by them, the Left parties appealed to all other political parties and forces who stand with the farmers’ cause and have demanded the repeal of these laws to extend their support and cooperation to the December 8 bandh call.Trinamool Trinamool has announced “moral support” to the nationwide strike. The party has said sit-in protests will take place on December 8 in solidarity with the farmers’ cause.Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, Shiromani Akali Dal too backed the bandh.Apart from the political parties, a joint forum of trade unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), is supporting the bandh.Among the bank unions, Officer unions All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Officers’ Association (AIBOA) and Indian National Bank Officers’ Congress (INBOC) have supported the farmers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-left-trs-trinamool-list-of-parties-which-are-supporting-december-8-bharat-bandh/story-tjHfH3dXZ2RdmCORBka4GN.html
06-12-2020||India||Boxer Vijender Singh joins protesting farmers, says will return Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna||Boxer Vijender Singh on Sunday expressed his solidarity with the farmers protesting against legislation enacted by the Centre earlier this year and said he will return his Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award if the government fails to repeal the “black laws”. “If the government does not withdraw the black laws, I will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award,” Singh, who had joined Congress and contested the Lok Sabha elections last year, said according to news agency ANI.Five former sportspersons from Punjab also joined the protest at Singhu border on Sunday. Arjuna awardees Rajbir Kaur and Gurmail Singh, who played hockey, former wrestler Kartar Singh, ex-boxer Jaipal Singh and Dhyan Chand Award winner Ajit Singh were among them.Watch | ‘Will return Khel Ratna’: Boxer Vijender Singh visits farmers at Singhu border Follow latest updates on farmers protests here“Many former players like Sajjan Singh Cheema who could not join us because of health or other issues have given their sports awards to us,” Kartar Singh, who is a Padma Shri and Arjuna awardee, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Saturday. “If are not allotted a time to meet the president, we will place our awards outside the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Sunday,” Rajbir Kaur had said on Saturday.Other former sportspersons who have also supported the agitating farmers are Dhyan Chand awardee and Olympian Gurmail Singh, Arjuna winner kabaddi player Hardeep Singh, and Arjuna awardee weightlifter Tara Singh. On Friday, former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu, during whose tenure India won its maiden Olympic medal in the sport, Padma Shri boxer Kaur Singh and Arjuna awardee boxer Jaipal Singh too had announced that they would return their awards.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been agitating at five Delhi borders for the past 11 days. They want the Centre to repeal three laws it cleared during Parliament’s monsoon session, saying they would allow big corporations to exploit them. The government, however, maintains that the new reform agenda will lead to better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector.The farmers have called for a nationwide strike on December 8 against the legislation. The move has been backed by several political parties, including the Congress. Also, the leaders of farmers’ unions and Union ministers will meet for the sixth time on December 10 to come to a conclusion for the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boxer-vijender-singh-joins-protesting-farmers-says-will-return-rajiv-gandhi-khel-ratna/story-D23uIM9MxjI9IMYpTH3a4H.html
06-12-2020||India||Karnataka CM to meet state BJP in-charge, likely to discuss cabinet expansion||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is set to hold a lunch meeting at his residence with state BJP in-charge and party National General Secretary Arun Singh on Sunday.They are likely to discuss the issue of Cabinet expansion in the state. Arun Singh will meet Chief Minister Yediyurappa before going back to Delhi.Last month, Yediyurappa had indicated that the Cabinet expansion may take some more time as the high command is yet to hold talks regarding the reshuffling and expansion of the Cabinet.Earlier on November 19, the Chief Minister had met BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda in the national capital.On November 12, a meeting of senior BJP MLAs was held at minister Ramesh Jarakiholi’s residence amid speculations of a Karnataka Cabinet reshuffle. More than a dozen aspirants are waiting to be included in seven vacant chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-to-meet-state-bjp-in-charge-likely-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion/story-Zr6ukLTBd0aptsKAXdA7DK.html
06-12-2020||India||Congress backs protesting farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on December 8||Congress leaders will support the farmers’ call for a Bharat Bandh, or a nationwide strike, on December 8 to show their dissent against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, the party’s spokesperson Pawan Khera has said.“Congress has decided to support the Bharat Bandh on December 8. We will be demonstrating the same at our party offices,” Khera said, according to news agency ANI, adding the move will be a step towards strengthening Rahul Gandhi’s support to the farmers and that they will ensure that the demonstration is successful.Former party chief Rahul Gandhi, through tractor rallies, signature campaigns and farmers’ rallies has been raising the party’s voice in support of the farmers, he added.Also Read: Farmers’ protests at Delhi borders enter Day 11; city traffic divertedWhile speaking to the media at the party headquarters, the Congress spokesperson asked the government why the laws were enacted in a hurry. “In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government in June surreptitiously brings ordinances. What was the hurry, the entire country was focussed on the fallout of Covid-19, the economic, social, health fallout? But the government was busy surreptitiously bringing ordinances to help its industrialist-corporate friends,” Khera said.“Where was the need to bring these legislations so fast, you suspended the opposition parties from Parliament, you did not follow parliamentary procedure and hurried through the passing of the bills, why was the hurry,” he added.Khera said the government would have sought suggestions from the farmers before introducing the legislation if it was really bothered about them. The Congress leader said that the entire nation was witnessing the plight of protesting farmers, who are camping outside at national capital borders during winter nights waiting for the government to listen to them.“What we are seeing today is the result of a conspiracy between the government and its corporate friends, wherein the victim would be the farmer, and the farmer knows this,” Khera claimed.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are sitting on various borders of the national capital since November 26 to protest against three farm laws - Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020- cleared by the government during the monsoon session of the Parliament.Leaders of farmers’ unions met the central leadership on Saturday to resolve the deadlock. However, no progress could be made and they will now meet for the sixth round of talks on December 10.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-backs-protesting-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-december-8/story-3QTMW1sgaVjM1lErc9UW1J.html
06-12-2020||India||‘If you have real power...’: Tejashwi Yadav dares Nitish Kumar govt to arrest him||The Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav hit out at the Nitish Kumar led Bihar government, daring it to arrest him for protesting in support of farmers’ demands to repeal the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. Yadav’s comments came after a case was filed against him and 18 other leaders from the constituents of the Grand Alliance-led opposition in Bihar for protesting without permission amid the coronavirus pandemic.The first information report (FIR) has been registered against them under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Diseases Act. An FIR was also lodged against 500 unidentified people.“The government of Bihar, led by a cowardly chief minister, has lodged an FIR against me for raising the voice in support of the farmers. If you have any real power, then arrest me. If you do not, I will surrender myself. I am even ready to be hanged for farmers,” Yadav, the leader of opposition in Bihar, tweeted in Hindi. डरपोक और बंधक मुख्यमंत्री की अगुवाई में चल रही बिहार की कायर और निक्कमी सरकार ने किसानों के पक्ष में आवाज उठाने के जुर्म में हम पर FIR दर्ज की है। दम है तो गिरफ़्तार करो,अगर नहीं करोगे तो इंतज़ार बाद स्वयं गिरफ़्तारी दूँगा।किसानों के लिए FIR क्या अगर फाँसी भी देना है तो दे दिजीए। https://t.co/3B30VF3asYThe RJD, along with other Mahagathbandhan parties, had on Saturday held a demonstration in Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in solidarity with agitating farmers across the country. Reacting to the charges, the RJD had also called Nitish Kumar, a “coward” and criticised the government for booking Yadav using “false pretexts”.“The Bihar government has shown its two-faced character by using false and shallow pretexts to book Tejashwi Yadav for standing with the farmers and protesting in their support. For farmers, we are not scared of even a thousand such FIRs,” the party proclaimed.While the fifth round of talks on Saturday with farmer group leaders remained inconclusive, the Centre has announced another meeting on December 9. Farmers’ leaders have said that they will go ahead with the proposed Bharat Bandh called by the protesting farmers on December 8.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-have-real-power-tejashwi-yadav-dares-nitish-kumar-govt-to-arrest-him/story-n8nak7js7pSqGs0IfHIk8O.html
06-12-2020||India||Power demand in Delhi increases due to early winter||Plummeting temperatures in the city have seen the winter power demand surpassing that of the corresponding period last year, discom officials said.Delhi’s early winter is getting reflected in the city’s power demand. The peak power demand in November 2020 surpassed the peak power demand of November 2019, said a BSES discom official.“Delhi’s peak power demand in November this year was 3678 MW (November 20) as compared to last November’s peak power demand of 3631 MW (November 15). Also, it surpassed the power demand of November 2019 on 15 corresponding days,” he said.In the first five days of December also, Delhi’s peak power demand has been more than the peak power demand of December 2019 on three corresponding days. A similar pattern was witnessed in October too, officials said.The October demand (4820 MW) this year was more than 4605 MW in the same month last year. Besides, it was higher than 17 corresponding days in October last year, said the BSES official.The peak power demand of the national capital in this winter can go up to 5480 MW, surpassing last year’s winter demand. Last year, it had peaked at 5343 MW, he said.  The peak winter power demand in BRPL and BYPL areas had reached 2020 MW and 1165 MW respectively during last winter. This year, it is expected to reach 2200 MW and 1270 MW for BRPL and BYPL respectively, he said.“Reliable supply in any season depends on proper power arrangements, accurate demand forecast and robust distribution network. On all these aspects, BSES discoms are fully geared to ensure adequate power availability during the winter months,” said the BSES official.The arrangements include long-term agreements from power-plants. Additionally, BSES is also receiving more than 190 MW of wind power, 25 MW from waste-to energy and 70 MW of solar power from SECI.  It is also being helped by more than 90 MW of solar power panels installed on rooftops in South, West, East and Central Delhi, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-demand-in-delhi-increases/story-PMTt2ZKlqIvGR8cVLTerHN.html
06-12-2020||India||On BR Ambedkar’s death anniversary, Bengal governor reminds state to ‘uphold Constitution’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday urged the West Bengal government to uphold the Constitution and expressed concern about the political situation in the state. Dhankhar said he is deeply disturbed and pained that governance in the state is shifting from the path of the Constitution.Speaking on the occasion of the 64th death anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar, Dhankhar claimed that the state of West Bengal is “virtually on fire”. Expressing his anger towards the West Bengal government, Dhankhar said he has sent them multiple reminders but to no avail, adding that the state is functioning unconstitutionally.“The state is virtually on fire and they seem to be fiddling politically, it can’t be countenanced. I have sent them multiple reminders, but no effect on them is a very big indication that it would take me a lot of effort to say the state government is functioning constitutionally. It is very unfortunate that their work is such that I am being forced,” he said according to news agency ANI.Dhankhar hoped that the state government would understand the letter and spirit of the Constitution and come to the right path. “I hope they will give it topmost priority and not force my hands beyond a limit,” he added.Dhankhar paid floral tributes to Ambedkar at Red Road in Kolkata on Mahaparinirvana Diwas, observed on the death anniversary of the leader.This isn’t the first time Dhankhar has lashed out at the Mamata Banerjee led government. He had been flagging concern over law and order and other issues in several tweets in the past and seeking a response from the chief minister’s Office (CMO). On November 18, he had pledged to ensure the assembly elections scheduled to be held in 2021 will be conducted in a free and fair manner in the state. “I will do everything in my power to ensure that the people of West Bengal get a free and fair election without violence. I have nothing to do with the outcome, only the upholding of the process of law and voter satisfaction,” Dhankhar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-br-ambedkar-s-death-anniversary-bengal-governor-reminds-state-to-uphold-constitution/story-NaD0V1uRJ2wwdlqnfjPSEJ.html
06-12-2020||India||Cop, civilian injured in suspected terror attack on police checkpoint in Srinagar||A police personnel and a civilian were injured on Sunday when suspected terrorists opened fire at a police checkpoint in the Old City area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar.Officials said the incident happened in the Sazgaripora area of the Old City where police had set up a checkpoint. “A police constable and a civilian were injured when fire was opened on one of our checkpoints,” said senior superintendent of police, Srinagar, Haseeb Mughal. The injured were rushed to nearby Sher-I- Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences hospital where their condition is stated to be stable.Mughal said that the area was immediately cordoned. “The searches are going on to trace the attackers,” he said.  #Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon police party at #Sazgaripora #Hawal in which 01 police personnel Farooq Ahmad Chopan & 01 civilian Muneer Ahmad got injured. Both the injured were shifted to hospital. Area has been cordoned off. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceTwo days ago on Friday, unidentified gunmen attacked a district development council candidate (DDC) in South Kashmir’s Kokernag area when polling for the third phase took place in Jammu and Kashmir.Earlier last month, four heavily armed Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists, suspected to have crossed over from Pakistan through tunnels, were killed on November 19 in an encounter at Ban Toll Plaza in Nagrota. The Jaish terrorists were killed inside the truck that was ferrying them to Kashmir.The slain ultras had used a trans-border tunnel from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers that opened up near Regal post of the BSF in Samba sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-civilian-injured-in-suspected-terror-attack-on-police-check-point-in-srinagar/story-BLcL4kGTS3a07YZtAmKCVL.html
06-12-2020||India||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s NGO rescues 1600 trafficked children from exploitation during pandemic||Over 1,6oo trafficked children were rescued from “situations of exploitation” in the past eight months, Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi’s NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan said, noting that there has been a rise in such cases as many parents lost their livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic and during the lockdown. The lockdown was imposed by the central government across the nation from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. However, from June 8, the Centre gradually started easing restrictions under ‘Unlock’.“One of the biggest worries during the lockdown was the fact that the financial crisis of families will lead them to take loans unethically. This eventually increased the vulnerability of children and their families of being lured by traffickers with the promise of a better livelihood opportunity,” Dhananjay Tingal, an executive director at BBA, said. Thirteen-year-old Krishna (name changed) was one of the 1,675 children rescued by the child rights organisation between April and November.Krishna was trafficked from his village in Bihar to work in a garment factory in Gandhinagar in Gujarat, where he toiled for 12 hours a day, and stayed in a tiny room that he shared with six others like him, BBA officials said. Though they were promised payment, they were never given the promised amount. Besides, this he and the others just got half a day to rest every week and were under tremendous pressure to meet production targets, they said.Krishna landed up in Gujarat and became a victim of trafficking after his parents, farm labourers, lost their jobs with the outbreak of the coronavirus, the BBA said.Moreover, his parents had taken a loan of Rs 20,000 before the lockdown to fix the roof of their house, but being unemployed they were unable to pay their lender, the officials said.It was getting difficult for Krishna’s parents to feed a family of 11 and traffickers took advantage of the situation and for Rs 20,000, Krishna was taken to Gujarat to work, they said.For months he endured exploitation at the hands of his employer, before being rescued by the BBA in July. The story of 14 -year-old Saad Khan (name changed) is no different.There were three earning members in his family, but the pandemic induced poverty forced Khan to search for work, the BBA officials said. He and his family were lured by a trafficker, who gave them an advance of Rs 5,000 and promised work for Khan. “The advance payment by any trafficker further complicates the issue as it becomes a case of bonded labour,” Tingal said. Khan was rescued along with 15 other children in September while he was being transported in a bus to work at a bangle making factory in Jaipur in Rajasthan. He was rescued by BAA with the help of the anti-human trafficking unit and local police. The child rights NGO said during April to November, 1,675 children rescued from “situations of exploitation” and 107 traffickers were arrested. “During August and September 2020, 80 vehicles, including 51 buses and 29 trains were intercepted based on information received from field activists, exclusively deployed to report suspected cases of child trafficking,” Tingal said, terming children as the biggest victim of the pandemic.“There is a dire need of being more vigilant and active in mapping children and families, who are specially at risk and try to stop trafficking at the source. The immediate measure that we have at hand to prevent this is to rehabilitate rescued bonded labourers, especially by ensuring that they are financially compensated and do not fall back into the cycle of exploitation,” he said.Tingal said that bangle making units of Jaipur have been under the scanner for over a decade now due to children being employed. The pandemic momentarily halted production but as soon as restrictions were relaxed, manufacturing resumed, and employers started employing children, he said.Children are employed primarily for two reasons- first due to cheap labour cost and secondly, due to their small hands which helps in efficiently fitting embellishments on bangles, Tingal said. “The advent of the pandemic has seriously damaged the work done in the past two decades by child rights organisations in terms of decreasing child labour. BBA has been adapting to the challenges posed by the pandemic in dealing with the steep rise in trafficking,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobel-laureate-kailash-satyarthi-s-ngo-rescues-1600-trafficked-children-from-exploitation-during-pandemic/story-z0qvYvcXQhQSeMJPV3Cr4K.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: IMD says Delhi’s AQI remains ‘very poor’, likely to improve in the next two days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s air quality ‘very poor’, may improve over next 2 days: IMDDelhi’s air quality was recorded in the upper end of the “very poor category” on Sunday and is likely to improve over the next two days due to a predicted increase in the wind speed, the IMD said. Read MoreNo event in Ayodhya on Babri anniversary as Hindus, Muslims move onUnlike previous year, Ayodhya is all set to move beyond its bitter past, 28 years after the demolition of the Babri mosque and four months after “Bhoomi Pujan” for Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi. Read MoreIndia considers French offer of six Airbus multi-role mid-air refuellersIndia is considering a French proposal to acquire six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker aircraft on a government-to-government basis for expanding the Indian Air Force (IAF) strike capability. Read MoreBeen only 14 days since first vaccine shot: Anil Vij after testing Covid-19 positiveHaryana’s health minister Anil Vij, who tested positive for Covid-19 a little over two weeks after he joined a trial for a vaccine candidate, said on Sunday it had only been 14 days since he was “vaccinated”. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: Brad Hogg identifies ‘the advantage India have over all the other teams’ before T20 World Cup 2021India, who are yet to lose a T20I match this year, is enjoying an 8-match winning streak in the shortest format in 2020. Former Australia spinner Brad Hogg praised India’s performance so far saying that they are the most balanced side for the T20 format in world cricket. Read MorePriyanka Chopra can’t hide her excitement for ‘phenomenon’ Gal Gadot as spectacular first reactions for Wonder Woman 1984 pour inPriyanka Chopra expressed her excitement for the upcoming DC superhero film Wonder Woman 1984, just as first reactions started emerging online. The film, starring Gal Gadot in the lead role, was delayed from its summer release because of the coronavirus pandemic.Read MoreGuinness Record awarded to world’s first Star Wars-inspired retractable proto-lightsaber. Here’s how it was createdA team, consisting of a Canadian inventor and a designer, left many in awe when they bagged a Guinness World Record for building the first retractable proto-lightsaber ever to be created. Read More‘We’re winning this election’: Donald Trump at first post-poll rallyAt his first post-poll rally, US president Donald Trump said he would end up winning the election. Trump also falsely claimed he won Georgia in the US election. Trump said, “Remember, we were going to lose Florida, they said. We were five down in Florida. We won by a lot.  Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-imd-says-delhi-s-aqi-remains-very-poor-likely-to-improve-in-the-next-two-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HEjS8B0nb82cK6IgzlNPSP.html
06-12-2020||India||Indian-American run NGO launches virtual art gallery on disability||A US-based global NGO run by an Indian-American has launched a virtual art gallery on the theme of disability that aims at colouring the world with inclusion of specially-abled people through the creative expression of artwork. The launch of virtual art gallery by Voice of Specially Abled People (VOSAP) on Saturday follows the successful “VOSAP Art From Heart Contest”, which was participated by more than 4,200 artists from 53 countries.An international panel of eight judges declared 50 winners from 24 countries using online platform of VOSAP. This is the first international online art contest on theme of disability with this huge response, a media release said.In a letter to VOSAP founder Pranav Desai, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated 50 winners and later stated it is heartening to see tech interventions like VOSAP Virtual Art Gallery will lead to better understanding of skills and talents of Divyangjan (specially-abled). VOSAP said this unique initiative to spread awareness on skills, talent of specially-abled people by virtue of powerful tool of visual art and using technology is now taken to the next level with launch of virtual VOSAP Art Gallery of selected 250 artwork of 250 artists.This digital platform can reach to millions of people around the world and not only gives global exposure to Artists but also helps redefine disability with vivid paintings, drawings beautifully portraying aspirations, issues, talents, solutions, emotions of specially abled people.“Inclusion of 1 BN+ specially abled people is a 21st-century opportunity in front of all of us and such initiatives are aimed to touch hearts of millions of people so that there is “True Access” in the society, beyond physical accessibility,” Desai said.The launch was celebrated with a live event hosted by singer and multi-talented Sparsh Shah. Over 5,000 people watched it on social media platforms and they all were very inspired by soulful singing of Sparsh and life story of Jessica.Chairman of Executive Board of WHO and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan gave a video message stating that this idea of VOSAP to use art as a tool to mobilise artists to become change makers of tomorrow is exemplary. Dr Thawar Chand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, also delivered his video message and appreciated VOSAP efforts towards inclusion of Divyangjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-american-run-ngo-launches-virtual-art-gallery-on-disability/story-BHuG85NsC9Rmffzrwv72nI.html
06-12-2020||India||UP MLC polls heat up as aggressive BJP goes all out||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) scripted some amount of success in teachers’ and graduate constituency seats of the Legislative Council election even as its leaders said the party was looking to dominate teachers’ politics in the state. The party’s gains come after it raised the stakes in these polls by launching an aggressive poll campaign. It, however, faced a tough contest on some of the seats from the opposition Samajwadi Party and independents. Of the 11 MLC seats —six teachers’ and five graduates’ — the BJP contested nine and backed an independent for the teachers’ quota seat in Gorakhpur. The results won’t affect the overall standing in the UP Legislative Council, where the SP dominates with 52 seats against the BJP’s 19, the Bahujan Samaj Party’s 8 and the Congress’s 2 members. However, the party would increase its tally after winning three of the six teachers’ constituency seats. An independent backed by the party has won as well in Gorakhpur. The SP registered a win in Varanasi and another independent candidate, who is a member of the unaided teachers’ outfit, won the Agra teachers’ seat. He is believed to enjoy the tacit support of the BJP. The state chief of unaided teachers’ association Umesh Dwivedi has already joined the BJP and won the elections from Lucknow teachers’ quota seat. Among the five graduate constituency seats, the BJP and Samajwadi Party had won two seats each. The BJP was also leading in the Agra graduate constituency. The overall results are yet to be announced officially. The BJP was poised to win the Lucknow graduates’ seat, though it faced an upset in the Varanasi graduates’ constituency as well as in the Allahabad-Jhansi graduates’ constituency seat, where it lost after 24 years. Political experts said the BJP’s aggressive foray in these polls, where it got its top state leaders to campaign for the first time, was set to impact teachers’ politics in the state. “It’s now clear that like these polls, the BJP would aggressively contest the panchayat polls, too, where a good show would definitely provide a psychological edge to the party ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran political observer. He said this would be most evident in west UP, where the BJP brought about a major upset by ending the nearly 50-year domination of teachers’ leader Om Prakash Sharma, 87, who had been winning the seat since 1970. “The results would impact teachers’ politics both inside and outside the UP Legislative Council,” agreed SK Dwivedi, a retired head of the department of political science in Lucknow University. “The complete results haven’t come so far, but there is no denying that BJP now would have a say in teachers’ politics in a big way,” he added. Even before the results for all the 11 MLC seats had come, the BJP quickly shifted focus to the panchayat polls. Its top state leadership met at the party office on Saturday to strategise for the next political assignment in UP. The panchayat polls in UP are expected to be announced early next year. The SP cited its win against the BJP in Allahabad and Varanasi as proof of what it termed its growing acceptability. “Despite desperate efforts to rig the polls by misusing official machinery, the BJP has suffered reverses from Jhansi till Kashi. The Samajwadi Party’s symbol cycle raced ahead triumphantly and is well set to win the 2022 assembly polls. The party’s popularity is growing and it has started showing too,” SP MLC Sunil Yadav said. The BJP faced reverses in graduate constituency seat in Varanasi, losing to the SP there. The BJP did not officially contest the Varanasi teachers’ seat. The Allahabad-Jhansi graduates’ seat was won by the SP and here the BJP cadres entered into a heated exchange of words with the police and administration. “The results make it clear that only the SP has the capability to challenge and checkmate the BJP,” said SP leader IP Singh though BJP leaders said having made an impact they were looking ahead. The BJP was poised to win the Lucknow graduate constituency seat after a tough contest, where independent candidate Kanti Singh levelled accusations against the administration of siding with the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-mlc-polls-heat-up-as-aggressive-bjp-goes-all-out/story-5rIj5d0va5tZs5cMISnwNP.html
06-12-2020||India||FIR against 4 journalists for ‘sting operation’ on Gujarat police||Police have registered an FIR against four journalists of a Gujarati newspaper for allegedly entering a police station in Rajkot to carry out a ‘sting operation’ and obstructing police personnel from conducting their duties, an official said.The journalists, three reporters and a photographer, entered the Rajkot taluka police station on the night of December 1 for the alleged ‘sting operation’ in connection with a fire at a Covid-19 hospital in Rajkot in which five patients died on November 27, he said.The four journalists allegedly entered the prohibited area without due permission, the official from Rajkot taluka police station said.On December 2, a news report along with photographs was published in the newspaper, saying three accused arrested in the hospital fire tragedy were given VIP treatment and kept in a police staff room, instead of the lockup, he said.The journalists also shot some videos of the police station and circulated them on various social media platforms, he said.The three accused in the fire incident were brought to the Rajkot taluka police station on November 30, and were taken to a separate room for questioning and not given any VIP treatment, the official said.An FIR was registered on Friday against the four journalists under Indian Penal Code Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 114 (abettor present when offence committed), and provisions of the Information Technology Act, the official said.No arrest has been made so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-4-journalists-for-sting-operation-on-gujarat-police/story-XWuL5qcscEz9S2uPENewpK.html
06-12-2020||India||3 gold seizures in 3 days at Patna station confirm new smuggling modus operandi||For the third day in running, the Patna arm of the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) recovered smuggled gold on Saturday from possession of passengers travelling on Delhi bound long distance trains, bringing the increasing use of Indian railways for smuggling of gold metal and contraband into sharp focus.In the latest and the third incident, one Maharashtra resident was apprehended at Patna railway junction from Dibrugarh-Delhi special train and 26 gold biscuits of foreign-origin, weighing 4.3kgs and valuing over Rs 2 crore, were recovered from his possession on Saturday night, said an official aware of the developments.A day earlier on Friday night, the DRI team had apprehended two persons from 02423 Dibrugarh- New Delhi AC special and recovered 12 foreign origin gold biscuits weighing 1.99 kg, valued at over Rs 1 crore, from their possession, he added. And on Thursday, the DRI team arrested two persons including a woman from 02549 North East Festival Special train and recovered three foreign-origin gold bars weighing 1.496 kg. Those arrested were identified as Afroz Amirullah and Mohammad Shamad, both residents of Mumbai, who were travelling in AC-2 compartment of the Delhi bound train. The back-to-back seizures have revealed that smugglers from states such as Maharashtra, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh are increasingly using long-distance trains to smuggle gold into Delhi and other parts of the country, said the official quoted above.The intensified checking at the airports compared to the absence of baggage scanning and other security features at majority of railway stations in the country has led to the smugglers relying on rail routes, the official added. Also Read: Jewellery worth lakhs go missing from check-in bag of Bengaluru-bound couple, FIR lodgedThe suspect, arrested on Saturday, was identified as Sanjay Katkar, a resident of Sangli in Maharashtra and he was picked up from B4 compartment of Dibrugarh-Delhi special train. In his statement, recorded under section 108 of the Customs Act, he said the gold had been smuggled from Myanmar into India.The official said that the two accused arrested a day earlier on Friday were identified as Sunil Lun and Ravi Chug-- both residents of Thane in Maharashtra. Ravi was travelling in A-1 coach, while Sunil was travelling in H-1 compartment of the train. The gold was found concealed in the waistbands worn by the duo. They couldn’t produce any valid document showing legal importation, possession and transportation of the gold bars, valued at Rs 1.1 crore by a government value assessor, he said.“Acting on the basis of specific intelligence, very meticulously and painstakingly developed over days, the sleuths of Patna Zonal Unit of DRI apprehended two persons at Patliputra Railway Station when the train arrived,”said the official.Also Read: IIT-Patna student bags Rs 47 lakh annual package The intelligence inputs indicated that the recovered gold bars carrying foreign markings, had been smuggled into India from Myanmar through the international land border at Moreh in Manipur by a smuggling syndicate operating from Guwahati. Intelligence officers say rail routes are becoming popular among smugglers as it not only provides them with a safe, surveillance-free passage but also allows switching of handlers, carriers and routes, to avoid being tracked. The DRI have also intercepted a person identified as Kishan Lal of Madhya Pradesh near Patna junction. He was found carrying a consignment of 2.99 kgs of Heroin, worth Rs 15 crores. An RPF officer said that smugglers disguise ganja as luggage. “Most of the time, ganja is smuggled in general compartments. Since they are jam-packed, no one notices the extra luggage,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-gold-seizures-in-3-days-at-patna-station-confirm-new-smuggling-modus-operandi/story-h9HMeC6WOSUbA2j5Z4OGZP.html
06-12-2020||India||Bank unions lend support to farmers’ agitation against agri laws||A number of bank unions have expressed their solidarity with farmers protesting against recently passed agri laws and requested the government to resolve the issue at the earliest. The All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) in a statement said the government should come forward and resolve their demands in the interest of the nation and farmers. Officer unions All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Officers’ Association (AIBOA) and Indian National Bank Officers’ Congress (INBOC) have also requested the government to initiate meaningful dialogue to resolve the impasse by referring the bills to a select committee by a special Presidential Order. The farming community has expressed apprehension that three new laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. Enacted in September, the laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. “Our nation needs peace and main stakeholders of the nation should not be made to suffer, as the agriculture sector alone performed positively in the Covid-19 pandemic, which reflects the inherent strength of the sector,” three officers’ unions said in a joint statement. The peasants constitute 80 per cent of the customer base of the public sector banks, regional rural banks, co-operative banks and old generation private banks and thus are major stakeholders of India’s banking system, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bank-unions-lend-support-to-farmers-agitation-against-agri-laws/story-XNsl3SO4iyicGEpnlXpS6H.html
06-12-2020||India||IISc researchers working on Covid-19 detection using Raman spectroscopy, artificial intelligence||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, are working on rapid identification of Covid-19 biomarkers in blood plasma using Raman spectroscopy and artificial intelligence. Raman Spectroscopy is a non-destructive chemical analysis technique which provides detailed information about chemical structure, phase and polymorphy, crystallinity and molecular interactions. It is based upon the interaction of light with the chemical bonds within a material.According to the team, using artificial intelligence and deep learning, the Covid-19 detection process will be automated and rapid and there will be no requirement of any extraction procedure. “It is of critical importance to develop new technologies that can rapidly detect Covid-19 and perform mass testing, and at the same are cost-effective. In this regard, Raman spectroscopy holds significant promise,” according to Dipankar Nandi, Professor at IISc Bangalore and principal investigator of the project.“Traditionally a chemist’s tool, Raman spectroscopy has found numerous applications in biomedicine, especially in disease diagnosis. This method probes bond vibrations and is very sensitive to the structural changes, giving a molecular fingerprint of the sample. Every disease is associated with a change in biochemistry which can either be a cause for disease manifestation or may be a consequence of the disease itself,” he added.The research is being conducted in collaboration with AIIMS, Bhopal, which will be providing patient samples and healthy controls. “Our proposal is directed at identifying Covid-19 biomarkers in the blood plasma of infected patients. No extraction procedure or reagents are required. The only requirement is a spectrometer and the patient samples. Using artificial intelligence and deep learning, the detection process will be automated and rapid. Spectra collected from infected Covid-19 patients and healthy controls will be used for training and building robust classification models,” according to Nandi.India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 96.44 lakh, while the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 91 lakh pushing the national recovery rate to 94.37 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The Covid-19 active caseload plunged to almost 4 lakh after 138 days.The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,44,222 with 36,011 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll crossed to 1.40 lakh with 482 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iisc-researchers-working-on-covid-19-detection-using-raman-spectroscopy-artificial-intelligence/story-f0zZuYUJD8QwOyUJDip1mO.html
06-12-2020||India||India considers French offer of six Airbus multi-role mid-air refuellers||India is considering a French proposal to acquire six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker aircraft on a government-to-government basis for expanding the Indian Air Force (IAF) strike capability through latest mid-air refuelers. IAF as of now operate seven Russian IL-76 M refuellers with Pakistan acquiring same four refuellers from Ukraine and China operating three same Russian refuellers along with vintage 10 others modified versions of Russian bombers.According to South Block sources, while IAF wanted to get an Airbus 330 MRTT on wet lease from a British company, the French proposal involves selling 5–7-year-old six aircraft for the air force with a certification of another 30 years of platform life at a much-reduced rate. IAF has been eager to acquire MRTT since the past decade with the previous RFP expiring without any results.According to a former Indian Air Force chief, the Airbus 330 MRTT platform has much larger wings of Airbus 340 as a result of which the aircraft can refuel two fighters mid-air at the same time through drogues (attached to wing pods) or a central refuelling boom system. The best part about the Airbus aircraft is that it can transport 260 personnel in cabin and fuel in the cargo hold due to highly efficient and high-powered engines. The MRTT can be turned into purely a tanker or transport or air ambulance or all three at the same time with a total crew of three.Mid-air refuellers are a key to expanding the operational envelope of the IAF and Indian Navy carrier-based fighters by extending their range. According to the former IAF chief, a mid-air refueller can be used to extend the flight of a Su-30 MKI or Rafale flying from Port Blair all the way up to Sunda, Lombard and Malacca Straits for freedom of navigation missions.“The French proposal is a win-win for IAF as the international market for aerial platforms is down due to Covid-19 pandemic. The aircraft does not guzzle fuel and has high power engines to operate from high altitude air bases in Ladakh like Leh, Thoise and Nyoma at the same time transport troops or conduct medical evacuation if required,” said a senior IAF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-considers-french-offer-of-six-airbus-multi-role-mid-air-refuellers/story-70sYwYarTrtUMQcE0wvV7N.html
06-12-2020||India||Bengal woman, days away from turning 100, recovers from Covid-19||A month shy of 100, Bhabatarini Samanta had to battle the deadliest of foes in the path of her becoming a centenarian - the coronavirus. And, she mananged to get the better of it, stunning doctors and family members alike.Samanta, at 99 years and 11 months, was admitted to a designated Covid-19 hospital in Fuleswar area on November 24 with fever and breathing trouble.Subhasis Mitra, director of the hospital, said she had numerous complications, and a medical team had to be set up to assess her health condition.“With time and care, she started recovering. We are delighted that we could make her free from COVID-19 and send her home in time for the 100th birthday, which is just a few days away,” he said.As a farewell gesture to the elderly woman, doctors, nurses and other staff of the hospital sang songs, gave her flowers and sweets before she boarded an ambulance to depart for home on Saturday.Mitra also said that so far, around 4,000 Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the hospital, and of them, 3,700 recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-woman-days-away-from-turning-100-recovers-from-covid-19/story-r9lUNSWzoEX5aArgjaJ8hM.html
06-12-2020||India||Elephant run over by train in Odisha||A 12-year-old elephant in Sambalpur district died after it was hit by an express train on Saturday evening.Sanjeet Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Sambalpur, said the elephant, part of a herd, came in front of Rourkela Intercity Express near the Gadgabagal bridge between Jujumura and Hatibari railway stations on Saturday evening. The incident occurred at around 6:30 pm, said the DFO.“An enquiry on location and circumstances of the accident has been initiated. The fault of railway department or forest field staff is also being looked into,” he said. The other herds moving near the railway tracks are being monitored and precautionary alarm has been raised with the Railways officials in the region, he added.With elephant corridors getting squeezed due to mining and rapid industrialisation, more and more elephants in Odisha are straying to human habitations for food and getting run over by speeding trains. Early this week, two elephants had died of electrocution after coming in contact with a livewire trap laid by bushmeat poachers.Meanwhile, the National Green Tribunal gave three months’ time to the Odisha government to submit an action plan on elephant corridors in the state. NGT, which was hearing a petition filed by wildlife NGO Wildlife Society of Orissa, had earlier directed that an action plan with specific timelines be prepared by the state government. Wildlife conservation NGO Asia Nature Conservation Foundation, which had graded 14 elephant corridors in the state according to their functional existence and ecological feasibility, had said that there is an urgent need to protect and augment the traditional movement paths to neutralise the increasing trend of elephant-human conflicts, wherever feasible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-run-over-by-train-in-odisha/story-Npu7kwixyD1BiEFPSUtVpN.html
06-12-2020||India||India’s culture, art integral to its soft power: FS Shringla||India’s culture and art are integral to its soft power and artists dedicated to Indian art forms are not merely performers but brand ambassadors who have been taking the country’s rich cultural heritage to the global audience, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said.Speaking at the ‘Global Heritage Series’ organised by SPIC MACAY, he said there are many areas of convergence and collaboration between SPIC MACAY and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations – to try and bridge the gap between the classical and the popular.“Tradition must coexist with modernity. I am aware that systems alone cannot foster creativity. Even so, our constant endeavour must be to act as enablers of the youth -- many of whom have tuned in today,” he said on Saturday.Indian culture and art are integral to India’s soft power, Shringla said.“Artists dedicated to Indian art forms are not merely performers but brand ambassadors who have been taking our rich cultural heritage to the global audience,” he said.“At a personal level, I recall as a student in Delhi University the privilege of getting access to our best classical artists free of cost in open air concerts of SPIC MACAY. It has been both a privilege and pleasure to have hosted some of our most distinguished artists in various diplomatic missions where I have served,” Shringla said.He also reaffirmed the support of the Ministry of External Affairs and Indian missions abroad to SPIC MACAY’s efforts to showcase India’s classical art forms globally.“As we start to recover from the grasp of Covid-19, we look back to find that in times of crises people need nurturing of the soul,” Shringla said.“We are reminded of the important role of art in giving people hope. The disruption caused by the pandemic has driven many of us to reimagine art, and art forms. Taking art online has become a necessity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-culture-art-integral-to-its-soft-power-fs-shringla/story-5XObtR5OytboXrpDCG5GsM.html
06-12-2020||India||Been only 14 days since first vaccine shot: Anil Vij after testing Covid-19 positive||Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij, who tested positive for Covid-19 a little over two weeks after he joined a trial for a vaccine candidate, said on Sunday it had only been 14 days since he was “vaccinated”. Vij also said that at the time of being given the shot he was told by the doctors that antibodies develop after 14 days of its second dose.To be sure, the trial is a double-blind, randomised experiment so half of the volunteers are given a placebo and the other half the vaccine, according to Bharat Biotech’s trial registry. This means neither Vij nor those administering the shot would be aware of whether what he was given was indeed the vaccine. Technically, there is a 50% chance he got the inoculation.“It is a double-blind trial (meaning, neither the recipient nor the researchers know who is given a vaccine and who is given a placebo). Such trials have a very rigorous protocol for unblinding,” a Union health ministry official said asking not to be named.“Before administering Covaxin, doctors told me that antibodies will develop after 14 days of the second dose... I am being treated at a civil hospital and I feel fine. It has only been 14 days since I got the first shot,” Vij wrote on Twitter in Hindi. मुझे कोवेक्सिन लगाने से पहले डॉक्टरों ने बता दिया था कि वेक्सिन दूसरी डोज 28 दिन के बाद लगने के 14 दिन बाद ही अन्टोबोडी बनेगी । पूरी एहतियात बरतने के बाद भी मैंकरना के काबू आगया । मेरा सिविल हस्पताल में इलाज हो रहा है ओर मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूँ । मुझे वैक्सीन लगवाये अभी 14 दिन ही हुए थे ।The minister’s tweet comes after his illness and participation in the trial for Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin triggered confusion over the vaccine on Saturday. Hours after Vij tested positive for the coronavirus disease, the pharmaceutical company clarified that the shot is meant to be protective only two weeks after the second dose – which is given after a gap of 28 days following the first dose.Later, the minister himself addressed the concerns by issuing a similar statement to news agency PTI. Also Read| Safety primary criteria in vaccine development: Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech after Anil Vij contracts Covid-19“I was told that antibodies start to develop after the second dose, which is administered after 28 days of getting the first shot. And full antibodies are developed 14 days after the second dose is given. So, the complete cycle takes 42 days. In between there is no protection,” Vij told PTI over the phone.Developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the government’s National Institute of Virology, Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine. It uses an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response in people.The third phase trials of the potential vaccine against coronavirus disease is currently being conducted with over 25,000 volunteers across 25 centres in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/been-only-14-days-since-first-vaccine-shot-anil-vij-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-1lUbMRYVH0CC8pLZmgw2VN.html
06-12-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases remain below 40,000 for a week||India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 9.6 million and the number of people who have recovered from the coronavirus disease crossed 9.1 million pushing the national recovery rate to 94.37 per cent, according to the Union health ministry on Sunday. The number of Covid-19 cases rose to 96,44,222 with 36,011 new infections being reported in the last 24 hours and the death toll crossed to 140,000 after 482 new fatalities in the same period, data from the ministry showed.The 482 new fatalities include 95 from Maharashtra, 77 from Delhi, 49 from West Bengal, 32 from Kerala, 25 from Haryana, 24 from Punjab, 23 from Uttar Pradesh, 21 from Chhattisgarh and 20 from Rajasthan. The health ministry repeated that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.The number of people who have recovered from the disease rose to 91,00,792 and the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. There are 403,248 active Covid-19 cases in the country which comprises 4.18 per cent of the total caseload, data showed. The ministry said that for the past eight days, the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2-million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. It went past 5 million on September 16, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, crossed 8 million on October 29 and surpassed 9 million on November 20.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 14,69,86,575 samples have been tested up to December 5 with 11,01,063 samples being tested on Saturday.Meanwhile, Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to seek from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-remain-below-40-000-for-a-week/story-l1E4H3zv0veurUZpAd3GdJ.html
06-12-2020||India||BJP govt to start granting citizenship to refugees under CAA from Jan next year, says Vijayvargiya||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal in-charge, Kailash Vijayvargiya on Saturday said that BJP led Centre government will start the process of granting citizenship to refugees under Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), from January next year.“Most probably from January the process of granting citizenship to refugees under CAA will be started by the BJP government,” Kailash Vijayvargiya told reporters.“All those people who are being persecuted on religious matters in our neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Afghanistan, and Nepal, will be given citizenship by the Modi government,” he said.The BJP leader said that their party always delivers on its promise and they will provide citizenship to the refugees of the neighbouring countries.“BJP always delivers on its promise. We always do what we promise. BJP had said that we provide will citizenship to the refugees,” said Vijayvargiya, adding that all the opposition parties are in the Supreme Court against the CAA, including West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.“This government is only concerned about the 30 per cent people of the state and is not concerned about the rest of the 70 per cent. Our government will take care of 100 per cent of people as per the dictum of Prime Minister Modi --- sab ka saath aur sab ka vikas,” he said.The CAA was passed in December last year. The law grants citizenship to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi, and Christian refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan and came to India before 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-to-start-granting-citizenship-to-refugees-under-caa-from-jan-next-year-says-vijayvargiya/story-fSK7vFKJYDiUI1d1bTvYVJ.html
06-12-2020||India||Andhra minister slams TDP over ruckus in Assembly, says Naidu failed to raise real issues||Andhra Pradesh Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botsa Satyanarayana has slammed Telugu Desam Party (TDP) over ruckus in the state Assembly and said that Opposition party chief and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu has failed to raise the real issues of the people.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Satyanarayana said that it seems that TDP MLAs come to take vendetta against the ruling party.“Five-day Assembly session has concluded. Our party MLAs explained what we have done for the people so far. Opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu and TDP leaders have utterly failed in raising real public issues. I observed the attitude of TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu and his party MLAs that they seem to come to the assembly to take vendetta against the ruling party. He provoked his party representatives to attack the house leaders, i.e., the Speaker in the Assembly and chairman in the council,” he minister said.”Chandrababu Naidu himself sat down in the podium, threatened the speaker, personally abused him, raise fingers against him. Whenever given time, Chandrababu Naidu kept on abusing the ruling party but did not raise constructive criticism. He would have asked what the ruling party has done. He did not do so, but kept on personally abusing the ruling party leaders,” he said.The minister accused Naidu and other TDP MLAs of playing “cheap tricks” to get themselves suspended.“Chandrababu Naidu and TDP MLAs kept on playing cheap tricks, tried to get suspended. They thought it would get them sympathy. But their behaviour is exposed to the public. They have crossed all limits of decency in the house,” he said.“Naidu and TDP members used to create pandemonium in the house, get themselves suspended, go out and hold a press meet with a section of media. On the last day of Assembly, he walked out of the house, went to Mandadam village and addressed Amaravati agitators, where he made baseless allegations on the ruling party,” he added.Satyanarayana said that Naidu and TDP leaders misused their time in the house and fought for selfish gains only.“We wish Chandrababu to come to the next assembly sessions with the agenda of public issues and have a positive criticism. We want them to act responsibly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-minister-slams-tdp-over-ruckus-in-assembly-says-naidu-failed-to-raise-real-issues/story-3aSwNowe693iIu6I3djCVN.html
06-12-2020||India||Mahaparinirvana Diwas: Leaders pay tributes to BR Ambedkar on his death anniversary||Several political leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, on Sunday remembered BR Ambedkar on his death anniversary, which is also called Mahaparinirvana Diwas.“Tributes to Baba Saheb on Mahaparinirvana Diwas. He gave a future-oriented and inclusive Constitution to the country and paved the way for progress, prosperity and equality in the country. Following the footsteps of Babasaheb, Modi government is working with dedication for the welfare of the section that remained deprived for decades,” the Union home minister said in a tweet roughly translated from Hindi.  एक भविष्योन्मुखी व सर्वसमावेशी संविधान देकर देश में प्रगति, समृद्धि और समानता का मार्ग प्रशस्त करने वाले बाबासाहेब के महापरिनिर्वाण दिवस पर उन्हें कोटि-कोटि नमन।बाबासाहेब के पदचिन्हों पर चलकर मोदी सरकार दशकों से विकास से वंचित वर्ग के कल्याण के प्रति समर्पित भाव से कार्यरत है। pic.twitter.com/1zJUVW1kwRGandhi said that to free India from discriminatory practices is the apt way to pay homage to Ambedkar. “Today we remember Dr Ambedkar’s contribution to nation-building. Working to make India free from all forms of discrimination is the only truthful way to pay homage to him,” he tweeted. Today we remember Dr Ambedkar’s contribution to nation building.Working to make India free from all forms of discrimination is the only truthful way to pay homage to him.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s president JP Nadda also tweeted to pay his tributes to Ambedkar on his death anniversary. “The nation will remain indebted to Babasaheb who played important role in showing the way of social harmony and social reform in the country,” Nadda said. भारतीय संविधान के शिल्पकार एवं महान समाज सुधारक भारत रत्न बाबासाहेब डॉ भीमराव अंबेडकर जी की पुण्यतिथि पर उन्हें शत् शत् नमन।सामाजिक समरसता का मार्ग दिखाकर भारतीय समाज सुधार के प्रारूपण में महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका निभाने वाले बाबासाहेब का कृतज्ञ राष्ट्र सदैव ऋणी रहेगा। pic.twitter.com/mLqIFEpUOUBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati was another leader to remember Ambedkar on Mahaparinirvana Diwas. “Tributes and immense reverence to the architect of the Constitution Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar on his death anniversary, who has shown new hope and self-respect to crores of poor people and those,” she tweeted in Hindi. 1. देश में करोड़ों गरीबों व उपेक्षितों में भी खासकर दलितों व अन्य पिछड़ों के जीवन में नई उम्मीद, संभावनाएं व आत्म-सम्मान की अलख जगाने वाले इनके मसीहा संविधान निर्माता परमपूज्य बाबा साहेब डा. भीमराव अम्बेडकर को उनकी पुण्यतिथि पर शत-शत नमन व अपार श्रद्धा-सुमन अर्पित। 1/3Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid his tributes to the architect of the Constitution, saying that his government is committed to fulfilling the dreams that Ambedkar had for India. The Prime Minister added that his thoughts continue to provide strength to millions of people.Born on April 14, 1891, Babasaheb Ambedkar was an Indian jurist, economist, politician and social reformer who campaigned against social discrimination towards Dalits and supported the rights of women and workers. He died on December 6, 1956. Ambedkar was conferred with the Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahaparinirvana-diwas-leaders-pay-tributes-to-br-ambedkar-on-his-death-anniversary/story-7izrFFwJ970AFo73G9aQDL.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests at Delhi borders enter Day 11; city traffic diverted||Farmers continued their sit-in demonstrations on Sunday against the three farm laws enacted by the government after the fifth round of talks between their leaders and Union ministers failed to break the impasse.Marking the 11th day of their protest, farmers were seen at the Delhi’s Singhu border with Haryana and at the Nirankari Samagam Ground in the national capital’s Burari area. Delhi Traffic Police have closed as many as seven borders, including Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda, for any traffic movement in view of the protest against the farm laws.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protests here On Saturday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Parkash, offered to make four major amendments to the set of farm laws during the talks, although they presented no written material, an official said. The farmers, however, did not accept any changes and demanded that the laws be repealed.The protesting farmers, who have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday, will meet the central leadership again on Wednesday to arrive at a consensus. While the government leans on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector, farmers say changes approved by Parliament in September would allow big corporations to exploit them.Kavitha Kuruganti of the Women Farmers’ Rights Forum, a participant, Saturday’s talks were stalled at one point as farmers carried out a silent protest on their seats during the discussions. “We rejected the proposal for amendments. All members of the delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side was trying to draw us out. There was utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said.Also Read: Farmer langars treat the poor, homeless on Delhi border points to a full plateFarmers showed placards, asking the government to say ‘yes or no’ on the demand for the complete withdrawal of the laws, said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction).Agriculture minister Tomar said the government has sought more time to come up with a “concrete proposal” and “written suggestions” from the farmers, which would help take the talks forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-at-delhi-borders-enter-day-11-no-breakthrough-in-talks-with-govt/story-ZBX2cUkrWmj18JnjlMLyVO.html
06-12-2020||India||No event in Ayodhya on Babri anniversary as Hindus, Muslims move on||Unlike previous year, Ayodhya is all set to move beyond its bitter past, 28 years after the demolition of the Babri mosque and four months after “Bhoomi Pujan” for Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi. Hindus and Muslims have decided to refrain from observing any kind of event to mark the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition this year. In the past, Muslims of Ayodhya used to observe the day as “Yaum-e-Gham” (day of sorrow) by displaying black flags and keeping their establishments closed. Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das who is the chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, has issued an appeal to Hindus to not observe “Shaurya Diwas” on Sunday. “When the Supreme Court has decided in favour of Ram Mandir, there is no point in observing “Shaurya Diwas”. Now, “Bhoomi Pujan” of Ram Mandir has also taken place and foundation work of Ram Mandir is going on,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson for Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), who operates from Karsevakpuram, Ayodhya. “So, both Hindus and Muslims must move ahead,” he added. On November 9 last year, the constitution bench of the apex court ended decades’ old Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid title suit dispute by ruling in favour of a Ram Mandir.Unlike in the past when a big congregation used to assemble at Tedi Bazaar residence of Haji Mehboob, one of the litigants in Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid title suit to observe “Yaum-e-Gham” or “Shahadat Diwas”, this time there won’t be any symbolic protests. At Mehboob’s residence, clerics from across the state also used to assemble and a memorandum addressed to the President of India used to be handed over to city magistrate demanding the restoration of Babri mosque.On the other hand, saffron organisations led by the VHP used to observe the day as “Shaurya Diwas” (day of valour). However, after “Bhoomi Pujan” of Ram Mandir, which was presided over by PM Narendra Modi on August 5 , the Muslim community in the temple town has decided to stop observing December 6 as “Yaum-e-Gham”. “There will be no ‘Yaum-e-Gham’ this year. No black flags will be hoisted and Muslims will also open their establishments on December 6,” said Haji Mehboob. “Only recital of the Quran will be held in Tedi Bazaar mosque for those who were killed in violence on December 6, 1992,” he added. “We have decided to move ahead of the past and convey a message to rest of the Muslim community across the country to forget the past for a better future,” Mehboob said. Iqbal Ansari, the son of the late Hasim Ansari who was the original litigant in the Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid dispute, said: “Long ago, I had stopped observing “Yaum-e- Gham”. Now, after the Supreme Court’s order in favour of Ram Mandir, there is no point observing the day as a day of sorrow for any Muslim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-event-in-ayodhya-on-babri-anniversary-as-hindus-muslims-move-on/story-f6GfHRaIVJBhC8bEkI5hPI.html
06-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh on Dec 8: Farmers get support from Left parties, trade unions||As the fifth round of talks between the farmers and the government remained inconclusive on Saturday, farm union leaders have said the Bharat Bandh announced for December 8 will go as planned despite repeated assurances from the Centre regarding resolving issues concerning the farm bills.Farmers are protesting the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.“The government will prepare a draft and give (it to) us. They said that they’ll consult the states too. Discussions were held on MSP too but we said that we should also take up laws and talk about their rollback. Bharat Bandh will go on as announced,” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said on Saturday.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Trinamool Congress and the Left parties, besides a joint platform of 10 central trade unions, have announced their support to the countrywide strike.Here’s everything you need to know about the Bharat Bandh call by farmers:1. As part of the Bharat Bandh call, farmers are set to “block all the roads leading up to Delhi.” The toll plazas will also be occupied and protests against the central government and corporate houses will intensify, they have said.2. Left parties have extended their support to farmer’s call for a Bharat Bandh and appealed to all other political parties supporting the farmer’s cause to show cooperation. A joint statement released by CPI, CPI(M) and CPM(M-L), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc said, “The Left parties extend their solidarity with and support to the ongoing massive agitation by Kisan organisations from all over the country against the new Agri laws. The Left parties extend their support to the call given by them for a Bharat Bandh on December 8.”3. Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) and Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC) have also lent their support to the farmers’ stir.4. Parallel protests will be witnessed in parts of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu among others, Maharashtra. Farm unions have also appealed to farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana borders to join them.5. For nearly 10 days now, Delhi borders have been witnessing thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states as routes connecting the Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) remained closed. The Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu, Tikri, Jharoda, Jhatikara, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao, Maniyari and Mangesh continues to remain closed. Other borders that have been affected till now include the Chilla border on the Noida link road, the Ghazipur border on NH-24 and the Badusarai border, which remains open only for light vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-on-dec-8-farmers-get-support-from-left-parties-trade-unions/story-rYCJaEfV7i9PzFnk8cqwYL.html
06-12-2020||India||Kerala CM alleges Congress-led UDF and BJP have ‘secret’ alliance for local body polls||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has accused that Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP are in mutual understanding to help each other in local body elections.Addressing a virtual rally on Saturday in the run-up to local body election in the state, Vijayan said that Left Democratic Front (LDF) will not ally with “communal forces” for few votes.“There is an alliance between BJP and UDF in secret to help each other in local body elections. UDF has tied up with Jamaat-e-Islami. Muslim league will understand the setback from the Muslim community for this alliance after the election,” he said.“Even a single leader of Congress, Muslim league or UDF did not speak against BJP... LDF will not ally with communal forces for few votes,” he said.The Chief Minister said that there are few states where Congress governments are in power but BJP can topple them any time.“The Central government is taking a policy of destroying the federal system of our nation. Congress party is in power in a few states. Any time BJP can overthrow Congress governments. We have witnessed it in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka,” Vijayan said.The Chief Minister alleged that the Central government is using national investigative agencies to sabotage the government in Kerala.“The Central government and BJP are spending a huge amount to sabotage other governments. They are using investigative agencies. They are purchasing elected people’s representatives in many places of our country,” he said.“Left party is in power in Kerala only. They cannot sabotage the government by purchasing MLAs. So the Central government is using national investigative agencies to sabotage the government in Kerala. Congress and Muslim League are supporting the BJP,” Vijayan said.“Now the farmers of our country are protesting in the national capital. The labourers and farmers are resisting the forces destroying Constitution, selling public wealth and destroying rights if the people. The LDF candidates are their representatives.”“The economic policy of the BJP government is destroying the country. Earlier it was Congress’ policy. Both BJP and Congress have the same economic policy. There is no difference. BJP’s rule is for corporates. Under BJP’s rule, corporates are becoming richer and poor people are becoming poorer. Our economy is facing a historic decline. Even RBI officials have to admit it,” he said. Due to COVID protocols, public campaign and rallies are not allowed for local body election. Sunday is the final day of the election campaign for the first phase of the election. Polling will take place on 8, 10 and 14 December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-alleges-congress-led-udf-and-bjp-have-secret-alliance-for-local-body-polls/story-tlsZtiqU1oLFDoVZGS1wEP.html
06-12-2020||India||Earthquake resistant, paperless offices: What will the new Parliament building be like||The new Parliament building, whose foundation stone will be laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 10, will likely to be ready by 2022, Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Saturday, adding that the Parliament session in that year will hopefully be held at the new building. Birla added that the construction of the building will directly involve 2,000 people and indirectly involve 9,000 people.“The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of Independence (2022), Parliament session will be held in the new building,” he said.Also Read: PM Modi to lay the foundation stone of new Parliament building on Dec 10Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building, close to the existing one, at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore under the Central Vista redevelopment project in September this year.Here’s a look at the features of the new Parliament building:Spread over 64,500 square metres, earthquake resistance: The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres and is being built at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore, Birla said and added that the new building will be earthquake resistant.To be built indigenously: “The existing temple of democracy is completing 100 years... It is a matter of pride for our countrymen that the new one will be built by our own people as a prime example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” the Lok Sabha speaker said.Seating capacity for over 1,000 MPs: According to the Lok Sabha speaker, as many as 1,224 MPs can sit together in the building, while a new office complex for all MPs of both the houses would be built at the site of the existing Shram Shakti Bhawan. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for the upper house members. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses. At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha of 245.Number of floors: Om Birla said the outlook of the new building will be similar to the existing one. “There will be a basement, ground, first and second floors in the new building and its height will be same as the old building so that both should are in symmetry,” he said.Pollution control measures: Officials have said steps have been taken to control air and noise pollution during the construction work for the new Parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs.Paperless offices: The office of all MPs in the new building will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating ‘paperless offices’.Grand Constitution Hall, library, lounge: The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space.What happens to the existing Parliament House?: The existing Parliament building will be conserved as it is an archaeological asset of the country. It will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter.The foundation stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921, and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927, by the then governor-general of India, Lord Irwin.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-resistant-paperless-offices-what-will-the-new-parliament-building-be-like/story-xf2ZskfmnUjseF38irPe2I.html
06-12-2020||India||16 injured due to cylinder blast in 4-storey Mumbai building, residents evacuated||Sixteen people were injured as a gas cylinder blast exploded in a ground plus four storey residential building in Mumbai’s Lalbaug area on Sunday morning. Two fire brigade and two jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot, news agency ANI quoted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as saying.The blast in the Sarabhai building was reported at around 7:23 am and the fire due to the blast was extinguished by 7:50 am. After the blast, residents of the building were shifted to Hotel Hiramani in Lalbaug. Of the 16 injured, 12 were rushed to the city’s King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital and four to Global hospital. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited KEM hospital to meet the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-people-injured-in-cylinder-blast-in-mumbai-s-lalbaug-area-2-fire-brigade-jumbo-tankers-at-spot/story-bFBwOYbK8PctqiaxlK0r9K.html
06-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Delhi’s private hospitals violating Covid-19 norms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Inspection teams flag violations by private hospitalsPrivate hospitals and nursing homes in the Capital are needlessly testing Covid-19 patients admitted with mild and moderate symptoms, using therapies not on the Union government’s clinical management guidelines, and are only partly complying with infection control protocols, according to an inspection by teams constituted by the Union home ministry, which has suggested a tighter vigil on these facilities. Read moreFrom 10 years in jail to fine of up to Rs 1 lakh: What MP’s freedom of religion law saysMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said the state’s new freedom of religion law is his government’s Beti Bachao Abhiyan or save the daughter mission. Chouhan said no one will be able to convert anyone from one religion to another through marriage or “any other fraudulent means by seducing or intimidating anyone”. Chouhan held a meeting on Saturday to discuss the proposed law. Read moreOn BR Ambedkar’s death anniversary, a look at his contributionsDecember 6, 2020, marks the 64th death anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution. BR Ambedkar breathed his last on December 6, 1956, in his sleep and people pay their tributes to him on this day every year which is observed as the Mahaparinirvana Diwas. Read moreTo ensure peace, Khalsa Fauj forms ring of security at SinghuNihang Sikhs or the “Khalsa Fauj” took over the security of farmers at the Singhu border late Friday night, saying they had not come to fight but to ensure peace. Occupying one side of the Sonepat-Delhi highway right next to the police barricades, the men donning blue tunics and large turbans with a chakra (round sharp weapon) around them, and armed with swords, said they had taken positions at the barricades forming a wall between security personnel and farmers protesting peacefully. Read more‘All rules are applicable to everyone else other than Virat Kohli’: Virender Sehwag questions India captain’s frequent team changesVirat Kohli is known for the frequent chopping and changing he does to the Playing XI, but former batsman Virender Sehwag is not impressed with this habit of the India captain. Sehwag’s frustrations with Kohli were visible after Shreyas Iyer was dropped from India’s Playing XI for the first T20I against Australia on Friday, his place taken by Manish Pandey. What left Sehwag unimpressed was the fact that in India’s previous T20I series – against New Zealand in January – Iyer had scored 153 runs in five matches and was coming off a decent IPL season where he scored above 500 runs for Delhi Capitals. Read moreMeet Zanuski, the bright new musician in townSometimes when you listen to a song, you feel like it would fit right into a film. That’s the best way to describe Zanuski, aka Zahaan Khan’s EP series, called Free Flow Mon Ami, the second edition of which he released during the lockdown. It’s great then that Zahaan’s pursuing a virtual orchestration course to start working as a film music composer. Films − an industry that his mother, actress Zeenat Aman, dominated for years. Read moreHow to set images from Google Photos as a live wallpaper on AndroidImages from your Google Photos can already be used as personalised screensavers or a picture carousel on certain smart devices like the Google Nest Hub. Now, you can also use those photos on your Android smartphone home screen like a live wallpaper. Read moreIncredible images of the universe by NASA will stun youThere is something astounding about the different pictures shared by NASA that capture the world outside our Earth. They often seem unbelievable and at the same times, possess the power to leave you feeling completely stunned. Case in point, these images of outer space which were shared on the official Instagram profile of NASA Chandra X-ray Observatory. See them here‘MLAs ashamed of Amit Shah...’: Rajasthan CM repeats conspiracy chargeRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot levelled serious charges at union ministers. Gehlot repeated his charge that BJP tried to make his government fall. Gehlot said that Congress MLAs felt ‘ashamed’ after meeting Amit Shah. Tension gripped the Congress government in Rajasthan earlier this year. Then-deputy CM Sachin Pilot had rebelled against Ashok Gehlot. Pilot & his group of around 18 MLAs had shifted to a resort in NCR. Gehlot’s camp had alleged that BJP was trying to engineer defections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-inspection-teams-flag-delhi-s-private-hospitals-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HAJWs1CiEQRYwTrxyXx01I.html
06-12-2020||India||Govt denies official error behind Chhattisgarh farmer’s death, BJP targets CM||A 45-year-old Chhattisgarh farmer allegedly died by suicide in Bastar’s Kondagaon district, officials said on Saturday. His family members claimed that the farmer was worried about selling his paddy crops cultivated over six acres of land after learning that the maximum area of his farm under paddy production was written off in the government record for the purpose of procurement.Meanwhile, the district administration has suspended a revenue official for allegedly making an erroneous entry for the farmer’s paddy cultivation area in the government record.However, the administration said that the error was not the reason for the farmer’s death. The farmer was found dead on December 2.As per preliminary information, Markam had sown paddy on his 2.731 hectare (6.70 acre) of land and was eligible to sell around 100 quintal of paddy at the minimum support price (MSP) in the cooperative society, Kondagaon collector Pushpendra Kumar Meena said.The state government has started a paddy procurement drive from December 1 and 15 quintals of paddy is purchased at MSP from every registered farmer for every acre of land under cultivation for the crop.On December 2, Markam had sent his relative to local Large Area Multi-purpose Society (LAMPS) to collect the token for selling his paddy crop following which he learnt that he was only eligible to sell around 11 quintals as the record showed only 0.32 hectare or 0.79 acre of his farm land under paddy cultivation.Next day, he allegedly took his own life following which the local sub divisional magistrate (revenue) was asked for a report, Meena said.“The SDM found that there were multiple factors that might have prompted Markam to end his life. According to his family, he had been under depression since the death of his son two years back and had started consuming liquor,” the collector said. Also Read: Villagers in Chhattisgarh district protest over mining nod, arrest of 6 tribals The probe also revealed that the alleged negligence by the patwari (revenue official) resulted in the erroneous entry of Markam’s paddy cultivation area.The patwari has been suspended and the concerned tehsildar was issued a show-cause notice, he said.However, if Markam would have contacted the officials, the error could have been rectified immediately, he added.BJP national vice president and former chief minister Raman Singh has alleged that another farmer’s life in the state had been lost to misrule and poor policies of the state government.He alleged that the government was insensitively hell bent on branding the victim as an addict and the chief minister was not ashamed of that.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-denies-official-error-behind-chhattisgarh-farmer-s-death-bjp-targets-cm/story-JPYTNMMcwzO901C2AWlDMN.html
06-12-2020||India||‘BR Ambedkar’s thoughts, ideals continue to give strength to millions’, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday remembered Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution, on his 64th death anniversary and said his thoughts and ideals still give strength to many. Every year, this day is observed as the Mahaparinirvana Diwas.“Remembering the great Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar on Mahaparinirvan Diwas. His thoughts and ideals continue to give strength to millions. We are committed to fulfilling the dreams he had for our nation,” PM Modi tweeted.The term ‘parinirvana’ has a deep meaning in Buddhist traditions and refers to someone who has attained nirvana in his lifetime and after death. December 6 is observed to commemorate Ambedkar’s contribution to society and his achievements. Ambedkar’s effort in shaping the directive principles, the formulation of the reservation system for the upliftment of the backward sections of the society, the voicing of the equal right of the Dalits have earned him an irreplaceable position in Indian political history.Presidents, Prime Ministers, chief ministers and top politicians, all come forward to commemorate Ambedkar on Mahaparinirvana Diwas every year.Ambedkar had led from the front along with Jawaharlal Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi and played a pivotal role in the upliftment of the poor and backward classes of the society. He was awarded the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour of India, posthumously in 1990.Millions of people and followers assemble at the Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai, on this day to pay homage to Ambedkar. This year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to people to not crowd Chaityabhoomi in Dadar in view of the Covid-19 pandemic..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/br-ambedkar-s-thoughts-ideals-continue-to-give-strength-to-millions-says-pm-modi/story-pcL3j7NCkWHuWunWIRiZIO.html
06-12-2020||India||From 10 years in jail to fine of up to Rs 1 lakh: What MP’s freedom of religion law says||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said the state’s new freedom of religion law is his government’s Beti Bachao Abhiyan or save the daughter mission. Chouhan said no one will be able to convert anyone from one religion to another through marriage or “any other fraudulent means by seducing or intimidating anyone”. Chouhan held a meeting on Saturday to discuss the proposed law.The proposed bill will be tabled in the winter session of the Madhya Pradesh assembly, which is scheduled to begin from December 28. Uttar Pradesh’s governor gave assent to the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions last month.Here is what the proposed Madhya Pradesh freedom of religion act says:1. Under Section 3 of the proposed act, no one can convert or attempt to convert either directly or otherwise anyone else from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage.2. No person can attempt to abet or conspire religious conversion.Also read | PIL challenges UP ‘love jihad’ law in SC, says misuse likely3. If anyone violates this section of the act, they shall face imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of not less than Rs 25,000.4. In the case of forcing minor or woman from Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste categories for conversion, there is a provision of imprisonment of two to 10 years and fine up to Rs 50,000.5. Attempt to hide one’s religion will be punishable by imprisonment of three to 10 years and a fine of at least Rs 50,000.Also read | ‘Will be destroyed’: MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan warns against ‘Love Jihad’6. Provision for the imprisonment of five to 10 years and fine of at least Rs 100,000 is being made for attempting mass religious conversion (of two or more persons). 7. Blood relatives, including parents of victims of such religious conversion, can file a complaint.Also read | Massive cycle of religious conversions going on under guise of love: Chouhan8. The offence shall be cognizable, non bailable and can be taken up by the sessions court. A police officer below the rank of sub-inspector of police will not be able to investigate the case.9. The accused will be liable to prove that the conversion has not been done.10. Marriage with the intention of conversion will be considered null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-10-years-in-jail-to-fine-of-up-to-rs-1-lakh-what-mp-s-freedom-of-religion-law-says/story-laFAZReixebe6QQ5ifmkXL.html
06-12-2020||India||On BR Ambedkar’s death anniversary, a look at his contributions||December 6, 2020, marks the 64th death anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution. BR Ambedkar breathed his last on December 6, 1956, in his sleep and people pay their tributes to him on this day every year which is observed as the Mahaparinirvana Diwas.Parinirvana, regarded as one of the major principles as well as goals of Buddhism, is a Sanskrit term which means release or freedom after death. As per the Buddhist text Mahaparinibbana Sutta, the death of Lord Buddha at the age of 80 is considered as the original Mahaparinirvana.Owing to his status as a Buddhist leader, Ambedkar’s death anniversary is referred to as Mahaparinirvana Diwas. Ambedkar, who belonged to the Mahar caste which was considered untouchable in Hinduism, converted to Buddhism after studying the religion for years on October 14, 1956, in Nagpur along with 500,000 supporters.He died just a few days after completing his last work, The Buddha and His Dhamma, a treatise on Buddha’s life and Buddhism. Ambedkar believed that Dalits can never get their rights within Hinduism.Baba Saheb, as he is fondly called by his supporters, was born on April 14, 1891, in Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow. Because of his caste, Ambedkar witnessed economic and social discrimination since childhood. Most of these painful experiences that honed Ambedkar’s life have been written down by him in his autobiographical book Waiting For A Visa.In 1912, Bhimrao graduated in political science and economics from Bombay University after which he got a job in Baroda but decided to move to the United States in 1913 for further studies. In 1916, he received a doctorate degree from Columbia University, becoming the first Indian to do so. According to Ambedkar, Columbia University was the first place where he “experienced social equality.”When he returned from the United States, the Maharaja of Baroda appointed Ambedkar as his political secretary. Bhimrao moved to Bombay in 1917 and established a fortnightly newspaper “Mooknayak” in 1920 which laid the foundations of an assertive and organised Dalit politics. Ambedkar was appointed by the Bombay Presidency Committee to work in the Simon Commission in 1925.In 1926, Ambedkar successfully defended three non-Brahmin leaders who had accused the Brahmin community of ruining India and were then subsequently sued for libel. This made Ambedkar popular in the country after which he led the Mahad Satyagraha in 1927 to allow untouchables to use water in a public tank in Mahad, Maharashtra. The Kalaram Temple Movement of 1930 formed a pivotal role in the Dalit movement in India in which Ambedkar led a protest outside the Kalaram temple which did not allow Dalits to enter the temple premises.In 1932, Ambedkar was invited to attend the Second Round Table Conference in London where he demanded separate electorates for Dalits. Mahatma Gandhi was against separate electorates for untouchables and protested by fasting in Yerwada jail. Ultimately, Ambedkar agreed with Gandhi and signed the Poona Pact, whereby a number of seats were reserved for the untouchables, which gave the Dalits a place in the general electoral list.On August 29, 1947, he was appointed as the chairman of the Constitution Drafting Committee for the constitution of independent India. After Independence, he was appointed as the law minister of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-br-ambedkar-s-death-anniversary-a-look-at-his-contributions/story-tnhfl7ksDJ0fIxuaOtJ0QI.html
06-12-2020||India||India’s outreach to West Asia: Army chief Naravane to visit Saudi Arabia, UAE||Indian Army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane will start his four-day visit to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates on Sunday. The visit is being seen as a testimony to New Delhi’s commitment to warming ties between India and the Gulf countries. While Naravane’s visit to Saudi Arabia is the first such visit by an Indian Army chief, his visit to the UAE comes close on the heels of a visit by foreign minister S Jaishankar to Bahrain and the UAE during November 24-26.Here’s everything you need to know about his Army chief MM Naravane’s visit:1. This visit will be Naravane’s third foreign trip this year during which he will meet his counterparts and other senior officials in these countries. Naravane is set to travel first to Saudi Arabia, where his engagements will include an address at the Saudi National Defence College. He will then travel to the UAE, whose defence ties with India have been expanded in recent years.2. Both the West Asian countries are home to a majority of the nine million Indian expatriates in the region.3. The visits are being seen as part of India’s outreach to West Asia, which is seen by New Delhi as part of its “extended neighbourhood”. This outreach has dramatically expanded defence and security cooperation, especially counter-terrorism, in recent years.Read more| Army chief’s visit to Saudi Arabia, UAE signals India’s intention to boost security cooperation, say experts4. The visit comes against the backdrop of the UAE, Bahrain and Sudan normalising relations with Israel and Iran’s efforts to position itself as a key player in West Asia. India has welcomed the normalisation of ties between Arab states, saying that such moves are in line with its efforts to back peace and development in West Asia.5. The upswing in ties between India and the Gulf countries also comes amidst a cooling of ties between Saudi Arabia and the UAE and Pakistan. In August, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi expressed his displeasure at Saudi Arabia, once Pakistan’s strong ally, for failing to convene a special meeting of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on the Kashmir issue.6. Angered by this, Saudi Arabia recently sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to Pakistan in 2018. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan then attempted to forge a new grouping of Islamic countries with Turkey and Malaysia – a move that further irked Riyadh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-outreach-to-west-asia-army-chief-naravane-to-visit-saudi-arabia-uae/story-RLKPHclJvdDoCq4LjkgX8N.html
06-12-2020||India||TDP will be wiped out of Andhra just like in Telangana, says state minister||Andhra Pradesh civil supplies minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao lambasted TDP state president K Atchan Naidu and State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh over local body elections.Rao was speaking to the media at Gudiwada town on the matter of local body elections in the state. “Atchannaidu’s comments that our CM YS Jagan is fearing the conduct of local body elections are foolish comments. We will conduct the elections in the coming summer keeping the safety of the public in mind. TDP will be wiped out of Andhra Pradesh just like in Telangana.”“YSRCP will win 90 per cent of panchayats and municipalities, otherwise I will resign and quit politics. Atchannaidu is accused in the ESI scam. TDP is a fake party. Can anybody from that party come forward to take up my challenge?” he added. On SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh, Rao SAID, “Who is Ramesh to write a letter to the Governor for the conduct of local body elections? Nimmagadda Ramesh is a boot licker for Chandrababu, he has no right to conduct local body elections. He is not competent to advise the governor. Nimmagadda Ramesh is not caring the government, public and governor, so we won’t recognize him as SEC at all. In fact, he had to conduct local body elections in June 2018, he did not conduct elections then, what was he doing, counting the teeth of a blind horse? He is benami for Chandrababu Naidu. We won’t accept his proposal to conduct local body elections in February 2021,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-will-be-wiped-out-of-andhra-just-like-in-telangana-says-state-minister/story-lDxOfPaMcynJZUmDnJRASK.html
06-12-2020||India||Farmers Protest Updates: Shiv Sena extends support to Bharat Bandh call by agitating farmers||The protesting farmers opposing the centre’s new farm laws have agreed to a sixth round of talks - scheduled for Wednesday - after yesterday’s meeting yielded no breakthrough on the repeal of the three laws. After the meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a new proposal would be placed before the farmers after discussions within the government. The government on Saturday proposed new rules for free markets provided for by The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws being opposed by the farmers.The farmers’ representatives said they would intensify their agitation. They have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8.Follow live updates here:Shiv Sena supports Bharat Bandh call on December 8Shiv Sena has extended its support to the countrywide strike called by agitating farmers’ unions against the recently passed farm laws. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in a tweet extended his support to the agitating farmers’ groups. देश के किसानों द्वारा पुकारे गए राष्ट्रव्यापी बंद को शिवसेना का समर्थन!किसान अन्नदाता हैं,इसलिए उनके प्रति हमारी नैतिक जिम्मेदारी के नाते देश की जनता को भी किसानों के बंद में स्वेच्छा से हिस्सा लेना चाहिए।शिवसेना किसानों की मांगों और 8 दिसंबर के भारत बंद में उनके साथ हैजय हिंद! pic.twitter.com/lcgVcLEIqJProminent opposition leaders support Bharat Bandh, issue joint statementSeveral opposition leaders including Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief MK Stalin and People’s Alliance of Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chief Farooq Abdullah issued a joint statement supporting the Bharat Bandh call issued by the farmers’ unions. Prominent opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, DMK chief M K Stalin and PAGD chairman Farooq Abdullah issue joint statement supporting call for Bharat Bandh on Dec 8 by farmer groupsBJP-ally, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, extends support to farmers’ call for Bharat BandhRLP leader Hanuman Beniwal posted a video on Twitter, announcing his support for the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. 8 दिसम्बर को देश के किसानों की आवाज पर @RLPINDIAorg भारत बंद का समर्थन करती है ! कृषि बिलो व किसान आंदोलन को लेकर मीडिया के साथ आज हुई चर्चा के अंश आपके साथ साझा कर रहा हुं !#भारत_बंद #किसान_आंदोलन_दिल्ली pic.twitter.com/lCLRCcrPU5RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav assures full support to farmers’ call for Bharat BandhRJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday announced that the Rashtriya Janata Dal fully supports the countrywide strikes called by farmers’ groups. In a tweet Yadav said, “You have our full support or cooperation.”भारत बंद को हमारा पूर्ण समर्थन और सक्रिय सहयोग है। #8दिसंबर_भारत_बंद https://t.co/uJKIyESzHtराष्ट्रीय जनता दल 8 दिसम्बर को आहूत भारत बंद का समर्थन करता है। श्री तेजस्वी यादव जी के निर्देश अनुसार सभी पार्टी पदाधिकारी अपने क्षेत्र के किसान संगठनों एवं किसानों के सहयोग से भारत बंद को सफल बनाने में अपनी सक्रिय भागीदारी देकर राजद के संकल्प को मजबूत करने में अपना योगदान दें। pic.twitter.com/4a5el9U8RHUnion minister Tomar to meet with MoSs Kailash Choudhary and Parshottam RupalaUnion minister Narendra S Tomar will hold a meeting later tonight with his two ministers of state, news agency ANI reported. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar (in file photo) to hold a meeting with MoS Kailash Choudhary and MoS Parshottam Rupala today pic.twitter.com/bCkHrDMmVqNCP chief Sharad Pawar to meet President KovindThe Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar will meet President Kovind on December 9 to hold discussions regarding the ongoing protests, ANI reported. NCP chief Sharad Pawar to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9, over farmers’ protests: NCP Maharashtra office(File photo) pic.twitter.com/4OAJJ5mcFHBharatiya Kisan Union’s Lokshakti faction start marching towards DelhiMembers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Lokshakti) have started their protest against the farm laws and were seen marching towards Delhi on their tractors. Several members of the faction were seen shirtless in a video shared by news agency ANI. #WATCH | नोएडा: भारतीय किसान यूनियन (लोकशक्ति) के सदस्यों ने अर्धनग्न अवस्था में दिल्ली कूच करना शुरू किया। #FarmersProtest https://t.co/wi4WeoL3JY pic.twitter.com/GfJXer9ACFDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal supports farmers’ groups call for Bharat BandhThe chief minister urged party workers to support the bandh in a peaceful manner. Earlier, Kejriwal’s cabinet minister Gopal Rai had also urged party workers across the nation to support the farmers’ call for nationwide bandh. 8 दिसंबर को किसानों द्वारा किए गए भारत बंद के आह्वान का आम आदमी पार्टी पूरी तरह से समर्थन करती है। देश भर में आम आदमी पार्टी के कार्यकर्ता शांतिपूर्ण तरीक़े से इसका समर्थन करेंगे। सभी देशवासियों से अपील है की सब लोग किसानो का साथ दें और इसमें हिस्सा लें https://t.co/xNseuxjtFODelhi goods transport body and Indian Tourists Transport association support Bharat Bandh callThe Indian Tourists Transport association and the Delhi Goods Transport Association said that the farmers are the essential to their business and have decided to support their cause. AAP minister Gopal Rai says Delhi CM has asked party workers to support call for Bharat BandhAAP minister Gopal Rai told news agency ANI that Delhi CM has asked party officials and workers to support the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh. He said that he himself has urged party workers to support the farmers’ unions. If government doesn’t withdraw black laws, will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award: Boxer Vijendra SinghIf the government doesn’t withdraw the black laws, I will return my Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award - the highest sporting honour of the nation: Boxer Vijender Singh.He also joined protest with the other Punjab’s sportspersons at Singhu border.We had opposed the Bills in Parliament, we continue to do so.: TRS MLC K KavithaWe had opposed the Bills in Parliament, we continue to do so. MSP hasn’t been assured in any of these Bills. Also, if mandi structure is dismantled there’s no alternative structure in this country, so farmer is insecure. TRS will support the farmer’ Bandh call: K Kavitha, TRS MLCA Shiromani Akali Dal delegation met Maharashtra CM todayA Shiromani Akali Dal delegation met Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray today. “He said that he’ll support all programs of farmers during agitation. He’ll also come to the meeting in Delhi two weeks later. He said that he’ll support farmers’ agitation,” says the delegation.Congress has decided to support Bharat Bandh on December 8: Pawan KheraCongress has decided to support the Bharat Bandh on December 8. We will be demonstrating the same at our party offices. It will be a step strengthening Rahul Gandhi’s support to the farmers. We will ensure that the demonstration is successful: Congress Spokesperson Pawan Khera.JJP’s Julana MLA Amarjeet Singh come in support of agitating farmersJJP’s Julana MLA Amarjeet Singh come in support of the agitating farmers. He is the fourth JJP MLA to express solidarity with the farmers. Singh, said he is first a farmer than an MLA and the government should clear farmers’ doubt over three laws. “ The elderly farmers are sitting for their demands amid such cold weather conditons. These farmers are producing food for us and they are protecting for the valid reasons,” he added.Telangana CM extends support to Bharat bandh call on December 8Telangana CM and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao has extended TRS’ total support to Bharat bandh called on December 8 by farmers. He said that the TRS rank and file would participate actively in the proposed bandh: Chief Minister’s Office.JJP rebel MLA Ram Kumar Gautam extends his support to protesting farmersExtending his support to the protesting farmers’ across the country, Jannayak Janata party (JJP) rebel Narnaunda MLA Ram Kumar Gautam on Sunday urged the union government to withdraw three farm laws.I think farmers should think how this is being politicised: Kailash ChoudharyI think farmers should think how this is being politicised and not get lured by the ones who are trying to score political benefits. I have faith in PM Modi’s leadership and farmers. I’m sure farmers will never make a decision that will cause unrest anywhere in the country. These laws have provided freedom to them. I don’t think the real farmers, working in their farms, are bothered about it: Kailash Choudhary.Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire: MoS Agriculture Kailash ChoudharyGovernment has said that MSP will continue. We can give it in writing too. I think Congress government (in states) and Opposition are trying to instigate farmers. Nation’s farmers are in favour of these laws but some political people are trying to add fuel to the fire: MoS Agriculture Kailash ChoudharyRepresentatives of several farmer unions hold meeting near Singhu borderRepresentatives of several farmer unions hold a meeting near Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) as their protest against the farm laws enters Day 11. Farmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam GroundFarmers protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground against recent farm laws enters 11th day.Farmers continue to hold sit-in protest at Haryana-Delhi borderFarmers continue to hold a sit-in protest at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border) against the Centre’s farm laws.DU students join farmers’ protest at Singhu border, express solidarityScores of students from Delhi University (DU) came to Singhu border on Saturday to express solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting against three recently enacted farm laws.Seven Delhi borders closed in view of farmers’ protestThe Delhi traffic police have closed seven borders, including Singhu, Auchandi, Lampur, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri, Jharoda, for any traffic movement in view of the farmers’ protest against the farm laws.Rai Singh Dhaliwal announced to return his President’s Medal in solidarity with protesting farmersRai Singh Dhaliwal, a retired commandant from Punjab Home Guards, announced to return his President’s Medal in solidarity with the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-pSg4p7qxE2eVonz3LrHuLK.html
06-12-2020||India||Haryana minister tests positive for Covid-19||Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij announced on Saturday that he tested positive for Covid-19, a little over two weeks after he joined a trial for a vaccine and was administered the first of two shots, which may or not have been the actual inoculation.Vij’s illness and participation in the trial for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin triggered confusion over the vaccine, prompting the company to clarify that the shot is meant to be protective only two weeks after the second dose – which itself is given after a gap of 28 days following the first dose. Later, the minister himself addressed the concerns.“I was told that antibodies start to develop after the second dose, which is administered after 28 days of getting the first shot. And full antibodies are developed 14 days after the second dose is given. So, the complete cycle takes 42 days. In between there is no protection,” Vij said over a phone call to news agency PTI. Earlier, he announced in a tweet: “I have been tested Corona positive. I am admitted in Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona,” he tweeted. Covaxin is a two-dose vaccine developed by the Indian vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech in collaboration with government’s National Institute of Virology. It uses an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response in people. The vaccine is at present in phase III trials, with over 25,000 volunteers. According to Bharat Biotech’s trial registry, half of these people will be given a placebo and the other half the vaccine. The trial is a double-blind, randomised experiment – meaning it neither Vij nor the officials would be aware of whether what he was given was indeed the vaccine. He technically has a 50% chance he got the inoculation. “It is a double-blind trail (meaning, neither the recipient nor the researchers know who is given a vaccine and who is given a placebo). Such trials have very rigorous protocol for unblinding,” a Union health ministry official said, asking not to be named. This person too said even if Vij indeed was a recipient of the inoculation, it is unlikely to offer protection unless he gets the requisite booster dose and a gap of two weeks after that. The vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech reiterated the same in a statement. Experts said he is most likely to have contracted the infection naturally by coming in contact with a positive person. “First, we do not know whether he got the vaccine or the placebo dose. Second, he did not get both the doses of the vaccine after which the body produces an immune response. Third, no vaccine is 100% effective,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine and one of the investigators of the vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. “Infections are likely to be reported in both the vaccine and placebo arm of a trial. No vaccine is a 100% effective and the difference in the incidence of the infection in both the arms tells us the efficacy of the vaccine. Even Moderna and Pfizer vaccines are about 95% effective. There are predefined protocols for unblinding a trial. One, it is done if there is a serious adverse event and the investigators need to see whether it is caused by the vaccine candidate. Even then it is done under the guidance of data safety monitoring board. Two, it is unblinded for interim analysis when there have been a certain predefined number of infections,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, a Delhi-based vaccinologist and public health specialist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-minister-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-JlRjD205eAg9SRfTtiWKoN.html
06-12-2020||India||After SC order on Char Dham road, alignment of key bypasses to be changed||Following the Supreme Court order on reducing the width of the Char Dham all-weather road to 5.5 metres, the implementing agency is now changing alignments for key bypasses on the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh stretch to avoid felling of over 4,000 trees. Confirming the development, LD Mathela, executive engineer from National Highway & Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd, said that one bypass has been cancelled while the alignment of two others is being changed. “We had to cancel the construction of 9.5 km long bypass near Champawat, while we are changing the alignment of two other bypasses, one 9.9km long bypass near Mohabbat region and another 17km long bypass in Pithoragarh,” said Mathela, who is overseeing the construction of the Tanakpur-Pithoragarh stretch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-order-on-char-dham-road-alignment-of-key-bypasses-to-be-changed/story-zkGOPwD1jxXp7xvtTB9dNO.html
06-12-2020||India||Modi to lay the foundation stone of new Parliament building on Dec 10||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla announced in New Delhi on Saturday, minutes after he met the PM to formally invite him. The 64,500 sq m new building will replace the 93 years old existing parliament house and will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹971 crore, Birla announced, dubbing the proposed complex as a prime example of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” -- a flagship initiative of the Modi government . The Speaker and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led government is hopeful to inaugurate the building in 2022 when the India celebrates its 75th year of Independence. The new Parliament building is part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, which also involves constructing a common Central Secretariat along with residences of Prime Minister and vice-president, and a revamp of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. The new triangular Parliament building will house a total of 1,224 MPs — 888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Upper House — with 55% additional seating capacity than the current strength of Parliament, which could be utilised if the two Houses are expanded in the future. Presently, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245.A new office complex for all parliamentarians will also replace the Shram Shakti Bhawan and Transport Bhawan, right next to Parliament. “The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of independence, Parliament session will be held in the new building,” Birla said, adding that the construction of the earthquake resistant structure would involve 2,000 workers directly and another 9,000 indirectly. The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The Speaker also said that invitation for the foundation stone laying ceremony will be extended to all political parties and that the ceremony will follow all Covid-related guidelines. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament House. Steps have been taken to control air and noise pollution during the construction work for the new building, which will have separate offices for all MPs. The existing building will be conserved as it is an archaeological asset, Birla said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-lay-the-foundation-stone-of-new-parliament-building-on-dec-10/story-TEMJ9mdxvTJuFm8lEAiyNI.html
06-12-2020||India||Farm talks deadlocked, another round on December 9||The fifth round of talks between protesting farmers and the Centre showed no signs of progress, dealing a blow to the government’s offer to bring a set of amendments to the three new farm laws that agriculturists say will hurt their interests. Farm unions stuck to their demand for a full withdrawal of the legislation, but agreed to another meeting on December 9. With the stalemate persisting, farmers’ representatives said they would intensify their agitation, as thousands laid siege to the Capital’s entry points for the tenth straight day. They have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8. The government team, led by agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce Som Prakash, offered to make four major amendments to the set of farm laws during the talks, although they presented no written material, an official said, requesting anonymity. While the government has leaned on its new reform agenda for better crop prices and higher investments in the farm sector, farmers say changes approved by Parliament in September would allow big corporations to exploit them. The government on Saturday proposed new rules for free markets provided for by The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws being opposed by the farmers. Before the meeting, home minister Amit Shah, Tomar, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Goyal met Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an hour to discuss the four amendments they had offered to make. During the talks, the government made four verbal offers. One, it offered to amend the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, to levy trade fees in new free markets to create a level playing field between these and traditional, government-controlled notified markets. Farmers say free markets, where traders don’t have to pay any trade fee, will wipe out traditional markets which they depend on for assured prices of staples. Two, the government said it was open to bringing a system of registration for traders in free markets to help bring transparency in farm trade, price levels and traceability of traders. Three, the government said it would bring new clauses to its new contract-farming legislation – the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 – to strengthen farmers’ land-holding rights. Lastly, officials said it would allow farmers to approach any civil court to settle disputes with traders. Under the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, such disputes were to be settled at the level of a sub-divisional magistrate within 30 days. Farmers feel they should be free to approach higher courts, but the government has maintained that restricting dispute settlement to the local level was done for speedier resolution.The talks stalled at one point, as farmers carried out a silent protest on their seats during the discussions, according to Kavitha Kuruganti of the Women Farmers’ Rights Forum, a participant. “We rejected the proposal for amendments. All members of delegation have decided to keep silent. The government side was trying to draw us out. There was utter silence from our side,” Kuruganti said. Farmers showed placards, asking the government to say ‘yes or no’ on the demand for complete withdrawal of the laws, said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction). The government sought more time to come up with a “concrete proposal” and “written suggestions” from the farmers would help take the talks forward, Tomar said. He appealed to the farmer leaders to send elderly protesters and children home.Kuruganti said the agriculture minister concluded by complimenting the farmers for holding a “disciplined and peaceful protests, which were free from party political”. “That’s quite a distance from the initial view of the government that the farmers were misled and were being instigated.” The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the Govt of India is pushing farming in India,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-talks-deadlocked-another-round-on-december-9/story-LyTx1DrdohD6tQt36nACaJ.html
06-12-2020||India||People have a right to protest peacefully: UN spokesperson||Authorities should allow people to exercise their right to demonstrate peacefully, UN Secretary-General António Guterres’ spokesperson has said regarding the farmers’ protest in India. When Stéphane Dujarric, the spokesman for the UN Secretary-General, was asked about the farmers’ protest at a daily news briefing on Friday, he replied: “As to the question of India, what I would say to you is what I’ve said to others when raising these issues is that people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so.” The reporter who asked the question also contended the farmers involved in the protest were being met with “repressive measures” and this had a bearing on India’s democracy. Dujarric responded by saying: “We want to see people have a voice in their lives.” Trudeau was the first world leader to comment on the farmers’ protest, telling a Facebook video interaction on Tuesday that the situation in India was “concerning”. On Friday, the external affairs ministry summoned Canada’s envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks by Trudeau and Canadian lawmakers had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-have-a-right-to-protest-peacefully-un-spokesperson/story-55X6f8dJ68kIABuUWZcX8N.html
06-12-2020||India||Are you on top of this week’s news?||It’s probably a prank but right now it’s a mystery. Giant triangular metal monoliths have appeared in Utah, Romania and California this week. They’re reminiscent of which classic sci-fi film, in which aliens deposit vast black monoliths to guide humans to the next stage of evolution? Ask HAL 900. No one’s making you guess a swear word. But one Austrian town will change its name from next year so tourists stop stealing its road signs. The CK is replaced by GG, but it sounds much the same. The new name? Perfumers describe its fragrance as “soft, warm, smooth and creamy”. It’s often the base note of woodsy perfumes. Aboriginal Australians even eat its fruit. Now, Mysore Palace is planning to build a museum to commemorate it. What is it? Five thousand kids applied from across the US. But the title went to 15-year-old Gitanjali Rao, who invented a device that can spot lead in drinking water, and developed an app to detect cyberbullying. It’s the first title of its kind, though the grown-up version is more famous. It’s called? On Monday, Sandeep Kataria became the first Indian to hold the global CEO role at a shoe company. The firm has such a wide and long-running presence in India, people find it hard to believe it was founded in what is today the Czech Republic. Their sales are great, but they never have your size. The company?Fisher Island, near Miami USA, is the country’s wealthiest zip code, where the average income is 2.2 million. It’s invitation-only. Peacocks roam free there. And celebrity residents include Demi Moore, Arnold Schwarzenegger and which self-made Black talk-show billionaire who visited India in 2012. This superstar will launch a political party on December 31. He says it will be a “non-corrupt, honest, transparent and secular party” with “spiritual politics”. As a hero he’s stopped bullets mid-air, played thousand robots, and has inspired a string of Chuck Norris-type jokes. Who? Dominique Lapierre and Javier Moro’s non-fiction bestseller Five Past Midnight in Bhopal will soon be adapted into a series. Which industrial disaster, often called the world’s deadliest, does it describe? The earliest recorded one happened during the Peloponnesian War, killing two-thirds of the population as it tore through Libya, Ethiopia Egypt and Athens. The deadliest one wiped out close to 200 million across Europe in the 1300s. It’s Merriam Webster’s word of the year. Put your mask on, wash your hands and guess. Dharampal Gulati, who died on Thursday at 97, was among the highest paid FMCG CEOs in India, earning as much as Rs 21 crore in 2018. You know his face – turban, moustache, glasses and pearl necklace – from the labels of his products. Which three-letter brand did he represent?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-you-on-top-of-this-week-s-news/story-hNxmkGnWAoDNNFzizxcfzO.html
06-12-2020||India||Habeas corpus plea heard after 23 years||The Calcutta high court on Friday closed a petition filed 23 years back about a hospital’s alleged failure in handing over a newborn to his mother after his birth after the officials stumbled upon the plea’s file gathering dust in one of the court’s cupboard for over two decades. The matter was last heard on December 22, 1997. A division bench of chief justice TB Radhakrishnan and justice Arijit Banerjee lamented the “great misfortune” that the matter had remained pending for so long. “Though different directions were issued with the further order to the registry of this court to list the matter after three months [from December 22, 1997], it is a matter of great misfortune that this matter is listed today [Friday] after 23 years of hibernation of this file in the cupboard of the high court,” the bench said. In 1997, the court had directed the police to register a case and investigate the matter when the petition was last heard. “We are in a judicial system. We cannot afford to stack files without the same being listed in spite of judicial orders,” the bench said on Friday.It added that the court should consider initiating action for misconduct against officers responsible, more so because it was a habeas corpus petition, which mandates that the involved party is brought before a court or a judge.“When matters are not listed by the office of the high court in spite of judicial orders, it may, at least in certain situations, be appropriate that the courts should consider initiating action for misconduct against the officers concerned for having deflected the course of justice by disobeying judicial orders for posting a case,” the order said.A senior official of the Calcutta high court told HT on condition of anonymity that more such files were found. “This is not the oldest case file that was found stacked in a cupboard. We have started re-listing old case files before the court so that they could be heard. There are a few files dating back to the mid-80’s, which have been listed. At present around 40 - 50 old files, dating back to the mid-80s and early 90s have been listed. There could be more.”“Had anyone been arrested, his liberty taken away and then the matter went into a cold storage for two decades, that would have been condemnable. But at least none was arrested,” said Arunava Ghosh, a senior high court advocate.Police officials refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/habeas-corpus-plea-heard-after-23-years/story-JF3MWelzChphXHca6Uaf6J.html
06-12-2020||India||Pfizer seeks emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccine in India||Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to seek from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country, after its parent company secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The firm, in its application submitted to the drug regulator, has sought permission to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in the country, besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population in accordance with the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, official sources said.“Pfizer India has submitted an application on December 4 to the DCGI seeking emergency use authorization (EUA) for its Covid-19 vaccine in India,” a source said.“The firm has submitted the EUA application in Form CT-18 for grant of permission to import and market Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in the country,” the source said, citing the application.The UK on Wednesday became the first country to approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19, with the UK regulator Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granting a temporary authorisation for its emergency use.The British regulator said the jab, which claims to offer up to 95% protection against Covid-19, is safe for roll-out.Bahrain on Friday also announced that it has granted an EUA for the two-dose vaccine made by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The pharma company has already applied to the US FDA seeking EUA for the vaccine.The extreme low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius required for storing the vaccine poses a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining such cold chain facilities would be very difficult, top government officials have said.When contacted, Pfizer said it remains committed to engaging with the Government of India and explore opportunities to make this vaccine available for use in the country.“During this pandemic phase, Pfizer will supply this vaccine only through government contracts based on agreements with respective government authorities and following regulatory authorisation or approval,” the global pharma major said in a statement.Five vaccines are in advanced phases of clinical trials in India with the Serum Institute of India conducting phase-3 trial of the Oxford-Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine, while the indigenously developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR has already started the phase-3 clinical trial.Drug firm Zydus Cadila has received the approval from the DCGI to start the phase-3 clinical trials of the indigenously-developed anti-coronavirus vaccine.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have announced that they commenced adaptive phase 2 and 3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, Also, Biological E. Ltd has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-seeks-emergency-use-authorisation-for-covid-19-vaccine-in-india/story-HPxJDxx2hfNfBw4Nzr1t9H.html
06-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Inspection teams flag violations by private hospitals||Private hospitals and nursing homes in the Capital are needlessly testing Covid-19 patients admitted with mild and moderate symptoms, using therapies not on the Union government’s clinical management guidelines, and are only partly complying with infection control protocols, according to an inspection by teams constituted by the Union home ministry, which has suggested a tighter vigil on these facilities.The teams, formed when Delhi was in its third and most serious wave of infections in November, surveyed 114 privately run health care facilities in the city on November 17 and 18. It presented the findings to the director general of health services (DGHS) under health ministry, and the report is now part of an affidavit by the Centre to the Supreme Court. The court is hearing a public interest case to evaluate steps taken by the Union and state administrations to control and mitigate the Covid-19 outbreak.“In the discharge policy prescribed by MoHFW, only severe categories of admitted cases are required to be tested using RT–PCR technique prior to discharge. However, it was noted that all private hospitals inspected were testing every admitted Covid-19 patient using RT– PCR technique prior to discharge,” said the report.DGHS’s guidelines say that apart from severe cases, patients with moderate or mild symptoms can be discharged after three consecutive days of no fever without the need for an RT-PCR test. Experts have previously stressed on this point since nucleic acid tests like RT-PCR can throw a positive result if it finds viral fragments. People infected with Covid-19 are typically believed to not be infectious after 10 days. “Majority of the hospitals inspected were not complying with the Clinical Management Protocol prescribed by MoHFW and using drugs and treatments based on the clinical judgement of respiratory physicians, general physicians working in these hospitals,” said the summary report, citing what they said was regular use of remdesivir and convalescent plasma therapy.The report added that while these have been prescribed as “investigational therapy (on experimental basis)”, hospitals were using these “routinely”. “Further, these hospitals were found to be using favipiravir, doxycycline, azithromycin, ivermectin in many patients in spite of these drugs not being prescribed in the National Clinical Management Protocol issued by MoHFW (ministry of health and family welfare).”According to experts, approaches for treatment of Covid-19 are still evolving and most therapies are experimental. “Despite a lot of data from across the world, there are studies saying opposite things about many therapies. In such a scenario, doctors are going by their clinical experience and their institution’s clinical experience on what seems to work and what does not. Even the national protocol is dynamic,” said Dr Harsh Mahajan, senior vice-president, Nathealth, an association of healthcare stakeholders.“There are new therapies and medicines emerging, evidence on what works and what doesn’t is being published every day. So there should be some leeway for the treating physicians to decide what works and what doesn’t for their patient,” said Dr Arun Gupta, president of the Delhi Medical Council.According to Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR and a member of the National Task Force (NTF) on Covid-19 Management, the guidance on plasma therapy has been changed to mention caveats but it has not been banned. “ICMR has made it public that the therapy isn’t of much use based on the evidence that we have, and our revised guidelines were drastically modified for reference of those wanting to administer it. It has not been banned but there are clear cut dos and don’ts mentioned in ICMR advisory,” Panda said.According to the government’s affidavit, the DGHS has thus recommended a special vigil on private facilities to ensure they are testing and discharging people as per guidelines. “Similarly, to avoid misuse of drugs not recommended by the MoHFW, GOI, a special restrictive order may be considered for issuing,” said the report, urging the Delhi government to consider appointing nodal officers for monitoring the performance of all these hospitals on a day to day basis. The inspectors said they were satisfied with the facilities’ compliance with government’s direction to earmark a certain percentage of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, displaying data regarding occupancy of the identified beds, and the rate of infections among health care workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-inspection-teams-flag-violations-by-private-hospitals/story-9TjfHaOmc8UwO9NAHAypTL.html
06-12-2020||India||Odisha farmers block roads to protest against centralised paddy procurement system||Hundreds of farmers stacked their paddy produce on major roads in various parts of Western Odisha on Saturday, demanding the withdrawal of the centralised token system for procurement of the crop in the state-run market yards.Farmers, under the banner of the Paschim Odisha Krushak Sangathan Samanway Samiti (POKSSS), demanded the procurement of paddy from across the region on the basis of the harvest report, submitted by the agriculture department of the districts concerned.POKSSS convenor Lingaraj said the paddy procurement system should be decentralised.The government has decided to procure 19 quintals of paddy per acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals of rain-fed fields. But the decision has been taken in Bhubaneswar.“This should be taken at the district level. In a decentralised procurement system, the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies (PACS) play a pivotal role and generate tokens for selling of the crop in the market yard. But the tokens are being generated from Bhubaneswar,” he alleged.Bargarh sub-divisional police officer Deepak Kumar Gochhayat said the paddy growers blocked the National Highway- 53 at Attabira for more than five hours. “As the people faced severe difficulties, we were forced to take around 40 farmers into custody to clear the road,” he said.In Sambalpur, the farmers parked their paddy-laden vehicles at Sindurpankh on NH-53, protesting against the “faulty” procurement system and refused to discuss with the district officials.However, police detained at least 15 farmers there to clear the road in the evening.Farmers in Deogarh, Jharsuguda, Sonepur and Balangir districts also took out rallies and held sit-ins to protest against the centralised procurement system.Food supplies and consumer welfare minister R P Swain said that some groups with vested interests have been agitating in the name of farmers to disturb the procurement process. He said senior officers of the department have been posted in each district to oversee the process and ensure transparency in the system.“Had the farmers raised the issue at the district level procurement committee (DLPC), the government would have considered their demand. More than 56 per cent paddy has already been procured in 16 districts. It is not possible to revise the decision now,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-farmers-block-roads-to-protest-against-centralised-paddy-procurement-system/story-LldyjlkQn99ddCuX44cdqM.html
06-12-2020||India||To ensure peace, Khalsa Fauj forms ring of security at Singhu||Nihang Sikhs or the “Khalsa Fauj” took over the security of farmers at the Singhu border late Friday night, saying they had not come to fight but to ensure peace.Occupying one side of the Sonepat-Delhi highway right next to the police barricades, the men donning blue tunics and large turbans with a chakra (round sharp weapon) around them, and armed with swords, said they had taken positions at the barricades forming a wall between security personnel and farmers protesting peacefully.Camping with 50-60 horses, brought to the Singhu border in trucks from Kudhiana, Ropar and other areas of Punjab, and a northern goshawk — the bird known as baaj in Punjabi associated with the tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh as a symbol of strength and tenacity — the Nihang Sikhs said their presence symbolised safety and security.“We have now camped right at the barricades across which the police force is deployed. If they need to reach out to the peaceful protesters, they will have to go through us. Nihangs mean safety and security. We are here to provide our people safety and we do not mean any harm. We do not endorse violence in any way,” said Gurdeep Singh, a member of the group, from Ludhiana.Condemning the violence that left many protesters injured on the first day of the agitation when police stopped them from marching into the city, he said Nihang groups were spread over the country and assembled whenever required. “We do not want the violence to be repeated. We have our men from Delhi, Haryana and many parts of Punjab joining us. At present, there are about 500 of us,” he said.The horses are tethered next to the concrete barriers placed by police. On a pole, in between, rested the bird, around which the Nihangs were busy preparing their meal of the day. The area where they cook is considered sacred and no one other than a Nihang is allowed near the spot.Another Khalsa fauji (warrior) Aman Singh, from Ropar, said their fight was not a religious one. “We are here to fight for our people’s rights. We have weapons but we will never resort to violence. The weapons symbolise safety. Our presence means that no one will be oppressed or ill-treated.”Another Nihang, Satnam Singh Baaghi, who joined the group from Maharashtra, said there are more of them coming. “Our number will only swell. We will only move forward,” he said.Singh said they were keeping an eye on any anti-social elements who may try to malign the peaceful protest. “Our men are vigilant and we are keeping an eye on anyone who looks like an outsider. They are intercepted and only let in after their credentials are verified,” he added.While Nihangs were spotted only at the Singhu border in a noticeable number, at the Ghazipur protest site too participants sounded concerned about anti-social elements.Digambar Singh, 40, a farmer from Bijnor and president of the UP unit of the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s youth wing, said, “People are trying to politicise the protests. We’ve had political cadres come in and sport caps from farmers’ bodies to mislead public and get their agenda across. Our volunteers keep a strict eye on who is doing what at the protest sites.” While addressing the gathering on the highway, Singh told the farmers that they must be alert and not allow anyone to harm the legitimacy of the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-ensure-peace-khalsa-fauj-forms-ring-of-security-at-singhu/story-dir6elcChHMugCndToUN7M.html
06-12-2020||India||Salim Ali Nature Quiz to take place on Sunday||Wildlife and nature enthusiasts from across the world will again get a chance to test their skills at the second edition of the Salim Ali Nature Quiz on Sunday. The quiz — that will be held online for an hour starting 5pm — will be open to all, with no pre-registration required. An initiative of the DelhiBird Foundation, the quiz can have up to 1,000 participants.From a pair of spotting scope (a small portable high-power telescope), the grand prize, to a holiday at a resort in Dehradun, to coffee table books, harness, mugs, flasks, pens, pocket guides to subscriptions from Sanctuary Asia, the first 50 winners will get various prizes.The event is named after renowned ornithologist Salim Ali, who is also known as the Birdman of India.DelhiBird is one of the oldest birding clubs based in Delhi with around 75,000 members across the world. The foundation has been organising nature quizzes every year since 1999. Until last year, the quizzes were held outdoors. The first online edition of the quiz, in which 1,200 people participated, was launched this July keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic.“This quiz is a family event and everyone from a family can participate under one entry. There is no pre-registration and there is no age bar. From children to the elderly, everyone in a family can join in and test their skills. In order to participate, enthusiasts can just log in real time on Zoom or Facebook (links given below) where the quiz will be streamed live,” said Nikhil Devesar, founder, DelhiBird.The rules will be displayed once participants log in. There will be multiple choices given for each question and participants will be given 20 seconds to select the right answer, he said.“The faster you guess, the more points you get. There will be a total of five rounds with 10 questions each. The entire exercise will be transparent and take place real time. The winners will be announced real time. We will be sending the goodies to the winners via courier,” said Devasar.A three-member team from the club will be coordinating the quiz.Bikram Grewal, a Delhi-based ornithologist and author, who will be the quizmaster, said, “This time the quiz will also have a section based on the great birdman Salim Ali. We have formalised the quiz with a greater variety of questions that revolve around all kinds of creatures including birds, mammals, trees, reptiles, conservationists, flora and fauna, among others.”To join the quiz, participants can log in at Zoom link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82482881236 or to zoom.us.The quiz will be streamed live at the Facebook pages including @delhibird - The Indian Bird Network @earlybirdindia, @ZEISSNatureIndia, @sanctuaryasiapage, @wwfindia, @WCTIndia, @DeccanBirders, @delhibirdfoundationFor more details, log on to https://delhibirdfoundation.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salim-ali-nature-quiz-to-take-place-on-sunday/story-3Pj0nEFblD7I6dq0ATPnJL.html
