07-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Major impact likely to be felt in Punjab||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday asked all states and union territories to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol and make adequate security arrangements for Bharat bandh on Tuesday, called by various farmer bodies protesting against the three farm bills passed in the monsoon session of Parliament.All opposition parties except Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress, and major labour and worker unions have extended support to the bandh call which is likely to have impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry has also asked the police departments and state governments to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines issued are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquillity should be maintained during Bharat bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” the advisory said.After the MHA advisory, several state governments such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh issued instructions to district officers to take “stern action” for those resorting to violence and violating Covid-19 guidelines.Also read: Bharat Bandh - All you need to know about services that may be affectedThe bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue till 3 pm, is expected to have a major impact in Punjab, where all political parties, traders bodies, truck union and mandi associations have extended support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmer bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s Additional Director General of Police (ADGP-law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on December 8. “The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm, the officer said. In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of Bahujan Samaj Party asked its workers to participate in the bandh. Police officials expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has sizeable influence. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, accused the opposition parties of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create a situation of anarchy and disorder in the country by using innocent farmers as a cover. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said. Also read: Besides Bharat Biotech,who else has applied for emergency use authorisationIn Rajasthan, various farmer bodies have announced to block all highways in the state till 3 pm even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot exhorted protestors to maintain peace. President, Rajasthan Kissan Mahapanchat, Rampal Jat said, “Over 50 farmer organisations of the state are supporting the bandh and there will be complete closedown tomorrow.” In Maharashtra, Shiv Sena along with alliance partners, the Congress and Nationalist Congress party, supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmer bodies have decided to block traffic at various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent any major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against three farmer bills. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar, adding that they support the farmer protests.In Tamil Nadu, DMK chief M K Stalin will lead the protests whereas in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrashekhar Roa has asked all party workers to ensure complete bandh. The opposition Congress, Janata Dal (Secular) and pro-Kannada bodies have supported the bandh in Karnataka. However, in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha the ruling parties, YSR Congress and Biju Janata Dal (BJD) have decided not to support the bandh.In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have an impact as all main parties and trade unions have given a call for complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes but the TMC fully supports farmers struggle,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In Bihar, although RJD has given a call for strike, the impact may not be much as the government has invoked prohibitory orders on assembly of four people or more across the state. Additional Director General of Police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said all district officers have been instructed to ensure law and order and deal sternly with those trying to resort to violence.Thousands of farmers at Delhi’s borders under the aegis of 32 farmer bodies from Punjab are protesting against the Centre’s new law agricultural laws for past 11 days demanding that they be repealed. Five rounds of talks with the government have not yielded any results and the next round of talks is on December 9.“The response is overwhelming, not only Punjab or the neighbouring state, it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal president of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan union who is camping at Singhu border since November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-major-impact-likely-to-be-felt-in-punjab/story-BK4R4MuuvEI3VxUNftSjFO.html
07-12-2020||India||Woman killed by leopard in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur||A 65-year-old woman was killed by a leopard in North Brahmapuri forest division in Chandrapur, the 30 death in the district this year due to big cats, 23 of which were caused by tigers, an official said on Monday.Sayatrabai Shriram Thengari (65) of Chichgaon (Dorli) was returning home from her farm when the leopard attacked and killer her, said N R Pravin, Chief Conservator of Forests.This year, leopards have killed six people in the district, while 23 were fatalities in tiger attacks and one person was killed by a wild boar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-killed-by-leopard-in-maharashtra-s-chandrapur/story-DYE3HA6Uf8Gyv8bVvYw2GL.html
07-12-2020||India||Besides Bharat Biotech, who else has applied for emergency use authorisation in India||Bharat Biotech, which is developing the vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, on Monday approached the government for emergency-use authorisation. The company filed its application with the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) earlier as its candidate “Covaxin” is still in the phase-3 trials.It is planning to deliver its vaccine candidate by the second quarter of 2021.The Hyderabad-based biotechnology company is the third firm after Serum Institute of India (SII) and American pharma giant Pfizer to apply for emergency-use approval in India.On Sunday, Pune based the Serum Institute of India which is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, applied to the DCGI for emergency use authorisation for the Oxford/Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine. “’COVISHIELD’ will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII, had said in a tweet.The SII currently has two dedicated facilities with the capacity of manufacturing about 50-60 million doses a month that will be scaled up to 100 million doses by February when two more facilities are likely to be added. It is aiming to make the vaccine available for the general public use by the March-April of 2021.Among the leading candidates to develop a vaccine for Covid-19, Pfizer was the first company to seek emergency use authorisation in India. On Sunday, the Indian arm of the US pharmaceutical giant sent an application to DCGI after its parent company secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The company’s vaccine candidate claims to offer up to 95% protection against Covid-19 and is safe for roll-out. However, concerns still remain as the vaccine requires an extreme low temperature of minus 70 degrees Celsius for storage which is a big challenge for its delivery in a country like India, especially in its smaller towns and rural areas where maintaining such cold chain facilities would be very difficult.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/besides-bharat-biotech-who-else-has-applied-for-emergency-use-authorisation-in-india/story-nffmpWWKJIswcDNEDPeXZL.html
07-12-2020||India||Odisha govt offices to stay shut during Bharat Bandh, civil services exam postponed||The Odisha government on Monday ordered that all its offices would remain closed on Tuesday in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of the recent farm laws.In a statement, the government said as transport and vehicular movements are expected to be affected by the bandh in the state, it decided to shut its offices on Tuesday. However, essential services provided by the government will remain functional in the state.Though the farmers in Delhi have called for Bharat bandh between 11 am and 3 pm, farmer bodies, trade unions and political parties in the state including Congress have called a dawn to dusk bandh. But BJD is yet to announce its stand on bandh.Meanwhile, the Odisha Public Service Commission rescheduled the General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II of the Odisha Civil Services-2019 Main examination that was to be held on Tuesday in view of the Bharat Bandh. As per the new schedule, the OCS 2019 main exam for General Studies Paper 1 and Paper 2 will now be held on January 2, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-offices-to-stay-shut-during-bharat-bandh-civil-services-exam-postponed/story-VfvnYCHSEBypmbKHnhWJKN.html
07-12-2020||India||J&K: Over 50% turnout recorded in 4th phase of DDC polls||Over 50% turnout was recorded in the fourth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir, which passed off peacefully on Monday, officials said.Poonch district of Jammu region recorded the highest turnout at 75.42%. Ganderbal district recorded the highest polling in Kashmir valley at 56.28%.Jammu and Kashmir State Election Commissioner KK Sharma told a press conference that the fourth phase polling was conducted successfully and the turnout was 50.08%.There was no reports of any untoward incident from anywhere, he said, adding the polling passed off peacefully.In the fourth phase, polling took place in 34 constituencies -- 17 each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions -- out of a total 280. A total of 249 candidates were in the fray in the fourth phase election.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, adequate arrangements were made to ensure safety of all stakeholders, including voters.The previous three phases of the maiden DDC elections, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the reorganisation of the erstwhile state last year, were held on November 28, December 1 and December 4. The turnouts in the previous phases stood at 51.76%, 48.62% and 50.53%, respectively.Sharma said that in the fourth phase, Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 69.31% with Poonch district recording the highest percentage of 75.42%, followed by Doda district with 75.03%.The lowest turnout in Jammu division was in Udhampur district which recorded 59.90% polling, he said.Kashmir division recorded an average voter turnout of 31.95% with Ganderbal district recording the highest polling at 56.28%, followed by Baramulla district at 47.43% and Bandipora with 45.22% polling.In Kashmir division, Kupwara recorded 44.35% turnout, Budgam 38.04%, Anantnag 27.04%, Kulgam 8.73%, Pulwama 6.70% and Shopian registered 1.96% turnout.In Jammu division, 71.97% votes were recorded in Samba, 71.80% in Jammu, 71.22% in Rajouri, 70.32% in Kishtwar, 67.39% in Ramban, 62.67% in Reasi and 61.23% in Kathua, he added.A total of 3,64,527 voters -- 1,95,206 men and 1,69,321 women -- voted to choose their representatives, Sharma said.In the fourth phase, 7,17,322 electors -- 3,76,797 men and 3,40,525 women -- were eligible to cast their votes.Besides the DDC elections, polling was held for panchayat bypolls in vacant sarpanch and panch seats falling within the DDC constituencies.Sharma said the counting of votes for sarpanch and panch constituencies which went to poll in the fourth phase election is being conducted immediately after the close of polling.Replying a question about money being distributed by some leaders in Bandipora, a purported video clip of which has gone viral, he said the police is investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-over-50-turnout-recorded-in-4th-phase-of-ddc-polls/story-HGm1nm8CYoNIRtnfcRYmKL.html
07-12-2020||India||Man climbs tree to escape bear attack, waits for 5 hours for help||Nightmare of Babulal, a resident of Chattisgarh’s Pusla village, began on Sunday evening when he was loading paddy near his field and heard about a sloth bear attack in the jungle. Babulal never thought that it could be the worst day of his life.Four people, including two women, were killed and two others were injured in a sloth bear attack in Koriya district of Surguja division in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Monday. Six villagers, including Babulal, were returning from a nearby jungle on Sunday evening when they heard of a bear attack inside the jungle. Babulal and two others rushed to save them. Narrating the incident, Babulal said, “At around 3.30 pm, some people from the village started shouting about the bear attack. I, along with other two, decided to enter into the jungle to help them. The person who was walking in front of me, Phool Sai, was attacked by the bear when we entered the forest. I saw that he collapsed on the ground and was seriously injured in the attack. Subsequently, I started running back and climbed a tree while the third person escaped by running towards the village.” After the bear killed Phool Sai, the animal tried to climb the tree which Babulal had climbed but was unsuccessful because the tree was too small for it to climb. Also read: Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccine“I climbed the tree at around 4 pm and the saw that the bear was roaming around the tree waiting for me to come down. I tied myself with an ‘Angaucha’ (a towel) to the trunk of the tree and waited for help. After five hours, at around 9 pm, the rescue team came and then I came down with the help of a JCB machine,” said Babulal. Inspector-General of Police, Surguja range, Ratanlal Dangi said that a group of six local tribals of Angwahi village were returning home after collecting forest produce from the jungle when a bear attacked them. “Three of them were killed in the first attack while one, who went for help, was later attacked and killed. We got information and launched a rescue operation inside the jungle. During the rescue operations, four bodies were recovered and the rescue team managed to save a person who climbed a tree. Three others who were injured in the attack were also rescued by the team,” Dangi told HT. The deceased were identified as Phool Sai, Ijaoria Sai, Rajkumari Sai and Shivachan Sai. “The bear was roaming around the area and the rescue team managed to shoo it away in the jungle at around 1 am. The injured were admitted to a government hospital,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-climbs-tree-to-escape-bear-attack-waits-for-5-hours-for-help/story-bnWmZCbPWMwapBXqfVhwSI.html
07-12-2020||India||No clue yet about mysterious disease at Eluru in AP, patients flood hospital||More than two days after a mysterious disease struck the people of several areas in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district, the authorities are still clueless about its cause.The casualty ward of the government hospital at Eluru continued to be flooded with patients complaining of giddiness, seizures, convulsions and epilepsy even at 9 pm on Monday and ambulance sirens continued to blare in the hospital premises bringing more and more patients. K Gangadhar (35), who complained of giddiness and headache after returning home from his two-wheeler garage at Padamata Veedhi area, had vomited within minutes of being brought to the hospital. “He was not in a position even to sit. He had convulsions and collapsed,” his sister said. So was the case with 14-year old T Sekhar, who suffered severe headache and convulsions. “He was alright till afternoon. All of a sudden, he was crying complaining of headache and giddiness,” his mother Lakshmi said. Jaya Deepthi (16), a Class 10 girl was gasping for breath and nurses at the hospital had put her on oxygen to help her breathe. “She was panicky as she developed convulsions and shivering,” said her sister-in-law who got her admitted to the hospital.While the number of patients who were admitted till Sunday night were around 300, it rose to 471 by Monday night and is still counting. “We have not come across such a strange phenomenon till now. Strangely, most of them are showing signs of recovery within hours of being administered medicines for symptomatic treatment. But more and more patients are getting admitted to the hospital for the same symptoms,” Dr T Geetha Prasadini, director of public health told Hindustan Times. So far, there has been only casualty – that of a 45-year old patient Sridhar from Vidyanagar area, supposedly due to this mysterious disease. “He also got admitted with the same symptoms. He got cured by evening, but suddenly collapsed later. We are awaiting the post-mortem report to know the actual cause,” Dr Geetha said. According to her, most of the patients who suffered from symptoms of mysterious disease were in the age group of 20-30 years, but there were around 65 children below 12 years of age. Some of the patients were sent to Vijayawada and Guntur hospitals for better treatment. Several teams of medical experts, molecular biologists and public health experts have landed in Eluru to ascertain the exact cause of the disease. A team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri, has already collected samples of blood, urine and saliva of the patients to find out the causes for the mysterious disease. Dr Geetha said drinking water samples in 32 ward secretariat limits, from where the cases were mostly reported, were tested and reports of blood samples of the patients were normal. “Blood samples taken for Hb, CBP, LFT, RFT and GRBS- were normal and blood samples were inoculated, and reports are awaited. Viral markers for IgM ELISA, for Chikungunya, Dengue, HSV-2, and all samples reported negative. The CT scan reports were also normal,” she said. The causes of the outbreak are not known yet. She said the cases are being reported in Eluru rural and Dendaluru apart from Eluru urban and all age groups are prone to the infection. The people who have been drinking treated water and mineral water were also infected, she said. Blood samples of some patients have also been sent to Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad for examination. Similarly, experts from National Institute of Nutrition are also looking into the possible food contamination in the area. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy visited the hospital on Monday and interacted with the patients and attendants and assured them of all help. He also reviewed the situation at a meeting with officials.Later, addressing a review meeting at the zila parishad office here on Monday, Jagan directed the officials to be vigilant and ready to handle any situation. He enquired about the treatment being given to the patients who fell ill, and the measures being taken for the control of the situation. He also enquired about the possible causes of the outbreak and about the medical tests and investigations that are being carried out on patients. He said a high ranking official of the Health Department should stay put to monitor the situation. He instructed the officials to create awareness among the people to call emergency numbers 104 and 108 if anyone faces any problem. Medical assistance should be provided as early as possible once the call is received. Meanwhile, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan constituted a three-member expert team led by AIIMS emergency health care head Dr Jamshed Nair, National Institute of Virology expert Dr Avinash Devashtawar and NDCC deputy director Dr Sanketh Kulakarni. The team will be coming to Eluru on Tuesday to assess the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-clue-yet-about-mysterious-disease-at-eluru-in-ap-patients-flood-hospital/story-P8d6ioXOzsFlocsAcKTIlI.html
07-12-2020||India||Who gave Bharat Bandh call and the parties supporting it: All you need to know||As many as 35 farmer unions have called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ or a nationwide strike on Tuesday against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September. The unions include the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and its different factions, Krantikari Kisan Union and Kisan Sangharsh Committee. Some other Left Front backed groups are also part of this.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM ModiNumerous opposition and Left parties including the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the call for the bandh.A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has also extended its support to the call. The platform comprises of the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC).Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe controversial farm laws, that according to the farmers would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, are -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-gave-bharat-bandh-call-and-the-parties-supporting-it-all-you-need-to-know/story-5SkcowkjdPxTKOFuhbkdiO.html
07-12-2020||India||Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisation||French President Emmanuel Macron dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday evening to discuss a wide range of issues including the digital and strategic autonomy, deepening defence cooperation, Indo-Pacific, and the security environment in Asia and the West Asia.PM Modi conveyed to President Macron his condolences for the terror attacks in France, and reiterated India’s full support to France in the fight against terrorism, extremism and radicalism, the Prime Minister’s Office said. The leaders also discussed other bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest including improving affordability and accessibility of Covid-19 vaccines, post-Covid economic recovery and climate change.People familiar with the matter said the two leaders are learnt to have decided to set up a hotline between the two leaders. The move comes against the backdrop of France’s greater focus on the Indian Ocean and China’s aggressive posture across the region that had prompted President Macron to appoint one of France’s most senior diplomats, Christophe Penot, as the country’s first special envoy for the Indo-Pacific in October this year. Spoke with my friend @EmmanuelMacron on the challenges and opportunities presented by the post-COVID world. India stands by France in its fight against terrorism & extremism. The India-France partnership is a force for good in the world, including in the Indo-Pacific.But French President Macron has been vocal about countering China for much longer. Two years ago, he was among the first to call for building a strategic alliance between India, France and Australia that could respond to challenges in the Asia-Pacific region and the growing assertiveness of China. This initiative had taken baby steps in September when the top diplomats of the three countries had their first meeting over a video conference.Like India, France believes in both strategic autonomy and plural democracy and is concerned about Chinese moves in the South China Sea and the French territory spread across dozens of islands in the South Pacific, New Caledonia, an official said.India and France’s strategic partnership dates back to 1998; it was then New Delhi’s first. Over the next few decades, the two countries have established a strong institutional mechanism to deepen cooperation in space, counter-terrorism, maritime security, as well as dialogues among defence chiefs and National Security Advisers.National Security Adviser Ajit Doval had spoken to his French counterpart last month and the strategic dialogue between the two countries is expected to take place in January 2021.The partnership between the two countries has particularly deepened over the last few years, coinciding with PM Modi’s decision to buy Rafale fighter jets. The two countries are also exploring joint manufacture of fighter jet engines and ancillaries in India that can power India’s indigenous LCA Mark II with a higher engine thrust.That Paris had recently asked Qatar, which had also bought the Rafale fighter jet, not to allow Pakistan-origin technicians to work with the plane is indicative of the sensitivity that France has demonstrated to New Delhi’s security concerns, an official said.New Delhi had reciprocated such gestures of the French leadership in October this year when it issued a sharply-worded statement condemning personal attacks targeting the French President from some Islamic countries such as Turkey and Pakistan for his stand on Islam and radicalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-macron-extends-support-to-france-against-terror-and-extremism/story-7RDkowkxmuIUYaDEGQuDbM.html
07-12-2020||India||IT raids on Assam coal traders at 21 places reveal tax fraud of over Rs 150 cr||Multiple raids leading coal traders by the Income Tax (IT) department across 21 locations in Assam and Delhi have revealed tax fraud of over Rs 150 crore. The IT department started the raids on Friday at Guwahati, Digboi and Margherita in Assam and also at several places in Delhi, the government said in a statement on Monday. The main allegation against the coal traders was that they had routed accommodation entries of more than Rs 85 crore in the form of non-genuine share capital and unsecured loans through certain Kolkata-based shell companies. All this was done by suppression of true net profit. “It has been established that the group engages in out of book transactions. Handwritten documents/diaries regarding cash transactions have been recovered which are not reflected in the regular books of accounts,” the statement said. “Such transactions detected so far across all the locations combined are upwards of Rs 150 crore, of which payments made of a total of more than Rs 100 crore have been found to be violative of various sections of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Such seized documents are voluminous and are being investigated further,” it added. Loan transactions made in cash by the coal traders were found to be more than Rs 10 crore. Stock difference of Rs 7 crore was found and no cogent explanation regarding the same was provided by the traders. “In the Kolkata-based shell company acquired by one of the traders, no book of accounts and other essential documents were found, proving the same to be a bogus company used only to route unaccounted income of the group,” the statement said.Unexplained cash of approximately Rs 3.53 crore has also been found during the raids. Cash investments in share capital during the demonetization period were also found. Further investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-on-assam-coal-traders-at-21-places-reveal-tax-fraud-of-over-rs-150-cr/story-JJ3lxRpux10Q0qEzkN3YVL.html
07-12-2020||India||Farm laws will ensure better price to farmers, have opened avenues of private investment: Narendra Singh Tomar||A day ahead of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said that the three farm laws are aimed at providing better price to farmers for their produce and it would bring prosperity and employment to the villages that have evaded poor farmers even after 70 years of independence.The Union minister was interacting with farmer unions mainly from Haryana and explained to them how private investment will open up for agriculture due to these laws which will benefit farmers.The minister also referred to the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three farm laws.“Andolan chalenga to isse nibtenge ( if the agitation goes on, we will deal with it),” he said when some farmers claimed that agitating farmers are being misled.“Today, infrastructure like warehouse and cold storage will have to built near villages. The avenues for private investment have been opened by these laws. This will increase opportunities of employment generation,” Tomar told farmer unions.The minister met a delegation of 20 farmers who had come to urge him to not repeal the laws but make certain amendments.Tomar spoke how Congress despite writing about these laws in its election manifestos, failed to bring or implement them.“Swaminathan Committee was formed by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. From 2006 to 2014 they had time to implement. Congress put that in election manifesto but never dared to implement,” the minister.He said the government has made attempts but private investments have largely eluded the agriculture sector and there was also a lack of individual investment.“Roads were blocked for investment. There are small farmers and they don’t go towards costly farming. FPOs will be formed in villages so investment too will go to villages. Infrastructure will be developed near big mandis. Farmers aren’t able to hold his produce so he never gets good price. But these laws will ensure good price to them,” the agriculture minister told the farmers.The minister also explained the investment planned by the government.He said the government is about to invest 1.5 lakh crore in agriculture infrastructure which includes food processing, bee harvesting, fisheries, herbal farming.He said there were also talks with a bank to give three per cent subsidy on interest to farmers.Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws-Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-will-ensure-better-price-to-farmers-have-opened-avenues-of-private-investment-narendra-singh-tomar/story-p8ei6DFzX9qVUEYR4QFXYN.html
07-12-2020||India||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking protection from arrest for Republic TV’s staff in cases lodged in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which owns the Republic Media network, seeking protection for the group and its employees in the cases lodged against them in Maharashtra.The matter came up for hearing before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud which said that prayers in the petition were “all ambitious”.“This petition is ambitious in nature. You want Maharashtra police not to arrest any employee and transfer the cases to CBI. You better withdraw this,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for ARG Outlier Media.Sathe told the bench that they have filed the plea to stop the Maharashtra police from “hounding” their media network, its Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and its employees.“You have sought all the reliefs and these can’t be entertained in one petition,” the bench said, after which Sathe said he would withdraw the plea.The apex court allowed Sathe to withdraw the petition with liberty to take appropriate remedies available under the law.Besides seeking protection for the media group, Goswami and its employees, the petition had said that Maharashtra government should be stopped from “hounding them” and all FIRs lodged against them be either quashed or transferred to the CBI.The petitioner had also said there should be CBI enquiry against the state and its police in the matter for lodging several cases against the media group and its employees.It had also sought a direction that no editorial and other staffs of the media group be arrested by the Maharashtra police. Mumbai Police had registered a case in the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam and Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had claimed that three channels, including Republic TV, had manipulated the TRP.ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd has denied these allegations.The alleged racket came to light when BARC, an organization which measures TRP, filed a complaint in this regard through Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the police had said.Besides this, some other cases are pending in Maharashtra against Goswami.The apex court had on November 27 extended the interim bail of Goswami and two others till four weeks after the Bombay High Court decides their pleas for quashing of an FIR in the 2018 abetment to suicide case, saying that the judiciary should ensure criminal law does not become a weapon for selective harassment. PTI SJK ABA MNL SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-protection-from-arrest-for-republic-tv-s-staff-in-cases-lodged-in-maharashtra/story-XZwufztqEh36h9gEy1oJyK.html
07-12-2020||India||Don’t force anyone to join Bharat Bandh, says farmers’ union||Farmers’ union on Monday urged farmers not to force anyone to join the call for Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We appeal to farmers no to force anyone to observe Bharat Bandh. People are supporting our movement willingly. Even railway people will support the bandh. Four states business people are with us. We don’t have to go and tell that tomorrow is Bharat bandh,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Rajewal), president Balbir Singh Rajewal said at a press conference at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. Rajewal said that emergency services will be allowed during the complete Bharat Bandh. The farmer union also stated that no political party will be allowed on the stage.“The bandh will be observed the whole day tomorrow. Chakka jam till 3 PM. It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” said farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal while addressing the press conference. Rajewal reiterated that government will have to accept the demands of the farmers and said, “We want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws.”Opposition parties have lent their support to the Bharat Bandh demonstration on December 8 called by farmers’ unions in protest against the new farm laws enacted by the central government.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-force-anyone-to-join-bharat-bandh-says-farmers-union/story-nVtTYcZZhKztDUrnZwOpIO.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech seeks emergency use authorization for Covid-19 vaccine||After Pfizer and Serum Institute, Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech on Monday applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency use authorisation for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, official sources said.Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).On December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an all-party meeting had expressed hope that a COVID-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks.That same evening, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer sought emergency use approval for its vaccine from the central drug regulator, after the firm secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The Serum Institute sought such nod for the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6.The applications of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer will be reviewed by the subject expert committee (SEC) on COVID-19 at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) in the coming days.“However, none of the applications has so far been forwarded to the committee and no date has been fixed as on when the SEC will meet for assessing and evaluating the applications,” the official source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-emergency-use-authorization-for-covid-19-vaccine-govt-source/story-HmmD0JnniJeigdF6xmjxBO.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP a bank for robbers to deposit loot, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday alleging that it has turned into a bank for robbers to safely deposit their loot and accused it of using money power to break other parties and topple governments. “It has become a fashion to join BJP because the party is like a bank where lootere (robbers) can deposit the wealth they have accumulated. The BJP gives protection to such people. It is like an identity card,” Banerjee said in West Midnapore. She also attacked the Centre over the contentious farm laws and disinvestment policy and said either the farm laws should be rolled back or the BJP should quit. She also demanded a white paper on PM CARES Fund. The TMC chief while lending her full support to Bharat bandh called by the farmers directed her party to organize demonstrations across the state from Tuesday. Protests would also be staged in Kolkata. “The BJP should either roll back farm laws or quit. The entire country is speaking on the same lines,” said while attacking the BJP for its privatization policy. She also took on the CPI(M) and the Congress alleging that the two parties are helping the BJP in West Bengal. She said women would hit the streets with cooking utensils to stop “outsiders”. “I would urge all party workers and the people to watch out for outsiders in your localities who are distributing money. Take the money from the BJP as it public money and vote for the TMC. I won’t be able to say these before the elections as it would be against the Model Code of Conduct. So I am saying it now,” she said.Although the BJP was her main target, all eyes were on Banerjee for a different reason. It was her first rally in West Midnapore where Suvendu Adhikari a TMC heavyweight and a former minister has a strong support. Adhikari’s rift with the party has widened over the past few weeks. While she did not mention Adhikari, none from the Adhikar family, including Suvendu Adhikari himself, his father Sisir Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari - both TMC MPs - were present in the rally. Local TMC leaders close to Adhikari also didn’t turn up. She also took a swipe at the BJP’s Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s recent remark that the saffron party would turn Bengal into another Gujarat by emulating the western state’s growth model. “I won’t allow Bengal to become Gujarat. I would rather remain in jail than shake hands with the BJP and be branded a traitor,” she said. “The BJP is using central investigating agencies to scare people.” The BJP hit back saying that Banerjee’s allegations are nothing new and that they had got the answer in 2019. “The TMC has no issues and hence bringing baseless allegations. They had raised similar allegations in 2019. They got the people’s response. They will again get the response from the people in 2021,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-a-bank-for-robbers-to-deposit-loot-says-mamata-banerjee/story-fysesZYNiZD5GQo8MaFuOM.html
07-12-2020||India||MP: On Bharat bandh eve, people stock essentials in Indore||People rushed to stock essential commodities in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh on the eve of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ bodies against three agriculture laws passed by the Centre.Though major organisations have not backed the shutdown call, people crowded shops to buy essential commodities.On Tuesday, senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh would lead a protest at Chavni Anaj Mandi here, said Congress district president Sadashiv Yadav.Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh (RKMM) spokesman Ashish Bhairam said a rally will be taken out.He said RKMM workers will request shop owners to down the shutters for the sake of farmers.A police officer has warned of stern action if anybody tries to take law into his hands during bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-on-bharat-bandh-eve-people-stock-essentials-in-indore/story-DTpHb7dzT3OmFb6lODG3UO.html
07-12-2020||India||Ahead of ‘Bharat bandh’, Congress, BJP spar in MP on farm laws||The Congress and BJP in Madhya Pradesh indulged in a war of words on the agriculture sector a day before Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by various outfits to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws.While senior Congressman and former MP chief minister Kamal Nath said the three laws were passed by the Narendra Modi government without discussions with farmers, the BJP hit back with state agriculture minister Kamal Patel stating that the Congress, in 55 years in power, had done nothing to alleviate farm distress.In a statement, Nath said, “There is no mention of minimum support price (MSP) guarantee in these new laws. The mandi system will also be destroyed. It will only benefit the corporate world and will lead to profiteering and hoarding.” He said Congress workers will agitate at every district headquarter in MP on Tuesday.His colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh said the new laws wanted to ensure the entry of corporates into the agriculture sector which currently is worth Rs 12-15 lakh crore.The CPM’s central committee member and Madhya Pradesh Kisan Sangarsh Samiti convener Badal Saroj said over 1,500 farmers from the state are taking part in the ongoing protest in Delhi against the laws, while former MLA and Kisan Sangarsh Samiti working president Dr Suneelam said farmers will not agree to anything less than the cancellation of these three laws.However, Madhya Pradesh agriculture minister Kamal Patel told reporters farmers were with the BJP and had extended full support to it in the recent bypolls to 28 seats in the state.“The Congress has done nothing for farmers, neither constructed homes or toilets for them. Under Congress rule, farmers had to pay compound interest on loans and, due to this, many had to sell their lands,” Patel alleged.He said the earlier system benefited only middlemen who went on to become rich at the expense of farmers.He said those protesting against these laws must “convince us” about “discrepancies” in the new laws.“The government is ready to talk, but protesters are adamant as they are aware that if these laws are implemented, then the fate of farmers will change and they will become atmanirbhar (self-reliant),” Patel claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bharat-bandh-congress-bjp-spar-in-mp-on-farm-laws/story-Z862ePz7doRHJt9umiUMLN.html
07-12-2020||India||Bankers not to participate in Bharat Bandh on Tuesday||Bank unions said they will not participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday, even as they expressed solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws. Farmer groups, camping at various Delhi border points for over a week, have called for a nationwide shutdown on Tuesday to protest against three recently enacted agriculture-related legislations. All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) General Secretary Soumya Datta said the union has expressed its solidarity with farmers but will not be participating in the Bharat Bandh called by them. Similarly, All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) General Secretary C H Venkatachalam said the union would not go on strike or abstain from work but it supports the farmers’ agitation. Union members would wear black badges while on duty, stage protest after or before working hours and display placards before bank branches to support the cause of farmers of the country, Venkatachalam said, but added that banking operations will not be hit. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses. Meanwhile, farmer leaders have said that nobody should be forced to observe ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday and that emergency services will be allowed. Several rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bankers-not-to-participate-in-bharat-bandh-on-tuesday/story-vhHY7toDPoKD2XF0lWDZXN.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus cases, daily positivity rate drops 3.15% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 1,674 new coronavirus infections, daily positivity rate drops 3.15%After experiencing a severe third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi is now witnessing a steady dip in the number of new cases of the infection. On Monday, the national capital recorded 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the official health bulletin. Read moreKerala to move Supreme Court over farm law this weekKerala will move the Supreme Court against the new farm law in a couple of days, said state agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar. He said since agriculture falls in the concurrent list, new law encroaches upon the rights of states and it was against the federal structure of the country. Read moreIndia, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zonesIndia and Nepal on Monday reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to boost trade and investment, including the creation of cross-border economic zones. Read moreIndia vs Australia, 3rd T20I Preview: Stats, form indicate a whitewashConsidering India’s record against Australia in the shortest format of the game especially in Australia, it really shouldn’t be a surprise if Virat Kohli’s men go on to win the third and final T20I at the Sydney Cricket Ground on Tuesday to blank the hosts 3-0. Who would have thought this was possible when India ended November with a bag full of questions and little hopes of finding the answers. But strange things happen in cricket, especially with the change of formats. Read moreAK vs AK trailer: Anil Kapoor has to find kidnapped Sonam Kapoor in a clash of ego with ‘sasta Tarantino’ Anurag KashyapThe first trailer for Vikramaditya Motwane’s AK vs AK is out and it promises a lot of chaos. The film pits filmmaker Anurag Kashyap against Anil Kapoor in a clash of egos. Read more CEO of fashion company resigns to focus on family, prioritize wife’s careerThe chief executive of online fashion retailer Zalando is stepping down to focus on his family, saying his wife’s career should “take priority” in the coming years. Read more Watch: ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protestUnion Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad lashed out at the opposition parties over the protest by farmers. Prasad said that the UPA government had done the same when it was in power and added that they are opposing only for the sake of it. ‘The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions,’ Prasad said. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-records-1-674-new-coronavirus-infections-daily-positivity-rate-drops-3-15-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FFWPitA1VnjUkGSNBJBkIJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Air India allows for a free date change on tickets if passengers miss flights due to Bharat Bandh||Passengers who are unable to reach the airport in time for their flights on Tuesday due to the nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws will not have to pay no-show charges and will be eligible for a free date change on confirmed tickets for flights from all Indian airports, Air India said on Monday.“For passengers who are unable to reach the Airport due to possible disturbance on 8th Dec, no-show charges will be waived and one free date change allowed for those with confirmed tickets for travel on 8th Dec, 2020 from any Indian Airport,” a statement issued by Air India read.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affectedMeanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police shut some routes in view of the strike. Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with Haryana were closed. National Highway-44 was also shut and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Thousands of farmers protesting near the national Capital against the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have demanded that these laws be repealed.Also Read: Bharat Bandh will begin at 11am. Here’s whyParties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. As many as five rounds of talks between the government and the protesting farmers have been inconclusive as the agitating farmers seek complete withdrawal of the laws. The Centre, on the other hand, has agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” an official familiar with the developments told news agency ANI. The next round of talks is set to take place on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-allows-for-a-free-date-change-on-tickets-if-passengers-miss-flights-due-to-bharat-bandh/story-rnofgmHOlqLpjQNPvv4QqK.html
07-12-2020||India||India speeding up review of Pfizer, Astra Covid-19 vaccines: Official||India is accelerating its review of coronavirus vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca for emergency use, a senior government official said on Monday, as the world’s second-most affected country struggles to contain the outbreak.The Indian government is pinning its hopes for mass supply of the vaccine on Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, which on Monday lodged the first formal application for emergency use approval for AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine.Click here for complete Covid-19 coveragePfizer Inc had already applied for emergency use approval for its vaccine in India over the weekend, the official said, declining to be identified.“We are in the process of reviewing. It is an accelerated reviewing process, which is there for Serum too,” the government official said.“It is the need of the hour. We have to review at the earliest.”The world’s second-most populous country with over 1.3 billion people has 9.68 million infections, while more than 140,000 people have died of Covid-19. Lockdowns imposed to contain the spread of the virus have plunged the economy into one of its worst downturns in decades.Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted that the move to apply for emergency use “will save countless lives,” but did not give any other details.The company declined to reply to Reuters’ follow-up questions about the process.AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Moderna Inc are among the drugmakers seeking advanced approvals for their vaccines, which are increasingly being seen by governments as the only way to stop a pandemic that will soon complete a year since it was first reported in China.AstraZeneca’s vaccine, called “Covishield” by Serum Institute, has less stringent storage requirements and is expected to be easier to distribute and faster to scale up in low-income countries.But it is also facing queries from scientists over its trial data, which showed a 1.5 dose regimen delivered more than 90% efficacy and a full two-dose regimen just 62%, both administered over two stages.Britain and some other nations have pressed on with plans to roll out the AstraZeneca vaccine, while the Philippines and Thailand secured millions of doses, giving the shot a vote of confidence after experts raised questions about trial data.AstraZeneca said two weeks ago that it could launch an additional trial to evaluate the lower dose regimen, but Serum Institute has said it would continue to test only the two full doses as it would delay trials.Poonawalla has said the company will first focus on supplying the vaccine in India before distributing it to other countries, pricing it at 1,000 rupees per dose ($13.50) for private markets.Serum Institute has also said an emergency use approval could preface a full rollout by February or March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-speeding-up-review-of-pfizer-astra-covid-19-vaccines-government-official/story-b17fSMZzQmLHM56TkN1DCK.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Congress’ boat sinking’: Shivraj Chouhan in attack on opposition over farmers’ stir||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit out at the opposition parties including Congress over protests against the farm reforms recently passed by Parliament. Speaking at a press conference in Hyderabad, Chouhan said, “Congress’ boat is sinking and that is why they are trying to save themselves by misleading farmers.”“Today I will expose the hypocrisy of Congress and other political parties including Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Left parties on the farm laws,” Chouhan said. “Sharad Pawar Sahab wrote to me in 2011: ‘There’s need to amend Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act on lines of model APMC Act to encourage private sector investment in marketing, infrastructure and providing alternate competitive marketing channels in the overall interest of farmers, consumers and agriculture trade’,” Chouhan added.Click here for live udpates on farmers’ protestHe further said that the “government stands with the farmers” and will “clarify their doubts and resolve their issues.” “We won’t spare those elements who may try to create chaos in the country under the cover of farmers’ protest,” Chouhan also said.Chouhan’s attack against opposition parties came a day before the farmers called for a Bharat Bandh, a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The call has been supported by several political parties including Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, AAP, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), TMC, DMK, Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD).Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal met the farmers protesting at the Singhu border along with his cabinet. During the visit, Kejriwal briefly interacted with farmers and inspected the arrangements made by the city administration for them.The AAP has also announced to hold a peaceful demonstration on Tuesday in Delhi in support of the farmers.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-boat-sinking-shivraj-chouhan-in-attack-on-opposition-over-farmers-stir/story-fBw1FMIIi5oseve9ohgNjK.html
07-12-2020||India||Challenges, adventures and joys of being first tiger ladies of Corbett Tiger Reserve||In less than a month, the first seven women nature guides of Corbett Tiger Reserve have won over tourists in their stint working as tour guides. But these women are also facing challenges both at professional and personal level. Despite all odds, these tiger ladies of Corbett are steadily finding their foothold in the job that was primarily held by men in these jungles so far. For the first time this year, Corbett Tiger Reserve appointed female nature guides to bring gender equality in the wildlife tourism sector and the guides have received a mixed response. Urmila Belwal, 28-year-old nature guide posted at Garjiya gate of Corbett, said that working as a nature guide is an enriching experience but comes at the cost of her 8-year-old son staying with relatives without his parents. “Both my husband and I work with the Corbett Tiger Reserve. I joined last month as a nature guide where my duty starts early morning at 6:30 am. My husband works in Bijrani zone on a night shift. On certain days, when I have tourists in both morning and afternoon shifts, I am not able to pay any attention to my son and he stays with our relatives. With my husband working night shift, there have been days when only one of us is available for our son,” said Belwal. Speaking more about her experience, Belwal also said that she, along with other nature guides, has to manage transportation and travel in groups as they cross patches of forests while going for work covering around 12-15 kilometres from her village. Also read: India, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zones“Every job has an occupational hazard and ours is crossing through forests with the constant fear of being attacked by animals. But we have grown up living around wild animals so we can manage that. We are five women who usually travel together so that our families also do not worry,” she added. Deeksha Kargeti, 22-year-old from Dhela village who also works as a nature guide in Garjiya zone said, “I am enjoying this opportunity and trying to learn as much as possible about wildlife. It is nice when tourists acknowledge us, click selfies with us and want to go on safaris with female guides, it motivates us to work better.” Kargeti also said that travelling through forests in early morning hours is “a little risky and scary”. However, not all female guides have had the same experience. Despite being appointed and trained, three guides from Luthiya village near Kotdwar in Pauri district are waiting for tourists to arrive amid Covid-19 epidemic. Monika Rawat, 20-year-old from Ludhiya village, who has been posted at Sonanadi gate of Corbett, said they are facing multiple challenges like distance from their village, lack of transportation and lesser number of tourists compared to other gates of the reserve. “I went to the Sonanadi for around five to six days after the gates were opened for tourists on November 15 but tourists were not coming. Even if there were some tourists, they were not interested in safari. We also spoke to divisional forest officials for helping us with transportation as it is a problem in the early morning hours. When not many tourists are visiting, I stop going,” said Rawat. Rahul, director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, who goes by his first name, said that many tourists are praising the efforts of women nature guides, especially all-female group tourists, but the officials are also working to solve their problems. “There are seven women who have been selected as guides this year. Four have been posted at Garjiya and three who are from Pauri district have been posted at Sonanadi. I have learnt about the problems of transportation faced by them. Indeed, tourism in the Pauri side is not much compared to the other zones, so we are trying to shift them from Sonanadi to Bijrani or Garjiya zone. I have asked them to write to me about difficulties that they face,” said Rahul. In October, 488 candidates had appeared in the guide recruitment test held in Ramnagar of which 102 were women. A total of 67 candidates cleared the test, including seven women. Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is spread across 1,288 square kilometres, is one of the most loved tourist destinations in the state. The gates of Corbett open on November 15 every year for six months till mid-June. Corbett witnesses a footfall of around 300,000 tourists every year. There are 231 tigers inside CTR and 266 using the reserve according to the latest report on tigers. This is the highest number of tigers in 50 tiger reserves in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenges-adventures-and-joys-of-being-first-tiger-ladies-of-corbett-tiger-reserve/story-9YsLcnUWh8ZZc3P3GsqhLN.html
07-12-2020||India||‘With friends near me, those were the best days’||Actor Rajesh Jais feels his earlier days in the industry were made easy because of his group of friends. “See, whatever profession it be, one needs time to settle and make a place. I don’t call it a struggle. Also my group of friends including Saurabh Shukla, Irrfaan Khan, Manoj Bajpayee, Tigmanshu Dhulia and others were my biggest support. Saurabh called me to Mumbai from Delhi as it was he who got our tickets done. Those were the best days of my life,” said the ‘Gandhi The Mahatma’ actor.Talking about his work and early days, Jais said, “I come from a defence background and tried my hand at multiple things including NCC Air Wing, air shooting, aero-modelling, journalism, music and completed the Air Force Attachment Course leading me closer to join the defence services. It was one fine day I saw a few students practising a street play and I joined them too. It was such a fun experience and it was my first exposure to acting. Eventually it took me to the National School of Drama.”Jais came to Mumbai way back in early 90s and got his break with the TV drama, ‘Shanti’. “It was a role that was supposed to be done by Manoj Bajpayee but he introduced me to the makers and eventually I got the show. Then my film debut happened with Ketan Mehta’s ‘Oh Darling Yeh Hai India.’ But for me the real cinema was the art one with legends like Nasseruddin Shah, Om Puri and I was one of their biggest followers,” he said.After almost 30 years in the industry the ‘Why Cheat India,’ actor wishes to continue acting as the kind of content appearing on the Web has aspired him to take up more work. “The kind of stories that are being made on the Web as well as in films, they’re inspiring actors.”Currently, the actor is waiting for the release of the film ‘Indoo ki Jawani’ with Kiara Advani in the lead and shooting for a horror flick, ‘Chhori’ in MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/with-friends-near-me-those-were-the-best-days/story-pC0OEcmcqTUei5p5KoRngJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Private doctors in Uttarakhand to shut OPDs on Dec 11 to protest ayurveds performing surgery||The Uttarakhand chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called for the closure of out-patient departments in private hospitals on December 11, in protest against the Centre’s recent decision to allow a certain section of Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. Officials from IMA Uttarakhand alleged that the move would endanger the lives of patients as there can be different side-effects of Ayurveda and allopathy being mixed. Dr DD Choudhury, national vice-president and state secretary of IMA said, “It is not that we do not want AYUSH medicine to flourish in the country, but we are against the mixing of two different kinds of treatments.” “Protesting against this move, over 2000 doctors from Uttarakhand will keep OPDs shut from 6 am to 6 pm on December 11. The courts in the country say that those practicing modern medicine cannot practice Ayurveda, then why is it not the same vice-versa. Using Ayurvedic medicines during modern medicine treatment can become fatal for the patient, and who would be responsible then?” Dr Choudhury asked.The medical body will also hold a symbolic silent protest at different areas across the state on Tuesday in line with Covid-19 protocol.As per a notification, Central Council of Indian Medicines has mandated that ayurvedic post graduation in Shalyathanthra and Shalakyathanthra are to undergo training to independently perform 58 procedures that include general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-doctors-in-uttarakhand-to-shut-opds-on-dec-11-to-protest-ayurveds-performing-surgery/story-Zb2sIccGmR8F0mtcbFuvVJ.html
07-12-2020||India||ADB approves $2.5 million for advanced biofuel development in India||Multilateral lending agency Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Monday said it has approved a $2.5 million (about Rs 18 crore) technical assistance to support advanced biofuel development in India.The grant is funded from the Asia Clean Energy Fund, financed by the Government of Japan under the Clean Energy Financing Partnership Facility, and the Republic of Korea’s e-Asia and Knowledge Partnership Fund.In a statement, ADB said the technical assistance (TA) will support development of advanced bioethanol, bio-compressed natural gas, and biodiesel plants to demonstrate the best practices for suitable feedstock, efficient conversion technology, and sustainable biofuel value chain.It will also support incorporating gender main-streaming design in the feedstock value chain to promote the empowerment of rural women in agriculture.Using novel technology, advanced (or second-generation) biofuels could be produced from non-edible sources like agricultural residue, municipal solid waste, and used cooking oil. They can be used as bioethanol, biogas, and biodiesel for energy, transport, manufacturing, and medical purposes.“This renewable energy will lower net greenhouse gas emission without threatening food security. India has a massive amount of wastes, but crop burning causes severe air pollution. If agricultural waste can be collected effectively as feedstock for biofuels, its sales will be able to supplement rural farmers’ income and negate the need to burn crop waste,” the statement said.The advanced biofuels can provide simultaneous solutions to address energy security, waste recycling, climate change, and air pollution reduction.The Manila-headquartered organisation further said that technical and financial barriers discourage commercial production of biofuels, such as the absence of technology standards, lack of feedstock supply chain mechanism, limited access to finance, and resultant high production costs and financial viability risks.“The ADB’s TA will help address these obstacles and prepare for advanced biofuels’ commercial application and large-scale production,” it said.ADB Finance Specialist for South Asia Jongmi Son said ADB supports the government of India’s National Policy on Biofuels established in 2018 to promote advanced biofuel market, which will harness waste, strengthen energy independence, create new industries and jobs, and mitigate global warming.“The TA will take a cross-sector approach to tackle various thematic issues, such as energy security, transport mobility, agribusiness, financial stability, air and water pollution, waste disposal, public health, climate change, and the urban–rural divide,” Son said.As per the statement, holistic studies will be conducted in aid of establishing technical designs, effective business models, catalytic financing schemes, regulatory frameworks, and awareness programs.To boost advanced biofuel investments, ADB will collaborate with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, the Oil Industry Development Board, and public financial institutions, such as the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development.ADB will also work with public oil companies, including the Indian Oil Corporation Limited and the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adb-approves-2-5-million-for-advanced-biofuel-development-in-india/story-bz58Q1JiOBE58JXC0hiBpM.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway unions extend support to farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh||Farmers demanding the repeal of three farms laws received a shot in the arm on Monday with two of the biggest unions of the national transporter-- The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) and the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) – extending their support for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday.The railway unions on Monday announced that their members will hold rallies and demonstrations on Tuesday in a show of solidarity with the farmers who have called the bandh.All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) general secretary Shiva Gopal Mishra met the agitating farmers at Delhi’s Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India. I hope that the government will give cognizance to the genuine demands of the farmers and redress the same at the earliest,” he said in a statement.M Raghavaiah, general secretary, NFIR in a statement appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept the demands of the farmers and said that the railway families are with the “annadatas” in their struggle against the anti-farm laws which are “detrimental to the farmer community of the nation”.“The NFIR general secretary advised all its affiliate unions throughout the Indian Railways to conduct dharnas, rallies and demonstrations in solidarity with the farmers’ struggle and against anti-farmer decisions of the central government,” the statement said.The two unions comprising nearly 13 lakh current railway employees and around 20 lakh retired employees, are the latest to show solidarity with agitating farmers. Support for farmers have also poured in from the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has also extended its support.“Earlier it was decided that the transport fraternity from Northern India will participate in the Bharat Bandh announced by farmers, but now it has been resolved in the meeting that transport associations and unions in other parts of the country will join the Bharat Bandh of farmers and voluntarily suspend their operations on December 8, 2020,” the AIMTC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-unions-extend-support-to-farmers-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-7Q40iTQUCv6LTD2dSO29FP.html
07-12-2020||India||India, Nepal discuss creation of cross-border economic zones||India and Nepal on Monday reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to boost trade and investment, including the creation of cross-border economic zones.These matters were discussed during a virtual meeting of the bilateral inter-governmental committee on trade and transit, seen as another step towards the normalisation of ties that were hit by a border row earlier this year. Nepal had indicated its desire to review various issues related to trade and transit arrangements during foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s visit to Kathmandu last month.A statement from the Indian embassy in Kathmandu said the meeting reviewed the development of cross-border trade infrastructure and discussed ways to promote investments, including a new proposal on developing cross-border economic zones and holding a meeting of the joint business forum.The two sides also reviewed the treaties on trade and transit. The commerce secretaries of the two countries noted that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there was smooth and unimpeded movement of trade and commercial cargo in trucks across the land border with the facilitation of both governments.Also read: Body found 11 days after MiG-29 pilot goes missing, DNA test result awaited“The wide-ranging discussions today and the progress made in the meeting are expected to further support the expansion in economic and commercial ties between India and Nepal,” the statement said. The inter-governmental committee is the apex bilateral mechanism to review and set the way forward for bilateral trade and economic ties. Monday’s meeting was chaired by commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan and his Nepalese counterpart Baikuntha Aryal and attended by representatives of different ministries from both sides.India-Nepal ties took a hit when Kathmandu issued a new political map in May that laid claim to Indian territories in the Kalapani region. India rejected the map and the two sides agreed during Shringla’s visit to respect each other’s sensitivities and to handle the border issue through existing mechanisms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-discuss-creation-of-cross-border-economic-zones/story-t4Eb1cqElawxtL0TvGEzAJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Delhi-Haryana borders shut ahead of Bharat Bandh on Tuesday||In view of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws passed by Parliament, the Delhi Police on Monday shut Tikri, Jharoda, Dhansa, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari and Mangesh borders of the national Capital with its neighbouring state Haryana. The borders were shut a day before the countrywide strike or Bharat Bandh called by the agitating farmers on Tuesday. Update : Tikri, Jharoda Borders, Dhansa are closed for any Traffic Movement.Badusarai Border is open only for Light Motor Vehicle like Cars and two wheelers.Jhatikara Border is open only for two wheeler traffic @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe National Highway-44 was also shut on both sides and commuters were suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. The traffic police advised those travelling towards Noida to take the DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too was closed for traffic. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also shut for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders were among the few open borders with Haryana, the official twitter handle of the Delhi Traffic Police said. Update: Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders* @dtptraffic @DelhiPoliceThe three laws that the farmers are protesting against - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have been hailed as reforms needed to remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.Meanwhile, the farmers say these laws will leave them at the mercy of big farmers.“We do not want corporate farming. The government will benefit from this law, not the farmer,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-haryana-borders-shut-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-on-tuesday/story-fDr845fzIOYel88ZIDaWJN.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition parties misleading innocent farmers, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath waded into the farm protests on Monday with a scathing attack on opposition parties, accusing them of making a ‘nasty bid’ to create anarchy and disorder in the country by using “innocent farmers” as a cover. His attack comes a day before the Bharat bandh that various farmer organisations have called on Tuesday, with the opposition parties lending their support to demand rollback of the three farm laws enacted recently.“The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” Adityanath said at a press conference at his official residence.He also said by goading farmers to organise the bandh amid the pandemic, the opposition parties were exposing farmers to the risk of the coronavirus.Also read: Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house“This is also a conspiracy to weaken the country’s fight against the Covid-19 and some nefarious powers are behind the proposed bandh,” he alleged.Replying to a question, the CM said the call for the Bharat bandh was uncalled for considering the fact that the Centre’s representatives, including Union agriculture minister, were regularly holding dialogues with farmers to hammer out an agreeable solution. Accusing the opposition parties of displaying “double standards”, Adityanath said the Congress-led UPA government had made a strong case for the implementation of the model APMC Act with the provision for contract farming in the larger interest of farmers.“The then agriculture minister and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar even wrote a letter to chief ministers of all states in 2010-11 asking them to modify their APMC laws in accordance with the Model APMC Act made by the Centre,” he said.He further said then the SP, BSP, NCP and the TMC etc were all either a part of the then Congress-led UPA government at the Centre or were supporting it from outside.Adityanath said leaders, including SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, supported the proposal for mandi reforms when it was referred to the Parliament’s standing committee last year.“If the reforms were in the interest of farmers, how can the same reforms go against the interests of farmers now when the Modi government showed the courage to take the plunge?” he asked and demanded the opposition parties to apologise to the nation for misleading innocent farmers by adopting double standards on agriculture reforms and shying away from their old stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-misleading-innocent-farmers-says-adityanath/story-5HYo3LU6OwV6p4eUmQeaUM.html
07-12-2020||India||Delhi records 1,674 new Covid-19 cases, daily positivity rate dips 3.15%||After experiencing a severe third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Delhi is now witnessing a steady dip in the number of new cases of the infection. On Monday, the national capital recorded 1,674 fresh Covid-19 cases and 63 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the official health bulletin.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Delhi’s positivity rate plummeted to 3.15 per cent, according to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.The health minister further said this is the lowest positivity rate in six months and urged the citizens to keep practising Covid-19 precautions.“In a month positivity declined to 3.15% today from 15.26% on 7th Nov. During the same period RTPCR positivity reduced to 6.68% from 30.20%.Lowest positivity in last 6 months. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down.Hope this will continue.Please observe all precautions,” Satyendar Jain said on Twitter.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Sunday, “I am glad that the third wave also seems to be getting weak. Delhi fought a v difficult war against corona.”However, the number of RT-PCR or Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction tests conducted on Sunday were less as compared to the number of tests conducted on Saturday. The total number of RT-PCR tests conducted on Saturday were 32,023, while only 21,362 RT-PCR tests were done on Sunday. RT-PCR test is considered to be most authentic and accurate for covid testing. RT-PCR tests provide more true results in contrast to RAT or rapid antigen tests.As per the health bulletin, the recovery rate of Delhi has also increased in the last 24 hours to 94.57% from 93.55% on Thursday with total recovered patients at 5,61,732. The total active caseload of coronavirus in Delhi after the release of Sunday’s report stands at 22,486 and the total coronavirus cases tally now stands at 5,93,924.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-1-674-new-covid-19-cases-daily-positivity-rate-dips-to-historic-low/story-LkQRcpsYQ1MsIqYEiceadN.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh will begin at 11 am. Here’s why||The farmers protesting against the three farm reforms enacted by the Centre recently will observe a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. During the strike, they will block roads and various services including transport, banking are expected to be affected. There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said at a press conference. However, the road blockage will begin from 11 am and will continue till 3 pm.Speaking at a press conference today, Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said that the timings for the road blockade or chakka jam has been set as they don’t want to cause any trouble to the common public.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affected“We don’t want to cause problems for the common public. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for the office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm,” Tikait said. “Services such as ambulances, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card and leave,” he added.“Our protest is peaceful and we’ll continue that way. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition,” Tikait also said.Watch | TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns: Key details of Bharat Bandh Farmers from across the country are protesting against the three farm laws for 11 days now. They have been camping in and around Delhi and demanding the complete withdrawal of the laws passed by the Parliament in September this year.So far, five rounds of talks have taken place between the government and the protesting farmers. However, they have been inconclusive as they remain firm on the demand for complete withdrawal. The next round of talks is set to take place on Wednesday.Also Read | ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi’s pitch for reforms amid farmers’ protestIn view of the strike, police in Delhi are taking extensive measures to maintain the law and order situation on Tuesday. As per the traffic advisory, Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders (on the Haryana side) are closed. The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides.People travelling towards Noida are also advised to take DND flyover as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-will-begin-at-11-am-here-s-why/story-hYBQvx8i4EaczrdvcyP3HJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Ensure peace and tranquility during Bharat Bandh, Centre tells states, UTs||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and union territories to make adequate security arrangements to prevent any untoward incident during Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three new farm laws, officials said.In an advisory, the home ministry has also asked the police departments and state governments to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines issued from time to time are strictly followed by the protestors, they said. Focusing on maintaining law and order, the MHA has said that “peace and tranquility” should be maintained during Bharat Bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident. A MHA official said that the advisory sent to states/UTs for making security arrangements is a routine practice as states are usually alerted during such events. The ministry will monitor the events of Bharat Bandh on Tuesday throughout the day. Thousands of farmers are protesting at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agricultural laws for the past 11 days demanding that they be repealed. Five rounds of talks with the government have not yielded any results and farmers have called a nationwide strike on Tuesday, which will begin at 11 am and end at 3 pm. During the bandh, regular traffic and services including banking, supply of essential items might be disrupted. “It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said. Meanwhile, several border crossings in Delhi including – Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, Chilla border have been sealed by Delhi police and adequate security personnel have been deployed there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-peace-and-tranquility-during-bharat-bandh-centre-tells-states-uts/story-BZRtRdhJHv67dlowOos75L.html
07-12-2020||India||Law and order plans in place for ‘Bharat bandh’, say Mumbai cops||Strict action will be taken against anyone trying to force shops and other establishments to down shutters during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by various outfits and political parties against the Centre’s new farm laws, Mumbai police officials said.Deputy Commissioner S Chaitanya, the Mumbai police’s spokesperson, told PTI all preparations have been made to maintain law and order during the shutdown, including deployment of three State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) companies in the metropolis.Also Read | Bharat Bandh: BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads“We will take strict action if anyone is found forcing people to shut their establishments. Patrolling and nakabandis will be intensified on Tuesday during the bandh,” the DCP said.The bandh has been called against Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, all of which were passed by Parliament recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-and-order-plans-in-place-for-bharat-bandh-say-mumbai-cops/story-T0691lbof0r9Bnv7lfA2qI.html
07-12-2020||India||Body found 11 days after MiG-29 pilot goes missing, DNA test result awaited||A body believed to be of Indian Navy pilot Commander Nishant Singh, missing since a MiG-29 combat jet crashed into the Arabian Sea 11 days ago, has been found by naval rescue teams. The officials are awaiting the result of a DNA test to confirm the identity. The result of the DNA test alone can confirm the identity as the body was beyond recognition when it was found, people familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity on Monday. “Mortal remains of a human body have been recovered in the vicinity of the wreckage. The samples are being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity,” said a statement from the Indian Navy. The people said the body was recovered near the site where the MiG-29 crashed into the Arabian Sea on November 26. One of the two pilots in the jet was rescued soon after the crash. Also read: Bharat Bandh - BEST buses, cabs, autos to ply as usual on Mumbai roads“All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats, have been accounted for using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The FDR/CVR [flight data recorder/cockpit voice recorder] along with other important material have been recovered so far for analysis [and] investigation,” the statement said. The navy had mobilised nine warships, 14 aircraft and several small vessels for the search and rescue mission to locate Singh. The rescue teams had earlier recovered several components of the Russian-made jet, including the landing gear, fuel tank and engine. The statement said maritime surveillance aircraft and helicopter had flown sorties totalling 270 hours during the search. The underwater search around the crash site included extensive efforts by divers and continuous overnight search using high-definition cameras over the past 10 days. The navy has ordered an inquiry into the crash, the third involving a MiG-29K, the naval variant of the jet, in the past year. A MiG-29K twin-seat jet crashed in Goa on November 16 last year, though both pilots ejected safely. Another of the jets crashed off the Goa coast on February 23 after taking off from INS Hansa, the main naval airbase in the region. In the second case too, the pilot had ejected safely. The Indian Navy had purchased 45 MiG-29Ks, the carrier-based version of the multirole combat jet, to be used with the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-found-11-days-after-mig-29-pilot-goes-missing-dna-test-result-awaited/story-j7uEssip1kW8SDgIoYmFUK.html
07-12-2020||India||Railway union AIRF extends support for Bharat Bandh||The All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws.Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, AIRF met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.“We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India.“I hope that the government will give cognizance to the genuine demands of the farmers and redress the same at the earliest,” he said.The railway union, which has around 9 lakh members, is the latest to show solidarity with the agitating farmers, who have found support from transport unions and the joint forum of trade unions like the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).Opposition parties like the Congress, NCP, SP, INLD and the Left parties have also come out in support of the stir.After five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions failed to end the impasse, the two sides are again set to meet on December 9, a day after the countrywide strike.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-union-airf-extends-support-for-bharat-bandh/story-FmGxxYpGOs2tQmk3QJONpJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Sushil Modi elected to Rajya Sabha, BJP now has 4 Bihar MPs in upper house||With the election of senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi to the Rajya Sabha unopposed, the number of the party’s MPs in the upper house from the state has risen to four. Modi was on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha in a bypoll that was necessitated by the death of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan. In addition to the former deputy chief minister, a lone Independent candidate, Shyam Nandan Prasad had filed his nomination papers which were rejected during scrutiny. Prasad’s papers were not supported by at least 10 members of the 243-strong assembly as proposers, which is mandatory, poll officials said. Modi was handed over his certificate in the presence of a host of dignitaries, including Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, with whom he is known to enjoy an excellent rapport, his successors as deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi and state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. Of the 16 members to Rajya Sabha from Bihar, JD (U) and the RJD have five each while Congress has one representation to the Rajya Sabha and one seat is vacant. Besides Modi, the other three BJP Rajya Sabha MPs are Gopal Narain Singh, Vivek Thakur and Satish Chandra Dubey.The senior BJP leader, while being elected to RS, attained a rare distinction of representing all the four houses of the country. He had been a member of Lok Sabha, Bihar Legislative Assembly and Legislative council and now a member of the Rajya Sabha. Modi was the leader of the opposition in Bihar assembly from 1996-2004. In 2004, he was elected to 14 the Lok Sabha from Bhagalpur parliamentary constituency, a seat which he vacated after becoming the deputy CM of NDA government in Bihar in 2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-elected-to-rajya-sabha-bjp-now-has-4-bihar-mps-in-upper-house/story-Hyo7rOFA5pZCFOM2VnXJMO.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: All you need to know about parties supporting it and services that may be affected||The farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament have given a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call in a signal that they are intensifying their stir. The nationwide strike will begin at 11 am and go on till 3 pm, as the protesters said they don’t want to cause problems for the common man. The Centre has tried to find a solution to end the stir, but five rounds of talks so far have not been able to placate the farmers.In Delhi, the police have made elaborate security arrangements and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt movement of people or “forcefully” shut shops. The farmers have been protesting near the national capital since November 26.Also Read: Centre issues ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for statesThe Delhi Traffic Police have said that Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders (on the Haryana side) are closed. The National Highway-44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Those travelling towards Noida have been advised to take DND as the Chilla border on the Noida Link road too is closed for traffic, it said. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Also Watch l Bharat Bandh: TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns l Key details Here’s everything you need to know about the Bharat Bandh tomorrow:• The farmers’ stand: The farmers from Punjab and Haryana, who have been protesting for the past 11 days, are adamant that the three farm laws should be repealed. They have called these laws “anti-farmer”, saying they would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of minimum support price (MSP) and do away with mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.• What the government has said: The Centre has projected these three laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. The government has said that it won’t rollback the laws, but has agreed to amend them as demanded by the farmers. Another round of meeting is scheduled on December 9.Also Read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’, says PM Modi• The parties backing Bharat Bandh: Political parties like the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have supported the Bandh call. The AAP will hold a peaceful demonstration at 11 am at the ITO crossing in the national capital on Tuesday in support of the nationwide strike.• What about banking and trade unions? A joint platform of 10 central trade unions has extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call. These trade unions are - Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women’s Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). A number of bank unions have expressed their solidarity with protesting farmers and requested the government to resolve their issues at the earliest. However, bank unions - like All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) and All India Bank Employees’ Association (AIBEA) - have said that they will not participate in the ‘Bharat Bandh’. • Transporters and traders: Transporters’ union AIMTC on Monday said it will suspend operations in the entire country on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) is the apex body of transporters, representing about 95 lakh truckers and other entities. Some auto and taxi unions in New Delhi, including those associated with app-based aggregators, have also decided to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. However, many other auto and taxi unions have decided to continue normal services despite their support to demands raised by the agitating farmers. Traders’ body CAIT and All India Transporters Welfare Association on Monday said markets across the country including in Delhi will remain open on Tuesday and the transport sector will function as usual. In Mumbai, BEST buses and taxis will ply as normal.• Railway union AIRF extends support: The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8 called by farmer unions which have been protesting on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s new farm laws. Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) met the agitating farmers at Singhu border and assured them that members of the railway union are with them in their fight against the new agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-all-you-need-to-know-about-parties-supporting-it-and-services-to-be-affected/story-jROC1L15J5sIiVPUb8PKhK.html
07-12-2020||India||Assam clamps Section 144 along Indo-Bangla border in Cachar district||Apprehending movement of extremist elements, the district administration in Assam’s Cachar district has clamped Section 144 of Cr. PC in areas along the Indo-Bangladesh border.In a statement on Monday, the government said the order was issued on Saturday by deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli. In her order, the deputy commissioner also promulgated night curfew along the border areas. The order will remain in force for a period of two months. “Movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between sunset and sunrise within one kilometer radius of Indo-Bangladesh border. No person shall move on the Surma river and on its high bank within the limit of the territory in actual control of India,” said a release issued by the district administration. “In view of extremist elements out to create law and order problems in the district and also unauthorized movement of commodities, including cattle from the district through the areas surrounding the district borders, the order has been promulgated,” it added. From now no person shall be allowed to ply boats on the Surma for fishing purposes and prior permission for fishing has to be obtained from the circle officer at Katigorah. No one would also be allowed to carry commodities like sugar, rice, edible oil, wheat, salt etc. on any vehicle including handcarts and rickshaws between sunset and sunrise within 5 km inside the district’s boundary with Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-clamps-section-144-along-indo-bangla-border-in-cachar-district/story-Z7uSXXEwf6fjLVLIPZe6wL.html
07-12-2020||India||J-K employees union locks horn with Srinagar Mayor over forced retirements||The Jammu and Kashmir Employees Joint Action Committee has said that Srinagar Mayor Junaid Mattu plan of forced retirement of the employees who have completed 28 years of service in the municipal corporation is unacceptable.Mattu who again took over the reins of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation after he won a vote of confidence last month said that he is seeking enactment of provisions of Article 226(2) to weed out deadwood from the SMC.“Seeking enactment of provisions of Article 226(2) of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulations to weed out deadwood, am writing to the Government to conduct a performance review of all SMC officers and employees who have attained 48 years of age/22 years of service,” Mattu had tweeted on December 4.The tweet evoked strong response from the largest employee body of the J&K.Rafiq Ahmad Rather, president of the Employees Joint Action Committee, said the Act mentioned by Mattu cannot be used arbitrarily.“SMC employees have been working in extremely tough and adverse working conditions. Article 226(2) should not be and can’t be used arbitrarily at one’s will,” he said adding that employees of SMC have been doing tremendous work whether in winter or summer.“SMC had always been on the forefront in solving the problems of people. The Mayor is trying to threaten the employees which is not good thing especially those employees who are known for their dedication and good work.”Shah Fayaz, president J&K Employees Coordination Committee termed it an attempt to make lower rung employees a scapegoat.“Lower rung employees are always scapegoats of the system, employees of SMC proved in any situation, 2014 floods 2020 ...Covid Mayor sahab start same exercise from administrative level,” Shah tweeted in response to Mattu.Last month the Jammu and Kashmir government had decided to prematurely retire an employee, the first such case in the newly formed union territory, over a month after framing new rules to fire government employees after he/she has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age.The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (JKBOSE) had issued a notice to one of its class-iv employees Fayaz Ahmad Siraj to retire from services as he had completed his 27 years of service on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-employees-union-locks-horn-with-srinagar-mayor-over-forced-retirements/story-PILoLylVkT1JqylkL4JLeN.html
07-12-2020||India||‘All is well’: Tripura BJP in-charge says nothing’s amiss after party activists raise anti-Biplab slogans||Differences in Tripura’s Bharatiya Janata Party seemed to have escalated after a large group of party workers raised their voice to replace chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb with arrival of Vinod Sonkar as party’s state observer for the first time. Even as the workers raised the slogan “Biplab hatao, BJP bachao” on Sunday at State Guest House in Agartala, Sonkar ruled out any difference in the party claiming “all is well”. In his two-day visit, Sonkar met with legislators, members of parliament, top leaders and, obviously, with Biplab Kumar Deb. “Our party is an organization of karyakartas (workers). Our prime thought is to listen to them with respect. As the state has no prabhari (observer) for a long time, people could not say what they want to say. There is no grievance in any of them. All is well. I will speak with everyone, but it is not possible in one go,” he told the media persons before leaving the state. “Excitement was noticed to meet the prabhari. This shows that the foundation of BJP is very strong in the state,” he said. Earlier in 2018, Sonkar visited the state as the party’s SC Morcha in-charge. Also read: ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’ - PM Modi amid farmers’ protestThe party workers who raised slogan against Biplab Deb could not be identified as they declined to speak to media. In October this year, a group of BJP legislators, led by former health minister Sudip Roy Barman, visited New Delhi and met party president Dr JP Nadda to discuss organizational matters and political scenario of the state and not to complain against anyone, as told by them earlier. No reaction was available from the dissident legislators regarding the recent anti-Biplab protest during Sonkar’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-is-well-tripura-bjp-state-in-charge-says-nothing-s-amiss-after-party-activists-raise-anti-biplab-slogans/story-BktDri8H8WrH4aQ7AgbKYO.html
07-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC stays hydrocarbon exploration inside Dibru-Saikhowa national park||The Gauhati high on Monday stayed hydrocarbon exploration permission given to Oil India Limited (OIL) at seven locations inside the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) in Assam. A division bench comprising chief justice (acting) N Kotishwar Singh and justice Manish Choudhury passed the order while hearing a petition by Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka. The petitioners had sought a stay on permission granted to OIL by the Centre in May this year to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations in DSNP. After hearing arguments by advocates Debajit Kumar Das, RS Choudhury and H Betala who represented the petitioners, the division bench stayed the environmental clearance for non-compliance of a Supreme Court order of 2017 which required OIL to conduct biodiversity impact assessment study. Also read | Controversy over land allotment to NDRF near Amchang wildlife sanctuary in AssamIn an affidavit filed last month, OIL had stated that no public consultation for environmental clearance or biodiversity impact assessment has been done yet for proposed drilling for oil and natural gas in DSNP. The company maintained that existing rules don’t require it to conduct public consultation and stressed not work on oil and gas exploration and extraction has started till date. The company maintained that no biodiversity study of the proposed site has been done yet, but it is committed to the undertaking submitted before Supreme Court with regard to conducting such a study prior to the start of the drilling operation. Spread over 340sq km, Dibru-Saikhowa is one of the five national parks in Assam. The park, which is also a biosphere reserve, is home to 36 mammal species including tiger, Gangetic dolphin and feral horses and 382 bird species. OIL had maintained that the company won’t operate inside the national park and the drilling will have no impact on the area as operation would be conducted through a technique called extended reach drilling (ERD) which would have no impact on the surface area of DSNP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-hydrocarbon-exploration-inside-dibru-saikhowa-national-park/story-1SqerXwW5MoQsHynIsdbsJ.html
07-12-2020||India||India, Nepal review progress on wide-ranging bilateral agenda||A meeting of the India-Nepal Inter-Governmental Committee (IGC) on Trade and Transit was held on Monday, during which both sides reviewed the progress made on wide-ranging bilateral agenda including review of treaties of trade and transit, stated the Indian embassy here.The virtual meeting was led by commerce secretaries of both countries. The IGC is the apex bilateral mechanism to review and set the way forward for further enhancing bilateral trade and economic ties.“Anup Wadhawan, Commerce Secretary, Government of India was accompanied by the Ambassador of India to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra and a 15 member delegation drawn from various Ministries and the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu, while his counterpart, Baikuntha Aryal, Secretary (Commerce & Supplies) of Nepal was assisted by representatives of various Ministries and Departments of Government of Nepal,” the embassy statement read. According to the Indian embassy, the meeting concluded with both sides reviewing progress made on the development of trade infrastructure as well as investment promotions including the new proposal of development of cross-border economic zones and holding meeting of Joint Business Forum.During the meeting, both commerce secretaries noted with appreciation that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, there was “smooth and unimpeded” trade and commercial cargo movement by trucks across the land border with support and facilitation of both the government, the embassy said.“The wide-ranging discussions today and the progress made in the meeting are expected to further support the expansion in economic and commercial ties between India and Nepal,” it added.The Inter-Governmental Sub-Committee (IGSC) at the level of Joint Secretaries met on December 3-4, 2020 in the preparation for IGC meeting.The meeting was held days after Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Nepal. During his visit, Shringla had called on Nepali leadership President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.Shringla had also met Nepal Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali and his Nepali counterpart Bharat Raj Paudyal.The embassy said India remains the largest trade and investment partner of Nepal both in terms of Nepali imports and Nepali exports.“In fact, India is the only trading partner of Nepal with whom Nepali exports have consistently increased in the last two to three years,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-review-progress-on-wide-ranging-bilateral-agenda/story-rDft0TfpQ3IGLp6rIfkDWO.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi’s pitch for reforms amid farmers’ protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that reforms are needed for development and some laws from the past century have become a burden now. The comments were made during the virtual inauguration of Agra metro rail project, at a time when farmers are protesting the three laws passed by Parliament.“Reforms are needed for development. Reforms are very much needed for a new order and to give new facilities. We cannot build the next century with the laws of the previous century,” PM Modi said.“Some laws that used to be good in the past century have become a burden in the present century. Reforms should be a continuous process,” he added.Watch | ‘Can’t build new century with old laws’: PM Modi amid farmer protests The Prime Minister added that his government is carrying out “holistic reforms”. “Earlier, reforms used to happen in a piecemeal manner, or keeping in mind some sectors and departments,” he said.PM Modi’s remarks come a day before the ‘Bharat Bandh’ - a nationwide strike call given by various farmer organisations demanding repeal of the three laws passed in September.The bandh (shutdown) call has been supported by several opposition parties and state governments. However, the Centre has asked all states and union territories to tighten security, asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained durign ‘Bharat Bandh’.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Major political parties, such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Left Front have come out in support of the bandh.The strike is going to affect commuting, especially in the national capital as most of its borders are sealed. The Delhi Traffic Police has released a list of borders which are open for people coming from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Some of the taxi and cab unions, including those associated with app-based aggregators, have also decided to join the one-day strike.Thousands of farmers have gathered at Delhi’s borders to protest against the new farm laws, which they say will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-build-new-century-with-old-laws-pm-modi-s-pitch-for-reforms-amid-farmers-protest/story-nJLtyhSJ6MMzb0UNlmw03J.html
07-12-2020||India||Manipur ranks first in N-E states in implementing PM-SVANidhi||Manipur ranked first among hill and north-eastern states category in implementation of Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atma Nirbhar Nidhi (PM-SVANidhi) for the highest number of loans disbursed till date. Sharing this through a Facebook post on Monday, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “Currently, Manipur is ranked No.1 among Hilly Region and North Eastern States category in implementation of PM-SVANidhi for the highest number of loans disbursed till date.”Earlier in the day, Biren Singh-led council of ministers disbursed loans to another 3,362 vendors in a function organised by Manipur Urban Development Agency at chief minister’s Secretariat.Of these, 3,015 were benefited under PM-SVANidhi and 347 were under MUDRA scheme. It was the third such instance since August 25 this year that the chief Mminister distributed loans to vendors.PM-SVANidhi was launched on June 1,2020, by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs to help street vendors recover losses suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic. In Manipur, 5,354 vendors have been benefited so far under PM-SVANidhi and MUDRA schemes. The state government has set a target of extending assistance to a total of 20,000 vendors.In his address during the function, Biren said, “The state Cabinet would resolve to extend PM-SVANidhi and MUDRA schemes to hill districts in the Cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on December 9 at Senapati district headquarters.”Stating that improvement of rural economy is the key to enhancement of the overall economy of the state, he lauded women’s role in the economic activities of Manipur, adding that ten new women’s markets would be constructed in different hill districts and in Bishnupur and Sekmai of valley districts.On the other hand, in his speech, municipal administration housing and urban development minister Okram Henry urged the vendors to repay the loans on time so that they may apply for a bigger amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ranks-first-in-n-e-states-in-implementing-pm-svanidhi/story-HHIa7XvBVNOYX0u82qcqTP.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre highlights 3 major points in ‘Bharat Bandh’ advisory for states: All you need to know||As the protests against the contentious farm laws intensifies, farmers across the country will observe a nationwide strike, Bharat Bandh, on Tuesday. In view of the strike, the central government sent an advisory to all the state governments and union territory (UT) administrators on Monday asking them to tighten security and maintain the law and order.In the advisory, the Centre asked the state governments and UT administrations to ensure that protesters strictly adhere to all Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing.It also asked the states and UTs to take all precautionary measure in order to avoid any untoward incident in the country. The Centre’s main focus in on peace and tranquillity, which it said should be maintained.Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new agricultural laws for the past 11 days. As the talks with the government have so far remained futile, the protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. Protesting farmers will begin their strike from 11am and it continue toll 3pm.Also Watch l Bharat Bandh: TMC says no strike in Bengal; Delhi Police warns l Key details Also Read | Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmers During the strike, they are expected to block roads and services such as transport and banking may be affected. However, medical services like an ambulance or even weddings will go as usual.“It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow houseMeanwhile, in Delhi, the epicentre of protests, several borders connecting the national capital to its neighbouring states are blocked. As per the traffic police advisory, borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-highlights-3-major-points-in-bharat-bandh-advisory-for-states-all-you-need-to-know/story-VMqs08XLhNl80AxhodrkPP.html
07-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand to start geo-tagging of wetlands for better conservation, documentation||Uttarakhand government will soon start geo-tagging of wetlands in the state for better conservation and documentation, informed officials. The revenue and forest department will work together to conduct ground inspections and check the status of wetlands under the guidance of Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC). USAC director MPS Bisht said the initiative is part of a nationwide project of Space Application Centre, Ahmedabad, that is trying to gather information about wetlands across the country. “We are being provided satellite data by Space Application Centre. This data will be used to geo-tag wetlands of the state. Our scientists will study the data and then conduct field visits to map the wetlands,” said Bisht. Also read | Uttarakhand to create export hub in all 13 districts to promote local productsHe added that mapping will help the state government track the development of the wetland, using satellite data. “Once the wetlands are geo-tagged, their progress can be tracked through satellite data, whether they are increasing or the area has decreased due to various developmental activities and plan conservation policies accordingly, as wetlands are very important for the ecology,” added Bisht. Last week, state chief secretary Om Prakash had met department officials for rejuvenation of water bodies and wetlands in the state. “Rejuvenation of water bodies in the state should be taken up as a project on priority. On one hand, there will be an improvement in groundwater level and on the other, means of employment will also increase. Ground mapping of the wetlands identified by the World-Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Space Application Centre Ahmedabad should be done at the earliest. The priorities of these wetlands should be decided through the Department of Drinking Water,” said Prakash. In October, Asan Conservation Reserve in Dehradun district became the first Ramsar site, a wetland of international importance. From the nine criteria for being declared as a Ramsar site, Asan Conservation Reserve had cleared five: species and ecological communities, specific criteria based on water birds and specific criteria based on fish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-start-geo-tagging-of-wetlands-for-better-conservation-documentation/story-9QzkHBGxkMj4dPCnQeXmpO.html
07-12-2020||India||BSNL employees come out in support of farmers’ demands||BSNL Employees Union on Monday said it fully supports the demand of farmers’ organisations for repealing the farm laws.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament.“BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU) is fully supporting the demands of the farmers’ organisations calling for the repealing of the Farm Acts, undemocratically passed in the last session of the Parliament,” the union said in a statement.“BSNL Employees Union fully shares the apprehensions of the farmers’ organisations, that the recently passed Farm Acts will take away the minimum support price being offered by the government,” it added.The union has called upon its circle and district branches throughout the country to organise lunch hour demonstrations on Tuesday, it said.“BSNLEU is also fully supporting the demand of the farmers’ Organisations, calling for total withdrawal of the Electricity Bill-2020,” BSNL Employees Union said.Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called on December 8 by farmers protesting against the three recently enacted agri-marketing laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsnl-employees-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-demands/story-jVMMpYsHKWE6IjZe54H2ZP.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition has double standards on farm sector reforms: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday slammed the Opposition parties for politicising concerns about the recently passed farm laws and misleading the farmers, saying they are opposing the Narendra Modi government for the sake of doing so. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the political parties that have lent support to the ongoing protest by farmers shows the “double standards” as far as reforms in the farming sector is concerned. A bunch of political parties like the Congress, the NCP, the TMC, the SAD, the Samajwadi Party are supporting the farmers from Punjab and Haryana who have been camping in protest at the Delhi border seeking the repeal of the recently passed farm laws. Accusing them of “duplicity”, Prasad said parties like the Congress and the NCP had in the past tried to undertake similar reforms in the agriculture sector, but are opposing the Modi government for trying to do what they had tried to do. Watch l ‘Shameless double standards’: BJP attacks opposition over farmers’ protest “The Congress, in their 2019 manifesto, had promised to repeal the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions. In 2013, Rahul Gandhi had called a meeting of all Congress chief ministers and said Congress-ruled states should give farmers the right to sell directly. He said they will delist fruits and vegetables from the APMC and give free choice to farmers,” Prasad said.He went on to say that Sharad Pawar who was a former agriculture minister and is currently opposing the new farm laws had also written to chief ministers for private sector participation in market infrastructure. “He had written to then Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that agricultural sector needs improvement and the market requires huge investment in marketing infrastructure including cold chain and private sector participation is essential...There was a standing committee that had Mulayam Singh Yadav as a member, which said it was necessary that farmers have to be set free from the bindings of the Mandis,” Prasad said.Blaming the Opposition for using the farmers’ protest as a platform to “retain their political relevance”, Prasad said between 2007-12 the Manmohan Singh government had recommended contract farming. He said in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, MP, Mizoram, Nagaland, Orissa and Rajasthan contract farming was enabled to allow more opportunities for farmers and to increase their income. “Yogendra Yadav had wanted the Modi government to make improvements in the APMC act. Arvind Kejriwal on November 23 notified the new laws that have been drafted ...The political parties are misleading the farmers and their entire approach is double faced,” he said.He also assured farmers that their land will not be sold or leased under the new contract farming laws. “I want to assure them that the land will not be sold, leased or mortgaged under the new contract farming laws,” he said. Referring to the digital mandis, the national agriculture market portal that has given farmers access to markets outside their states the minister said one thousand mandis of 21 states are functioning on the portal and business worth Rs1.15 crore has been carried out. He said if the government’s intent was to close down mandis it would not have carried out buying of crops. Till November end, 31.8 million tonne of paddy has been bought of which 64% is from Punjab, he said.Meanwhile, the Congress blamed the Centre for the ongoing farmers’ agitation, saying the NDA government was responsible for the protests as it had not held discussions with the farmers before enacting the new laws. Addressing a news conference, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said the Centre had also attacked the opposition for its critique of the farm bills in the monsoon session of Parliament. He claimed the Centre would be responsible for any inconvenience faced by the people during Bharat bandh on Tuesday. “The only solution is to call a session of Parliament and repeal the laws,” Jakhar told reporters. “The Centre is being rigid. It is responsible for the farmers agitating in bitter cold,” he added. The Congress leader also attacked the government over the construction of new Parliament building. “The government is spending money on constructing a new Parliament building. They should realise that Parliament runs on emotions not buildings,” he added. Congress leaders from Punjab and Haryana staged a protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, demanding immediate convening of winter session of Parliament to discuss the farmers’ issues. Party MPs from Punjab and Haryana Preneet Kaur, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amar Singh, Mohammad Sadique and Deepender Hooda held a sit-in at Jantar Mantar to press upon the government to withdraw the contentious laws and discuss the issue in Parliament. (With input from Aurangzeb Naqshbandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-opposition-for-double-standards-on-reforms-in-farm-sector/story-l8lfpUJjNzvbPYt1KKrASL.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: ‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’, says DMK chief on actor’s political plunge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’: DMK chief reserves comment on actor’s political plungeDays after Tamil actor Rajnikanth announced that he will launch his political party in January next year, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Monday said that anyone can join politics. Read more Actor-politician Vijayashanti joins BJP, day after meeting Amit ShahFormer Member of Parliament from Telangana and popular Telugu actress M Vijayashanti returned to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday after a formal induction ceremonyin Delhi, news agency ANI reported. Read more Bengal police use tear gas, water cannon to stop BJP rally in Siliguri; chaos prevailsPitched battles marked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) rally at Siliguri in north Bengal on Monday afternoon when police lobbed tear gas shells and used water cannons to stop the party workers and leaders from approaching towards Uttar Kanya, the state secretariat in north Bengal. Read moreIndia’s imports from China dropped 13%, exports went up by 16% in 2020: State mediaIndia’s exports to China increased by 16% in the first 11 months of the year despite the ongoing border military friction and the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, latest Chinese customs data showed on Monday. Read more Hardik Pandya, patience and then the big pushIt is remarkable that Hardik Pandya, for whom several cases could be made to justify his reputation of being the finest T20 player in the game today, has never scored a fifty for India in T20 cricket. Read more Nissan Magnite gets 5,000 bookings in 5 days, max traction for top variantsNissan Magnite is off to a strong start in a bid to mount a challenge in the sub-compact SUV segment which also features the likes of Kia Sonet, Hyundai Venue, Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, Tata Nexon, Mahindra XUV400, among others. Read more Anand Mahindra’s Monday motivation post on New Year resolutions is a hit among netizensBusiness tycoon Anand Mahindra is well-known for sharing thoughtful posts on Twitter. His latest share is no different. With the new year just around the corner, Mahindra has shared an insightful message on how he wants to plan his resolutions for the brand-new year. Read more Watch: PM Modi’s ‘vocal for local tourism’ push at Agra metro project inauguration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-let-rajinikanth-reveal-his-political-policy-says-dmk-chief-on-actor-s-political-plunge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HCm29TlaYcn3J3FVX7M7SM.html
07-12-2020||India||Body of missing MiG-29 pilot found 11 days after crash||A body believed to be that of the missing MiG-29 pilot Commander Nishant Singh was recovered from the area where the plane crashed, Indian Navy officials said. However, the result of a DNA test to confirm that the body was of Singh, was awaited, they added.Commander Singh had gone missing on November 26 after his MiG-29K trainer aircraft crashed into the Arabian Sea. Rescue teams were able to rescue the other pilot on board.The Russian-origin twin-seat trainer jet went down off India’s west coast after taking off from the deck of the country’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. The November 26 crash was the fourth accident involving the MiG-29K maritime fighter fleet. India’s top auditor had pointed to some deficiencies in the deck-based fighter, including engine troubles, airframe problems, deficiencies in its fly-by-wire system and poor serviceability, in a report tabled in Parliament four years ago.The MiG-29K is riddled with problems relating to airframe, RD MK-33 engine and its fly-by-wire system, Comptroller and Auditor Generalsaid in the July 2016 report.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/body-of-missing-mig-29-pilot-found-11-days-after-crash/story-FICNZDu2R7tJLEXgE4Q0NN.html
07-12-2020||India||GST investigators uncover fraudulent transactions of Rs 290 cr||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Nagpur has come across fraudulent transactions of Rs 290.70 crore, including fake input tax credit (ITC) of Rs 25.22 crore, after searches at a private firm and one person has been arrested, an official said on Monday.As per a DGGI release, searches were conducted on a Mumbai-based firm, M/s M & M Advisors and Consultants Private Limited, as follow-up of the detection of a non-existent advertising firm in Dhule.The searches uncovered documents which revealed the company was engaged in licensing rights of film production houses for broadcast on national and international channels.“They were purchasing rights of movies produced by top banners and transferring these rights under contract system to Rights Assignors, which was availing input tax credit. We have found fraudulent transactions of Rs 290.70 crore and fake ITC of Rs 25.22 crore passed on to Rights Assignors,” the release said.A director of the firm was arrested on December 5, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-investigators-uncover-fraudulent-transactions-of-rs-290-cr/story-HtXsZV5I0z0gRYDBi98nJJ.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Want all demands of farmers fulfilled’, say fruit growers of Kashmir||Fruit growers in Kashmir valley have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh called farmers who are seeking the repeal of three recent farm laws.The fruit growers have decided to shut all the activities on Tuesday, especially in the fruit markets across Kashmir valley in support of the bandh. “We fully support the strike call given by farmers on Tuesday. The presidents of all fruit growers’ associations of the valley have been requested to close all their mandis for all sorts of business,” said Bashir Ahmad Basheer, chairman Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers cum Dealers Union and president of the New Kashmir Fruit Association.He said all the shops in the fruit mandi Srinagar will remain shut on Tuesday in a show of support to the farmers who have been protesting for many weeks. “We want all the demands of the farmers to be fulfilled as they are the backbone of our society,” Basheer said.Asia’s second largest fruit mandi Sopore will also suspend its business on Tuesday. The fruit season in Kashmir is at its peak and growers after harvest sell thousands of boxes in the fruit mandis which have been established in the Valley at different places.Fruit trade is one of the biggest economic activities in Jammu and Kashmir and 10,000 to 20,000 metric tons of fresh fruit is produced and sent across the country every year. Around 2.5 million people are directly or indirectly connected with the trade. This is the first time in recent times when fruit growers from Kashmir have extended support to any nationwide strike. “The farmers are just like growers who are protesting for genuine demands. The government should shun a rigid approach and roll back the laws which in the long run will be harmful for farmers,” said Ghulam Rasool Bhat former president of Fruit Growers and Dealers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-all-demands-of-farmers-fulfilled-say-fruit-growers-of-kashmir/story-9n5TC00JHZezJrUzU7GNEJ.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Let Rajinikanth reveal his political policy’: DMK chief reserves comment on actor’s political plunge||Days after Tamil actor Rajinikanth announced that he will launch his political party in January next year, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin on Monday said that anyone can join politics. He also took a dig at the actor saying he came to know that Rajnikanth was regretting his choice of the political adviser. “Anybody can join politics, let Rajinikanth launch his party first and say what is his political policy, then I will comment on it. I came to know that he is regretting his decision of choosing Tamilaruvi Manian as his political advisor,” Stalin was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Ending months of speculation, the Tamil superstar last week announced that he will make his political debut in January 2020, the formal announcement of which will be made on December 31. On the same day, three years ago, the actor had made the announcement of his entry into politics but did not take any concrete steps in that direction hence.Rajinikanth’s political entry seemed increasingly doubtful recently as doctors advised him against it in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, owing to his age and health condition. His announcement came as a relief for fans and the political extension of his fan club, Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM).Rajinikanth has also vowed to win assembly elections in the southern state next year. “We will win the assembly polls with people’s support and we will surely form an honest, transparent, corruption-free, caste-less and spiritual politics in Tamil Nadu. A wonder and miracle will happen,” Rajinikanth said in a on Twitter with hashtags translating into “if not now then never”.While the actor’s aides are persuading him to project himself as the chief ministerial candidate, in March 2020, Rajinikanth had said he did not wish to be the chief minister and would pick someone educated and responsible as the chief ministerial candidate. “We will make a youngster who is educated, farsighted, self-respecting and affectionate to sit (in the chief minister’s chair). That person will govern. The party will critique but not interfere with their work. But, it won’t be like parallel power centres. This is my plan,” the actor had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-rajinikanth-reveal-political-his-policy-dmk-chief-reserves-comment-on-actor-s-political-plunge/story-NjD7KQzUHcXUu2F1tWvTwO.html
07-12-2020||India||Former high court judge to head panel to study caste-wise data in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Monday appointed retired high court judge A Kulasekaran to lead a committee that would be set up to gather case-wise data in the state. This comes after chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami had announced last week that a panel will study the data and submit a report following his meeting with PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss. The PMK is demanding 20% reservation for the Vanniyar community in government jobs and education. One of PMK’s demands has been for the government to constitute a panel to examine the beneficiaries of reservation from each caste as it believes only 4 to 6% of Vanniyars have benefited. But the government’s panel refers only to forming a methodology to collect quantifiable caste data. Palaniswami had earlier said that this data will be useful for a case pending in the Supreme Court on 69% reservation policy in Tamil Nadu.Also read | Tamil Nadu govt seeks Rs3,758 crore as Nivar relief from CentreThe PMK and its parent outfit, Vanniyar Sangam, have revived this old demand ahead of the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu where it is an ally of the AIADMK. PMK workers from other districts reportedly indulged in violence and stalled traffic on the first day of their agitation on December 1 as police did not allow them to enter Chennai. Similar agitations were put to rest after the Most Backward Category (MBC) was created in the late 1980s in which Vanniyars were among the 108 other caste groups that were included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-high-court-judge-to-head-panel-to-study-caste-wise-data-in-tamil-nadu/story-bf9lx7wMpjm81Hk10e1ijP.html
07-12-2020||India||Assam Rifles, Mizoram Police seize heroin worth Rs 7 lakh||The Assam Rifles and the Mizoram state police in a joint operation have seized 90 gm of heroin and arrested one person in Champhai district, an officer of the paramilitary force said on Monday.The operation was carried out in Zokhawthar-Melbuk area by the Serchhip battalion of Assam Rifles and Champhai district police based on specific information, he said. One Chinese origin Kenbo bike and an air rifle were seized during the operation and one person was also arrested in connection with the seizure of the heroin valued at Rs 7 lakh in the local market, he said.In another operation, Assam Rifles in collaboration with Custom department also recovered huge quantity of areca nuts at Ruantlang area in Champhai district and detained one person on Sunday.The areca nuts worth Rs 51.52 lakh in the international market were smuggled from Myanmar, the official said.On November 23, the country oldest paramilitary force also seized two banned Kenbo motorcycle in Champhai and Serchhip and recovered arms, including Bretta pistol.Besides, the paramilitary forces have also seized 390.4 gm of heroin, smuggled areca nuts worth Rs 76.83 lakh and 5,600 kg (80 bags) of poppy seeds worth Rs 25.20 lakh in Mizoram’s Champhai district recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-mizoram-police-seize-heroin-worth-rs-7-lakh/story-vHq6YHVPR7sUFCMWMTMCYI.html
07-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand man murders elder brother for not offering him tea||A man allegedly murdered his elder brother by slashing his neck with a sickle for not offering him tea in a remote area of Pithoragarh district, police aid Monday. Ayush Angri, station officer Askote police station said the incident occurred in a remote Dhami village, which is around 85 km from the district headquarters, on Sunday evening. Angri said, “Our staff rushed the area and arrested the accused who had allegedly killed his elder brother. He is being produced in court and the body of the deceased is being sent for post-mortem.” He said Gopal Singh (32), and his younger brother Chandra Singh were at home while their father Vishan Singh had gone to the nearby market. “The brothers had an argument over preparing tea. Later, Gopal prepared tea but didn’t offer the same to Chandra. As he started sipping tea in the courtyard, the younger brother Chandra in a fit of rage went inside the house and brought out a sickle and hit it on Gopal’s neck. Gopal fell down, profusely bleeding,” said Angri. Their neighbours rushed to help but due to the severe injury, Gopal died on the spot. The accused then went towards the market and informed his father about the crime, the officer said.“Askote police reached the village Dhami village, 25 km from the police station, late in the evening and arrested the accused. The deceased’s body was sent for post-mortem on Monday”, he said. Angri said, “We have registered a case on Vishan Singh’s complaint against his son Chandra under IPC section 302 (murder). The accused is being produced in Pithoragarh court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-man-murders-elder-brother-for-not-offering-him-tea/story-zUuXDR2poDK5rccGrUkSTP.html
07-12-2020||India||CPI(M) worker stabbed to death in Kerala, BJP member arrested||A BJP member has been arrested after a CPI(M) worker was stabbed to death post an altercation in Kollam in south Kerala on Sunday night. The ruling state party called it a political murder and alleged that workers of the Bhartiaya Janata Party are behind it. The police, however, say personal issues led to the murder. Police said CPI(M) worker Manilal, also an owner of a resort, received serious stab wounds and succumbed to his injuries later in the night. Police said Manilal had a heated argument with a retired Delhi police official P Ashokan, who recently quit the CPI(M) to join the BJP. Police said initially Ashokan, the main accused, was allegedly manhandled by Manilal and others but he later came back and attacked Manilal. Both Ashokan and Manilal are from the same village - Villimangalam. “It is a well planned and executed murder. BJP and RSS workers are behind it. There is a deliberate attempt to vitiate peace in the state. We hope people will give a befitting reply through ballots to the advocates of hatred and division,” said the CPI(M) acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan condemning the incident. The party is observing a shutdown in five villages in Kollam district to protest the killing. Kollam district president of the BJP BB Gopakumar distanced his party from the killing, saying personal reasons led to the murder. He said the ruling CPI(M) was giving political colour to routine crimes to get sympathy. He said both men clashed after a drinking session and it was wrong to give a political colour to such incidents. The state is witnessing a fierce three-cornered contest in local body elections, considered a semi-final before the assembly elections due in April. Stakes are high for all three major players - ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA.) First phase of the election will be held on December 8, second on 12 and final round on 14. The results will be announced on December 16. In six corporations, four are with the LDF and two in UDF kitty. The LDF rules the majority of municipal and local bodies now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpi-m-worker-stabbed-to-death-in-kerala-bjp-member-arrested/story-v9gYRqlhet5SYaeUIPkljI.html
07-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari, family skip Mamata Banerjee’s mega rally, she accuses BJP of trying to break TMC||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to break her party, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), using money power. The allegations were made at a rally in West Midnapore after influential TMC leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family gave it a miss.“All TMC MLAs of West Midnapore are present here today. I want to tell those who spread canards against TMC leaders that we are the most honest party. We are not like the BJP which is using its moneybags to dislodge opposition-run governments in states and trying to break opposition parties,” Banerjee said while addressing the rally on Monday.Calling the TMC “a hard nut to crack” that will not surrender before the saffron party, Banerjee, without naming anyone, said she would also not give in to attempts to “blackmail and bargain” her party ahead of the polls.“Those who are corrupt are now joining the BJP. CPI(M) goons now have switched sides and are working as cadres of the BJP,” she alleged.This was Banerjee’s first rally in West Midnapore district after Adhikari resigned from the state cabinet, widening his rift with the ruling party. It was meant to test waters in the district where Adhikari has a support base; his hometown is located in the neighbouring East Midnapore district.Adhikari recently quit as a minister and said it was difficult for him to work with the TMC leadership. Attempts were made by the party leaders to pacify Adhikari, but the stalemate is continuing.Banerjee had recently issued a stern warning to those indulging in anti-party activities and asked TMC leaders in touch with the opposition to quit the ruling party instead of weakening it.Adhikari had last week organised a rally without the TMC banners and flags at Garbeta in West Midnapore district.Soon after Adhikari started distancing himself from the ruling party, the BJP began flexing its muscles in the state. On Saturday, West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh held a rally in Wast Midnapore district. On Monday, the party tried to hold a protest march to Uttar Kanya, the branch of state secretariat at Siliguri in north Bengal, as part of the BJP’s ongoing agitation programmes against the TMC government.In 2019 bypolls, the ruling TMC made impressive gains in the assembly constituencies of Kaliaganj in Uttar Dinajpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore. Adhikari, who was the party’s in-charge of five of the state’s 23 districts, was credited for the success. The Adhikari family wields influence over at least 40-45 assembly seats in West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram, parts of Birbhum - mainly in the Junglemahal region and areas in minority-dominated Murshidabad.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly are likely to be held in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-family-skip-mamata-banerjee-s-mega-rally-she-accuses-bjp-of-trying-to-break-tmc/story-tIz4FLE88XypGNMyBaCi5J.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate India Mobile Congress on Dec 8||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 4th India Mobile Congress which is scheduled to start from December 8, according to industry body COAI.The 4th edition of the three-day telecom industry event will be held online for the first time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) DG Lt Gen SP Kochhar confirmed the programme schedule.  According to Kochhar, Reliance Industries Limited Chairman Mukesh Ambani, Bharti Group founder and Chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal besides Telecom Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of State for Communications and IT Sanjay Dhotre will be present during the inaugural session.“It’s an absolute one of the kind memorable event that is going to extend the diversity and open a plethora of opportunities in the telecom world. We are extremely ecstatic about the active participation of the Hon’ble Prime Minister, at the IMC 2020 Virtual event, that is going to accentuate the importance of the Telecom Sector,” Kochhar told PTI. The title theme of IMC 2020 will be inclusive Innovation - Smart, Secure and Sustainable. Around 210 national and international speakers and over 150 exhibitors are expected to participate in the event. The event in 2019 recorded 75,000 visitors, 350 exhibitors, 350 speakers, 56 live 5G demos, over 50 thought leadership sessions and participation from over 60 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-india-mobile-congress-on-dec-8/story-9eM9dCbKIfTwV4aHtIG31H.html
07-12-2020||India||Congress unit in Uttarakhand says BJP rubbing salt on farmers’ wounds||The Congress unit in Uttarakhand on Monday accused the BJP government in the state and the ruling party of being insensitive to the farmers’ protest while hosting a “grand welcome for its national president JP Nadda”.“Today the farmers are braving the cold in the winter while agitating for their rights against the three black farm laws, outside Delhi. Ignoring all their struggles, Nadda is being offered a grand welcome by the state government and BJP here which is absolutely shocking,” Uttarakhand’s Congress president Pritam Singh said at a press conference. Singh said, “Instead of listening to the farmers, the BJP have labelled them as terrorists which is like rubbing salt on their wounds. Ignoring all these, Nadda is asking the BJP state unit to focus on the 2022 assembly elections.” The Congress chief also attacked chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat accusing him of “not coming out of his house during the pandemic but to welcome Nadda.” “During the peak of the pandemic and complete lockdown, when the people of the state were suffering, Rawat didn’t step out of his house. But now when his party national president has come, he happily comes out and holds all party events. Is this how a CM should be?” said Singh. Singh also attacked the state government on several issues including corruption and price rise and demanded answers from Nadda on them. “A few weeks ago, the Uttarakhand High Court in its order had directed a case against CM and a probe by CBI on corruption allegations against him. It happened for the first time in constitutional history. But CM had no morality or ethics left in him or else he would have resigned after that,” said Singh. “Apart from this, several ministers of their own government including Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had raised the issue of corruption in some government projects. Is Nadda going to say anything in this or just focus on elections?” he asked. He accused the government of doing nothing to control rising prices. “From vegetables to cooking gas, the price of everything is skyrocketing. But the government is doing nothing to control them. Nadda spoke nothing of it in his visit. Instead, he asked the party to prepare for the 2022 elections. It just shows that the government has no intention of fighting these serious issues related to the public.” He claimed that the Congress would win the next assembly elections as people of the state have now understood that the BJP government has done nothing for them but made only hollow promises. “We are fully prepared for the elections and will come to power with a thumping majority. The people will teach BJP a lesson for their misdeeds. It is the BJP which is not prepared for the polls or else Nadda wouldn’t have come here,” said Singh. He also declared that Congress would support the Bharat Bandh called by agitating farmers on Tuesday. “Our farmers are on road fighting for their rights and our party has decided to stand with them till the three agricultural laws are repealed by the government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-unit-in-uttarakhand-says-bjp-rubbing-salt-on-farmers-wounds/story-HeOl2NwKHZwRgP1JWj7oCM.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre sends advisory for ‘Bharat Bandh’; asks states to tighten security, ensure peace||The Centre has asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during Tuesday’s ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers unions and supported by opposition parties, while asserting that peace and tranquillity must be maintained on that day, officials said.In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed.The states and UTs were told that peace and tranquillity must be maintained during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ and precautionary measures taken so that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said on Monday.Also Read | Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmersThe ‘Bharat Bandh’ has been called by the farmers unions who have been protesting the three farm laws enacted in the Monsoon Session of Parliament. Major political parties, such as the Congress, NCP, DMK, SP, TRS and Left, on Sunday came out in strong support of the bandh.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws.Talks between the government and protesting farmers remained inconclusive on Saturday even after five rounds of discussions as union leaders stuck to their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws and went on a ‘maun vrat’ seeking a clear ‘yes or no’ reply, forcing the Centre to call for another meeting on December 9 to resolve the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-sends-advisory-for-bharat-bandh-asks-states-to-tighten-security-ensure-peace/story-REZl2VXzsWfgoj0YI8O92O.html
07-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh CM takes part in TN BJP’s yatra, says party will repeat Bihar performance in state||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday joined the Tamil Nadu BJP’s vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march) on its concluding day in Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi district. Chouhan had tweeted that the rally is to “conserve and protect Tamil culture”. BJP’s national general secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge CT Ravi and the state BJP leaders welcomed Chouhan at the Thoothukudi airport. Speaking at the concluding function, Ravi accused the Opposition DMK of corruption and acting against the Hindu beliefs of Tamils. BJP is trying to make a mark in the 2021 assembly elections in the state where it is battling the perception of an outsider. “Some in Tamil Nadu are saying that BJP is against Tamils,” said Ravi in Kannada aided by a Tamil translator. “But Tamil Nadu’s true friend is Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi brought Chinese premier Xi Jinping to Mahabalipuram. He recites Thirukural at functions and speaks highly of Tamil language, even in his Mann Ki Baat addresses. How can he be against Tamils?” He said that for the BJP, all languages were the same.Speaking in Hindi with the help of party’s former national secretary H Raja who translated his words in Tamil, . Chouhan said that BJP’s victory in Bihar and Hyderabad will be repeated in Tamil Nadu. Hitting out at DMK several times, he also warned the Opposition that anyone who has an alliance with the Congress will drown. He said that Donald Trump lost the presidential elections because the US could not control Covid-19 unlike India where PM Modi has got the public’s support because of his work in controlling the pandemic.The BJP embarked on this elaborate yatra on November 6, defying its ally AIADMK. The government denied permission citing Covid-19 pandemic but BJP state president L Murugan, with hundreds of workers and leaders, led a massive roadshow across the state by visiting Tamil deity Lord Muruga’s temples. Following that, they led rallies accusing the Opposition DMK of being against Hindu beliefs of Tamil people. Police detained them at every rally and they were let off later. The yatra was also briefly cancelled due to cyclone Nivar and Buveri that has caused heavy rainfall in the state.BJP’s launched the yatra after the party went up against YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which allegedly ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. On BJP’s complaint, police arrested members who made the video. BJP has accused DMK of backing the members though the latter has denied it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-takes-part-in-tn-bjp-s-yatra/story-TbB5osPv2GmEVXIrg6iPDI.html
07-12-2020||India||HC reserves order on Manoj Tiwari’s plea against summon in Sisodia defamation case||The Delhi High Court on Monday reserved its order on a plea filed by BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and MLA Vijender Gupta challenging summon issued against them by a trial court in a defamation case filed by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.A single-judge bench of Justice Anu Malhotra, after the conclusion of lengthy arguments, decided to keep order reserved in the matter. The court also asked the counsels of both sides to submit their written submissions, if any.Manish Sisodia and Delhi Police opposed the pleas filed by Tiwari and Gupta.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa appeared for Manish Sisodia in the matter, while senior standing counsel Rahul Mehra represented the state. On the other hand, senior lawyer Pinki Anand and Sonia Mathur represented Manoj Tiwari and Vijender Gupta respectively.Manoj Tiwari and Vijender Gupta, in their pleas, sought directions to quash the order passed by Rouse Avenue Court on November 28, 2019, issuing summons against them.The trial court had also issued summons to BJP MPs Hans Raj Hans and Pravesh Verma and MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa.Sisodia had filed a defamation case against BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans, Pravesh Verma, MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa, MLA Vijender Gupta and BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana for making false allegations regarding the former’s involvement in corruption of Rs 2,000 crore in the building of classrooms of Delhi government schools. All accused are out on bail in this matter.Sisodia, in the defamation case, had said that all the allegations made by these BJP leaders were false, defamatory, derogatory and with an intention to harm and damage the reputation and goodwill of the Delhi deputy CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-reserves-order-on-manoj-tiwari-s-plea-against-summon-in-sisodia-defamation-case/story-Zwu9BYQR0TygUDms6j26pN.html
07-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: 47 accused in Palghar lynching case get bail||A Thane court on Monday granted bail to 47 people arrested in the Palghar mob lynching case. District Judge PP Jadhav ordered that the accused be released on a surety of Rs 15,000 each.Last month, the court granted bail to four accused in the case. Nearly 200 people have so far been arrested in connection with the case.Advocates Amrut Adhikari and Atul Patil, who appeared for the applicants, submitted in the court that their clients had no role in the incident and the police arrested them on mere suspicion.On April 16, 2020, a mob lynched two sadhus, Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) at Gadchinchale in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, located about 140 km north of Mumbai.While the two monks were heading for Gujarat in a car to attend a funeral, the mob suspected that they were child- lifters.The CID (crime) of the Maharashtra Police has filed a charge sheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-47-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-get-bail/story-NUBUtSFQ5GTjvbOekRvsfM.html
07-12-2020||India||Take a decision soon to address farmers’ issues: Delhi environment minister Rai to Centre||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday appealed to the central government to take a decision soon to address the issues of farmers. Rai, who also raised the issue in a meeting of ICAR called by the Centre on Monday, said if the income of farmers has to be increased, the minimum support price (MSP) will have to be implemented. “The farmers are shivering in cold since the last 11 days. If the income of farmers has to be increased, then as per the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee, MSP will have to be implemented,” Rai told reporters.Also Read |  Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house “As the farmers are demanding, the central government must deliberate on their demands and take a decision soon to address the issue of farmers,” he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi against the new farm laws. The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-a-decision-soon-to-address-farmers-issues-delhi-environment-minister-rai-to-centre/story-Tom0W8QxxaAwwBjqGFnwJK.html
07-12-2020||India||Actor-politician Vijayashanti joins BJP, day after meeting Amit Shah||Former Member of Parliament from Telangana and popular Telugu actress M Vijayashanti returned to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday after a formal induction ceremonyin Delhi, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after she met Union home minister Amit Shah. Vijayashanti had recently quit the Congress party which she had joined in 2014.After her meeting with Shah, Telangana BJP leader G Vivek Venkatswamy had said, “BJP will definitely win in Telangana Assembly next time. Vijayashanti ji will be at the forefront for the development of the party in the state.”Vijayashanti began her political career with the BJP in 1998 and was made secretary of the party’s Mahila Morcha. When the Telangana movement reached its peak, she quit the BJP and floated her own regional party Talli Telangana, but could not sustain it for long. She merged her party with the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) in 2009 and got elected to Lok Sabha from Medak parliamentary constituency. However, when she was sidelined in the TRS during the formation of Telangana in 2014, Vijayashanti resigned from the TRS and joined the Congress.She was the star campaigner for the Congress in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, and later made advisor to the election campaign committee of the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC).However, she had been keeping away from meetings and other activities of the Congress for quite some time and on many occasions, she expressed her unhappiness over the PCC not inviting her to the party meetings.The BJP had made major gains in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls as it won 48 seats, seven less than the ruling TRS which emerged as the single largest party winning 55 seats.The strong performance by BJP came on the heels of its victory last month in the Dubbaka assembly seat. The party had wrested the seat from the ruling TRS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-politician-vijayashanti-joins-bjp-day-after-meeting-amit-shah/story-hgM36PEE4FoMoeNDUry1SN.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP govt able to start, finish development projects on time: PM Modi||Taking a dig at previous governments, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the BJP government at the Centre has not only focused on starting new projects but also arranged adequate funds to complete the projects on time.“A big problem with infrastructure development in the country was that projects were announced but not much attention was paid on the arrangement of funds. Hence, projects kept dragging for years. My government focused on starting new projects as well as arranging funds for them,” PM Modi said while inaugurated the construction of Phase-1 of the Agra Metro project via video conferencing.Talking about the culture and history of Agra, PM Modi said, “This city which has a rich history and culture is now catching up to the 21st century. To develop smart facilities, a lot of work is underway for projects worth around Rs 1000 crores.”He said, “This (Agra) metro project, worth over Rs 8000 crores, will strengthen the mission related to the establishment of smart facilities in Agra.”The Agra Metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal and Agra Fort with railway stations and bus stands.The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crores and it will be completed in five years.The Prime Minister listed the various developmental projects that were completed in six years after 2014 including more than 450km of metro lines that have become operational in the country. Further talking about the Centre’s effort to ramp up development projects with the help of modern facilities, PM Modi said: “In the last six years, the speed and scale at which the metro construction work was done, reflect the commitment of this government. Till 2014, 225 km of the metro line were operational in the country. In six years, more 650 km of the railway line is now operational and work is being done on nearly 1000 km at a fast pace.”“Moreover, in 27 cities, construction of the metro has either been completed or is underway in different phases,” he said.During his speech, he also made a reference to the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), where BJP made major gains as it won 48 seats out of 150 seats.Prime Minister Modi said, “The faith of sisters, daughters, farmers, labourers and traders of India was seen in results of every election in recent past. In Hyderabad elections, the poor and the middle class blessed the efforts of the government. Your support is my inspiration.”Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also joined PM Modi during the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-able-to-start-finish-development-projects-on-time-pm-modi/story-fVTfbVE3NjTlIqYKV9SuOI.html
07-12-2020||India||4th phase of DDC polls: Internet suspended in South Kashmir as ‘precautionary measure’||Mobile internet services were again suspended in South Kashmir on Monday even as voting was being held in the fourth phase of district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir. “Internet has been suspended today in South Kashmir as the elections are going on.It was suspended in earlier three phases as well,” said one of the senior police officers of South Kashmir not wishing to be identified.Police control rooms of Pulwama, Anantnag and Shopian dustricts in South Kashmir confirmed that the internet was suspended. Local militancy is more prominent is South Kashmir. Meanwhile, officials said the fourth phase of DDC elections had recorded a voter percentage of 26.02 % across different constituencies spread over different districts of Jammu and Kashmir till 11am.As per the figures given by the office of State Election Commissioner, KK Sharma, Kashmir division had recorded an overall polling percentage of 14.87% while Jammu recorded 37.88% up to 11am.In Kashmir division, Kupwara had recorded voting percentage of 14.8%, Bandipora 27.49%, Baramulla 21.12%, Ganderbal 25.15%, Budgam 21.14%, Pulwama 3.79%, Shopian 1.24%, Kulgam 3.58% and Anantnag 16.28% till 11am.In Jammu division, Kishtwar had recorded voting percentage of 36.49%, Doda 43.52%, Udhampur 28.65%, Ramban 36.39%, Reasi 26.61%, Kathua 35.37%, Samba 38.58%, Jammu 42.93%, Rajouri 42.35% and Poonch 37.09% till 11am.The DDC elections are the first major electoral exercise taking place in J&K after the revocation of Article 370 in August last year and the bifurcation of the former state into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The eight-phase election will end on December 19 and the counting will be held on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-phase-of-ddc-polls-internet-suspended-in-south-kashmir-officials-call-it-a-precautionary-measure/story-pqBEQX99iyrM6mD8xo1oEK.html
07-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh tomorrow: Will begin from 11am, don’t want to trouble common man, say farmers||The Bharat bandh or the nationwide strike called by the farmers against the farm laws will begin at 11am and continue till 3pm on Tuesday, a spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said on Monday. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new agricultural laws for the past 11 days. As the talks with the government have so far resulted futile, the protesting farmers have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday.“We don’t want to cause problems for a common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3pm,” BKU’s Rakesh Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “People can show their card and leave,” Tikait said.Also Watch | ‘Farmers’ demands valid’: Kejriwal visits Singhu border day ahead of Bharat Bandh During the strike, they are expected to block roads and services such as transport and banking may be affected. However, medical services like an ambulance or even weddings will go as usual.Also Read | Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house“It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India,” Tikait added.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, with the farmers’ protests intensifying in Delhi, Delhi Traffic Police advised commuters moving in and out of the Capital to use alternative routes to avoid traffic snarls. Commuters are likely to get caught in long traffic snarls because many of the city’s borders will remain shut for traffic movement, the traffic police warned.The borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-cause-problems-to-common-man-bharat-bandh-to-begin-at-11am-says-bku-spokesperson/story-BeoE2b2wk3OTQm2YovMgNO.html
07-12-2020||India||Landmark achievement, says govt as active Covid-19 cases fall below 400,000 for first time since July||As India’s active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) slipped below the 400,000 mark on Monday, the government said it was the country’s lowest tally since July 20 when 390,459 infections were reported. India recorded 32,981 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally past 9.67 million, the Union health ministry’s data showed.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“India has reported a landmark achievement today. India’s total active Covid-19 caseload has fallen below four lakh mark today to 396,729. This number translates to just 4.1% of total cases. This is the lowest after 140 days. The total active cases were 390,459 on July 20,” the government said in a press release. India’s total active COVID-19 caseload has fallen below 4 lakh mark today to 3,96,729. This number translates to just 4.1% of total cases. This is the lowest after 140 days. The total active cases were 3,90,459 on July 20: Govt of IndiaThere were 39,109 recoveries in the last 24 hours as against new cases which meant the total number of active cases slumped by 6,519, as per the ministry’s dashboard. The total number of recoveries and fatalities, meanwhile, is at 9,139,901 and 140,573 respectively. Recoveries, active cases and deaths constitute 94.45%, 4.10% and 1.45%, respectively, of India’s total cases.Also Read | With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th dayIndia has continued the trend of reporting more new recoveries than daily Covid-19 cases as in the last 10 days, the government noted. Additionally, it said new cases recorded per million population in India in the last seven days, 182, are among the lowest in the world.These numbers come even as it came to light Adar Poonawalla’s Serum Institute of India (SII) has applied for emergency use authorisation of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 candidate, Covishield. This makes the Pune-based SII the second firm to have sought emergency use authorisation in India, after America’s Pfizer Inc, and the first indigenous firm to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landmark-achievement-says-govt-as-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-400-000-for-first-time-since-july/story-vdZGrkgVoNOmWJDTRmegZK.html
07-12-2020||India||28 more hospitalised in AP’s Eluru with symptoms of mysterious disease||Another 28 people suffering from symptoms of a mysterious disease were admitted to the government hospital in Eluru town on Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in overnight even as chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy flew down to the town to visit the patients. According to hospital authorities, as many as 345 patients were admitted with symptoms of epilepsy, seizures, giddiness, vomiting and frothing at the mouth in the last two days.“Since Sunday night, another 28 patients were admitted to the hospital, including five patients on Monday morning. So far, 180 patients were discharged after being treated for symptoms,” the hospital said. A 45-year-old man, identified as Sridhar from Vidyanagar area of Eluru town succumbed to the mysterious disease on Sunday evening. Though his family members took the body home, the police took it back to the hospital again late in the night for autopsy to find out the actual reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-more-hospitalised-in-ap-s-eluru-with-symptoms-of-mysterious-disease/story-BfUj81Ju3dxpYEcXwP5kRL.html
07-12-2020||India||4, including 2 women, killed in bear attack in Chhattisgarh||Four people, including two women, were killed in a bear attack in Koriya district of Surguja division in Chhattisgarh, officials said on Monday. The bear attacked the villagers when they were returning from a nearby jungle on Sunday evening after which the district administration, police and forest department launched a rescue operation, which went on till late night. “A group of local tribals of Angwahi village were returning home after collecting forest produce from the jungle when a bear attacked them. Four of them were killed while some people climbed on trees. We got information and launched a rescue operation inside the jungle. During the rescue operations, four bodies were recovered and the rescue team managed to save a person who climbed a tree. Three others who were injured in the attack were also rescued by the team,” Inspector General of Police, Surguja Range, Ratanlal Dangi told HT. The IG further said that the villagers reported the bear attack on Sunday evening and subsequently Collector Satyanarayan Rathore, Superintendent of Police ( SP) Chandramohan Singh and rushed to the spot along with a team. “The rescue operation started in the evening and ended at around midnight. We have found four bodies, including two women,” the IG said. The deceased were identified as Phool Sai, Ijaoria Sai, Rajkumari Sai and one Shivachan Sai. “The bear was roaming around the area and the rescue team managed to shoo him away in the jungle at around 1 am. The injured were admitted to government hospital,” said the IG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-including-2-women-killed-in-bear-attack-in-chhattisgarh/story-LLNGeurRu7D13ROaQgxcOO.html
07-12-2020||India||Medical teams, tests: How govt is tackling Eluru mystery illness||As more than 20 additional people with a range of symptoms from nausea to fits have been admitted to the government hospital in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district in the last 12 hours, authorities are yet to find a cause behind the mystery illness.At least 345 people have complained of epilepsy, seizures, giddiness, vomiting and oozing of froth from the mouth in the last 48 hours, according to officials. Most of the 345 patients, who showed symptoms of the mysterious disease, were in the age group of 20-40 years, there were at least 45 children below 12 years of age, they added. One of them died on Sunday.Also read | 1 dead, hundreds take ill: What we know about Eluru mystery disease so far“Since Sunday night, another 28 patients were admitted to the hospital, including five patients on Monday morning. So far, 180 patients were discharged after being treated for symptoms,” the hospital authorities said. “Most of the patients were quite normal till Sunday morning, but suddenly collapsed due to symptoms,” K Raju, correspondent of a local television channel, said.Also Watch Over 300 hit by ‘mystery disease’ in Andhra; CM Jagan meets patients A team of doctors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is going to visit Eluru to find out the cause behind the unidentified illness. Blood samples of some patients have been sent to Indian Institute of Chemical Technology in Hyderabad for examination, hospital authorities said. CT scans of the patients’ brain were performed and cerebral spinal fluid tests also turned out to be normal. E-coli results were also awaited, according to reports.It was initially suspected that water contamination could have been the cause of the outbreak but sample tests ruled that out. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s lawmaker GVL Narasimha Rao said, after talking to experts at the AIIMS, New Delhi, that poisonous organochlorine substances could be the most likely cause of the disease.Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy called on the people undergoing treatment at the Eluru government hospital and assured of all help. He instructed health department authorities to take steps to ensure the best medical care to the patients. He later held a meeting with the officials the local Zilla Parishad office.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-teams-tests-how-govt-is-tackling-eluru-mystery-illness/story-LaXtHjl19ehv5ke4b2EjIL.html
07-12-2020||India||India’s human space flight mission ‘Gaganyaan’ to be delayed by a year due to Covid-19||India’s first human space flight mission, Gaganyaan, is likely to be delayed by a year owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “That (Ganganyaan mission) will be delayed because of Covid,” ISRO chairperson K Sivan told PTI. “We are targeting for some time next year-end or the subsequent year,” he said on being asked about the two uncrewed missions before an astronaut is sent to space. The first of these was scheduled for December 2020, the second for June 2021, before the first manned mission on December 2021 ahead of the Prime Minister’s deadline. In his Independence Day address of 2018, the PM had said that an Indian astronaut will be sent to space before the country celebrates its 75th year of Independence in 2022. The pandemic has also delayed other big-ticket missions that ISRO had planned for the year, including India’s first solar mission – Aditya L1 – scheduled for mid-2020. Also read | Shukrayaan: India’s proposed Venus mission attracts international payload proposalsSpace activity cannot be done through work from home. Each and every one of the space engineers has to be available in labs, industries, integration areas, as well as the field. Each engineer, technician, tech assistant has to come all from different centres and work together for a launch. Hardware from different parts of the country has to be transported to SHAR (the launch site),” Sivan had said after the first launch of the year took place on November 7, when India’s workhorse PSLV carried an Indian Earth Observation Satellite along with nine international satellites to orbit. ISRO chief had said that the PSLV will launch a communication satellite next, followed by the second earth observation satellite EOS 02 in its maiden flight. Apart from the solar mission, ISRO was to also send a lander-rover mission to moon either by 2020-end or 2021 beginning. “We have not yet fixed the schedule (for the Chandrayaan-3 launch),” Sivan told PTI. The space agency is reviewing all its future missions, including the Venus mission that had been planned for June 2023. If missed, the next launch window would be after 19 months when the planet is closest to the Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-likely-to-be-delayed-by-a-year-due-to-covid-19/story-j5Sck2x4170F4dq7Nx0eYM.html
07-12-2020||India||Centre unlikely to share draft amendments to farm laws with protestors before talks, hopes to resolve agitation through dialogue: Report||The Union government’s unrelenting attempts to resolve the farmers’ agitation through dialogue is making little headway with few of the farmer unions remaining adamant on their demand to repeal the new agriculture laws.While farmers expect the government to send the new draft with amendments to them before they come for the next round of meeting on December 9, sources in the government said that the draft will be discussed only at the discussion table. “It doesn’t make any sense to send in draft before they come for discussion. They are most welcome to come and discuss and debate the amendments they want in the laws,” added the source. The farmers had claimed that once the government sends the draft to them, they will first discuss it among themselves before coming for the meeting. The government, in a bid to make headway in the discussions, agreed to ‘as many amendments’ as demanded by the farmers. “The farmers seemed like a divided lot with few convinced of laws and government’s intention to make amendments on their suggestions whereas there was a handful of those who remained adamant on the repeal of farm laws,” added a source. Also Read |  Farmers’ demands valid, will back Bharat Bandh: Kejriwal at Delhi’s Singhu borderSources stated that farmers came with a list of demands not just demanding amendments but also amenities they expect the government to provide to facilitate their protest and agitation. “They want mics, street lights, sanitation and other things to be able to communicate with others effectively,” added the source. To assuage the agitated farmers, the ministers committed to making amendments brought in as demands. “To this, one of the leaders quipped that so many amendments would be like changing all the sweets inside the box and yet keeping the box. So why not change the box,” stated the source. The fifth round of talks remained inconclusive with government and farmers agreeing on drafting a new set of amendments to the existing farm laws.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-unlikely-to-share-draft-amendments-to-farm-laws-with-protestors-before-talks-hopes-to-resolve-agitation-through-dialogue/story-DiBt67MIz1pq5Tinpm77oJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Maharashtra pollution board shuts down 4 industries; pulls up civic body over river pollution||Acting on a series of complaints of pollution in Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has directed four industries to close down and issued show cause notices to local municipal bodies.Environment group Vanashakti, petitioners before the Supreme Court (SC), had flagged violations through three major complaints between November 26 and November 28 wherein a large stretch of Waldhuni river along the Ulhasnagar railway station was spotted foaming with effluents. Industrial effluents were also discharged into Waldhuni near Vriddhashram Pipeline Road at Ambernath, leading to a reddish layer over the water, and the third complaint pertained to a stench at night near Ambreshwar Shiv temple at Dombivali Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) where untreated effluents were entering Waldhuni.Also read | Waterfront project in Thane: 5 bodies get notice for CRZ violations“Acids and hazardous chemicals are being discharged into the river. There is no fear of the law among the polluting industries of various MIDCs in the Ulhas-Waldhuni influence zones,” said Vanashakti director Stalin D. Responding to the complaints, MPCB said that an investigation was undertaken by a team of officers between November 28 and December 1 that confirmed each of the complaints to be accurate. “As the Supreme Court monitors the progress, we are following a focused approach to ensure natural streams are not polluted and there is proper treatment by industries and effluent treatment plants. However, both industries and civic bodies need to work harder. They have made a timeline for improvement and should stick to it,” said Ashok Shingare, member secretary, MPCB.According to a letter regarding the action taken, MPCB regional officer (Kalyan) SL Waghmare said the white foam near Samrat Ashok Nagar was due to the sewage treatment plant under the Ambernath municipal council (AMC) being non-functional. “In this regard, the board has issued a show cause notice to the AMC,” read Waghmare’s submission. In the second case, MPCB confirmed they saw a reddish coating on the surface water upstream of the Vriddhashram pipeline road coming from electroplating (metal surface treatment) industries in Additional MIDC Ambernath. Also, municipal solid waste and tree trunks had clogged this stretch of the river at one end. “We issued closure notice to four industries and a show-cause notice to another industry,” said Waghmare. At MIDC Dombivli, MPCB found excavation work had damaged a pipeline carrying effluents from industries that had leaked into the river while AMC had allowed the discharge of a part of domestic sewage into Waldhuni despite having an underground sewage system. While the executive engineer Dombivli MIDC was directed to investigate and take action against those responsible for damaging the pipeline, a show cause notice was issued to AMC for inadequate treatment. Supreme Court to hear matter this FridayOn November 3, the SC bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee, while hearing Vanashakti’s application, had pulled up the Maharashtra government for shoddy efforts to address water pollution at Ulhas and Waldhuni rivers based on a two-day inspection report of both rivers by the Central Pollution Control Board and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute in September. The report found at least 139 industrial units to be responsible for causing pollution, and suggested 25 specific recommendations to improve water quality. The SC bench directed immediate implementation of the report suggestions and the state chief secretary to oversee it. Subsequently, the Maharashtra government submitted an affidavit confirming that suggestions would be implemented, and squads had been made to detect pollution and nab offenders. It also stated that these squads would commence action from November 18. However, a series of violations have now been unearthed by petitioners, and confirmed by MPCB. The matter before the Supreme Court is listed to be heard on December 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-pollution-board-shuts-down-4-industries-pulls-up-civic-body-over-river-pollution/story-dQRzLw7Sxn77k3KP90f7kI.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav, stopped from joining ‘Kisan Yatra’, detained outside his Lucknow house||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was on Monday detained after he launched a sit-in protest outside his residence in Lucknow before being stopped from going to Kannauj to lead a protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. Over hundreds of workers of the party, who continued with their protest against the farm laws enacted earlier this year, were also arrested in Kannauj.Yadav also wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla over the protests asking him to step in. “Apart from being a Lok Sabha member and Samajwadi Party national president, I had fulfilled my constitutional duty as UP chief minister. There was a pre-announced programme of mine in Kannauj in support of farmers. All preparations were in place. But on the instructions of the UP government, I was prevented from going to Kannauj,” he said.Follow latest updates on farmers protests hereHe added that a heavy police force has been deployed at his house on Vikramaditya Marg. “The police even took my vehicle under their control. This undemocratic behaviour of the state government is not only an infringement of my rights as a citizen but also of special privileges as an LS member. Kindly interfere so that my right to my democratic duties is restored,” Yadav wrote.The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause. Earlier in the day, the SP president had tweeted asking people to join the protest rally. “Step by step, bow your head. Yeh jung hai zameen ki. Join the ‘Kisan Yatra’!” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi. The police have cordoned off Vikramaditya Marg where Yadav’s house is and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. They already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.After Yadav was prevented from going to Kannauj, Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister said, “This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First, the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-sits-on-dharna-outside-his-house-over-hundred-sp-workers-protesting-against-farm-laws-arrested/story-tEkCkPfrVg1jH780LzFpFO.html
07-12-2020||India||In jail, BSP lawmaker Atul Rai booked for defaming woman complainant||A woman who had filed a rape case against BSP MP Atul Rai in 2019 registered another case against him and his close associate Sudhir Singh on Sunday for maligning her image through propaganda on social media. Mahesh Pandey, station officer, Lanka police station, said a case had been registered under sections of IT Act against the accused. Rai is presently in jail in connection with the rape case against the complainant. He had surrendered in a Varanasi court in June 2019. A police official said that the woman claimed ever since she filed the case against Rai last year, people of Mukhtar Ansari gang and Atul Rai have been harassing her and her family and made their lives difficult. The woman also named Rai’s close associate Sudhir Singh for cooking up a story against her and labelling her as a blackmailer. She alleged that Singh also circulated the story on social media. She also claimed that on Rai’s behest Singh was running a vicious propaganda against her and Satyamprakash Rai, a witness in the rape case. She alleged that her mother and younger brother took ill after hearing the propaganda against her, the police said. The crime branch is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jail-bsp-lawmaker-atul-rai-booked-for-defaming-woman-complainant/story-R8eV76LTPZukqlabnT0UtM.html
07-12-2020||India||Gaganyaan likely to be delayed by 1 year due to Covid-19, says ISRO||India’s first human space flight mission Gaganyaan is likely to be delayed by one year due to the adverse impact from the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) officials.As per the mandate of Gaganyaan, two uncrewed missions would be undertaken prior to the manned mission.Accordingly, the unmanned missions were slated for launch in December 2020 and July 2021, and the first manned mission was scheduled in December 2021.“That will be delayed because of COVID,” ISRO Chairman, Kailasavadivoo Sivan, told P T I.“We are targeting for sometime next year-end or the subsequent year,” he said on the expected time-line for the first of the two proposed uncrewed missions.The Gaganyaan project has the objective of demonstrating human space flight capability to Low Earth Orbit (LEO) with three crew members in orbit and safely recovering them after the mission.Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO said last month its heavy lift launcher, GSLV MkIII is identified for the Gaganyaan mission and the process for human rating of this rocket is in progress.The high thrust solid propellant strap-on boosters S200 play an important role in the human-rated GSLV MkIII. In order to human rate the booster, many new design features have been introduced in the hardware.The first critical booster segment of the motor case with a diameter of 3.2 metre, 8.5 metre in length and weighing 5.5 tons has been indigenously developed and delivered by L&T to ISRO.“This is the first step towards the uncrewed space mission,” an ISRO official said.Sivan also said the work on the Chandrayaan-3 mission, comprising a lander and a rover, is in progress.“We have not yet fixed the schedule (for the Chandrayaan-3 launch),” he said.On the proposed orbiter mission to Venus, “Shukrayaan”, he said ISRO is yet to finalise the payloads, adding, work on the project is going on.According to ISRO officials, the space agency has short-listed 20 space-based experiment proposals for the ‘Shukrayaan’ mission to study the planet for more than four years.They include “collaborative contributions” from Russia, France, Sweden and Germany, sources in the space agency said.ISRO was eyeing June, 2023 for the country’s first mission to Venus.“But we are currently reviewing this mission timeline due to delays arising from the pandemic situation,” an ISRO official said.“Future launch opportunity is either in 2024 or 2026”.It was noted that the optimal launch window (when Venus is closest to the Earth) comes about every 19 months.Of the Indian and international payload proposals it received in response to an announcement of opportunity for novel space-based experiments to study Venus, ISRO has short- listed 20.PTI RS SS PTI PTI PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaganyaan-likely-to-be-delayed-by-1-year-due-to-covid-19-says-isro/story-jlm7GJYImwr0ectf3e5mEM.html
07-12-2020||India||BSP extends support to ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Monday extended support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by protesting farmers, with party chief Mayawati appealing to the Centre to accept their demands. In a tweet on Monday, she said, “Farmers are protesting against three farm laws and are demanding their withdrawal. Farmer organisations have given a ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8, and the BSP supports it. Along with this, it appeals to the Centre to accept the demands of farmers.” The BSP is among several political parties, including the Congress and the AAP, that are supporting the nationwide strike called by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-extends-support-to-bharat-bandh-call-by-farmers/story-rjjVHPe5cYtNfMmKGfKU1N.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Agra Metro project will give a boost to local tourism, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Narendra Modi inaugurates construction of Agra Metro projectPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the phase one of the construction of Agra Metro project virtually. While the Prime Minister joined the event virtually, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was physically present in the city. Read more 5 associated with terror outfits held after shootout in east Delhi, say policeFive men belonging to different terrorist organisations have been apprehended after a shootout in east Delhi on Monday, the Delhi Police’s special cell said. The exchange of fire took place in the national capital’s Shakarpur area around 7am. Read more Centre has received nearly 40,000 corruption complaints related to Covid-19The Centre has received nearly 40,000 complaints dealing with corruption related to Covid-19, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. Read more ‘If Steve Smith found his hands in this series then Hardik Pandya found his bat’: Sanjay Manjrekar heaps praise on India all-rounderHardik Pandya has been having a tour to remember in Australia. He was playing in the Indian jersey for the first time this year and he proved why he is such a big asset for Indian cricket. Read more 2 years of Kedarnath: Sushant Singh Rajput ‘was very troubled during shoot’, felt ‘lost’ after releaseSushant Singh Rajput’s work would always keep the actor alive in the hearts of his millions of his fans after his untimely death in June this year. One of his notable works is the 2018 film Kedarnath, which saw the actor playing ‘pithu’ at the holy Kedarnath shrine. Read more Harley Davidson tie-up will speed up premium segment strategy: Hero MotoCorpThe country’s largest two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp expects the tie-up with Harley-Davidson to help accelerate its presence in the premium bike segment where it aims to establish a complete portfolio cutting across segments and engine capacities, as per a senior company official. Read more Latest software for iPhones kills 50% battery in 30 minutes, here’s what is happeningLast week, we talked about how iOS 14.2 unexpectedly bumped-up the FaceTime video resolution in older iPhones that were not even in the list. While that was the good part, users have now started highlighting one of the drawbacks of this version. Read more Gordon Ramsay shares fun video of ‘this and that’ challenge with daughter Matilda. WatchFor the world, Gordon Ramsay may be a renowned and stern chef but at home, he definitely is a doting dad. The videos featuring Ramsay along with his 19-year-old daughter Matilda perfectly capture that notion. Read more Watch: Gold concealed in bandage and jeans seized at Chennai airport||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-agra-metro-project-will-give-a-boost-to-local-tourism-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-z6Pki1PD9KzoJtPQEuP69H.html
07-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi attacks BJP government over unpaid dues of UP sugarcane farmers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at the BJP government over unpaid dues to sugarcane farmers of Uttar Pradesh.“The BJP government has Rs 20,000 crores to build a new Parliament corridor, Rs 16,000 crores to buy a special plane for PM. However, it has no money to pay Rs 14,000 crores dues to the sugarcane farmers of UP. The price of sugarcane has not increased since 2017. This government only thinks about billionaires,” Vadra tweeted.Meanwhile, Congress alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to weaken farmers by destroying the minimum support price system.“The Prime Minister wants to weaken farmers by destroying the minimum support price system. Every decision of the Prime Minister is intended to bring profits to the capitalists. Farmers have now understood this conspiracy,” Congress tweeted.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws--Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-attacks-bjp-government-over-unpaid-dues-of-up-sugarcane-farmers/story-7hMOGo7UAGmx8sZIfsLe4H.html
07-12-2020||India||Electoral bonds worth Rs6,210 crore sold since 2018, reveals RTI query||Electoral bonds worth Rs62,103,947,000, printed over 13 phases, have been sold until March this year since 2018, according to the State Bank of India in response to a query filed under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The query, which was filed by activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd.), shows that nearly 660,000 electoral bonds have been printed until March 19,2020. However, only 12,452 were sold until March.Electoral Bonds are issued four times a year -- in January, April, July and October. This year, however, they were only issued in January and in October, just ahead of the Bihar elections. Until March this year, only 47 electoral bonds worth Rs1,000, 70 worth Rs10,000, 1,722 worth Rs100,000, 4,911 worth Rs1,000,000, and 5,702 worth Rs10,000,000 have been sold. Nearly 92% of the printed Rs10,000,000 electoral bonds have been sold, whereas nearly 7% of those worth Rs1,000,000 have been sold. The remaining denominations have barely been sold, amounting to less than 1% of the total printed. Of the bonds printed, 12 have been cancelled so far, one worth Rs1,000 and eleven worth Rs10,000,000. “The department of economic affairs hasn’t shared the reason for their cancellation,” Batra told Hindustan Times. The printing of electoral bonds, since their inception in 2018, has cost over Rs18,599,000. These are printed at a price of Rs28 per bond, including GST. “The printing cost is borne by the government, that is, the tax payers,” said Batra. “The denominations sold also shows that only rich corporates are buying these bonds.”Electoral bonds have been a contentious issue among Opposition and civil rights activists who allege that it makes the system opaque, with no means of tracing the contributor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs6-210-crore-worth-of-electoral-bonds-sold-since-2018-reveals-rti/story-FiakdolDyRbZg8tsQj7zcO.html
07-12-2020||India||Improved infrastructure boosts local tourism: PM at Agra Metro project construction inauguration||Agra has always had a very ancient identity but now with new dimensions of modernity, the city has joined the 21st century, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said as he inaugurated the phase one of the construction of Agra Metro project on Monday. While the Prime Minister joined the event virtually, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was physically present in the city.Taking a dig at the previous governments, Modi said, “A big problem with infrastructure development in the country was that projects were announced but not much attention was paid on the arrangement of funds. Hence, projects kept dragging for years. My government focused on starting new projects as well as arranging funds for them”.The Prime Minister said that in the six years after 2014, more than 450km of metro lines have become operational in the country and about 1000km of metro lines are in progress. He added that connectivity in western UP is increasing at a fast pace due to modern facilities. “The country’s first rapid rail transport system is being built between Meerut to Delhi,” the Prime Minister said. “A 14-lane expressway between Delhi-Meerut will also start serving the people of this region soon,” Modi added.Speaking about the scope and need to boost local tourism, PM Modi said, “Improved infrastructure - Better connectivity benefits our tourism sector the most. It has always been my opinion that tourism is a sector in which there are means of earning for everyone.”The government has not only significantly increased the number of countries involved in the e-Visa Scheme, but has also reduced the tax on hotel room tariff significantly, he informed.The Agra Metro project, an official says, will ease the movement of about 2.5 million local residents and provide connectivity to monuments, railway stations and major markets. There is optimism that hassle-free connectivity through Agra Metro would assist in promoting tourism.The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has set the target to complete the first phase of the Agra Metro Rail Project, estimated at Rs 8379.62 crore, by December 2022. The Metro rail project would help boost tourism in the Taj city, said Kumar Keshav, UPMRC’s managing director.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-construction-of-agra-metro-project/story-H9WkQGG1iJmN5u4ros36LP.html
07-12-2020||India||Emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccines explained||After the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc, Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to seek emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country.The Pune-based company has collaborated with Britain’s Oxford University and pharmaceutical company Astra Zeneca for making the vaccine and is conducting trials in India. “As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, Covishield,” SII CEO Adar Poonawala tweeted. “This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” he added.Also read | With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th dayPfizer India had said last week it has applied to Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India’s drug regulator, for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine, after the company’s parent received clearance for the treatment from Britain and Bahrain.What is Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA)?Regulatory authorities need to approve vaccines, medicines, diagnostic tests and medical devices before they can be administered to people or used by medical professionals. These authorities give their nod after assessing the safety and effectiveness of these vaccines, medicines, etc, based on data from trials. Each and every phase of the trials has to be approved by the regulator.Also read | What is a placebo? Why is it used in vaccine trials?The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says an emergency use authorisation is a “mechanism to facilitate the availability and use of medical countermeasures, including vaccines, during public health emergencies, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic.” FDA says it may allow the use of unapproved medical products, or unapproved uses of approved medical products in “an emergency to diagnose, treat, or prevent serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions when certain statutory criteria have been met, including that there are no adequate, approved, and available alternatives.”“Taking into consideration input from the FDA, manufacturers decide whether and when to submit an EUA request to FDA. Once submitted, FDA will evaluate an EUA request and determine whether the relevant statutory criteria are met, taking into account the totality of the scientific evidence about the vaccine that is available to FDA,” the agency said on its website.Exceptions for emergencyFDA has said that the development process may be atypical in public health emergencies, such as a pandemic. However, it said, that efforts to speed vaccine development to address the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic “have not sacrificed scientific standards, integrity of the vaccine review process, or safety.”Also read | What side effects to expect from a vaccine shot? Will it be more painful than flu vaccine?“Recognizing the urgent need for safe and effective vaccines, FDA is utilizing its various authorities and expertise to facilitate the expeditious development and availability of vaccines that have met the agency’s rigorous and science-based standards for quality, safety, and effectiveness. Early in a public health crisis, FDA provides clear communication to the pharmaceutical industry pertaining to the scientific data and information needed to ensure development of vaccines and works quickly to provide advice on their proposed development plans and assessment of the data that are generated,” it said.What is the process in India?India’s drug regulations do not have provisions for EUA and the process for receiving one is not clearly defined or consistent. However, CDSCO has granted emergency or restricted emergency approvals to Covid-19 drugs - remdesivir and favipiravir in June and itolizumab in July - during the current coronavirus pandemic.How are volunteers kept in the loop?FDA says it must ensure that recipients of the vaccine under a EUA are informed “to the extent practicable given the applicable circumstances”, that the agency has authorised the emergency use of the vaccine, “of the known and potential benefits and risks, the extent to which such benefits and risks are unknown, that they have the option to accept or refuse the vaccine, and of any available alternatives to the product.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-use-authorisation-for-covid-19-vaccines-explained/story-TAQbk1W5OhRJZjtGo0siVK.html
07-12-2020||India||Serum Institute seeks approval for Covid-19 vaccine; Adar Poonawalla thanks PM for support||The Serum Institute of India, world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, has applied to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for the Oxford/Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine. “As promised, before the end of 2020, @SerumInstIndia has applied for emergency use authorisation for the first made-in-India vaccine, COVISHIELD. This will save countless lives, and I thank the Government of India and Sri @narendramodi ji for their invaluable support,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India, in a tweet. A trial of the vaccine with 1,600 participants across 15 sites in India is underway. Results from the global studies have shown that it can be 90% effective in preventing an infection when a person receives a half dose and then a full dose. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todaySerum Institute of India’s move comes on the heels of the US pharmaceutical giant, Pfizer, applying for a similar approval with the DCGI. The Pfizer vaccine, which was found to be 95% effective, is likely to cost about five times more than the Oxford vaccine and has to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius. Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600, Poonawalla had said during the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. “Emergency use authorisation will be for healthcare workers and other frontline workers, and by March- April, the vaccine should be available for use to general public. Emergency use licensure is based on the positive UK results. There is a good T-cell and antibody response but nobody at this stage can answer whether these vaccines can protect long-term,” he had said. The results of the Indian trial is likely to be announced by December. “As soon as the UK authorities approve of it, we will apply to the Drugs Controller General of India but initially for limited use. We are stockpiling millions of doses to get a head start,” he had said. He had said that the vaccines could be made available to the general public within three to four months. Serum Institute has entered a manufacturing partnership with AstraZeneca to produce their Covid-19 vaccine. Serum Institute of India currently has two dedicated facilities with the capacity of manufacturing about 50-60 million doses a month that will be scaled up to a 100 million doses by February when two more facilities are likely to be added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-applies-for-emergency-approval-of-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-in-india/story-DlqJatNjyWUNG8jDn0IBVI.html
07-12-2020||India||India is proud of army’s heroic service and selfless sacrifice: PM Modi on Armed Forces Flag Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed his gratitude to the armed forces and their families on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day and said India is proud of their heroic service and sacrifice. “Armed Forces Flag Day is a day to express gratitude to our armed forces & their families. India is proud of their heroic service & selfless sacrifice. Do contribute towards welfare of our forces. This gesture will help so many of our brave personnel & their families,” PM Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also saluted the service and valour of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day. “On Armed Forces Flag Day, I salute the valour and service of the Indian Armed Forces. This day reminds us of our solemn duty to ensure the welfare of ex-Servicemen, differently-abled soldiers and the families of those who lost their lives defending the nation,” Singh tweeted.Expressing his gratitude towards the armed forces and their families, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda said, “On the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day, I express my gratitude to the member of the Armed Forces & their families for their courage and sacrifice for the nation. Let’s take pledge to contribute towards the welfare of families of the brave personnel.”Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-proud-of-army-s-heroic-service-and-selfless-sacrifice-pm-modi-on-armed-forces-flag-day/story-xMxNPnZl8J3eAC56JocrwK.html
07-12-2020||India||India accuses China of helping rebel groups on Myanmar border||Indian officials say China is assisting rebel groups that have stepped up attacks on its border with Myanmar in recent months, opening another front in the conflict between two nations already engaged in a deadly standoff in the Himalayas.Armed groups in Myanmar -- including the United Wa State Army and the Arakan Army, which was designated a terrorist organization this year -- are acting as Beijing’s proxies by supplying weapons and providing hideouts to insurgent groups in India’s northeastern states, according to Indian officials with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified due to rules for speaking with the media.The officials said multiple security agencies warned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government that at least four of India’s most wanted insurgent leaders were in the southern Chinese city of Kunming to train and source weapons as recently as mid-October. The group -- including three ethnic Naga rebels fighting for a separate homeland in an area straddling the India-Myanmar border -- met with acting and retired Chinese military officials as well as other middlemen who make up an informal network, the Indian officials said.Also Read | China setting up villages on borders with India and Bhutan, satellite imagery showsThe increased activity along the Myanmar border has sparked concern in New Delhi that India’s military is becoming stretched as tensions remain with China and Pakistan on other parts of its land border, which runs for roughly 14,000 kilometers (8,700 miles). The officials said India moved several battalions consisting of about 1,000 troops each into the Myanmar border area after a soldier was killed in an ambush on Oct. 21.Chinese DenialChina’s Foreign Ministry denied claims the country was supporting armed groups against India, saying it doesn’t interfere in the affairs of other countries. “China has always taken a prudent and responsible attitude toward arms exports,” the ministry said in written responses to questions. “We only conduct military trade in cooperation with sovereign states and do not sell arms to non-state actors.”The United Wa State Army also denied a role in providing any aid or support to Indian rebel groups on China’s behalf, citing, among other factors, the over 500 miles between their headquarters and the India-Myanmar border.The group doesn’t “have any connection with India’s national security, and we do not harm that country at all. So, we think we don’t need to comment on such kind of allegations,” Nyi Rang, the spokesman of United Wa State Army said, adding that accusation his group acts as a proxy for China “are groundless.”Indian officials said the recent upsurge in violence stems back to September, when Naga insurgents had walked away from decades-long peace negotiations. On Sept 28, Indian border guards intercepted a large cache of weapons meant for Indian insurgent groups along the India-Myanmar border and arrested three suspected gun runners, according to officials with direct knowledge of the matter.The New Delhi officials said those arrested explained that Indian insurgents were being supplied weapons by the Arakan Army, which in turn received China’s support to protect investments such as roads and gas pipelines in an economic corridor stretching from Sittwe port to Kunming. China was also helping Indian rebels with weapons and logistics including hideouts along the India-Myanmar border, the officials noted.Calls and Whatsapp messages to India’s Ministry of Home Affairs requesting comment went unanswered. Repeated efforts to contact senior members of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, whose leaders were believed to have been in Kunming, were unsuccessful.Armed MilitiaSeveral dozen armed militias are active in India’s northeast, fighting for independence or greater autonomy. Asked by reporters on Nov 6 whether China was using armed ethnic groups in Myanmar to support Indian rebels, a senior Indian Home Ministry official declined to answer directly. “Some of the insurgent groups are troublemakers, but we are negotiating peace with others,” Ajay Bhalla, the Home Ministry’s top bureaucrat, said at a webinar hosted by the National Defence College.Brig. General Zaw Min Tun, the spokesman for Myanmar Army’s, didn’t respond to emailed questions. Myanmar earlier this year designated the Arakan Army as a terrorist organization.Also read China is using Tibet’s waters against India | AnalysisIndia’s army chief arrived in Nagaland on Nov. 24 for a three-day visit, underscoring the renewed intensity of the conflict. In late October, Indian and Myanmar troops launched joint operations targeting Indian rebel groups, including one named the People’s Liberation Army of Manipur. Myanmar’s military, meanwhile, has targeting armed ethnic groups like the Arakan Army on its side of the border.To be sure, the levels of Chinese support to insurgents in the region isn’t close to to the levels of the 1960s and 70s.As armed ethnic insurgencies erupted across India’s remote northeast states in the 1950s and 1960s, it was bitter rival Pakistan that first supplied the armed groups with weapons. Soon, however, “it was China that became the main provider of munitions for the ethnic insurgents. Many were also trained in China,” Swedish journalist and regional expert Bertil Lintner wrote in his 2012 book “The Great Game East: India, China and the Struggle for Asia’s Most Volatile Frontier,” adding that “today, the Chinese government does not openly support those groups, but they have had access to the so-called black — in reality more gray — arms market in China.”Competing InterestsChina is unlikely to use a third country to pressure India because that would prompt leaders in New Delhi to do the same in return, according to Fan Hongwei, a professor at the Research School of Southeast Asian Studies at Xiamen University.“China would hope to resolve bilateral issues between the two countries, rather than make it more complex, which would not keep with China’s consistent policy and interests,” he said.Both India and China are investing in Myanmar for strategic reasons. Beijing is investing in gas pipelines and roads to link its southern province of Yunnan with the Bay of Bengal, allowing for key imports to bypass the Malacca Strait between Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore. India, meanwhile, is investing in the 29 billion rupee ($292 million) Kaladan Multimodal project to connect its underdeveloped northeastern states to the Bay of Bengal.“China knows that the region is crucial to India’s future connectivity into Southeast Asia,” said Ian Hall, professor of international relations at Griffith University in Queensland, Australia, and author of ‘Modi and the Reinvention of Indian Foreign Policy.’ “It knows too that securing the region is challenging and has been very costly to New Delhi in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-accuses-china-of-helping-rebel-groups-on-myanmar-border/story-9D5UqoZ4NK1f0vgwX35aXO.html
07-12-2020||India||19 mild earthquakes felt in Gujarat’s Gir Somnath; no casualty||As many as 19 earthquakes of magnitudes in the range of 1.7 to 3.3 were experienced in Gujarat’s Gir Somnath district from the wee hours of Monday till morning, officials said.There was no report of any casualty or loss of property, they said.A senior official at the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) called the phenomena as “monsoon-induced seismicity,” generally experienced in a few areas of Gujarat’s Saurashtra region after two-three months of heavy rainfall, and said there was nothing to worry about.Since 1.42 am, 19 quakes, having intensities of 1.7 to 3.3, were recorded with their epicentres in East-North-East (ENE) of Talala in Gir Somnath district of Saurashtra, an official from the ISR said.While most of these quakes were of below 3 magnitude, six were of intensities of more than 3, including a 3.3 magnitude quake recorded at 3.46 am with its epicentre 12 km ENE of Talala in the district.The latest earthquake, of magnitude 3.2, was felt at 9.26 am with its epicentre 11 km ENE of Talala, the official said.Three of the 19 quakes were of 3.1 magnitude, he said.“This is a monsoon-induced seismicity. When the monsoon is more than normal, such quakes are felt after two- three months of rainfall,” ISR Director Sumer Chopra said.“The frequency varies, but quakes occur generally during this period in Talala in Gir Somnath district as well as Porbandar and Jamnagar, which had earlier experienced similar activity, but it has now subsided,” he said.Recently, similar activities were experienced in Porbandar, which were not seen before, he said.“Rocks in these regions are fractured. When water seeps into the fractures, pore pressure is generated.“The rocks are already critically stressed. Water adds to the existing pressure, causing the release of quakes. These are small activities and nothing to worry about,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-mild-earthquakes-felt-in-gujarat-s-gir-somnath-no-casualty/story-ZieFuuQ99rgv0jdDbuehhL.html
07-12-2020||India||Armed Forces Flag Day reminds us of duty towards army personnel: Rajnath Singh||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday saluted the service and valour of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day and said it is the duty of the nation to ensure the welfare of the retired army personnel and those who have lost their lives in the line of duty.“On Armed Forces Flag Day, I salute the valour and service of the Indian Armed Forces. This day reminds us of our solemn duty to ensure the welfare of ex-Servicemen, differently-abled soldiers and the families of those who lost their lives defending the nation,” Singh tweeted.Union minister of state for defence Shripad Naik also greeted soldiers on the Armed Forces Flag Day and lauded their efforts and sacrifices for safeguarding the country. Extending his good wishes to the armed forces, Naik, in a video message, said, “The national security is of utmost importance for the future progress of our great nation. The Indian armed forces are entrusted with the honourable duty of protecting the nation’s unity and territorial integrity.”They together form the oldest institution of the country which has made supreme sacrifices for the country and its people, the parliamentarian from Goa said. “We need to applaud and appreciate the magnificent efforts of our brave and patriotic soldiers whose heroic achievements in safeguarding the national unity makes us proud to call ourselves as Indians,” he said.Naik also appealed to citizens to contribute to the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund, which is meant for their resettlement and welfare. “Such a help, needless to mention, will go a long way in boosting the morale of soldiers, sailors and airmen in serving our country,” he said.The minister said while discharging their duties, “our soldiers, sailors and airmen remain susceptible to grave danger to their lives”. “In the past, many of our soldiers sacrificed their precious lives and many became permanently disabled. They and their families deserve our compassion to help overcome their difficulties and problems and lead a normal life,” he said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda also expressed his gratitude to the members of the armed forces and their families. “On the occasion of Armed Forces Flag Day, I express my gratitude to the member of the Armed Forces & their families for their courage and sacrifice for the nation. Let’s take pledge to contribute towards the welfare of families of the brave personnel,” Nadda tweeted.Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in wars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-flag-day-reminds-us-of-duty-towards-army-personnel-rajnath-singh/story-vZw19BxsFw9wGA142oJ9pI.html
07-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Section 144 imposed in Gautam Buddh Nagar till January 2||Police in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh have issued an order imposing prohibitory orders in Noida and Greater Noida towns of the district till January 2, 2021, as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are on the rise.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe district police issued the order imposing Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on Sunday night. Besides the pandemic, the order noted that Section 144 was being imposed to keep the law-and-order situation under check during the birth anniversary of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on December 23 and the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Under the order, all activities in containment zones, except medical emergency cases and supply of essential items, will remain prohibited. निषेधाज्ञा अंतर्गत धारा-144 दंड प्रक्रिया संहिता !@Uppolice pic.twitter.com/Sni7PjIpMZThe order said that in closed spaces outside containment zones, all activities which are to involve more than 50% of space’s capacity or 100 persons at the same time, shall be prohibited. In open spaces, activities involving more than 40% of the capacity will not be allowed. In both cases, activities are to be mandatorily carried out with face masks, thermal scanning, social distancing, hand sanitisers and hand wash in place. Any person found without a face mask at a public place shall also be penalised.The order also barred anyone from carrying out processions without permission from a competent authority said no one can ask others to participate in a procession. It also prohibits an individual from moving around with weapons including sticks. Only police officials and officials involved in administrative services shall be exempted from this restriction, the order noted.The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government has taken a series of measures to bring the state’s Covid-19 situation under control. Last week, the government had ordered that no more than 100 people would be allowed to attend weddings and other functions. The government had also said that permission would be required to organise any such gathering.As of Sunday night, Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally stood at 554,944 including 7,924 fatalities, as per data from the state government. On the day, there were a total of 1,950 new cases and 24 deaths in the state, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-section-144-imposed-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-till-january-2/story-Vqai0MDQ8FUZeyFNHJj8cM.html
07-12-2020||India||PM seeks data on corruption complaints related to Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked for data regarding the number of corruption complaints related to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.In April this year, the government had set up a separate portal to expeditiously address any grievances related to coronavirus pandemic. The Centre has so far received over 1,67,000 complaints dealing with cases related to Covid-19, of which over 150,000 have been addressed. The complaints have been collated on the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances website.The grievances of corruption, which are sorted according to ministries, include bribery, embezzlement of funds and harassment by government officials while dealing with Covid-19 cases. Although there is no separate category for corruption cases, officials are working to determine their estimate of the number of cases received.“The issue came up at the November 25 meeting of PRGATI,” an official who did not wish to be named said. PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) includes various ministries and is the government’s administrative reform initiative that was launched in 2015.“(At the meeting) the Prime Minister wanted to know how many of the complaints received were about corruption and how they were handled,” said the official.Officials said that the data asked for by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was being collated and will be presented to him at the follow-up meeting on Monday. “The PM wanted to the nature of complaints regarding the three Ps - persons, process and policy,” the official mentioned above said. On April 1, Hindustan Times had reported that a majority of grievances received related to Covid-19 had earlier revolved around sanctioning visas, bringing back stranded Indians from abroad and the availability of essential services.The categories under which the grievances are filed are: Inadequate facilities in hospitals, problem in donating to PMCares fund, essential supplies not being provided, request for rescue from a foreign country, being stuck at some place due to lockdown, harassment, lockdown not adhered to, examination-related, quarantine-related, suggestions and others, HT had reported. ‘Editor’s Note:This article has been corrected to reflect a change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-received-nearly-40-000-corruption-complaints-related-to-covid-19/story-tGEn6SrJpsgNLl57Iozd4H.html
07-12-2020||India||UP forms high-level team for security of Covid-19 vaccine storage areas||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday formed a high-level team of officers for managing the safety and security of Covid-19 vaccine storages, once it is available, across the state. The development comes a day after Yogi asked for “EVM strongroom kind of security” for the vaccine storage areas and scaling up the state’s vaccine storage capacity to 230,000 litres.The team comprises the chief secretary, additional chief secretary (home), additional chief secretary (health) and additional chief secretary (medical education). Yogi took the decision and formed the committee at the second meeting in two days dedicated to vaccine preparedness. Also read | Govt readying vaccine cold storage at airports“The government is fully committed to protecting people of the state from the infection and all possible efforts are being made,” he said at the meeting held at his official residence.On Saturday, the chief minister had asked officials to scale up vaccine storage capacity by December 15 from the current 90,000 litres to 230,000 litres. He had also discussed establishment of cold-chain maintenance, building a force of vaccinators and training them before any vaccine become available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-forms-high-level-team-for-security-of-covid-19-vaccine-storage-areas/story-BWT9WIIgoar6W475ULW9AI.html
07-12-2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav stopped from joining farmer protest, riot police outside house||Barricades and an anti-riot team have been placed outside former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s residence in Lucknow to stop him from going to Kannauj to lead a farmers’ protest. The Samajwadi Party president had announced statewide Kisaan Yatra - on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc - to protest against the new agricultural reforms and lend support to the farmers’ cause.This comes on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to virtually launch the construction of phase one of Agra Metro Rail project while chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be physically present in Agra.“This government is so scared of Akhilesh ji taking to streets. He has to go there to participate in the farmers’ protest and drive a tractor along with the farmers to raise their issue. First the central government introduced draconian kind of farm laws and now the state government is preventing our party from protesting. This all is so anti-democratic,” said Rajendra Chaudhary, SP state spokesperson and former UP minister. समाजवादियों को गिरफ़्तार कर उन्हें किसानों का साथ देने से नहीं रोक पाएगी दंभी सरकार !समाजवादी पार्टी के सभी कार्यकर्ता, नेता अपने अपने गृह जनपदों में किसान यात्रा को जारी रखें। pic.twitter.com/yENCvTPa8vThe police have heavily cordoned off the Vikramaditya marg (where SP office and Akhilesh’s house are located) and also deployed anti-riot vehicles. The police already took two SP legislative council members - Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap - and sent them to the police lines.Last week, Akhilesh Yadav had announced to launch statewide Kisaan yatra (road rallies for farmers) from December 7.“Our yatras - scheduled to begin from today - were against BJP’s anti-farmer policy and in favour of farmers and will be taken out in each and every district,” said Rajendra Chaudhary.The party workers during the rallies were asked to raise the demand of “higher income for farmers, save farming”.Joint commissioner of police, Lucknow, Navin Arona said the police were deployed to prevent any law and order trouble.Akhilesh is currently Azamgarh MP but had been three-time former Kannauj MP. His wife Dimple Yadav too is a former Kannauj MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-stopped-from-joining-farmer-protest-riot-police-outside-house/story-b73D91tZVA72NaiDNhVNDO.html
07-12-2020||India||3 children dead, over 50 people fall ill in Bihar’s Rohtas district||Three children have died and over 50 tribal people have fallen ill, allegedly after consuming contaminated water at Chunhatta village in Rohtas district of Bihar, said an official on Sunday.As many as 18 out of the 46 people examined by the medical team tested positive for malaria, however, the reason for others falling ill is not clear yet, said an official.The incident took place on Friday but the forest and health officials came to know only on Saturday after being informed by the mukhiya, following which civil surgeon Dr Sudhir Kumar along with his team of doctors rushed to the village 135km from district headquarters of Sasaram.The deceased were identified as Ravi Oraon, 10, Fulmati Kumari, 11, and Premsheela, 10, both daughters of Gorakhnath Oraon.Also read | Centre to bear cost of key stretch of land for Patna outer ring road projectThose ill have been admitted to different hospitals of Adhaura, Bhabua and Dehri and some of them are critical, said village chief Shyam Narayan Oraon, and they mostly comprise labourers who had been working on two watersheds of forest department in Chenari forest. “A forest department team is camping at the village to help the people,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) Pradyumn Gaurav.The DFO said over 60 tribal labourers belonging to Chunhatta village had been brought to Chenari forests for the watershed work. A camp had been set up at Chatari village where they were living with their families.As the work was almost complete, the labourers were ferried by department vehicles to their native village on Friday, he said. Some of them developed symptoms like fever, vomiting, diarrhoea and stomach ache but delayed going to doctors till their condition deteriorated, said the official.The actual cause behind the incident will be clear once the medical team returns from the hilly village, the DFO saidThe civil surgeon could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-children-dead-over-50-people-fall-ill-in-bihar-s-rohtas-district/story-TzFZu69bv2aFNw7bbxNjcK.html
07-12-2020||India||With 32,981 fresh Covid-19 cases, trend of fewer than 40,000 daily infections continues for 8th day||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 9.67 million after 32,981 new infections and 391 deaths were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The country’s death toll has mounted to 140,573 and the total active cases stood at 396,729, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. India has been reporting less than 40,000 cases of the coronavirus disease in a day for eighth days now. The number of single-day fatalities has fallen below 400 for the first time since July.With 39,109 new recoveries, the number of overall recovered Covid-19 patients stand at 91,39,901, pushing the recovery rate to 94.37 per cent on Monday morning, the health ministry’s data showed. The ministry has said that for the past nine days, the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 14,77,87,656 samples have been tested for Covid-19, up to December 6. Of these, 8,01,081 samples were tested on Sunday.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 2-million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. It went past 5 million on September 16, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, crossed 8 million on October 29 and surpassed 9 million on November 20.The Union health ministry had said earlier that the country does not need to vaccinate all of its 1.3 billion people if it manages to break the transmission of coronavirus disease.Meanwhile, the Serum Institute of India have become the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-32-981-fresh-covid-19-cases-trend-of-fewer-than-40-000-daily-infections-continues-for-8th-day/story-BaZHekdOwXaMESY6Vqln2I.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Complaints are there in big project’: Bihar deputy CM on tap water promise||Urging entrepreneurs to come up with solutions, Bihar deputy chief minister Renu Devi on Sunday admitted lapses in chief minister’s flagship Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal scheme, saying some complaints are bound to be there when a project is being carried out on a big scale. The comment comes days after HT reported that some 41% of the tap water supply projects were partially or fully non-functional.“When projects are being carried out on a big scale, some complaints are bound to come. However, we have resolved 745 complaints received within three days,” said Devi, adding, steps are being taken to streamline the things from district to the panchayat level.A survey was conducted on the instructions of the public health and engineering department (PHED) in different districts on the tap water supply project, part of the seven resolves programme.As per the reports submitted by the district magistrates of 28 out of 38 districts, 186 of the 2,954 projects inspected were noticed incomplete, while 279 projects were found non-functional during the inspection. As many as 1,952 projects were running without any complaint, but 562 projects of different scales had minor issues and 189 had major problems.Citing an example of a complaint from Amwa Majhar village in West Champaran, Renu Devi said, “It was resolved immediately after it was brought to our notice.” Talking about the survey being undertaken across the state, she said encouraging results have been found.The deputy CM said, “A toll free number has also been given and any complaint received would be resolved proactively.”Appeals youth to set up industriesMeanwhile, Renu Devi also appealed to the youth and masses to set up industries at their own level. “We are focussing on small, as well as large industries. Entrepreneurs have started to respond to invitations extended within the few weeks after the formation of the new government. We will extend all the necessary help to the youth and other people as per the skill acquired,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complaints-are-there-in-big-project-bihar-deputy-cm-on-tap-water-promise/story-pOJrSRPW0GnUrAwpVZe8yL.html
07-12-2020||India||UP anti-conversion law: Six FIRs in five districts; 29 booked||Within a week of promulgation of the new law against forced and dishonest conversions in Uttar Pradesh, six FIRs have been registered in five districts, police said on Sunday. The law aims to check religious conversions carried out by “allurement, coercion, force, fraud, or marriage”. Violations of the law have been made cognizable and non-bailable offence. Bareilly has recorded two FIRs while 1 FIR each has been registered in Sitapur, Moradabad, Mau and Muzaffarnagar.Also, 10 people, out of the 29 booked under this new law, have been arrested in three cases registered in Sitapur, Bareilly and Moradabad districts since Wednesday, police said in Lucknow. A senior police official said seven people were arrested in connection with an FIR registered with Tambaur police station of Sitapur district while one arrest was made in the connection with the FIR registered at Devraniya police station of Bareilly. Meanwhile, Moradabad police on Friday arrested a Muslim man and his brother under the new law when he visited the registrar’s office to record his marriage to a Hindu woman. An agency report quoted Moradabad’s Kanth station house officer Ajay Gautam as saying that the two men were arrested on the basis of a complaint by the woman’s parents.“In the Sitapur case, an FIR over the elopement of a 19-year-old girl was registered on November 26 and the provisions of new ordinance , which came into being two days later, were added later. The girl’s father alleged in the FIR that she was abducted by a Muslim man to compel her for marriage. He later stated that the girl was abducted to be forced into conversion,” said the police.Another official at the police headquarters said the first two cases under this law were registered in Bareilly on November 28 and 29. In the second case in Bareilly, Tahir Hussain and his brothers Sageer and Munna were accused of forceful religious conversion. The complaint was lodged by Tahir’s wife. Another FIR under the new law was registered against 14 people in Mau district after a woman eloped with a Muslim man who was already married to someone else. The FIR was registered against Shabab Khan and 13 others under IPC Sections 366, 506 and 3/5 of new law at Chiraiyakot police station on Tuesday. Yet another FIR was lodged at Mansoorpur police station of Muzaffarnagar district on Thursday wherein two Muslim men were booked for allegedly trying to force a married Hindu woman to convert. They were booked under the new law as well as Sections 504 (criminal intimidation), 506 and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-anti-conversion-law-six-firs-in-five-districts-29-booked/story-XpZO4RH06cG7309TJExNHJ.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate construction of Agra Metro project today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually launch the phase one of the construction of the Agra Metro project on Monday for which Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be physically present in the city. The launch was initially scheduled on December 1 but could not materialise. There was uncertainty about the chief minister’s physical presence during the launch. A big screen has been placed to show the virtual Metro launch. The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has set the target to complete the first phase by December 2022. The Agra Metro project is aimed at easing the movement of about 25 lakh locals and providing connectivity to monuments, railway stations and major markets. There is optimism that hassle free connectivity through Agra Metro would assist in promoting tourism. The total cost of Agra Metro Rail Project is estimated at Rs 8379.62 crore. The Metro rail project would help boost tourism in the Taj city, said Kumar Keshav, managing director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation. “The Metro project will not only strengthen the transport system of Agra but also improve the heritage value of its historical monuments. That’s why the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was prepared in such a way that the skyline of Agra was not disturbed and the beauty of its monuments remains intact. However the DPR by the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES) Ltd kept the heritage point in mind,” said Kumar. The cost of the project has further been optimised by rationalising the facilities based on benchmarking exercises undertaken by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, said the top officer. “We have focused on protecting the skyline of Agra, especially in the area around Taj. The Agra Metro envisages 2 corridors with a total length of 29.4 Km. The first corridor comprises 14 km and stretches from Taj East Gate to Sikandra which is partly elevated and partly underground with an elevated section of 6.3 km and an underground section of 7.7 km. In the priority section, the 6 km long primary section of 14 kms Sikandra – Taj East Gate corridor will be constructed and it will have six stations. While Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad Road stations will be elevated, the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Jama Masjid halts will be under ground because we didn’t want to disturb the skyline near Taj,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-construction-of-agra-metro-project-today/story-Nj7DgiGnmAouNOcY2RKgaN.html
07-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccinesThe Indian Air Force (IAF) is fully prepared to pitch in for the distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine to the farthest reaches of the country using its extensive fleet of transport aircraft, people familiar with developments said on Sunday. Read morePrice, capacity key areas as Pfizer files for licence in IndiaIndia is yet to discuss the pricing of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the ability of the company to deliver orders placed by the country even as the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization or CDSCO reviews the emergency authorisation sought by the vaccine developer. Read more‘Prove faith, donate Rs 101 crore for Ram temple’: BJP leader to CongressIn a counter attack, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel demanded that the BJP give an account of the money it has collected in the name of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. Read more‘The next 4-5 years’: Virat Kohli talks about the selection of Hardik Pandya in 2016The recent exploits of Hardik Pandya with the bat has convinced Virat Kohli that the all-rounder can be India’s next finisher. Kohli feels the time has come for Pandya to take the next step in his career. Also Read Queen Elizabeth to be among first to be vaccinated in UKQueen Elizabeth, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, are expected to be among the first to receive the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, whose first consignment has arrived in the UK and is set to be administered first to those above the age of 80 from Tuesday. Read moreAnushka Sharma congratulates Virat Kohli, Team India for win in Australia: ‘Congratulations my love’Actor Anushka Sharma took to her Instagram Stories to post a congratulatory message for Team India and her husband Virat Kohli after India registered a spectacular win against Australia down under. Read moreThousands gather in London to protest against India’s farm lawsPeople protested in London over India’s farm laws on Sunday. Demonstrators gathered near Indian embassy with posters. People reportedly raised pro-farmers slogans during the demonstration. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-indian-air-force-fully-prepared-to-transport-covid-19-vaccines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZW1bXU3ubQmdBroHJuETcL.html
07-12-2020||India||Voting for first phase of Bodoland Territorial Council election begins||Polling for the first phase of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) election began on Monday morning with heavy security measures and Covid-19 protocols in place. Over 13.59 lakh voters will decide the fate of 130 candidates in 21 constituencies in Udalguri and Baksa districts in the first phase. Voting for the other 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts will take place on Thursday. Polling started at 7:30 am and will continue till 4:30 pm in 1739 polling stations. As per initial reports, voting is underway smoothly. “There are 10 constituencies in our district. All security arrangements are in place and polling parties have been given face masks, sanitisers for themselves and also to give to those voters who come without masks. Social distancing will also be maintained during voting,” Prakash Ranjan Gharphalia, deputy commissioner of Udalguri said. This is the first election being held in Assam amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under BTC were placed under the Governor’s rule. The BTC polls are being seen as a crucial contest before the state Assembly polls in Assam due in March-April next year. Since its formation in 2003, the BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between BJP and BPF started souring after the BTC was placed under the Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. The BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from the BJP and BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting 20 seats. The other prime contenders are United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting all 40 seats, and Gana Surakha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania, which is fighting in 35 seats.Counting of votes will take place on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-voting-for-first-phase-of-bodoland-territorial-council-election-begins/story-5BBQM5st82oWKc9CIy16QO.html
07-12-2020||India||1 dead, hundreds take ill: What we know about Eluru mystery disease so far||A 45-year-old man died on Sunday and nearly 300 people have taken ill in Eluru town in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district with complaints of giddiness and epilepsy since Saturday night. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is scheduled to visit the patients at Eluru Government Hospital on Monday around 10.30am. He will hold a meeting with the hospital officials and a conference later.Patients who flocked to the Eluru government hospital complained of symptoms of seizures, vomiting, giddiness and severe headache, officials have said. The cause of the sickness is yet to be ascertained.Here is what we know so far:1. The 45-year-old man, identified as Sridhar from Vidyanagar area of Eluru town, succumbed to the disease on Sunday evening, his family members said. He was admitted to the local government hospital in the morning with symptoms of epilepsy and giddiness in the morning.2. According to doctors at the government hospital, Sridhar died of other symptoms as he had recovered from his epilepsy symptoms by evening. The police have called for an autopsy report of the deceased.3. An update from the health authorities on Sunday night showed that the number of affected persons crossed 285. Of them, 117 were discharged upon fully recovering and about 30 are ready for discharge, officials said on Saturday.4. Deputy chief minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said that five people have been shifted to the Vijayawada government hospital and many patients are also being treated in private hospitals.5. The government claimed that water samples from 22 affected areas showed no signs of contamination and that no viral infections were detected after blood tests of all the affected people were conducted. All the patients were also tested for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and all reports were negative. The test results for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) are expected on Monday.6. The deputy chief minister has said special focus is being given to areas with such cases and medical camps are being set up there. A door-to-door survey is being conducted to monitor the health condition of the people, he also said.7. The opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) blamed the government for the sickness of hundreds of people in Eluru. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu pointed out that the health hazard took place in health minister’s own constituency, where people were not getting protected drinking water for the last 18 months.8. Naidu has also demanded a full-fledged inquiry into the disease outbreak and declaration of health emergency in Eluru.9. Officials said scientists from the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) in Hyderabad would be visiting Eluru on Monday to study the situation.10. BJP lawmaker GVL Narasimha Rao, who spoke to the state’s chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, said a five-member team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Mangalagiri was sent Eluru to treat the patients. Rao said he spoke to the director of AIIMS in Delhi, Randeep Guleria, and other experts on the mysterious disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-dead-hundreds-take-ill-what-we-know-about-eluru-mystery-disease-so-far/story-NS6B5QhWDJNOIhKc017RVJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Moderate snowfall likely today in J&K, Himachal Pradesh||A fresh western disturbance is likely to bring widespread rain and snow over the western Himalayan region from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under the influence of the western disturbance, widespread rain and snow is very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh from December 7 to 9 and scattered rain over Uttarakhand from December 8 to 9.Heavy rain and snow are also very likely over J&K, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on December 8, said IMD in its Sunday bulletin. Dense fog is likely over some pockets of east Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, south Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura today.“We are expecting moderate snowfall in the higher reaches of western Himalayas but some parts may also record heavy snowfall starting Monday. But minimum temperature will not fall significantly immediately because another western disturbance is likely to impact the region around December 12 and 13. There is likely to be clouding associated with the western disturbances which inhibits radiation cooling,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature over Delhi on Sunday was 11.4 degree C, 2 degree C above normal.Many cities and towns in northwest India recorded very poor and severe air quality on Sunday. Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Noida, Rohtak etc recorded severe air while Delhi recorded an air quality index of 389 in very poor category.Air quality is likely to improve on Monday as north-westerly winds pick up. “Wind direction has changed to north-westerly and wind speed is likely to be around 12 kmph on Monday so we are expecting dispersal of pollutants,” Shrivastava added.There is likely to be widespread rain and moderate thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala till Monday due a low-pressure area over Gulf of Mannar which is a remnant of cyclonic storm Burevi. “Rains are likely to continue in the region for 3 to 4 days. There is a chance that a feeble low pressure area forms over Arabian Sea in the next two days and then moves westwards. It may not have much impact on the Indian coast,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moderate-snowfall-likely-today-in-j-k-himachal-pradesh/story-npvDC0FFVeJQiILDREE5bL.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Updates: They are ‘misguided,’ says farmers in support of farm laws||As many as seven borders connecting Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained completely closed on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest, causing traffic snarls and inconvenience to motorists in many parts of the city.The opposition parties, including Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), National Congress Party (NCP) and Congress and Shiv Sena have extended their support for December 8 ‘Bharat Bandh’ call by farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three laws seek to open up farm trade.Farmers have said that they would occupy toll plazas on December 8, the day of Bharat Bandh, if their demands for repealing the farm laws are not met. They are demanding that a special session of Parliament is called to repeal the laws. The next talks are scheduled to be held on December 9.Follow live updates here:Farmers who are protesting are misguided: Progressive farmers club“Farmers who are protesting are misguided. Prime Minister has assured that MSP and mandi system will remain,” Kanwal Singh Chauhan, president of progressive farmers club after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi to remain closed tomorrow“Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi and all other mandis in the city to remain closed tomorrow, in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’ call made by farmers,” news agency ANI quoted Adil Ahmed Khan, Chairman, Azadpur Mand, as saying. Harayana chief minister ML Khattar hit out at oppositionSlamming opposition parties for supporting protests by farmers, Harayana chief minister ML Khattar said, “Opposition parties are doing petty politics in the name of farmers, it’s condemnable. Public and farmers should understand that there is no harm in implementing the laws that have been enacted for the progress of farmers. PM has assured that MSP will continue.”Railway unions extend support to call for Bharat Bandh The All India Railwaymen’s Federation on Monday extended its support to Bharat Bandh on December 8. “We have written to our affiliates all over the Indian Railways to extend support to the farmers in their struggle to achieve their genuine demands, on December 8, 2020 during ‘Bharat Bandh’. I have already advised AIRF affiliates to organise agitation programmes, dharna, demonstrations and rallies during lunch hour against anti-farmer policies of the Government of India,” said Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF).AAP to hold demonstration on TuesdayAam Aadmi Party will hold peaceful demonstration in the city on Tuesday in support of ‘Bharat Bandh’, Delhi minister Gopal Rai said on Monday.Government will have to accept our demands, says farmer leader“Government will have to accept our demands, we want nothing less than withdrawal of new farm laws,” PTI quoted farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as saying.We appeal to farmers to not force anyone to observe ‘Bharat bandh, farmer leaders also said.Farmers to observe ‘Bharat bandh’ whole day; road blockade till 3pm The nationwide strike in the country will be observed the whole day on Tuesday, farmer leader Dr Darshan Pal informed media at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. However, chaka jam (road blockade) will only be in effect till 3pm due to the office hours.”It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” Pal also said.Emergency services will also be allowed.Tamil Nadu minister D Jayakumar warns protesters“For those holding protest without permission, law will take its own course,” says Tamil Nadu Minister D Jayakumar on Bharat Bandh tomorrow.Transport services, essential supplies likely to be affected in Delhi on TuesdayAs various unions and associations of cab drivers and mandi traders decide to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on Tuesday, transport facilitates and supplies of essentials like vegetables and fruits are likely to be affected in Delhi, PTI reported.‘We want Centre to repeal the farm laws,’ says Akhilesh Yadav“We want the Centre to repeal the farm laws. They should tell the farmers, when will they bring the MSP (Minimum Support Price) that will double the farmers’ income?” asks Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav.Centre issues advisory to states, UTs for Bharat BandhA day before the nationwide strike, the Centre asked all states and Union Territories to tighten security during ‘Bharat Bandh. In a countrywide advisory, the Union Home Ministry also said the state governments and UT administrations must ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued with regard to health and social distancing are strictly followed. It also asked the state and UT government to take required precautionary measurers maintain peace and tranquillity.Karanataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar extends support “We would like to extend our support to the farmers who are great support to the economy. Entire country would like to support them. We would like to thank leaders from various parts of the world who’ve expressed solidarity with our farmers,” said Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar.Sportsperson march towards Rashtrapati BhavanSeveral sportsperson including wrestler Kartar Singh marched towards Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi to return they awards as sign of protest against the farm laws. However they were stopped midway by the Delhi police. “30 sportspersons from Punjab and some others want to return their award,” ANI quoted Singh as saying.BJP’s Ravi Shankar Prasad slams opposition parties“The leaders of the Kisan movement have categorically stated that political people do not come to our forum. We respect these sentiments. But they are all jumping, as they are getting another chance to oppose BJP and Narendra Modi,” news agency quoted Ravi Shankar Prasad as saying.“Today, when they are losing their political existence, they join any conflicting movement to save their existence,“ he also said.Punjabi writer, poet Surjit Patar decides to return Padma Shri over farm laws rowI'm deeply hurt with the behaviour of the Centre with the farmers protesting at Delhi borders. Despite making repeated attempts, nothing conclusive done to satisfy them. I have decided to return Padma Shri in support of farmers: Surjit Patar, Punjabi writer & poet #FarmLawsI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers : Punjab Congress Chief Sunil JakharI would call Congress leaders, workers and right-minded people to fully support the farmers in Bharat Bandh so that the self-conceit government could open their eyes and ears: Punjab Congress Chief Sunil Jakhar.We don’t want to cause problems for common man: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonWe don’t want to cause problems for common man. Therefore, we will begin at 11 am, so that they could leave for office on time. Work hours in offices will end by 3 pm. Services such as ambulance, even weddings, can go on as usual. People can show their card & leave: Rakesh TikaitOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest is peaceful and we will continue that way. Tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh is from 11 am to 3 pm. It is a symbolic protest to register our opposition. It is to show that we don’t support some of the policies of the Govt of India: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav detainedSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has been detained. He was staging a sit-in protest near his house.BJP govt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down: Mamata BanerjeeBJP governmentt at Centre must withdraw farm bills or step down, said Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee at rally in West Midnapore.Delhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police PRODelhi Police has made proper arrangements ahead of tomorrow’s Bharat Bandh. We are trying to ensure that the lives of the common people are not affected. If someone tries to shut down shops forcefully or block roads, legal action will be taken: Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PROSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by police in KannaujSamajwadi Party Sadar MLA Anil Dohre and many leaders arrested by the police in Kannauj.Akhilesh Yadav sits on dharna as he was stopped from joining farmer’s protestSamajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav came out and sat on a dharna near his house. Farmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested: MK StalinFarmers who participated in the protest (in the state) were arrested. I had also participated in a protest (in Salem). Edappadi Palaniswami government is against protesters: DMK president MK Stalin.We will support Bharat Bandh and participate in it: DMK president MK StalinThe Opposition has already said that we will support the bandh (December 8th Bharat Bandh) and participate in it: DMK president MK Stalin.Police has stopped our vehicles, we will walk: Akhilesh YadavOur workers have protested at several locations. They (Police) can put us in jail if they want. They have stopped our vehicles. We will walk: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.He is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers agitating against Centre’s farm laws.Cong MPs from Punjab protest demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issueCongress MPs from Punjab protest at Jantar Mantar, demanding winter session of Parliament to discuss farmers issue.“Session should be called, anti-farmer laws should be reconsidered and withdrawn. Government is avoiding the session. It’s against democracy,” says MP Manish Tewari.Akhilesh Yadav urges people to take part in ‘KisanYatra’Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav urged people to take part in ‘Kisan yatra’. क़दम-क़दम बढ़ाए जा, दंभ का सर झुकाए जाये जंग है ज़मीन की, अपनी जान भी लगाए जा‘किसान-यात्रा’ में शामिल हों! #नहीं_चाहिए_भाजपाNew farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP : NCPThe new farm bill has raised several doubts and insecurity in minds of farmers regarding MSP and other issues which the government has failed to address. Modi government couldn’t form broader consensus and has failed to satisfy legitimate apprehensions of the farmers and entire opposition, said NCP.Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them: Arvind KejriwalOur party, MLAs and leaders have been serving farmers as ‘sevadars’ ever since. I haven’t come here as CM but as a ‘sevadar’. Farmers are in trouble today, we should stand with them. AAP supports December 8th Bharat Bandh, party workers will participate in it across the nation, said Arvind Kejriwal.We support all demands of farmers: Arvind KejriwalWe support all demands of farmers. Their issue and demands are valid. My party and I have stood with them from the very beginning. At the beginning of their protests, Delhi Police had sought permission to convert 9 stadiums into jails. I was pressurised but didn’t permit, said Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Akhilesh Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of f protesting armersPolice force deployed outside Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s residence at Vikramaditya Marg. Yadav is scheduled to visit Kannauj to stage a demonstration in support of farmers protesting against the farm laws.Arvind Kejriwal reaches s Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal reaches Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial near Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border); meets protesting farmers, inspects arrangements made for them.Arvind Kejriwal leaves for Singhu borderDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal leaves from his residence. He will visit Singhu border today.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border todayDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to visit Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) today where farmers’ protest, against Centre’s farm laws, entered 12th day. Other ministers of Delhi government to also accompany the CM. They will inspect arrangements made by the UT government for farmers at the spot.BSP supports Bharat Bandh call by farmersBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supports the Bharat Bandh called by farmer Unions on December 8 over farm laws, tweets party chief Mayawati.Farmers continue to camp at Singhu borderFarmers continue to camp at Singhu border (Haryana-Delhi border) to protest against the farm laws.The farmers’ protest at Singhu border, against Central Government’s Farm laws, entered 12th day today.Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed: Delhi Traffic PoliceSinghu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh borders are closed. NH 44 is closed on both sides. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road: Delhi Traffic PoliceShiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8Shiv Sena supports ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers on December 8, tweets party leader Sanjay Raut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-Jinx0sUitsir01Nm7emP3J.html
07-12-2020||India||‘Prove faith, donate Rs 101 crore for Ram temple’: BJP leader to Congress||In a counter attack, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel demanded that the BJP give an account of the money it has collected in the name of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya - whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August - when a BJP leader asked the state government to donate Rs 101 crore for the temple if the grand old party “had faith in Lord Ram”.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, tasked with building a grand new ram temple, will raise over Rs 713.45 crore through coupons for the construction of the Ram temple. “Pahele to ye batayein ki jo shila pujan kiye aur paise le gaye the uska hisaab kya hai...matlab ye dhandha hee bana liye hain kya (They should first give the account of money they had collected after performing ‘shila pujan’ ( laying foundation stone) in the past. Have they made it business?),” asked CM Baghel during a press conference on Sunday while replying to BJP MLA Brijmohan Agrawal’s demand for Rs 101 crore for temple donation. The CM further said that in 1992 the BJP had performed shila pujan and collected funds in crores. The BJP, the CM said, should answer how that money was used. “How much money and bricks were collected for building the Ram temple? Its accounts should be disclosed,” the CM asked. Reacting to the CM’s statement, Agarwal said that the Congress has no right to raise questions on the Ram Mandir account because they have made no contribution in the temple construction. Senior BJP leader and former minister Rajesh Munat said that the Vishva Hindu Parishad has all records of donations made towards temple construction in Ayodhya. “Congress party should look into their own history and should make public the funds which they have raised through various means... The people of Chhattisgarh are suffering... This government has not done a single work in the last two years and they are continuously boasting about their achievement,” said Munat. On November 9, 2019, the Supreme Court had ruled in favour of Ram mandir ending decades-old Ayodhya title dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prove-faith-donate-rs-101-crore-for-ram-temple-bjp-leader-to-congress/story-tDvNmqp99F9GfB1Yv1DpwJ.html
07-12-2020||India||Armed Forces Flag day: Honouring the sacrifice of soldiers||Armed Forces Flag Day is marked in India every year on December 7 to honour martyrs and the men in uniform who serve India. Citizens are urged to make voluntary contributions towards the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund for the welfare of personnel and ex-servicemen, their family members and also to rehabilitate those injured in wars.Appealing people to contribute in Armed Forces Flag Day Fund (AFFDF) to honour sacrifices made by soldiers in the line of duty, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on December 2 announced that ‘Armed Forces Flag Day’ would be celebrated throughout December. “The Centre and states along with Sainik Board will celebrate ‘Armed Forces Flag Day’ throughout December. It’s our national responsibility to support families of our security personnel, who have lost their lives or suffered injuries in the line of duty,” Singh said while speaking to news agency ANI.To celebrate the day, all three branches of the Indian armed forces - the Indian Army, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy - arrange a variety of shows, carnivals, dramas and other entertainment programmes to showcase to the general public the efforts of their personnel to ensure national security.The day was first observed on December 7, 1949. That year, the then government attempted to involve the common people to contribute to the welfare of the defence personnel. After the country gained Independence, there was an imminent shortage of funds for the welfare of armed forces. On August 28, 1949, a committee set up under the defence minister decided to observe a Flag Day annually on December 7. The committee had suggested that it would distribute flags to the citizens in exchange of them contributing to the fund for armed forces personnel.The Indian Armed Forces Flag Day is mainly observed to rehabilitate those wounded in wars, for the welfare of serving soldiers and their families and the welfare of ex-servicemen and their families. Also, the money collected is used for providing help to the ex-servicemen who are battling serious health issues including heart ailments, cancer, and joint replacement, etc.According to the ministry of defence, each year around 60,000 defence personnel are compulsorily retired, to keep the armed forces young. They are released between 35-40 years of age and they are physically fit and young. Therefore, caring for these ex-soldiers and their families is a national responsibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-flag-day-honouring-the-sacrifice-of-soldiers/story-zXNEaXwTQMG3JqI2VBLOHM.html
07-12-2020||India||Indian Air Force fully prepared to transport Covid-19 vaccines||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is fully prepared to pitch in for the distribution of a Covid-19 vaccine to the farthest reaches of the country using its extensive fleet of transport aircraft, people familiar with developments said on Sunday.Though there has been no official request so far from the government to the armed forces to assist in the delivery and distribution of a vaccine, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity that there are no doubts about the IAF’s capability to transport millions of doses across the country.“There has been no formal request till now for the IAF to help in the transportation of a Covid-19 vaccine. But we do have a formidable fleet of transport aircraft and we can pitch in at short notice if required,” said one of the people.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in IndiaIt is understood that the military has worked out modalities that will have to be put in place for transporting vaccines if there is a request from the government. This will primarily involve moving vaccines from the 28,000-unit cold storage network and ensuring the doses reach remote areas without losing their efficacy.“The vaccines will be transported in special boxes and there will be no need to reconfigure the aircraft to carry them. It’s not as if the aircraft will have to be modified in any way,” the person cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-fully-prepared-to-transport-covid-19-vaccines/story-TYMQBhzrEzPDrhrRJWxeDP.html
07-12-2020||India||Rajasthan couple ties knot in PPE kits after bride tests Covid-19 positive||A couple tied the knot at Kelwara Covid Centre in Bara, Shahbad on Sunday, wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) kits as bride’s Covid-19 report came positive on the wedding day.The marriage ceremony was conducted following the government’s Covid-19 protocols.In a video, the couple can be seen sitting at the havan kund while following all rituals of the wedding as was being told to them by the priest who also spotted in a PPE suit. #WATCH Rajasthan: A couple gets married at Kelwara Covid Centre in Bara, Shahbad wearing PPE kits as bride's #COVID19 report came positive on the wedding day. The marriage ceremony was conducted following the govt's Covid protocols. pic.twitter.com/6cSPrJzWjRThe groom was seen wearing the traditional turban over the PPE suit along with the gloves while the bride was also wearing a face shield and gloves while performing the rituals. In a unique twist during the wedding season, the video of the couple is doing rounds on social media platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-couple-ties-knot-in-ppe-kits-after-bride-tests-covid-19-positive/story-3UnQpfle2MUFkyrMpcJkxM.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP wins 6 out of 11 MLC seats, SP bags 3||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday won six out of the total 11 MLC seats in polls for the teachers’ and graduate constituency seats of the state legislative council. Of the 11 seats, the BJP contested nine and backed an independent for the teachers’ quota seat in Gorakhpur. . Out of the 11 seats, the Samajwadi Party won a total of three and the independents two, according to the final results of the biennial elections held last Tuesday.Out of the five graduates’ constituency seats in the Council, the BJP won three and the SP two, while out of the six teachers’ constituency seats, the BJP bagged three, the SP one and independents two. Following the declaration of the results for the 11 legislative council seats, the tally of BJP in the 100-member Upper House of the state rose to 25 from 19, SP’s to 55 from 52 and independents to four from two. “Despite desperate efforts to rig the polls by misusing official machinery, the BJP has suffered reverses from Jhansi till Kashi. The Samajwadi Party’s symbol cycle raced ahead triumphantly and is well set to win the 2022 assembly polls. The party’s popularity is growing and it has started showing too,” SP MLC Sunil Yadav said. Reacting to the party’s performance in the polls, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, “In the teachers’ constituencies, three out of 4 candidates fielded by the BJP won. The BJP contested this polls for the first time.”“This has been a historic performance for the BJP. In the Graduates’ constituency, the BJP won three seats,” he added.Political experts said the BJP’s aggressive foray in these polls, where it got its top state leaders to campaign for the first time, was set to impact teachers’ politics in the state. “It’s now clear that like these polls, the BJP would aggressively contest the panchayat polls, too, where a good show would definitely provide a psychological edge to the party ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran political observer. “The results would impact teachers’ politics both inside and outside the UP Legislative Council,” agreed SK Dwivedi, a retired head of the department of political science in Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-6-out-of-11-mlc-seats-sp-bags-3/story-TDe87vtAmqQoRH3VKARx5J.html
07-12-2020||India||BJP will hit the streets over CAA in Bengal from Jan: Vijayvargiya||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will start campaigning in January for implementation of the new citizenship law in poll-bound West Bengal, the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy said at a public meeting in Kolkata on Sunday afternoon.The issue is bound to increase political tension in the state as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is opposed to the law and has declared that she will never enforce it.The Citizenship (Amendment) Act offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014. Opponents of the law, among whom Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country. Accusing Banerjee of appeasing Muslims, Vijayvargiya said at a BJP programme at Mayo Road in Kolkata that his party will hit the streets next month to campaign for implementation of the law. “The chief minister calls the Prime Minister outsider. She calls the Union home minister outsider. But to her, the Rohingya refugees, who are spreading terror, and the infiltrators from Bangladesh are not outsiders. Are you (Mamata Banerjee) their aunt,” asked Vijayvargiya. “Mamata Ji is opposed to giving citizenship to Hindus who came to India as refugees. Why should we allow that? Do Hindu refugees not have the right to live as citizens with equal status?” he said.Mukul Roy made it clear that the issue would be raised by the BJP during the campaign for the crucial assembly elections due in six months. “We will go to the people. Citizenship is an important issue. The TMC {Trinamool Congress} cannot read the writing on the wall. That is immaturity in politics. We will win the election with more than 200 seats. If we cannot win more than 200 seats, all this hard work will mean nothing,” said Roy.TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “Mamata Banerjee made her stand clear long ago. We are opposed to the law and we will resist the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-hit-the-streets-over-caa-in-bengal-from-jan-vijayvargiya/story-L7cEL9dXP7dtsG6uvzqfXM.html
07-12-2020||India||French mid-air refuellers could boost Air Force||The defence ministry is considering a French proposal to acquire six Airbus 330 multi-role transport tanker (MRTT) aircraft on a government-to- government basis for expanding the strike capability of the Indian Air Force (IAF) by purchasing the latest mid-air refuelers.The IAF now operate seven Russian IL-76 M refuellers with Pakistan acquiring four of the same refuellers from Ukraine and China operating three of the same Russian refuellers along with 10 vintage modified versions of Russian bombers.According to officials at South Block , while the IAF wanted to get an Airbus 330 MRTT on wet lease from a British company, the French proposal involves selling six 5-7-year-old aircraft to the IAF with a certification of another 30 years of platform life at a much reduced price. The IAF has been eager to acquire an MRTT over the past decade, with the previous request for proposal (RFP) expiring without any results.According to a former Indian Air Force chief who didn’t want to be named, the Airbus 330 MRTT platform has much larger wings of the Airbus 340m as a result of which the aircraft can refuel two fighters mid-air at the same time through drogues (attached to wing pods) or a central refuelling boom system. The best part about the Airbus aircraft is that it can transport 260 personnel in cabin and fuel in the cargo hold due to highly efficient and high-powered engines. The MRTT can be turned into purely a tanker or transport or air ambulance or all three at the same time with a total crew of three.Mid-air refuellers are a key to expanding the operational envelop of the IAF and Indian Navy carrier-based fighters by extending their range. According to the former IAF chief cited above, a mid-air refueller can be used to extend the flight of a Su-30 MKI or Rafale flying from Port Blair all the way up to Sunda, Lombard and Malacca Straits for freedom of navigation missions.“ The French proposal is a win-win for IAF as the international market for aerial platforms is down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The aircraft does not guzzle fuel and has high-power engines to operate from high altitude air bases in Ladakh like Leh, Thoise and Nyoma and at the same time transport troops or conduct medical evacuation if required,” said a senior IAF official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-mid-air-refuellers-could-boost-air-force/story-lbpLOIjx1El8VlYwu7o55N.html
07-12-2020||India||China setting up villages on borders with India and Bhutan, satellite imagery shows||Satellite imagery has emerged of China setting up villages in hitherto uninhabited stretches on its disputed borders with India and Bhutan, particularly in Arunachal Pradesh, with experts saying the move could be aimed at buttressing Beijing’s territorial claims. Several villages have come up in the tri-junction between India, Bhutan and China, and the move follows the upgrading and construction of Chinese military facilities, including heliports and missile bases, all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the aftermath of the 2017 standoff at Doklam. Imagery shared by the open source intelligence analyst who uses the name @detresfa on Twitter on Sunday showed what appeared to be five new border villages built near Bum La, the border pass located between Cona county in Tibet Autonomous Region and Tawang district in Arunachal Pradesh. In a tweet, @detresfa said there is evidence of “new villages and accommodation similar to what was seen in Pangda village, Bhutan” in the vicinity of Bum La. The relocation of people to these villages “promises China with better border surveillance and patrols through a network of herders”, the tweet said. Also Read: Top US official says China conducted human tests to develop super soldiersSatellite imagery from Planet Labs, a private US company, was cited by NDTV to show that at least three villages have come up in an area about five kilometres from Bum La. The imagery suggested construction of these villages, which are on the Chinese side of the LAC, had continued even as thousands of Indian and Chinese troops faced off in Ladakh sector of the LAC. One image from Planet Labs dated February 17 showed only one village with some 20 structures in the area. A second image dated November 28 showed three additional villages in the same area with a total of about 50 structures. The villages are located about a kilometre from each other and connected by new roads. Satellite imagery that emerged last month showed China has built a village called Pangda some two kilometres within territory claimed by Bhutan on Doklam plateau. This imagery also showed China has built a road in the same region that goes about nine kilometres inside Bhutanese territory. Pangda is located about 10 km from the site of the 2017 standoff. In August, Chinese state media reported on how the government has improved infrastructure in villages close to the Arunachal Pradesh border. State-owned Global Times tabloid cited authorities in Yadong county of Tibet Autonomous Region as saying that 27 households with 124 people had “voluntarily moved from...Yadong county to Pangda village in September”. Also Read: China dismisses ‘Wolf Warrior diplomacy’ charge as akin to ‘China threat’ theoryIn 2017, President Xi Jinping had also written a letter to Tibetan herdsmen living near the Arunachal Pradesh border to “set down roots” and safeguard “Chinese territory”. Strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney pointed to the new villages near Bum La and said building border villages to “fortify claims and escalate cross-frontier intrusions is integral to China’s territorial aggrandisement”. Sim Tack, a Belgium-based security analyst for Force Analysis, said the new villages were clearly part of a strategy to “push Chinese presence and strengthen claims on disputed areas”. “We have seen the relocation of civilian populations into sparsely populated and disputed border regions by other countries, for example, by Morocco in Western Sahara. The Chinese are doing the same, so that they can infringe on the border and potentially build a case for their territorial claims,” he said. A report released in September by Stratfor, a leading security and intelligence consultancy, had said China has more than doubled the number of airbases, air defence positions and heliports near the LAC since 2017. China began building at least 13 new military facilities near the LAC after the standoff at Doklam, and work on four heliports began after the current tensions in Ladakh, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-setting-up-villages-on-borders-with-india-and-bhutan-satellite-imagery-shows/story-Lq1uwiFxAZ16LOWlnnMDPN.html
07-12-2020||India||SAD, Shiv Sena meet to discuss ties, farm stir||Shiromani Akali Dal’s delegation met Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday over various issues related to “Centre’s interference into states’ rights”, in a significant step by the political parties from opposition at national level. Besides discussing the issues related to Centre-state relations, the two parties also decided to support the ongoing farmers protests together.The SAD delegation led by vice president and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra called on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at latter’s official bungalow in Mumbai. The delegation discussed its stand on the farmers’ protest, decided to come together on Centre’s alleged interference into the rights of state governments and on the larger national issue as combative front. Leaders from key parties in opposition are expected to meet in Delhi in next couple of weeks to discuss the further course of action.“We have already held meetings with a few regional parties and are meeting leaders from DMK, TRS, TMC with the common intention of opposing the Centre’s intervention in the states’ rights. The Centre has been suppressing the rights of the states in state subjects including law and order, agriculture, finances. In the garb of cyber crime, the Centre is intervening in law and order, by passing the farm laws it intends to overtake state’s powers of agriculture marketing... We want to collectively oppose this attempt,” Chandumajra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-shiv-sena-meet-to-discuss-ties-farm-stir/story-JGzuYw1Dlto26Um2nh5RjM.html
07-12-2020||India||J-K DDC polls phase 4: Over 7 lakh voters to decide fate of 249 candidates||More than seven lakh voters will decide the fate of 249 candidates contesting in the fourth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. The polling will be held between 7am and 2pm in 34 constituencies -- 17 each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions. Besides DDC elections, polling will be held for panchayat bypolls in 50 vacant sarpanch seats and 216 vacant panch seats falling within the DDC constituencies, an official spokesperson said, according to news agency PTI.So far, three phases of the maiden DDC elections, the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir after the reorganization of the erstwhile state last year, were held on November 28, December 1 and December 4, registering a voter turnout of 51.76 per cent, 48.62 per cent and 50.53 per cent, respectively. In the 17 DDC constituencies of Kashmir division, 138 candidates, including 48 women, are in the fray. In Jammu division, 111 candidates, including 34 women, are contesting in this phase. “There were 123 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 4th phase and out of these 45 have got filled unopposed. There shall be a contest in 50 constituencies and 137 candidates, including 47 women, are in the fray,” the spokesperson said. Out of the total 1,207 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 416 have got filled unopposed and there is no contest in these constituencies. Polling would take place in 216 panch constituencies and there are 478 candidates in the fray including 129 women, he added. In the fourth phase, 7,17,322 electors are eligible to cast their votes -- 3,76,797 men and 3,40,525 women. Among them, 3,50,149 are from Jammu division and 3,67,173 from Kashmir division, he said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, adequate arrangements have been made to ensure safety of all stakeholders, including voters. Special polling stations at Women College Gandhinagar, Jammu and Girls Higher Secondary School Udhampur have been set up to facilitate physical voting by Kashmiri migrants, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ddc-polls-phase-4-over-7-lakh-voters-to-decide-fate-of-249-candidates/story-5ivDYeZ2ygrlXYFS4cQmlI.html
07-12-2020||India||Sarpanch from Maharashtra to undergo DNA test||The sarpanch of a village in Maharashtra has to pass a different kind of test to retain his position - a DNA test.Having denied fathering a third child, the man has been directed by the Supreme Court to undergo the test to prove his claim.The Sarpanch is alleged to have the third child from his second wife. But he claimed his second wife never had any child from their marriage. Also, the second marriage is over, he contended.According to the Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act, a person is disqualified from holding any position in the gram panchayat if he or she has more then two children. Such a person cannot contest any post too.Since the case has been pending in the top court since 2016, an SC bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, said the dispute over paternity must now be settled beyond doubt.“A DNA test will conclusively prove as to whether the child is, in fact, the third child of the petitioner,” said the court order.The bench, which also included justices Navin Sinha and KM Joseph, added that the DNA test will put an end to the controversy over whether the claimed separation between the sarpanch and his second wife was a ploy to remain in his position or whether the assertions were genuine. “Therefore, a DNA test is to be conducted on the petitioner (who is Sarpanch) as well as the child on any day next week at the Government Hospital (Aurangabad), in the presence of a responsible medical officer,” stated the order.The bench directed the medical officer of the hospital to furnish the test results confidentially, which will be taken up for hearing next month.The Sarpanch had moved an appeal after the Bombay high court disqualified him for having more than two children. The high court had noted that he had also partitioned his land in favour of the male child.The invitation card for marriage of the Sarpanch’s daughter also mentioned this child’s name, and the high court had taken note of as it put its stamp of approval on the order of disqualification.The high court added the Sarpanch can go to a civil court if he wants a legal declaration that the child was not his.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarpanch-from-maharashtra-to-undergo-dna-test/story-vjoIhylGF1JSHHLU4qUQEP.html
07-12-2020||India||Polling for Bodoland Territorial Council to take place in 2 phases next week||Ahead of assembly polls in the state due in March-April next year, political parties in Assam are battling it out in what has been billed as a semi-final to assume control of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC). Polling for the council, which administers the Bodoland Territorial Region covering Udalguri, Kokrajhar, Baksa and Chirang districts, will take place in two phases on Monday and Thursday. The votes will be counted on December 12. Polling for 40 seats in the council, which comes under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, scheduled in April was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the area was placed under Governor’s rule. Since its formation in 2003, BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) is the third partner. Relations between the BJP and BPF started souring after BTC was placed under Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 and supporting independent candidates in the other seats.The campaign has been bitter and personal with senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma accusing Mohilary of large-scale corruption and the latter terming the former a bully. “There’s lack of development in BTC areas due to misrule of BPF. The large crowds at our rallies indicate the BJP will come to power in BTC this time,” Sarma said at an election rally in Udalguri district on Saturday, the last day of campaigning for the first phase of polling. “Sarma can be a bully in Dispur, but he has no say in BTC. We are coming back to power again and the BJP’s plan to rule BTC will fall flat,” Mohilary said at an election rally. Apart from BJP and BPF, the opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting a total of 20 seats. The other prime contenders are United People;s Party Liberal (UPPL), which is contesting all 40 seats, and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania, which is fighting in 35 seats. The BTC polls would be the first election in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started and the administrative and electoral machinery are geared to ensure smooth polling while maintaining all and health and safety protocols. “There are 11 constituencies in our district and nearly 7 lakh voters. Polling parties have gone to their stations and security arrangements are in place for Monday’s voting. Face masks, sanitisers etc. have been provided to the poll officials and social distancing will be maintained during polling,” Ranjan Sarma, the deputy commissioner of Baksa district, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-for-bodoland-territorial-council-to-take-place-in-2-phases-next-week/story-5PAWtdpjJxyrXuooVYIEEM.html
07-12-2020||India||PM Modi to virtually inaugurate construction of Agra Metro project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate via video conferencing the construction of the Agra Metro project on Monday.In a tweet, the Prime Minister said that the Agra Metro project will boost ‘ease of living’ for the people of Agra as well as tourists.“At 12 noon tomorrow, 7th December, construction work of the Agra Metro Project will commence. This project is spread across two corridors and will boost ‘Ease of Living’ for the people of Agra as well as benefit tourists who visit this vibrant city,” PM Modi tweeted.Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries will also attend the event that will be held at 15 Battalion PAC parade ground in Agra.The Agra metro project comprises two corridors with a total length of 29.4 km and will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with railway stations and bus stands, a PMO release said.The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 8,379.62 crore and it will be completed in five years.The project will benefit Agra’s population of 2.6 million and also cater to more than 60 lakh tourists who visit the historic city every year. It will provide an environment-friendly mass rapid transit system to Agra, the statement said.Last year on March 8, the Prime Minister had inaugurated the Agra Metro project along with the commencement of commercial operations of Lucknow Metro on the entire 23 km long North-South corridor from CCS Airport to Munshipulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-virtually-inaugurate-construction-of-agra-metro-project/story-FWO3ybiOuucihPdIOOtypO.html
07-12-2020||India||Ayodhya skips events on Babri razing anniversary||Twenty-eight years after the demolition of the Babri Masjid, Ayodhya finally put its bitter past behind it on Sunday, with both Hindus and Muslims skipping the yearly observances of the December 6,1992 razing of the 16th Century mosque by Hindu activists.Four months after the foundation stone for a Ram temple was laid at the site in a ceremony performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the two communities refrained from organising events to commemorate the event that until last year the Muslims observed as Yaum-e-Gham (day of sorrow) by displaying black flags and keeping their establishments closed.And Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust that is overseeing the temple’s construction, issued an appeal to the Hindus to not observe Shaurya Diwas (day of valour) on Sunday.“When the Supreme Court has decided in favour of Ram Mandir, there is no point in observing Shaurya Diwas. Now, Bhoomi Pujan of Ram Mandir has also taken place and foundation work of Ram Mandir is going on,” said Sharad Sharma, regional spokesperson for the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which spearheaded the campaign for a temple at the long-disputed site in Ayodhya. “So both Hindus and Muslims must move ahead.”On November 9 last year, a constitution bench of the apex court ended the decades old Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid title suit dispute by ruling in favour of a temple at the site and ordered the government to allot an alternative five-acre site for the Muslim community to build a temple.Unlike in the past when a big congregation would assemble at the Tedi Bazaar residence of Haji Mehboob, one of the litigants in the Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid title suit, to observe Yaum-e-Gham or Shahadat Diwas, this time there weren’t any symbolic protests.At Mehboob’s residence, clerics from across the state would assemble and a memorandum addressed to the President of India used to be handed over to a city magistrate demanding the restoration of the Babri mosque. After the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony for a Ram temple on August 5, the Muslim community in the temple town decided to stop commemorating the day.“There will be no Yaum-e-Gham this year. No black flags will be hoisted and Muslims will also open their establishments on December 6,” said Haji Mehboob. “Only recital of the Quran will be held in Tedi Bazaar mosque for those who were killed in violence on December 6, 1992,” he added. “We have decided to move ahead of the past and convey a message to the rest of the Muslim community across the country to forget the past for a better future,” Mehboob said.Iqbal Ansari, son of the late Hasim Ansari, who was the original litigant in the Ram Mandir–Babri Masjid dispute, said: “Long ago, I had stopped observing Yaum-e- Gham. Now, after the Supreme Court’s order in favour of Ram Mandir, there is no point observing the day as a day of sorrow for any Muslim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-skips-events-on-babri-razing-anniversary/story-x4BmKqANCm96QRMP7Mz59J.html
07-12-2020||India||Failed to keep word: Bimal Gurung targets BJP||Making his first appearance in north Bengal after being on the run for three-and-a-half years, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung on Sunday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), his ally since 2009. He called the BJP a party of “ungrateful people” and swore to make Mamata Banerjee, his foe until last month, chief minister for the third time after elections next year. “The Gorkhas will never forgive Prime Minister Narendra Modi who had once said that the dream of the Gorkhas was his dream,” Gurung said at a rally in Siliguri in Darjeeling district and asked his followers to defeat the BJP in the coming polls. “The Prime Minister has to tell the people why he lied to the Gorkhas about finding a permanent political solution (to the Gorkhaland issue) and granting scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha communities,” said Gurung. “Even though we supported the BJP in previous elections, the party failed to keep its promises...We lost 12 years because of the BJP. Our people must give a befitting reply in the coming assembly election,” he said. Gurung was charged by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government under numerous sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for violence during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation. He went into hiding with his close aides and surfaced in Kolkata last month with an offer to help Banerjee defeat the BJP in the 2021 polls. The BJP has won Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 with GJM’s support. Gurung demanded that Raju Bista, the BJP MP from Darjeeling, resign. “You (Bista) have spoiled everything by talking too much. Your chapter has been closed by the BJP because it made you a national spokesperson. You can no longer speak for the Gorkhas. An epic war has started and I will keep fighting till the 2021 elections are over,” Gurung said. “The BJP has to be defeated at any cost and I will achieve this by keeping chief minister Mamata Banerjee in front of me. I will not rest for a day till she becomes the chief minister for the third time. She has assured us that she will find a permanent political solution to the hill problem,” said Gurung. Political equations in the Darjeeling hills have changed after Gurung pledged support to the TMC last month. His followers had been keeping a low profile since 2017, when Gurung’s former lieutenant Binoy Tamang led his own faction and suspended Gurung in his absence. On Sunday, Gurung’s men appeared in full strength. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Gurung says the BJP didn’t help him but Mamata Banerjee will. Let voters decide who should be supported; those who want to divide Bengal for Gorkhaland or those who don’t.” Bengal Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “Banerjee will shake hands with anyone to serve her interest. Gurung, who she accused of killing a policeman, is now her ally. Tomorrow she may shelter a terrorist.” TMC leaders refrained from commenting on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failed-to-keep-word-bimal-gurung-targets-bjp/story-5K1syrHzn0q0dpGfNSzyxJ.html
07-12-2020||India||2 held as interfaith couple tries to register marriage||A group of right-wing activists stopped the registration formalities of an interfaith marriage in Kaanth area of Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district on Saturday and brought the couple and the groom’s brother to the local police station.A case under Section 3 of new Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 was registered against Rashid and his brother Saleem and they were sent to jail.A one-minute video circulating on social media shows the activists of the Hindu organisation Bajrang Dal, with saffron scarves around their necks, questioning the woman in the presence of policemen inside the police station. “Show us the permission you have taken from the district magistrate to convert your religion,” an activist asks the woman. Another man asks: “Have you read the new law or not.”The Uttar Pradesh ordinance outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement. The law was promulgated about a month after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was promulgated on November 24. The law prescribes a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fine of up to ₹15,000 for those convicted under the law. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or those who are minors.Inspector of the Kaanth police station Ajay Gautam said that the girl’s mother had complained against Rashid and his brother Saleem in which she charged Rashid with enticing her daughter by posing as Sonu and hiding his original identity. He is now forcing her daughter to convert her religion, she alleged. The woman, in the video, however denied the charges levelled by her mother. “I am 22-year-old and we married on July 24 and came here to get it registered in the court,” said the woman. It was not clear whether she had already changed her religion.Inspector Gautam seemed convinced that Rashid and Saleem were forcing the woman to convert her religion. When asked how he had verified the matter of her religious conversion, Gautam said: “The girl was wearing a burqa and was taken to a Maulvi”. Reacting to the incident, Mufti Zulfikar, state president of the All India Imam Association, said: “This new law has been enacted only to fulfil the political agenda of the BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} and it would be misused to send innocents to jail”.In a week since the promulgation of the law, six FIRs have been registered under it in five districts of the state, police officials said on Sunday.Of the 29 people booked, 10 have been arrested in three cases filed in Sitapur, Bareilly and Moradabad districts since Wednesday, the officials said.The state cabinet cleared the law earlier in November, targeting what many right-wing outfits term “love jihad”, which involves Muslim men marrying Hindu women with the aim of changing the latter’s religion after marriage. According to the ordinance, marriages with the intention of changing the woman’s religion will be declared null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-held-as-interfaith-couple-tries-to-register-marriage/story-xYiG06RjbhpkUpXkodtjbM.html
07-12-2020||India||Price, capacity key areas as Pfizer files for licence in India||India is yet to discuss the pricing of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and the ability of the company to deliver orders placed by the country even as the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization or CDSCO reviews the emergency authorisation sought by the vaccine developer.A senior government official said there will be a negotiation on the price and availability after the vaccine is approved for use in India. This person pointed to the vaccine’s $20 price tag in the US and compared it with the $3-4 at which the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine being made locally by the Serum Institute of India will be available.A second office confirmed this. “(The) Pfizer (vaccine) not only poses a major logistical challenge as it has to be stored at Antarctic temperatures but it also carries a hefty price tag. There is scope of negotiation.”The company has struck a deal with the EU for $18.34 a dose, the second person added.The mRNA vaccine was approved for use by the UK last week and may be approved by the US this week. Regulatory approvals can be sought in geographies other than those where clinical trials are carried out, presenting detailed trial data.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in IndiaThere is another problem with the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine though: supply.“If they get the emergency authorisation, they need to tell us how they will provide the required vaccine,” said the first official. Neither official wished to be identified.While the EU has booked 200 million doses from Pfizer, India will require 580 million doses for 290 million people or the first three priority groups comprising health workers, frontline staff and old people with co-morbidities. These three groups are expected to be administered vaccines between January and July 2021.Pfizer also has deals with the US, UK, and Japan.“The government is looking at a bouquet of vaccines for immunising Indian population. While our focus remains on Made in India vaccines, we have not shut our doors to imported ones,” said the first official.To be sure, the only locally made vaccine anywhere close to being approved is the SII-manufactured AstraZeneca/Oxford one.Still, discussions on pricing and supply will have to wait till the CDSCO, headed by Drugs Controller General Dr VG Somani goes through the company’s filings. He may even seek a virtual meeting with Pfizer for clarifications. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe company has submitted detailed data from its trials to the Indian authorities. “But it too, didn’t come easily,” pointed out the first official. “Pfizer had insisted on a non-disclosure agreement with the Union government. As a sovereign country, we sign such pact with a company that too, a US-based one, so we had to ask an agency under biotechnology department to sign the non-disclosure pact.”According to top-line data released by Pfizer, its vaccine has 95% efficacy.Russia’s Gamaleya Center too, extracted a similar promise for secrecy while sharing trial data for its Sputnik V vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/price-capacity-key-areas-as-pfizer-files-for-license-in-india/story-fPF2dcurb3NJ7kwZ2AcE4M.html
07-12-2020||India||Govt readying vaccine cold storage at airports||The central government has started preparations for setting up a cold storage chain for the Covid-19 vaccine that will eventually be approved for use in India, and is finalising transport arrangements with top airlines to deliver the antidote to the viral disease, officials aware of the development said.The aviation ministry has held a round of meetings with airlines on transport logistics. Officials involved in the process told HT that the ministry was awaiting the Centre’s approval for a vaccine candidate; arrangements for its transport have been made.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“We are absolutely ready. We will come out with the specifics soon. We have enough capacity in terms of aircraft. The Prime Minister has also taken a meeting on Friday. We have to first prioritise according to the vaccine that will be chosen—whether it will be from Pune or the South… cold storage will have to come up accordingly. We have enough capacity in terms of aircraft to take them around the country and if need be to take them to other countries or get them from outside as well,” a senior government official said, requesting anonymity.“More than cold storage inside the aircraft, the challenge is to set up cold storage at the point of disembarkation and embarkation at the airport, setting up the whole cold-storage chain. That’s a separate exercise going on…We have started work and it is at a fairly advanced stage. It is only a matter of weeks before the vaccine is finalised,” the official added.Aviation sector experts were concerned about the availability of freighters required to carry out the task of distributing the vaccine once a candidate is selected.Also Read: SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in India“It is going to be an absolute herculean task to transport the vaccine to billions of people across the world and in India it is not going to be easy at all. In terms of aircraft capacity to be able to transport and distribute it to districts, sub-districts, villages and even the remotest corners of the country will take years. According to our analysis, to cater to 1.3 billion people of India will need at least 2,000 Boeing 747 freighters, 3,000 Airbus A320s, 1,000 ATR 42s and additionally at least 400 Twin Otters or the Grand Caravan aircraft. It will be a ridiculously difficult task given our current capacity. To be able to distribute it across the world it will require at least 15,000 freighters, “said Mark Martin, chief executive of Martin Consulting LLC, an aviation consultancy.In a statement on Wednesday SpiceJet announced it will offer logistical support for the delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine. The airline’s dedicated cargo arm, SpiceXpress, will use a specialised service called Spice Pharma Pro, and the company has the capacity to transport drugs and vaccines in temperatures ranging from -40°c to +25°c.“Air India, as always, is willing and would be playing a major role like what it has been doing ever since it flew into Wuhan in January this year to evacuate the stranded…As far as our preparedness is concerned, Air India is always prepared to answer the call of our nation,” an Air India spokesperson said when contacted by HT. IndiGo said they are evaluating how they can chip in. “In line with our business model and cost leadership strategy, we are happy to evaluate the shipment of the Covid-19 vaccines on board our aircraft and will promise to contribute to the best of our abilities,” the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-readying-vaccine-cold-storage-at-airports/story-di7emwVBEu7P8F7n75N58O.html
07-12-2020||India||Farmers across nation break language barriers, join protest||Pooja Morey, a 30-year-old woman from Maharashtra, cheers and claps as a farmers’ leader delivers a speech in Punjabi from the stage in Singhu Border on a warm Sunday afternoon. Not very fluent in Hindi, Morey understands little of the Punjabi, but says that doesn’t matter. “My father is a farmer. Having seen his pain, I know that the language of the speech doesn’t matter. Anything said here in any language will help ease the pain of farmers across the country,” said Morey, who belongs to Mirgaon village in Beed. Some distance away, amid the crowd seated near the stage, a group of men belonging to a political party in Tamil Nadu also cheer the speeches every few minutes. “We are also video recording the speeches so that we can get them translated later for those of us who don’t understand even Hindi,” said Jagdeesh Waran, a coordinator of the Naam Tamilar Katchi political party. Also Read: Opposition parties back call for Bharat bandhThe men from Tamil Nadu are luckier than Morey because they have a Punjabi man occasionally translating the speech for them. “Some of them understand Hindi and try to pick on the Punjabi words. I translate the important bits of the speech,” said Bhavneet Singh, a Delhi resident who accompanied the group to the Singhu Border.Morey and Waran are among farmers, politicians and volunteers who have arrived from states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh to join the protests at the Singhu Border against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Most of them have landed at the site over the last couple of days after travelling by train. Gajanand Bangale, a farmer from a village in Jalna district of Maharashtra, said that he even spoke from the stage on Sunday. “I don’t know how many Punjabi farmers understood me, but they clapped often,” said Bangale. Bangale said he owns several bighas of land in Maharashtra, but struggles to feed his family. “If the government doesn’t take back its three laws, my family will be in even more trouble,” said Bangale.He said that about 1,000 farmers are soon arriving at this border from Amravati in Maharashtra. “Today they are at the Bhopal border,” said Bangale. Many of the people who have arrived from south Indian states said they plan to stay put here until the government submits to their demand for the repeal of the laws that the farmers are concerned would put them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses. Also Read: Donation drives in Punjab, Haryana feed lakhs at Delhi borders“On TV, I saw the videos of farmers being attacked with water cannons and tear gas. They needed the country’s support, so four of us caught a train to reach Delhi station and from there a cab to reach here on Saturday,” said Vijay Gorle, a farmer from Peddapuram town in Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The four men slept along with the Punjabi farmers at night and plan to stay on. “We tell the Punjabi farmers namaste and they feed us until we beg them to stop,” said Gorle. Apart from farmers, there was a group of young men and women who said they had arrived from Kashmir. “We come from a farming background. So, we picked up two cars to join the farmers here,” said a Kashmiri man who didn’t want to be identified. A few doctors and volunteers here too arrived from faraway places like Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. “Our team of three doctors and one volunteer arrived here on December 2 after we heard the news that farmers were camping in the bitter cold. The bad weather means they’ll fall sick and so we decided to be available for them,” said Mridul Sarkar, an MBBS doctor from Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-across-nation-break-language-barriers-join-protest/story-3twZii8vdQhSP9FNVr95NK.html
07-12-2020||India||Opposition parties back call for Bharat bandh||A raft of political parties, from the Congress to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), have backed the call for a Bharat bandh (shutdown strike) on Tuesday in support of farmers who have massed at Delhi’ borders to protest against three farm laws introduced by the Centre, as the city’s traffic police braced for potential chaos on the roads in the days ahead. The proposed nationwide strike also has the support of the Left parties, Trinamool Congress (TMC), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). Farmers have been protesting against the three laws since November 26, demanding their repeal. Talks between the farmers’ unions and the central government have failed to produce a breakthrough. Another round of talks is scheduled on December 9.The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The Congress plans to hold demonstrations at its party offices, district and state headquarters in support of the farmers. The party has been vocal in backing the farmers, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.Also Read| AAP to support Bharat Bandh called by farmers: Delhi CM Kejriwal“I would also like to announce that the Congress party extends its wholehearted support to the Bharat Bandh on December 8,” party spokesperson Pawan Khera said. The M K Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) also appealed to farmers’ unions, traders’ bodies, government employees’ associations, labour unions and others in Tamil Nadu to extend support to the strike and make it a success. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also extended his party’s support to the farmers. ”The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it,” Kejriwal tweeted.The Mamata Banerjee -led TMC has extended “moral support” to the nationwide strike. Telangana chief minister and TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao on Sunday also extended support to the Bharat Bandh. Rao appealed to party workers to make the bandh successful. He said the TRS rank and file would actively participate in the bandh. RJD has also extended its backing for the bandh. “All workers of the party, along with farmers’ unions, will work to make the bandh a success,” RJD tweeted. With the farmers’ protests intensifying in Delhi, Delhi traffic police advised commuters moving in and out of the capital to use alternative routes to avoid traffic snarls. Commuters are likely to get caught in long traffic snarls because many of the city’s borders will remain shut for traffic movement, the traffic police warned. Delhi traffic police officials said that even though the situation was under control at the weekend, commuters are likely to be caught in long traffic jams starting on Monday, especially around the city’s borders. The traffic police department informed commuters about alternative routes open for travelling to the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Those commuting to Delhi could take the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway instead of the Noida Link road. Chilla border on Noida Link Road is closed for traffic from Noida to Delhi due to the farmers’ protest near Gautam Budh Dwar,” the traffic police said in a post on Twitter. It added, “The Ghazipur border on NH-24 is closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. People are advised to avoid NH-24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara, Bhopra and DND for coming to Delhi.” The borders that are completely closed are Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Jharoda, Piao Maniyari, and Mangesh in outer and south-western parts of the city and the Chilla border, connecting Delhi and Noida, in east Delhi. Also Read: Weekend traffic calm, but brace for snarls today, say traffic policeApart from the seven, the Delhi-Meerut expressway at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border is closed for vehicles coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, while the opposite carriageway through which vehicles move towards Ghaziabad is open. The service road of NH-24 at the UP Gate border is also closed as the protesting farmers have occupied it for the past 10 days. The Chilla border remained closed on Sunday as well. Many motorists going to Noida were confused as the carriageway was closed with barricades at the start of the flyover near the Mayur Vihar-1 extension. “I had travelled to Noida through this road on Friday and the road was open. Today (Sunday), the road is closed and I am stuck here near the border. No policeman was present at the flyover where the road has been closed to guide us about the alternative route. I have to ask other commuters for the open borders through which I can enter Noida,” said Akash Kumar, a commuter. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic, east) G Ram Gopal Naik said the traffic police has been issuing alerts and advisories on social media on the closure of the borders and the alternate routes that commuters can take to travel between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Since the Delhi-Meerut expressway carriageway entering Delhi from Ghaziabad is also blocked, the vehicles are entering the national capital through Bhopra, Apsara and Anand Vihar borders, he said. About the possibility of traffic chaos on Monday, which is a working day, DCP Naik said that the presence of traffic personnel would be reinforced during the morning and evening peak hours on the routes where the volume of traffic remains heavy compared to the afternoon and night. “We will deploy 12-15 traffic personnel at the main congestion points mainly at the borders to manage the traffic. The first three-four traffic signals from the congestion points are important and we will increase our presence to regulate the traffic manually. Regular traffic updates are posted on social media and we use the platform to communicate with people who post queries regarding the traffic updates. The traffic helpline is functional 24x7,” said Naik. Also Read: As border agitations continue, vegetables and fruits may become costlierTo make matters worse for commuters, repair work being carried out near NH-24 by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) might also lead to traffic jams on the stretch. On Sunday, to speed up work, the traffic police diverted traffic from the portion of road. DJB said that a pipeline which was around 25 feet below the highway had burst and the work might go on for a few days. “Due to heavy leakage in water pipeline on NH-24 near Nizamuddin Khatta, NH-24 from the Ring Road will remain closed for traffic today (Sunday). However, NH-9(Meerut Expressway) will remain open. Motorists coming from Pragati Maidan side are advised to take the second left turn instead of the first. Motorists intending to go towards Akshardham, coming from Ashram or Barapullah side may take the road up to Nizamuddin Khatta instead of Sarai Kale Khan flyover and then turn right under the flyover,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-back-call-for-bharat-bandh/story-TkyBNw7MEfj3Ak2AExYuEJ.html
07-12-2020||India||SII seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid vaccine Covishield in India||The Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said.A day earlier, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first to seek a similar approval from India’s drug regulator for its own Covid-19 vaccine in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain.The phase-three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, is being conducted by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday (SII), co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in various parts of the country in addition to clinical studies being carried out by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil.Based on phase two and three clinical trial results, the SII with the help of the ICMR will pursue early availability of the vaccine for India, the country’s apex health research body had said last month.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAccording to the ICMR, the SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI.Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm has stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the UK and one each in Brazil and India, shows that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and most importantly against severe Covid-19 infections.The results are in line with other anti-coronavirus vaccines and because of the huge disease burden, Covishield is predicted to alleviate substantial Covid-19 mortality and morbidity, the firm is learnt to have said.“In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated with respect to solicited adverse events and was not associated with an increased number of SAEs and deaths. A majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae.“Therefore, Covishield is safe and well-tolerated and can be used effectively for prevention of Covid-19 in the targeted population. Thus, the benefit to risk ratio strongly supports the widespread use of Covishield,” a source said quoting the application.In order to introduce an urgently needed vaccine against Covid-19 in India, SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, has entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine.The SII has also submitted 12 batches of the vaccine to the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli for testing, a source said.“In line with our philosophy we assure you that for Covid-19 vaccines also, we are committed to make our country ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) and fulfil our prime minister’s clarion call of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘making in India’ for the world,” stated the application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII).Also Watch| Covid update: Punjab CM seeks vaccine clarification; Pfizer asks for India approval In view of all these facts and unmet medical needs in the interest of the public at large to save millions of people in the country and across the globe, early availability of a vaccine against Covid-19 is a necessity, it stated.“So, in the national interest, we request you to grant us emergency use authorisation of Covishield based on our application and in view of immediate need for a safe, effective, programmatically suitable and affordable vaccine for our country,” the application read.According to sources, this vaccine is logistically feasible for distribution in the country’s both urban and rural parts as it can be stored at two to eight degrees Celsius, which is an ideal temperature for being kept in cold storages in the country.As a rapid regulatory response, the DCGI on August 2 had given nod to SII for conducting the combined phase two and three human clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-seeks-emergency-use-authorisation-for-oxford-covid-vaccine-covishield-in-india/story-HQ7RpOsunM4CpvgmNoX8qI.html
07-12-2020||India||‘I’m enjoying making people laugh in these tough times’||Kanpur based comic artiste Annu Awasthi who once dreamt of becoming a politician is now enjoying his role as a comedian, making people laugh in these tough times. “I am a car dealer and wanted to become a politician. I had also decided to contest Vidhan Sabha 2022 elections too but at present I’m satisfied doing comedy,” he said. “Since last few years, I am doing comedy shows at local weddings and functions. In 2018, I made a fun audio that went viral. I realised that it was good way to reach a wider audience,” said Annu of Bhabhiji Ghar Par Hain fame. Annu got a break on small screen after his fun videos became popular, telling us more about himself he said, “My first break on TV happened with an offer from Bigg Boss but it didn’t work out as expected and I landed an interesting role in the comedy show Bhabhiji. This show proved to be a turning point as it gave me a recognition and more work.” Currently, Annu is shooting for his new TV show. “Yes it’s a fun role and I play a phoney businessman. I am glad with the kind of roles coming my way and enjoying it to the fullest,” said Annu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-m-enjoying-making-people-laugh-in-these-tough-times/story-PiG0g82QcBHJwOuv33DOXP.html
07-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Last week, as several instalments of this column had pointed out, was going to be crucial for India in terms of how the trajectory of the coronavirus disease would play out in the country. It was to show whether India too would see the holiday effect seen in almost every other country where mass festivities and celebrations resulted in a spike in cases weeks later. Diwali, perhaps the biggest festival in India, was in mid-November, and if daily case numbers were going to rise on account of the parties, family gatherings and travel associated with the celebrations, last week is when this would have shown up. The week has come and gone. We are now on December 7, and India appears to have escaped the holiday effect.Daily case numbers through the first six days of last week, Monday to Saturday, were: 31,182; 36,421; 35,414; 36,653; 36,212; and 36,439. That works out to a six-day average of 35,387. All these numbers are from the HT dashboard. The average is the lowest India has seen in four-and-a-half months. That would take us back to the third week of July.These numbers lead to two interesting questions.The first question is why did India not see the spike the US and countries in Europe saw after similar celebrations and gatherings?The obvious answer — and because it is obvious there is also a strong likelihood of it being the wrong answer but more on this shortly — is that Diwali coincided with the end of the first wave of infections in India (or the beginning of the second), and because of this, it did not see a spike in cases two weeks later, despite people flouting social distancing norms or taking more risks by travelling.This doesn’t add up because if nothing really changed in the virus’s ability to infect people (it didn’t; for instance, there wasn’t a sudden mutation that made it less virulent), and if people actually took more risks than they previously did, there should have been a spike in infections. This is exactly what happened in the US after Labor Day and which experts say is now happening after Thanksgiving. And this is exactly what happened in European countries.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThis suggests that the answer could lie in the chain of infection being broken more often and more easily than it was previously, and despite violations of social distancing norms — something that is possible only if the virus, as it seeks to jump from person to person, encounters more people who are immune to it. It’s difficult to say this for sure in the absence of regular, widespread tests for SARS-CoV-2 antibodies — blood tests that are popularly called sero-surveys — but the answer seems to lie in that direction.The reason for the absence of a post-Diwali surge, then, could be a combination of two complementary factors: masking, social distancing and other safety protocols that some still followed (and continue to); and a relatively high level of exposure to the virus in the population, resulting in an equally high level of protection.This is not to suggest that India has achieved herd immunity or is close to doing so. Nor is this an endorsement of any approach that focuses on achieving herd immunity. It is merely scientific conjecture that seeks to explain why India has not seen a post-Diwali surge.Also Read: US Covid-19 cases remain over 200,000 for fourth straight dayThe second question (which, in some ways, derives from the first) is about the waves in which the coronavirus disease affects populations. We know that a wave starts waning when testing, tracing, and isolation start reducing the possibility of infection, and waxing as life returns to normal, as business and recreational and social activities increase, but there is also a natural trajectory to the infection. For instance, at a certain level of infection (or exposure), the number of new infections will start falling, gradually at first and then sharply. So, based on an understanding of these (the level of activity, and the infection rate), can one predict the timing of the next wave?That is for the experts to answer.Post Script: With India escaping the post-Diwali surge, if its current coronavirus disease trajectory stays in the plateau in which it finds itself till the end of the month, it is likely (a low but significant probability) that the second wave in India will be less intense — not just when compared to that in the US and Europe, but when compared to the country’s own first wave — because if all goes well, India could start vaccinating the people in the first of its six priority groups (prioritised in terms of when they will be administered the vaccine) early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-z8S520WxGlBmfghKb4w6oK.html
07-12-2020||India||‘You never know what can work for you!’||Actor Amit Sial is having a successful stint with shows like ‘Jamtara’, ‘Mirzapur’, ‘Hostages’ and ‘A Simple Murder’. But, ‘Inside Edge’ was his last bet at acting! “Four times in life, I have decided to quit acting. ‘Inside Edge’ was my last attempt and I decided if it did not work, I will quit and open a ‘dhabha’ in a scenic mountain,” he said with a hearty laugh and added, “Devender’s character in the show was actually me! Bullying people, getting bullied, cricket at Green Park and Kanpuria language was all really me. His unpredictable attitude was actually my state of mind and it clicked.” Currently shooting in Lucknow he gives a peek into his journey. “I fail to understand when I hear about things like suicide, depression and all. I too have gone through all but what I learned and believe is that you need to move on. Maybe people expect too much from themselves or look at others and compare. It’s best to move on in life or take treatment. See, it has not ended till it ends!”Upset with actor Asif Basra’s suicide he said, “Asif bhai ended his life and I have last worked with him in ‘Hostages-2’. He was such a happy man and even invited me to his house in Dharamshala but then I read about his suicide. I get very upset and restless when people end their life.“You never know what can work for you! So, please don’t end your life before it ends! God has given us this instrument (body) and mind, so use it to do what you want to do and if you do not succeed choose something else but one needs to move on.”Amit spells out his mantra of three Ps — persistence, perseverance and patience. “At 30 years, I finally decided to take up professional acting and it has been 15 years since. The journey saw it all: pain, happiness, heartbreak and depression. But I was not the only one…others around me too were facing it all. Today, I am happy and thankful to God with what I achieved.” He admits Lallan of ‘Raid’, Maurya in ‘Mirzapur’ and Brijesh Bhan in ‘Jamtara’ give his career a big boost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/you-never-know-what-can-work-for-you/story-xPI8TqjCXTs7Ii81JAANcL.html
