08-12-2020||India||Security forces seize narcotics and contrabands worth Rs 165 crore in Manipur’s Moreh||The Assam Rifles, the Manipur police and the Narcotics Control Bureau in a joint operation raided two locations in the border town of Moreh and seized drugs and contraband worth Rs 165 crores on Monday.“The raid unearthed a large haul of narcotics and contraband estimated to be worth over Rs 165 crores. One foreign made pistol and a gun along with ammunition were also seized,” PRO Assam Rifles (South) said in a press statement on Tuesday. Two Myanmarese and four Indian traffickers were apprehended by the team, the statement added.Troops of the Assam Rifles also intercepted a large narcotics consignment worth Rs 2.92 crores on Larong-Khongjol route in Chandel being smuggled from Myanmar on Tuesday, the statement said.Based on a specific intelligence regarding the movement of narcotics consignment from Myanmar to Chandel, a swift operation was launched in which troopers intercepted two individuals moving on a motorcycle carrying brown sugar worth Rs 2.92 crore, it said. The seized narcotics were handed over to Chandel police for disposal and investigation.There is a major concern due to the rise in drug addiction among youth of the region for which The Assam Rifles said it is carrying out extensive operations in close coordination with civil administration and police for controlling the drug trade in the region to stop addiction among the youth, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-seize-narcotics-and-contrabands-worth-rs-165-crore-in-manipur-s-moreh/story-fUjfTbz215zw3AtXKpdI4N.html
08-12-2020||India||New Parliament building landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament: PMO||The new Parliament building, whose foundation stone will be laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, is an intrinsic part of the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and will be a landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament for the first time after independence, the PMO said on Tuesday. The upcoming Parliament building will match the “needs and aspirations of New India” in the 75th anniversary of independence in 2022, it said. The building will be modern, state-of-the-art and energy efficient, with highly non-obtrusive security facilities to be built as a triangular shaped building, adjacent to the present Parliament.Lok Sabha will be three times of the existing size and Rajya Sabha will be substantially bigger, the Prime Minister’s Office said, adding that the interiors of the new building will showcase a rich blend of Indian culture and diversity of our regional arts, crafts, textiles and architecture.The design plan includes space for a magnificent central constitutional gallery, which will be accessible to the public, it said. The construction of the new Parliament building will utilise resource-efficient green technology, promote environment-friendly practices, generate employment opportunities and contribute towards economic revitalisation, it said. The building will comply with the highest structural safety standards, including adherence to Seismic Zone 5 requirements and is designed for ease of maintenance and operations, the PMO added. The foundation stone laying ceremony will also be attended by Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh besides several union ministers. Around 200 dignitaries, MPs, ambassadors and high commissioners, will attend the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-landmark-opportunity-to-build-peoples-parliament-pmo/story-9BKbvjTC4eUf47oZAGzTpN.html
08-12-2020||India||Full potential of SAARC can only be realised in atmosphere free of terror: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the full potential of SAARC can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence, even as his Nepali counterpart K P Oli pitched for an early convening of the summit of the eight-member regional grouping.Modi, in his message on the occasion of the 36th charter day of SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), also called for commitment to defeat the forces that “support and nurture terrorism”.“The full potential of SAARC can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence. On this 36th SAARC Charter Day, let us re-commit ourselves to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism, and to work collectively towards a secure and prosperous South Asia,” the Prime Minister said.Modi also said India remains committed to an “integrated, connected, secure and prosperous” South Asia, and will continue to support the economic, technological, cultural and social development of the region.In his message, Oli said,”time has come to move forward with concrete action in the ground with needed political will and commitment. Giving fresh impetus to the stalled SAARC process including through the early convening of the Summit can rekindle hope among our people and provide ground to move forward.” Noting that the early coordination between SAARC countries for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is an example of the benefit that our region can derive from greater collaboration, Modi said India will continue to work with other countries in the region to ensure a robust recovery after the pandemic.The SAARC leaders, under India’s initiative, held a virtual meeting in March to work on a common strategy to effectively deal with the coronavirus pandemic.In the message, Modi conveyed “warm greetings” to the citizens of member states of the grouping.SAARC is a regional bloc comprising India, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.SAARC has not been very effective since 2016 as its biennial summits have not taken place since the last one in Kathmandu in 2014.The 2016 SAARC Summit was to be held in Islamabad. But after the terrorist attack on an Indian Army camp in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir on September 18 that year, India expressed its inability to participate in the summit, saying “increasing cross-border terrorist attacks in the region... have created an environment that is not conducive” for the meet.The summit was called off after Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan also declined to participate in the Islamabad meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-potential-of-saarc-can-only-be-realised-in-atmosphere-free-of-terror-pm-modi/story-zQaIqkVVwv1SMJqoH1Xf5J.html
08-12-2020||India||Bill Gates calls India’s digital finance approach a global model||Tech pioneer Bill Gates praised India’s policies for financial innovation and inclusion, saying his philanthropic foundation is working with other countries to roll out open-source technologies modeled on the country’s implementation.India has built ambitious platforms for universal identification and digital payments, including the world’s largest biometric database and a system for sending rupees between any bank or smartphone app. Gates said those policies have drastically reduced the cost and friction of distributing aid to the poor, especially during the pandemic.“If people are going to study one country right now, other than China, I’d say they should look at India,” Gates said at the Singapore Fintech Festival on Tuesday. “Things are really exploding there and innovation around that system is phenomenal.”Indian digital payments took off after the government pushed demonetization in 2016, invalidating most of the country’s high-value bank notes in a move to curb corruption and push Indians away from cash. The Unified Payments Interface, or UPI, has been aided by booming smartphone use and wireless data rates that among the lowest in the world.India mandates that companies use its UPI platform so payments can be sent easily among all services, including those from Facebook Inc., Amazon.com Inc., Walmart Inc., Paytm and any new upstart. Zero user fees are also required.“India is a great example,” the co-chairman of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation said during the virtual conference. His organization is now helping some countries that don’t have established standards to roll out similar systems based on open-source technologies, he added.India’s biometric system -- called Aadhaar or “foundation” in Hindi -- has raised privacy concerns because it can also be used for government surveillance of citizens. Prime Minister Narendra Modi opposed the system before coming to power, but has since embraced it. Countries such as Russia, Morocco and Bangladesh have expressed interest in the approach.Gates, overall, was optimistic about how quickly vaccines were being developed to address the Covid-19 pandemic. He expects there will be about six treatments available in the first quarter of next year, which he called a significant accomplishment.“Digital things overall -- remote learning, telemedicine, digital finance -- were greatly advanced,” he said. “So even though the pandemic has been terrible, it has pushed some of these innovations, including how quickly we make vaccines.”But Gates warned that addressing the virus has to be done in an equitable way -- rich countries shouldn’t get to decide who gets access to vaccines. That’s why his foundation is working with global manufacturers, including the Serum Institute in India, to make sure there are sufficient dosage numbers at reasonable prices.He said he expects vaccines to put an end to the coronavirus in 2022, though he warned against complacency.“We can’t forget that another pandemic will come, so we need to invest and be ready,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-gates-calls-india-s-digital-finance-approach-a-global-model/story-RZxZ6T1XwFZFxYC5BdoVPK.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Seen this script play out before’: Omar Abdullah reacts to Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest claim||Responding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claim that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest, former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Tuesday said that he feels like he has seen “this script play out somewhere else also”.“AAP claims the Chief Minister is under house arrest. The police deny the claim. I do not know why but I feel like I have seen this script play out somewhere else also,” National Conference vice-president Abdullah said in a tweet.Omar Abdullah was released on March 24, 2020 after more than seven months in detention in Srinagar. Abdullah was among the several political leaders who had been put under house arrest after the Central government revoked Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The AAP in Delhi had claimed that Kejriwal had been put under house arrest on Tuesday, a day after he visited farmers protesting at the Singhu border.“BJP’s Delhi Police has put Chief Minister Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers yesterday. No one has been permitted to leave or enter his residence,” said the Aam Aadmi Party in a tweet. Denying AAP’s claims, Satish Golcha Special CP said there’s absolutely no restriction whatsoever on the movement of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.“These claims are totally baseless and unfounded. There’s absolutely no restriction whatsoever. The Chief Minister has been meeting his usual engagements and has been moving out of his residence. There’s adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent the untoward incident,” Golcha told media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seen-this-script-play-out-before-omar-abdullah-reacts-to-arvind-kejriwal-s-house-arrest-claim/story-LWxfFTu1vBYQ5M4i1EYquL.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Should I go or stay?’ Tripura CM asks people if he should remain in power||In a rather dramatic move, Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Tuesday said he would leave the CM’s chair if people want him to. His comments came two days after a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters raised slogans against him and chanted ‘Biplab Hatao, BJP Bachao’ (remove Biplab, save BJP) during a visit of party’s central observer Vinod Sonkar to the state.Biplab, who was considered a greenhorn in state politics at the time of his return in Tripura in 2015 as leader of Mahasampark Abhiyan - a political campaign to connect with people in the erstwhile Left Front era, roped in Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT), a tribal political party and jointly decimated CPI(M)-led Left Front’s 25 year-long rule, winning 44 out of 60 seats in the assembly.However, a year after his government was formed, his health minister Sudip Roy Barman, who had joined from the Congress, was dropped from the state cabinet, allegedly due to some sort of clash between the two leaders. In November, a group of dissident BJP legislators, led by Roy Barman, reached out to BJP president JP Nadda in New Delhi. While the visit was touted as an effort to remove Biplab from his position, the visiting leaders later clarified that they went to discuss ‘organizational issues’.Also read: Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on Dec 9Two days back when BJP observer Vinod Sonkar was in Tripura during his maiden visit as state in-charge, a group of BJP supporters raised slogans ‘Biplab Hatao, BJP Bachao’ at the State Guest House, where he was staying. The controversy was soon doused by Sonkar, who claimed that people came to speak their mind since a BJP observer was appointed for Tripura after a long time.On Friday, CM Biplab Deb held a press conference at the state secretariat and said he would happily leave the CM’s post if people of Tripura wished so.“I want people of Tripura to tell me if they want me removed. I shall go to Astabal Maidan on December 13 at 2 pm. I invite everyone to join me there and tell me whether I should go or stay. If you wish me to go, I shall abide by your wish and tell my party high-command that people of Tripura wanted this,” Deb said.He also said, ON a rather emotional note, that he always worked for Tripura with what he calls ‘Modi Mantra’. However, he said it pained him to hear people raise slogans to remove him.“I wish to work for everyone, across religions, castes, colours or other identities. This state gave me everything, even those beyond my dreams. I never dreamt of becoming the chief minister at the first place. But, some people raised slogans of ‘Biplab Hatao, Tripura Bachao’ the other day. It pained me very much. So, I want to know if everyone feels the same way. If yes, I shall leave,” he said, throwing an open challenge to his opponents within the party.He also claimed his government has achieved considerable development in last three years including HIRA, HIRA Plus, educational development, infrastructure development, Special Economic Zone (SEZ) Integrated Check Post (ICP) with Bangladesh, Logistics Hub, high-rise buildings, smart city, new airport, agricultural growth, among others.HIRA is an acronym Prime Minister Narendra Modi coined during his tour in Tripura before the 2018 state assembly elections. It stands for Highways, I-ways, Roadways and Airways – something PM Modi promised for Tripura if BJP was voted to power.Stating that his only passion is to transform Tripura into the best state of country, Biplab Deb said his government is focusing on growing job creators, developing entrepreneurship and creating government jobs.However, he warned that if he stayed back in power, he would not tolerate any illegal activities and would follow a zero-tolerance policy on crimes.“If someone wishes to engage in mafiagiri, hooliganism, illegal land brokerage business, I shall never compromise. I hereby iterate that I shall not engage in any illegal activities, nor shall I allow anyone to do so, like drug trade of phensidyle, yaba or such,” he said.Deb also asked people to decide for him about what might be done to people who raised slogans against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-go-or-stay-tripura-cm-biplab-deb-asks-people-if-he-should-remain-in-power/story-RkMujBuS02nqfISnAH0A8J.html
08-12-2020||India||Beware of BJP’s NRC, NPR agenda, Mamata Banerjee tells coal belt voters||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will try to divide people in West Bengal by enforcing the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR), chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged at an administrative programme in West Burdwan district on Tuesday afternoon. “They (BJP) is saying NRC and NPR will be enforced. They will ask for birth certificates of your grandfather so that your citizenship can be proved. I do not know when my mother was born. This is how things were in the past. Births took place at homes. People did not get certificates. Whoever lives in Bengal is a Bengali, a citizen,” Banerjee said at the programme held in Raniganj. “I will not allow Bengal to turn into Gujarat. I have respect for Gujarat and Gandhi but Bengal will remain Bengal. I will do or die in the process,” she added. Since the Asansol-Raniganj zone is home to many industries, including Central public sector undertakings, and coalmines owned by the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) where thousands of Hindi-speaking people work, Banerjee spoke in Hindi several times during her speech. Although the Centre has not announced any decision to privatize ECL, Banerjee said, “They will privatize ECL. Where will all these workers go? Where will the officers go? They (the Centre) will sell the railways and even the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works that I once saved (as Union minister),” said Banerjee. Incidentally, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal announced last year that the Indian Railways manufactured a high speed locomotive at Chittaranjan Locomotive Works and it achieved a top speed of 180 kmph. Reacting to Banerjee’s statement, Bengal BJP vice -president Ritesh Tiwari said, “These days her strategy is to tell lies and then repeat those lies over and over again. This is followed by intimidating people and finally, killings. No senior leader of the BJP has made any comment on NPR and NRC in recent days.” “She raised the issue because Raniganj has a large Muslim population. Why didn’t she say these at her West Midnapore rally on Monday? The BJP has already secured 40 % votes in the state. She is scared because we are coming to power,” Tiwari added. Banerjee on Tuesday distributed monetary compensation and land deeds to a few thousand people who vacated their land and property for construction of the Andal airport and adjoining township. The government also announced that it had increased its stake in the joint venture project from 27 % to around 48 % to ensure its success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beware-of-bjp-s-nrc-npr-agenda-mamata-banerjee-tells-coal-belt-voters/story-NLXDc1y7SMB2K0ibLtYgUL.html
08-12-2020||India||DRDO’s new Arjun tank demonstrates advanced capability to Army||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a ride in the Arjun tank on Diwali, senior Indian Army officials were shown the advanced capabilities of the DRDO-manufactured Mark1A version of the tank.Some rounds were fired during the demonstration and remote-controlled weapon system operation was also showcased during the demonstration before the Director-General Armoured Corps Lt Gen MJS Kahlon and Lt Gen Hasabnis in Jaisalmer, sources told ANI.“The DRDO tank capability upgradation trials would continue for some more days,” they said.The Mark1A are the advanced version of the two regiments of the Arjun tanks in the Army and the force is looking to place orders for 118 more of these.The Army had placed an order for 124 of these tanks in the first go and is now likely to order more if they meet its requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-s-new-arjun-tank-demonstrates-advanced-capability-to-army/story-1LfwK9xMTqlnxOsRNXhglJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Court in Bengal orders second autopsy of BJP workers killed in Siliguri||A court in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday evening ordered a second autopsy to find the cause of death of a BJP supporter who, police said died of shotgun injuries during the party’s protest rally in north Bengal’s Siliguri on Monday.Earlier in the morning, the West Bengal Police had claimed that 50-year-old Ulen Roy who died during a pitched battle between the police and BJP workers at Siliguri, was killed with a shotgun that local law enforcement agencies do not use. The post mortem examination was conducted on Monday night. The Bengal police described the incident as “unprecedented” and said armed men were present in the BJP’s rally to incite violence. “As per the PM (post mortem examination) report “death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries.” Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms,” the West Bengal Police said in a tweet around 10.30 am. Roy died shortly after he was rushed to a local private hospital. Police used tear gas and water cannons to stop two BJP processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat building in north Bengal. The BJP refused to accept the statement of the police and demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI). The party also demanded a second autopsy which the court of the chief judicial magistrate, Jalpaiguri, ordered in the evening. In its order, the court said the autopsy has to be done by December 11. The body was kept at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital where the first autopsy was conducted.Without naming the BJP, the police had accused it of allowing armed protesters in the rally. “The deceased received pellet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard off,” said the state police. “There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms. CID West Bengal has been asked to investigate. Truth will come out and strong action will be taken against all those who planned and executed the heinous crime,” the police said in a third tweet. The tweets drew immediate criticism from BJP leaders who were observing bandh in Siliguri and alleging since morning that the post mortem examination was done at night to hide something. BJP workers refused to receive Roy’s body and demanded a second examination in the presence of three doctors. The second examination should be recorded on video, they said. The chief judicial magistrate, Jalpaiguri, accepted both these demands. The petition was moved by Roy’s family. “The first autopsy report confirmed our allegation that the police used firearms and Roy was shot by them. The allegation being made against us is ridiculous because Roy was shot in the chest while approaching the police barricades. Had someone in the procession shot him, the injuries would have been found on his back,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who is stationed in Siliguri. “We will not stop till the truth is revealed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has come down to killing our workers because the ruling party knows that its days are numbered,” said Basu, referring to the assembly polls due in about five months. The BJP won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019. As Roy’s death snowballed into a major issue, chief minister Mamata Banerjee defended the police while addressing an administrative meeting at Ranigunj in West Burdwan district on Tuesday afternoon. “BJP is killing its own people with pellets and blaming the police. Police do not use these (shotguns). The media should not encourage this,” she said. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged that BJP workers were carrying several shotguns. “One of these killed the man. He was carrying a shotgun too. The police never lost patience. They only chased away the troublemakers. The CID will find out the truth,” he said. Monday’s rally was attended by the BJP’s senior central and state leaders such as Tejasvi Surya, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Dilip Ghosh who demanded a judicial inquiry into Roy’s death. The party called a 12-hour bandh in the north Bengal region on Tuesday protesting the death and the force used by police. “We will not spare the policemen responsible for Rai’s death. They will go to jail,” Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary, said after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-in-bengal-orders-second-autopsy-of-bjp-workers-killed-in-siliguri/story-n4XVnmw8uriYm7x9d4fhWL.html
08-12-2020||India||Nirmala Sitharaman, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw in Forbes 2020 list of 100 most powerful women||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, Biocon Founder Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw and HCL Enterprise CEO Roshni Nadar Malhotra have been named among the world’s 100 most powerful women by Forbes, a list topped by German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the 10th year in a row. The women on the 17th annual Forbes Power List hail from 30 countries and were born across four generations. “There are 10 heads of state, 38 CEOs and five entertainers among them. But where they differ in age, nationality and job description, they are united in the ways they have been using their platforms to address the unique challenges of 2020,” Forbes said. Sitharaman is ranked 41st on the list, Nadar Malhotra comes in at the 55th spot, Mazumdar-Shaw -- described as “India’s richest self-made woman” -- is ranked 68th and chairwoman of Landmark Group Renuka Jagtiani is ranked 98th. Merkel ranks No. 1 for the tenth year in a row. “Merkel remains the de facto leader of Europe, leading the region’s largest economy after steering Germany through financial crisis and back to growth. Her leadership is marked by her steely reserve, from standing up to Donald Trump to allowing more than a million Syrian refugees into Germany,” Forbes said, adding: “the big question that the public is now asking is who and what will come after Merkel’s time in office comes to an end.” Harris, who became the first woman, first Black American and first Asian American to be elected vice president -- “an unprecedented trifecta of firsts for California Senator Harris”, is ranked third on the list. Harris’s “rapid ascension in U.S. politics has also catapulted” her onto the Forbes list of the World’s 100 Most Powerful Women for the first time. European Central Bank chief Christine Lagarde is ranked second for the second straight year. “From fighting the pandemic to re-engineering American politics, these influential women, including New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and voting rights advocate Stacey Abrams, are making history,” Forbes said. Several of this year’s Power Women received “global plaudits” for their effective responses to COVID-19. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (No. 32) vanquished a first and second wave of the virus in her country by implementing strict lockdown and quarantine procedures. Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen (No. 37) implemented a rigorous contact-tracing program in January, as a result, to date, the island of 23 million people has lost only seven lives to the virus, Forbes said. There are 17 newcomers on this year’s list, illustrating that women are “leading all aspects of a society transformed by a global pandemic”. New CEO of American multinational company United Parcel Service Carol Tomé (No. 11) and head of California-based Clorox Linda Rendle (No. 87) are responsible for helping provide essential services that have kept Americans connected and clean. CVS Health executive vice-president and incoming CEO Karen Lynch (No. 38) leads the pharmacy giant’s vast COVID-19 testing programme and, in 2021 will be responsible for its critical handling of coronavirus vaccines. The list also includes Co-Chair of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Melinda Gates (5), US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (7), Facebook chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg (22), Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina (39), UK’s Queen Elizabeth II (46), celebrated artistes Rihana (69) and Beyonce (72).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-in-forbes-2020-list-of-100-most-powerful-women/story-v2uSjCxjB3fgcdUnKfkfYI.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Confusion over meeting venue, Amit Shah meets farmers at ICAR||The meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and the leaders of the protesting farmers on Tuesday got delayed owing to a confusion over the venue of the meeting. The meeting was scheduled to begin at 7pm but it began after 8pm as some of the union leaders were not ready to hold the meeting at Amit Shah’s residence. Finally, the meeting was shifted to the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research.  We are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah https://t.co/dKjmCe3cFl pic.twitter.com/ZNVBr9YM5iAccording to PTI, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting which included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations. Some farmer leaders said they first expected the meeting to take place at Shah’s residence here, but the venue was shifted to the Pusa area, PTI reported. Bhartiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rajesh Tikait even reached Amit Shah’s residence at around 7pm. The meeting assumes significance as Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention comes after the farmers called a four-hour symbolic protest on Tuesday, which evoked mixed response across the country, but received massive political support from opposition parties and regional parties. On Wednesday, the farmers and the Centre are scheduled to meet for the sixth time to discus the farmers’ grievances over the farm laws enacted in September.Ahead of the meeting with Shah, the farmers said they will demand just a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer from Shah on whether the laws that the farmers fear will make them vulnerable to the exploitation of the corporates. “We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa said.In their last meeting with the Centre on Saturday, the leaders observed ‘maun vrat’ and put up placards ‘yes’, ‘no’ written on them, which led to a deadlock and the Centre asked for some time to come up with an alternative proposal. Since the laws were passed in Parliament, the farmers have been voicing concerns against the reforms, which the Centre has termed as pro-farmer. From November 26, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana started ‘Dilli Chalo’ rally with their tractors and managed to enter Delhi. The protest entered its 13th day on Tuesday with no solution to the stalemate in sight yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-confusion-over-meeting-venue-amit-shah-meets-farmers-at-icar/story-95eXp6sSRxgMdJNvKE3UvI.html
08-12-2020||India||‘With no film institute tag, it was challenging for me’||Actor Princy Sudhakaran feels having tag of some prominent film institute or background make the film producers take you more seriously. “It’s very challenging for a newcomer to beat that huge crowd waiting outside a casting director’s office and get a particular role. I think, it’s a matter of credibility because if you have a certain tag with you, it’s easy to get a role. Being a software engineer with no film institute tag or background it was very testing for me to attain a place in the industry,” said the ‘Palki’ actor.Talking about her initial days she said, “Being a software professional and a trained Bharatnatyam dancer, I had this strong inclination towards performing arts. I couldn’t let go the love of stage from my heart and to get back to performing arts I joined theatre. I started doing theatre workshops and plays. After a couple of years in theatre, I decided to quit my job and pursue acting with all my might.”“I used to go for open auditions for TV, commercials and films because it was a matter of survival. Luckily, an Indo-Canadian project ‘Palki’ happened followed by ‘Bhor’, ‘Dum Dum Deega Deega’ and more short films finally led me to chef Vikas Khanna’s directorial debut ‘The Last Colour’. The film has been completely shot in Varanasi, Vrindavan and Lucknow. “Being part of anybody’s dream project is a fulfilling experience. I loved the story and my character ‘Chhoti’ was so well etched that it made me fall in love with the film completely. On top of that shooting in Varanasi was truly magical. The film has been highly appreciated at many global fests,” said Princy who just wrapped a web series and is shooting for a feature film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/with-no-film-institute-tag-it-was-challenging-for-me/story-d8oCpGLhcJwd5baLGWFp2O.html
08-12-2020||India||Malini’s scratch song becomes a spooky delight||Folk singer Malini Awasthi’s latest film song ‘Heer’ is making waves in musical space. Sung and recorded in Lucknow, she teamed with city-folks and composers Naman Adhikari and Abhinav Sharma. Talking about the song, the Padma Shri awardee said, “It has been over a year since I recorded the song. It started when two young boys Naman and Abhinav came to meet and take my blessing. They were fresh pass-outs from AR Rehman’s music academy. They wished to collaborate for some project.” Then Malini came across a poem by lyricist Dipti Misra, an UPite. “So, I went to their studio in Lucknow. Heer is a ‘fakirana andaaz’ genre, but I wanted to sing in a ‘doha’ style. We tried a basic composition and added the modern peppy feel to it. Then, I recorded this scratch to pitch it for some film,” said ‘Dil Mera Muft Ka’ (Agent Vinod) singer. It was in that same period, a leading production house held an online competition. Telling more about it, she said, “It was then our song was submitted the song and got selected. We went to Mumbai and they promised to use this song. After sometime, I got to know that Akshay Kumar’s company has loved our song and have decided to use it for a film. Later, we came to know that it was for a supernatural thriller ‘Durgamati’.” Giving an insight on her new song, which already has multi-million hits, she said, “The lyrics ‘Bina Ranjhe ki Heer hui main’ has eerie feel to it and we knew from the beginning that it will suit a supernatural subject. To give it a haunting and tripping feel of the past we added sitar, flute and variety of other musical equipment. Another interesting thing is that I wanted to render a fresh version but the team was so sure to use the scratch only!”Mailini has earlier too sung ‘Sunder Sudheel’ for Bhoomi Padnekar in ‘Dum Laga Kar Haisa’ with Rahul Ram for composer Anu Malik. The music production has also asked the team to make more songs for them. Besides, Malini has presented seven independent songs since lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/malini-s-scratch-song-becomes-a-spooky-delight/story-7VB0Z8iKjac6SegKFr0AGO.html
08-12-2020||India||‘We need to be united,’ says Muslim man who donates land worth lakhs for expansion of temple||The decision of a Muslim businessman to donate 1.5 guntas (about 1634 sq feet) of prime land, worth between Rs 80 lakhs-1 crore, for expanding a Hanuman temple on the outskirts of Bengaluru has drawn much praise from netizens and city residents.HMG Basha, a businessman involved in goods transport services, saw that devotees of a small Hanuman mandir located adjacent to his three-acre land in Valgerapuru of Hoskote taluk were struggling to accommodate the growing number of devotees. The temple trust was planning to expand the temple but didn’t have sufficient funds. Basha showed his willingness to donate some land to the temple trust. The land commands a high price because it is adjacent to the highway.Also read: Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefingThough the temple trust sought only about one gunta (1089 sq feet) of land, Basha decided to donate 1.5 guntas of land whose value is estimated between Rs 80 lakhs-1 crore. He, subsequently, transferred the land to the temple trust free of cost. A grateful trust has put up banners thanking Basha and his family for their kind gesture.Speaking to media, Basha said that “Hindus and Muslims have lived together as one from time immemorial. Today, there is much talk of divisive things. If we want to progress, we need to be united as a country.” Residents of Hoskote have praised his gesture. Basha’s move and the flex banners put up by the temple trust have gone viral with netizens and others showering praise on Basha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-to-be-united-says-muslim-man-who-donates-land-worth-lakhs-for-expansion-of-temple/story-t41BVELUUscIA8LXxfx3OP.html
08-12-2020||India||High turnout in first phase of Kerala local body election||Braving restrictions that are in force for the Covid-19 pandemic, people came out in large numbers to vote in the first phase of local body elections in Kerala on Tuesday, considered a vital show of strength before the assembly elections due in April-MayThe state election commission said the polling percentage would be around 75% and a final picture will emerge later in the night. Except for stray incidents, polling was peaceful and some Covid-19 patients also exercised their right in PPE kits in the closing hours of the polling. There were winding queues outside many polling stations since morning. In the first phase, elections were held in five districts - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. The second phase of polling is on December 12 and the third and final phase on December 14. Counting will be held on December 16. The stakes are high for all three major players – the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). For the ruling LDF, which is reeling under many charges and allegations of corruption, it is a referendum on its four and a half years’ rule and for the opposition UDF it is an opportunity to prime itself for the assembly election. And for the BJP, boosted by the recent performance in Hyderabad civic body election, it is an opportunity to prove that it is no more a pushover in the state where the LDF and the UDF have shared power alternately for more than three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-turnout-in-first-phase-of-kerala-local-body-election/story-9LVOpGiYHMV96JYX9C1K4H.html
08-12-2020||India||India drops to 9th spot in global spam call tally, Gujarat gets max calls: Truecaller||Indian mobile users saw a 34 per cent decline in spam calls received in 2020, helping the country move lower to the ninth position in the tally of most spammed countries, according to a report by Truecaller.Within India, Gujarat received the most spam calls in 2020.In 2019, India was at the fifth position in terms of number of spam calls received by users. This year, India has dropped down to ninth position, while Brazil continues to stay on top, Truecaller said in its report.Despite a reduction in the number of spam calls received (34 per cent decline), India still makes it into the top 10 most spammed countries, it added.Other countries in the top 10 tally are the US, Hungary, Polen (Poland), Spain, Indonesia, the UK, Ukraine, and Chile.“...(about) 98.5 per cent of all spam calls in India originate from domestic numbers, which could partly explain why spam calls have been decreasing in India, as strict curfews implemented in the country earlier this year made it impossible for telemarketers to go to work, or utilise the equipment they need to carry out large scale spam campaigns,” it said.Interestingly, India witnessed calls to emergency services increase by 148 per cent in the first three months of the lockdown.The Swedish company - which is known for helping users find out caller identity - has over 250 million users globally, of which over 180 million users are in India.The report said operators continue to be the top spammers in India with 52 per cent user calls received for the upselling of various offers and reminders. Telemarketing services accounted for 34 per cent share, followed by scam (9 per cent) and financial services (5 per cent).Gujarat emerged as the state that received the most spam calls in 2020, followed by Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, it added.The report pointed out that 8 out of 10 women in India receive sexual harassment or inappropriate calls and SMS regularly.Truecaller said spam had reached its lowest point in April when strict curfews and lockdowns were implemented worldwide. The overall volume of calls also dipped during this period.However, from this point, reports of scammers taking advantage of the uncertainty around the pandemic emerged. In May, spam calls started to pick up again and have been increasing on average by 9.7 per cent per month, it said.“October this year was the record high in terms of spam calls. It was 22.4 per cent higher compared to pre-lockdown,” it added.The biggest increase in spam calls was seen in the US and Europe - where Hungary saw the biggest jump (1,132 per cent), followed by Germany (685 per cent), Belgium (557 per cent) and Romania (395 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-drops-to-9th-spot-in-global-spam-call-tally-gujarat-gets-max-calls-truecaller/story-ly1oJrXFeGU09Vg7VWk9aM.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Agencies to probe Christchurch shooter’s stay in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Agencies to investigate Christchurch shooter’s stay in IndiaIndian intelligence officials said on Tuesday that they will look into 2019 Christchurch mosque shooter Brenton Tarrant’s three-month stay in India. The agencies will try to know the places he visited and people he met, officials said on condition of anonymity. Read moreOppn leaders to meet President on Wednesday to seek repeal of farm lawsLeaders from different opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and also express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Read moreChina cancels special stamp launch with India to mark 70 years of tiesChina has cancelled the joint launch of a commemorative stamp with India amid the ongoing military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘I’ll see if I can play the tour match,’ Virat Kohli reveals plans ahead of first TestThe India captain Virat Kohli lifted the trophy after his team won the three-match T20I series 2-1. The third T20I in Sydney did not go India’s way as the visitors fell short by 12 runs while chasing the target of 187 set up by Australia in Sydney. Kohli smashed 85 runs in 61 balls - becoming the only Indian batsman to register a fifty in the match - but his fiery innings was not enough to see India through. Read more Priyanka Chopra can’t stop smiling as she holds her book’s cover in her hands for the first timePriyanka Chopra is super excited about her upcoming autobiography, titled, Unfinished. The actor shared a new picture on Instagram on Tuesday, showing her fans how she cannot wait to get her hands on the book. Read more From most tweeted emojis to most liked tweet: Twitter India shares #ThisHappened2020As 2020 approaches its end (fortunately), many people are reminiscing about what this whirlwind of a year has meant to them. Now, Twitter India has shared a few posts recapping some big happenings of 2020. The tweets, shared with the hashtag #ThisHappened2020, will not only help you remember the year better but may also leave you feeling a little nostalgic. Read moreWatch: India-China tension: Russia blames ‘devious’ West as LAC stand-off continuesAs the border tension between India and China continues, Russia blamed Western powers for the stand-off. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said that ‘devious policies’ of Western nations were trying to draw India into ‘anti-Chinese games’. He added that the US is pressurising India to weaken its partnership with Russia. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-agencies-to-probe-christchurch-shooter-s-stay-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xTwsDqWVZhngxWne3RuQyH.html
08-12-2020||India||Over 150 politicians, activists detained in Mathura during ‘Bharat Bandh’||To foil any untoward incident during the ‘Bharat Bandh’, the Mathura district administration made preventive arrests of over 150 leaders and activists of different political parties on Tuesday, officials said.“The strategy of the district administration to divide it into six zones and 18 sectors paid rich dividends as not a single untoward incident was reported,” Mathura District Magistrate Sarvagya Ram Mishra said.The DM said he visited rural areas extensively where he interacted with the farmers and was happy that they reciprocated in equal measure without creating problems for the administration.In the urban areas of the district, over 80 activists and leaders of different political parties were detained in the Police Lines area, City Magistrate Manoj Kumar Singh said.A ‘Kisan Yatra’ taken out, led by the Samajwadi Party, between Jabra and Mant area of the district was stopped as the participants were detained.In support of protests against the farm laws, a peace march of local farmers was taken out in the Yamuna Expressway led by Ram Babu Katelia, president of Bhartiya Kisan Kalyan Samiti.“On December 12, a similar peace march covering 10 kilometres would be taken out on the Yamuna Expressway, by the farmers of the area in case the demand of agitating farmers are not conceded,” he stated.The Mant toll plaza was blocked by farmers of the area on both sides for a few hours. After some time, vehicles were allowed to go through but only on one side of the road, SP (Rural) Srish Chand said.There was no work in the courts in support of farmers, said Sunil Kumar Chaturvedi, Secretary of Mathura Bar Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-150-politicians-activists-detained-in-mathura-during-bharat-bandh/story-nMxlbgZf4oFXsPpHBGwAwK.html
08-12-2020||India||Main accused in Kerala gold smuggling case says her life under threat||In a new development in the Kerala gold smuggling case on Tueusday, main accused Swapna Suresh told a court in Kochi that her life is in danger and sought special protection for herself and her family members. She said she is under tremendous pressure not to take big names and some people met her in the jail a couple of times to pressurise her in this regard.Her latest statement came in the wake of reports in a section of the media that she reportedly gave damning revelations against some ministers and top officials. For the last two days, she has been recording her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. After she complained of a threat to her life, the court directed her to give her complaint in writing which she submitted through her lawyer. In the letter submitted in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court (economic offences) in Kochi she said while she was in the women’s jail in Thiruvananthapuram some persons who identified themselves as prison and police officials came to her and warned not to take names of persons in high authority and advised her not to co-operate with central agencies investigating the smuggling racket. “They had threatened me that they are capable of causing harm to my family members outside and even capable of doing away with my life in prison. The said threatening repeatedly happened on Nov 25. There is a serious threat to my life while in judicial custody,” she said in a two-page letter claiming she can identify those who threatened her inside the jail. HT has a copy of her complaint.Later the court directed the DGP (jails) and prison superintendent to ensure proper security for her. Central agencies probing the case also expressed serious concern over her latest revelations. They said if the situation continued like this, they may move a higher court to shift the case to a neighbouring state. It is also suspected now that Suresh’s voicemail leaked to the media two weeks back in which she complained that she was forced to take big names by central agencies was done under pressure. After the voicemail kicked up a big controversy Director General of Police Rishiraj Singh had ordered a probe but it failed to make any progress. After her latest complaint kicked up another row, the ruling CPI (M) alleged a big conspiracy saying it was leaked out deliberately during the local body election to portray the government in a bad light and influence the poll outcome. “BJP state president K Surendran gets even details of the confidential statement given before the court and case details from central agencies. People will realise their ulterior designs to weaken an elected government,” said CPI (M) secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Earlier in the morning, Surendran alleged that assembly Speaker P Sivaramakrishnan made several foreign trips with Swapna Suresh and he was aware of her activities and helped her on several occasions. Sivaramakrishnan was not available for comments but the CPI (M) said, “Some people were accepting the allegation of an accused as gospel truth.” Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran, who was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for the third time in connection with the gold smuggling case, got himself admitted to the hospital complaining post-Covid complications. When he was summoned first in October he told the ED that he was infected with Covid-19 and second time he evaded it complaining of post-covid ailments. The ED had summoned him again on December 10. The central agency said he was summoned on the basis of the statements of Swapna Suresh and M Sivasankar, a senior bureaucrat who is under judicial custody now.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is now heading a probe by five central agencies into the gold smuggling racket. A total of 36 people have been arrested so far during the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/main-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-says-her-life-under-threat/story-foh5LTteWPOUNJPqk0hWFP.html
08-12-2020||India||‘300 mn people may get vaccinated simultaneously as per availability of doses’: Union health secy||Healthcare workers, frontline workers, and those at the highest risk of dying from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) - such as those above the age of 50 or patients with comorbidities - are the three priority groups who have been recommended to receive the vaccine by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC).Vaccination across the priority groups will take place simultaneously depending on the availability of doses, according to the health ministry.“These are the recommendations of NEGVAC and the government has to take a decision based on it. The immunisation process across the groups will not be sequential; it can also happen simultaneously depending upon the availability of vaccine,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan at a press briefing on Tuesday.As per health ministry estimates, there are around 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers, including the police and the army, and another 270 million people either above the age of 50 or with comorbidities.He said the state, district and block-level structures have already been created to ensure a smooth delivery of the vaccine till the last mile.Also read: Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefingThe multi-level coordination mechanism created under the NEGVAC has a state-level steering committee headed by the chief secretaries to ensure coordination across departments. A state-level task force, headed by the state health secretary, to manage logistics for the vaccine delivery and administration, and a 24x7 state-level control room have also been set-up. At district level, a district task force headed by the district collector, an urban task force headed by the municipal commissioner, and a district control room will do the same. A block-level task force and block control room will also be created.Bhushan said that the teams had already started meeting or will do so at state level latest by December 8, at district level latest by December 14, and at block level by December 15.As for the infrastructure needed for vaccine delivery, Bhushan said that there were 85,634 devices available, such as deep freezers, freezer trucks, and iceboxes. A survey of additional needs has already been done and requisite orders have been placed, he said.There are 28,947 cold chain points where the vaccines and syringes are stored. “These are adequate for storing the existing vaccines for the universal immunisation programme and another 3 crore vaccine doses for the first phase of vaccination,” said Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-300-mn-people-may-get-vaccinated-simultaneously-as-per-availability-of-doses-union-health-secy/story-b9ms8IvtOmb3hD7S32IMMN.html
08-12-2020||India||TRP scam: Arnab Goswami moves Bombay HC seeking stay to probe by Mumbai police||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday seeking a stay to further investigation by the Mumbai police in the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam.The petition, filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier Media which owns Republic TV, also alleged that one of the employees of the firm was tortured by the police in custody.It sought protection for all employees from the “malicious witch hunt” allegedly being carried out by the Maharashtra authorities.Ghanshyam Singh, “assistant vice president, distribution” of Republic TV was arrested on November 10 and “tortured, beaten and harassed in custody”, it alleged.Singh was given bail last week.The police was working in a “pre-determined manner to falsely implicate” Goswami and others from ARG Media by “influencing witnesses, and extracting false statements against the petitioners”, petition alleged.The court should, therefore, transfer the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other independent agency, the petition said. It is yet to be listed for hearing.When contacted for reaction, senior police officials refused to comment.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels.Republic TV has denied wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-stay-to-probe-by-mumbai-police-in-trp-scam/story-df7qATx8niBxq55sDMukiL.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders claim Bharat Bandh successful; want to shift protest to Delhi’s Ramlila ground||Farmer leaders claimed on Tuesday their ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was “successful” and had an impact in 25 states. Addressing a press conference at a protest site on the Singhu border, they said the “super bandh” made the government open its “eyes and ears”. The farmer leaders said the protestors did not go to Burari ground as it is an “open jail” and demanded that Ramlila Ground be given to them. They stressed that they don’t want to trouble the people of Delhi and Haryana. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa said a 13-member delegation of farmers’ representatives will seek a “yes or no” to their demands when they meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening. “The ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the new farm laws was successful and had an impact in 25 states. It was ‘super bandh’ from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said. The meeting between Shah and the 13-member farmer leaders’ comes a day before their sixth round of talks with Union ministers slated for Wednesday. “There is no midway. We will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” Mansa said. The central government now knows it doesn’t have a way out. They will have to withdraw the three new farm laws and guarantee minimum support prices for crops, he said. He claimed the central government has bowed down before the ‘Bharat Bandh’. “When the first four meetings did not lead to any breakthrough, we went silent in the fifth one and demanded that the government answer in ‘yes or no’,” Mansa said. “We will rest only when we make the government accept all our demands,” he said. BKU leader Bhog Singh Mansa said the farmers will hold discussions after the meeting with Shah and announce their future course of action on Wednesday. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, added Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. “It was a historic day. Nobody thought the bandh will be successful on such short notice... It has made the government open its eyes and ears,” he said. Fishermen, sand mine and stone quarry workers, industrial federation, students, railway personnel federation, intellectuals and writers all supported the bandh, he claimed, adding “it became successful because every citizen of India made it his own protest”. Besides Punjab and Haryana, the ‘bandh’ was “successful” in states like Telangana, Tripura, Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, he claimed, adding social activist Anna Hazare also observed a ‘symbolic fast’ in support of the protesting farmers. Yadav alleged that around 200 farmer leaders were detained in Gujarat, and there were reports that many were arrested in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-leaders-claim-bharat-bandh-successful-want-to-shift-protest-to-delhi-s-ramlila-ground/story-1JKEHiwDUhdyBLb33CPjAP.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre’s new farm laws ‘farmer-friendly’, says Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Terming the Centre’s new agri laws as “farmer-friendly”, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said only 12 lakh to 13 lakh out of an estimated 80 lakh cultivators in the state sell their crops as per pre-determined minimum support price (MSP).He said many people are spreading “confusion” about the three agricultural-marketing laws enacted a few months ago, but their efforts will not succeed, comments coming on a day when agitating farmers observed a nationwide shutdown to demand a roll-back of the contentious legislations.The Centres farm laws are farmer-friendly. These will not only increase farmers’ income significantly, but also provide economic security to them.“Procurements (of farm produce) will continue at MSP... there is no question of ending this mechanism. Mandis (agri markets) will also continue to function as usual,” Chouhan said.Besides, under the new laws, farmers will benefit as they will be able to sell their produce outside existing mandis at competitive prices, the BJP leader said in a statement.The government is committed to safeguard the interest of farmers and the new laws will prove beneficial to them.There are about 80 lakh farmers in Madhya Pradesh, but only 12 lakh to 13 lakh of them sell their crops at MSP,” he said.Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh has recorded the highest annual growth rate in the agriculture sector among states in the last few years.The farmers of MP understand that these new agricultural laws are beneficial to them. Many people are spreading confusion (about the laws), but their efforts will not succeed, he said.The chief minister said the Manmohan Singh government was in favour of amending the APMC Act to facilitate entry of private players in the farm sector.NCP president Sharad Pawar, as the Union Agriculture Minister under the Congress-led UPA, had written to CMs, underlining the need to amend the Act to encourage private participation in the key sector for overall interest of farmers, he said.Chouhan said more agricultural produce was purchased at MSP during the last six years of the BJP-led NDA government than under the previous UPA administration (2004-2014).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-new-farm-laws-farmer-friendly-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan/story-BpTujJxQ8KWWQvKsJWoOBK.html
08-12-2020||India||Tough reforms difficult in India, says Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant||Tough reforms are difficult in India’s democratic set-up without political determination and strong administrative will, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Tuesday, adding that the current government has shown the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors.“Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context. We are too much of a democracy. For the first time, the government has had the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors,” said Kant. “Mining, coal, agriculture, labour, these are very difficult reforms. The easier reforms were done away with. You needed a huge amount of political determination and administrative will to carry out these reforms that are being done,” he added.Kant said that many more reforms were needed – across logistics and power, for example. “But this government has at least demonstrated its political will to do hard-headed reforms and we need to see them through to become a manufacturing nation. It’s not easy to compete with China,” he said.“It requires a very hard-headed ground-level approach which is being attempted for the first time in India,” he said at the webinar titled “Strategic Enablers and Policy Ecosystem for Atmanirbhar Bharat” organised by Swarajya in association with Vedanta Resources Limited.Kant also spoke about the emphasis of the government’s new Production Linked Incentive scheme for manufacturing being focused on creating a few “champions” as he termed them in specific sectors rather than trying to do too much by looking at all kinds of companies across sectors. Kant said that the agriculture sector needed to be reformed, and argued that the mandis, or government controlled market yards, were not being done away with. “The mandis will be there and the MSP will be there. But the farmer will get alternative choices…I am a great believer that the farmer must get a choice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tough-reforms-difficult-in-india-says-niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant/story-fLWRSxIfNEl8HsvfuvJaaK.html
08-12-2020||India||Four, including drunk driver killed in road accident in Chhattisgarh||Four people were killed and five were seriously injured when a pickup truck turned turtle in Dhaurpur in Chhattisgarh’s Surguja district in the early hours of Tuesday, police said.The accident took place when the victims were returning from a wedding.The injured were sent to the local hospital and their condition is said to be stable.“The victims were returning after attending a marriage in Semardih village under Lundra police station of the district. When they reached Dhaurpur village the driver lost control while trying to avoid a collision with a biker and the vehicle turned turtle,” OM Chandel, Additional Superintendent of Police (Surguja) said.The officer said the driver who was among the dead, was drunk due to which he lost control of the vehicle.Three persons died on the spot while a woman who was rushed to the Government Medical College Ambikapur died later in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-including-drunk-driver-killed-in-road-accident-in-chhattisgarh/story-HuWbT47tXbcY8vB7YTpMeJ.html
08-12-2020||India||They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claimed was put under house arrest after his visit to the farmers protesting the three central farm laws at the national capital’s Singhu border, said that he was prevented from expressing solidarity with the farmers and that he had planned to go to the border not as a CM but as a common man.“I had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go,” CM Kejriwal said.Also Read: Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police call AAP’s allegation of Kejriwal’s house arrest ‘baseless, unfounded’AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday said that nobody was being allowed to leave or enter the CM’s official residence since Monday. “On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” he said.Farmers protesting against the three farm laws cleared by the Parliament in September had called for a nationwide strike or a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. AAP was among other political parties who extended their support to the call. “The Aam Aadmi Party fully supports the Bharat Bandh call made by farmers on December 8. AAP workers across the country will support it peacefully. There is an appeal to all countrymen that everyone should support the farmers and participate in it,” Kejriwal tweeted.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegation“I am glad Bharat Bandh was successful. I prayed for protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he said from his residence on Tuesday.The bandh (shutdown) call was supported by several opposition parties and state governments. Major political parties, such as the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Left Front came out in support of the bandh.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They believe these laws will pave way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-did-not-let-me-go-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-counters-police-version-on-house-arrest/story-9IZllD1HxHEqEfARopB6rM.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi’s 9pm-9minute tweet India’s most retweeted post by any political leader in 2020||A tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has become the most retweeted one in politics in 2020, the micro-blogging platform has revealed in its year-ender blog. It was a collage of four photos where Modi could be seen lighting diyas. The prime minister posted it on April 5 at 9.34pm. So far, the post has 106.8K retweets, 11.8K quote tweets and 513.5K likes. In 2020, this became the most retweeted post by a politician in India, Twitter said.  शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ pic.twitter.com/4DeiMsCN11“During his ‘9 PM-9 Mins’ public address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi requested people of India to light lamps from the safety of their homes as a symbolic gesture of solidarity towards one other. This Tweet became the most Retweeted Tweet by a politician,” Twitter said. One and a half week into the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown, imposed on March 25, PM Modi had urged countrymen to switch off the lights in their homes and instead light diyas, candles for nine minutes at 9pm on April 5. Along with the photos, PM Modi wrote about lighting the lamps of hope and good health. In its #ThisHappened2020 lookback series, Twitter found the “Golden Tweets of 2020” in various segments like entertainment, sports, business and politics etc. The time period Twitter considered is from January 1 to November 15. Tamil actor Vijay’s selfie with his fans in Neyveli in February is the most retweeted tweet across all segments.In sports, Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s tweet expressing appreciation for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter dated August 19 is the most retweeted post. In business, Ratan Tata’s tweet on March 28 pledging support to communities affected by Covid-19 garnered maximum retweets.The most liked tweet of 2020 is the one where Virat Kohli tweeted about Anushka Sharma’s pregancy on August 27.“Needless to say, #Covid19 dominated this year with people on Twitter seeking reliable information, connecting with experts and following what was happening in real-time. The conversations on the service revolved around multiple Coronavirus-related topics, including the critical need to #WearAMask. Within the larger conversation about Covid-19, hashtags used prominently included #Coronavirus, #JantaCurfew as well as those that encouraged people to #StayHomeStaySafe and maintain #SocialDistancing. Other popular topics of conversation included the adverse impact on migrant workers as well as gratitude for healthcare professionals across the country,” Twitter wrote in its blog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-9pm-9minute-tweet-india-s-most-retweeted-post-by-politician-in-2020/story-phBkNsRD1OuFgCj27ko5aO.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh ends peacefully in UP with mixed response||The Bharat Bandh, called by various farmers’ unions against three central agricultural laws drew a mixed response in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday even as about 1,300 people were detained by police to avert law and order problems. Markets and offices remained largely open while Samajwadi Party, Congress, RLD, Left parties’ workers and some other unions held protests in several districts and even held up a train in Prayagraj. UP’s director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthy said no untoward incident was reported from across the state. He said police and administrative officials remained vigilant all through the day.“Some people who violated section 144 of Cr PC (which prevents assembly of five or more people at one spot) and Covid-19 protocols were detained to maintain law and order,” the DGP said. Additional director general (ADG) of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar said about 1,300 people involved in blocking roads or forcibly closing markets were detained. He also said some politicians, including Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and SP and Congress leaders, were confined to their houses to avert any untoward incident. VISIBLE IN WEST UP The bandh was most visible in western UP’s Meerut region, but it passed off without any untoward incident. The police were prepared for the day and either restrained leaders from various farmers’ outfits and political parties, or put them under house arrest, including Azad at his house in Saharanpur district. Trucks and buses remained off the roads for most parts of the day. Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU (Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andolan blocked Delhi-Pauri highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district. Leaders and activists of BKU (Bhanu), led by it vice president Choudhary Diwakar Singh blocked traffic at Rajabpur Toll Plaza in Amroha on Delhi-Lucknow highway. In Agra region, impact of the closure was not much in urban areas and the supporters for the bandh remained mainly active in the rural areas belt and on expressways and roads. “In Prayagraj, SP workers clashed with police at many places. They stopped the Bundelkhand Express at Prayagraj station and raised slogans while sitting on the railway track,” Allahabad superintendent of police (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said. “Those who tried to hold up the train were taken into custody,” he added. In Lucknow, SP leaders sat on a silent dharna near the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh at Vidhan Bhawan. SP MLCs Rajpal Kashyap, Sunil Singh Sajan, Anand Bhadauria and Ashu Malik were part of the protest. Some protests were also reported from different parts of the city. However, life in Lucknow remained mostly unaffected with Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur saying that stray incidents of protests were reported but everything remained peaceful and traffic remained uninterrupted. Lucknow’s district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said attendance in offices was normal. “The impact of the closure was zero in Lucknow as all markets and mandis were open,” he said. UPSRTC regional manager PK Bose said, “Passenger flow was less as compared to other days. However, operation-wise it was a normal day.” In Bundelkhand region, the response to bandh was partial. In Mainpuri, lawyers abstained from work and business at the wholesale grain market was affected, while for other establishments it was a normal day. Despite some protests by SP and Congress workers in Gorakhpur, shops were open and traffic was usual. (With agency inputs )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-ends-peacefully-in-up-with-mixed-response/story-597QhZD6WAo9BjEurrW2aM.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Don’t want to inconvenience anyone, should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground’: Punjab Kisan Union||Asserting that farmers protesting the central farm laws do not want to cause any inconvenience to the people of Delhi and Haryana, the Punjab Kisan Union(PKU) on Tuesday said that they should be allowed to hold their protest at Ramlila Ground. “We do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold the protest at Ramlila Ground,” RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union said in a press conference at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi) border.Mansa said that five rounds of talks have taken place but the Centre is yet to give any relief to the farmer protesting the farm laws. In the meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm today, Mansa said he will ask him if the Centre is willing to accept the farmers’ demands.This comes as farmer leaders have been invited to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm on Tuesday, a day before the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Central government called by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Thousands of farmers, who have been protesting at several borders of the national capital since November 26 against the farm laws, had called for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ today, which had gained support from all corners, including opposition parties and lawyers.Notably, after the fifth round of talks remained inconclusive, Tomar has called another meeting on December 9. Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government so far.The farmers are protesting against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-want-to-inconvenience-anyone-should-be-allowed-to-hold-protest-at-ramlila-ground-punjab-kisan-union/story-fPRIOVfBV76N3GyqesItHO.html
08-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers forced to take shower at odd hours, women stand in long queues to use toilets||With farmers’ protests against the agricultural laws at Singhu border enters the thirteenth day, the farmers -- both men and women -- who remain steadfast at the gates of Delhi share their ordeals. Among women farmers, the most challenging activities appear to be that of bathing, changing clothes and availability of toilets. The nearby petrol pump of Bharat Petroleum which is closed since the agitation began witnesses a long queue near the washroom one each for men and women.For 40-year-old Sarabjeet from Punjab’s Amritsar, it is a norm now to wake up at three in the morning and stand in a queue to use the washroom, which she is only able to use after a long wait of two hours. “As a woman, the most difficulty which I have faced so far is of toilet and bathing. We wake up at 3 am and stand in a queue to avail the petrol pump washroom. Our turn comes after waiting for at least two hours. But we won’t leave till our demand is fulfilled,” she told ANI. Speaking about the struggles women farmers are undergoing here, 63-year-old Balbinder shares how these challenges have escalated due to the winter season. “Today, I stayed in the queue for two hours before I could use the washroom. Although there are a few portable toilets, very far from where we are stationed. Moreover, most of us bathe before we begin to prepare the day’s food. It’s winter so our adversities have doubled,” she said. Various NGOs have come forward to help the farmers with basic necessities such as medicines, sanitary napkins, blankets. Although compared to women, men are here in large numbers but they are also facing certain difficulties. Seventy-three-year-old Kuldeep Singh from Punjab’s Patiala said that due to lack of enough bathrooms, he is forced to take bath at random hours in the day. “I am here since November 25. I take bath at the midnight and then sleep. Today also I took bath at 12:56 am. What else can we do, we do not get a spare bathroom even during the day,” he told ANI. Residents at the Singhu border have welcomed the farmers to use their washrooms but being large in number they mostly stick to the water petrol pumps, tankers, and portable toilets.A security guard named Ramdhari Sharma (46) from Bharat petroleum, Kundli said, “No matter at what time of the day it has never seen this washroom empty even for one minute since the protest began. In a day we clean the septic tank five times a day.”Farmers here are also facing difficulty in washing clothes. Although residents have offered to wash their clothes but water availability becomes a problem here, especially when numbers are huge.Among all the protest sites, Nirankari Samagam Ground in Delhi’s Burari is better with most of the facilities available, said a farmer.Farmers who have blocked the borders leading to Delhi as a measure to put pressure on central in rhetoric have stated that they will go back only and if they receive a solution otherwise have ration to sustain longer.After five inconclusive meetings, the sixth round of talks between centre and farmer’s unions scheduled tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-forced-to-take-shower-at-odd-hours-women-stand-in-long-queues-to-use-toilets/story-tFcHgGvPN45b9ejNJ3vELL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat bandh: Mixed response in most of Uttarakhand; maximum impact in US Nagar, Pithoragarh||The Bharat bandh, called by the farmers over the recently passed three agricultural laws, witnessed an overall mixed response in the state barring US Nagar and Pithoragarh districts of Kumaon region which were most affected with majority of the markets closed in support of the bandh.The districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital saw a mixed response to the bandh with about only half the shops closed in support of the bandh call.US Nagar district, which saw the maximum impact of the bandh, witnessed all major markets closed in support of the farmers. The local trader unions decided to support the farmers by closing their shops on the day.Observing the bandh, Congress workers gathered near Ambedkar chowk in Rudrapur led by the former minister in Congress government TR Behar and raised anti-Centre slogans.Terming the agricultural laws as “black laws” he said, “Modi government has sold agriculture to the corporate sector and has nothing to do with the farmers’ welfare. Congress would raise its voice to save farmers of the country.”Also read: British foreign secretary begins visit on Dec 16 to focus on trade and securityDuring the bandh, some groups of farmers tried to block the highways in Jaspur and Kashipur areas of the district but were soon removed from there.Another district of Kumaon region, Pithoragarh, also witnessed almost complete closure of the markets in support of the farmers.In Dehradun, major markets like Paltan Bazar and Arhat Bazar were mostly open but with less number of customers than usual. City’s biggest mandi of fruits and vegetables was also open with people buying groceries without any hassle caused by the bandh.Amid the bandh, the district police had also made adequate security measures to ensure a peaceful bandh without any untoward incident which could disturb the law and order situation.Deputy inspector general, Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi had divided the whole city into nine zones and 21 sectors with significant deployment of police force at major places of the city.Earlier on Monday evening before the bandh, he had also warned of strict action against anyone found forcefully implementing the bandh.During the day, Congress members led by state Congress president Pritam Singh held a protest and tried to block the road near busy Gandhi Park square. However, they were soon detained by police from the spot and taken to Police Lines from where they were released after some time.Also read: No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leaderThe Haridwar district also witnessed a mixed response to the bandh in its urban areas but a significant impact was seen in its agriculture dominated rural belts.The farmer unions, including Bharatiya Kissan Union - both Tikait-Ambawat factions and Uttarakhand Kissan Morcha - staged protests and tried to block the Roorkee-Delhi highway. The police, however, prevented them from doing so to ensure smooth flow of traffic of the main highway.Congress members staged protest marches in Haridwar city, Jwalapur, Roorkee, Laksar, Bhagwanpur and Manglaur areas against the newly enacted three agricultural laws.Former Congress legislator, Ambrish Kumar, while addressing the farmers at Jwalapur area of Haridwar, said that the “newly enacted farm laws will not only harm the agricultural sector but also adversely impact the poor and the lower-middle-class section.”“Modi government is trying to hand over the agriculture to corporates and in the coming time, public sector undertakings and every major sector will be corporate-managed. Anti-poor, anti-labour and anti-farmers policies are the hallmark of the BJP-led NDA government,” said Kumar.In Haldwani city of Nainital district, a group of farmers gathered at Tikonia square where they tried to block the national highway. The police deployed there tried to stop them, however, no incident of violence was reported.Supporting the bandh, leader of opposition, Indira Hridayesh, held a protest in Haldwani where she attacked the BJP government of acting against the farmer’s rights and said, “If farmers are demanding to guarantee MSP for crops then what is wrong in it? Congress fully stands in support of the farmers.”Considering the Bharat bandh, the state police had deployed a significant force to prevent any untoward incident.Inspector general, AP Anshuman, also the chief spokesperson for police headquarters, said the bandh was a “peaceful one” barring some incidents of road blockage.“The bandh saw a mixed response in the state with no incidents of violence. There were some road blockades in US Nagar which were soon opened. There were also some arrests by the police, including one of the Congress members in Dehradun who were trying to block the road, but were soon released after a brief detention,” said Anshuman||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-mixed-response-in-most-of-uttarakhand-maximum-impact-in-us-nagar-pithoragarh/story-BwwjrV15vr6drJP9WlQXaP.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Bharat Bandh’ ends peacefully, life hit in some states as farmers take national centre stage||Life was disrupted in several parts of the country on Tuesday as shops and commercial establishments stayed closed, transport was affected and protesters squatted on key roads and rail tracks in response to a ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.As the day wound to a mostly peaceful close and the farmers termed their show of strength a success, Union Home Minister Amit Shah stepped in to call their leaders for talks, ahead of the sixth round of talks between Central ministers and farmer representatives on Wednesday.“There is no midway. We will demand just a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told reporters at the Singhu border where thousands of farmers have been protesting for the last 12 days. A delegation of 13 leaders will meet Shah. The nationwide shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, claimed Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. Emergency services were exempted and banks, too, continued operations as the pan-India shutdown, backed by most opposition parties and trade unions, rolled out noisily but peacefully with its impact felt in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the epicentre of the snowballing protests, as well as in states such as Odisha, Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand.The pandemic appeared to recede into the background as security was stepped up across the country, restive crowds demonstrated in some places and the numbers swelled at Delhi’s border points. Protesters also blocked railway tracks at several places in West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha.As slogans such as “Kisan Ekta Zindabad” were heard in protest centrepoints such as Tikri and the agitation picked up pace, so did social media with the hashtag #Aaj_Bharat_Bandh_Hai trending worldwide till late afternoon.From the Rajasthan capital Jaipur, where ‘mandis’ were closed but shops open, there were reports of clashes between workers of the state’s ruling Congress and the BJP.In Delhi, where most main markets were open, tension spiralled with the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleging that Delhi Police had put Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest till evening. City police denied the claim but AAP leaders stuck to their stand.Farmer unions had threatened to block national highways and occupy toll plazas across the country during a ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm.All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah described the shutdown as a show of strength by the farmers.“We are standing by our demand that we want a complete repeal of the three laws and will not accept any cosmetic changes… If our demands are not met, we are ready to take our agitation to the next level,” Mollah said. The protesting farmers fear the new laws will pave the way for eliminating the safety of the Minimum Support Price cushion and do away with ‘mandis’, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government maintains the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Opposition parties are expected to meet Kovind on Wednesday evening to raise their concerns about the three laws. “Leaders from different political parties (those opposing the farm bills) will sit, discuss and take a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind,” NCP chief Sharad Pawar told reporters.Farmers from Punjab and also Haryana have been the drivers of the movement against the laws. In both states, shops and commercial establishments were closed as were thousands of fuel pumps. Farmers assembled at highways and other key roads in both states since morning. All major parties in Punjab — the ruling Congress, AAP and the Shiromani Akali Dal -- extended their support.Over 50,000 government employees took mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.In neighbouring BJP-JJP ruled Haryana, the opposition Congress and Indian National Lok Dal extended their support.The Haryana Police traffic advisory had warned commuters that main national highways would be closed and the peak time of impact was expected to be between 12 noon to 3 pm.In West Bengal, where the ruling Trinamool Congress joined the Congress and the Left in supporting the shutdown but stayed away from enforcing it, the response was mixed. Railway tracks were blocked in several places and there were sit-ins on major roads.Life was hit in Bihar too with train tracks, highways and inner roads teeming with protesters as opposition parties extended their support. In Jehanabad, the movement of Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police.Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers’ organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore.Elsewhere in the state, ruled by the Biju Janata Dal, normal life was hit with markets and offices shut and Congress and Left supporters blocking major roads. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh were deserted with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away.In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities like Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities.Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) were closed in many parts of the state.The state government appealed to protesters to not disrupt public transport services and buses and local trains were unaffected.“…The situation needs to be created to put pressure on the government, and to achieve this, farmers need to hit the streets. But no one should resort to violence,” said social activist Anna Hazare who went on daylong fast in his village Ralegan Siddhi village in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district.There was a mixed response in other states as well. In Assam, shops pulled down shutters, protesters blocked traffic and demonstrations were staged but most offices were functioning. Dozens of protesters were detained, officials said.The ruling TRS and opposition parties, including the Congress and various unions, held protests across Telangana. In Tamil Nadu, the opposition DMK and its allies, including the Congress, held protests across the state but life was mostly unaffected. In the union territory of Puducherry, ruled by the Congress, however, the ‘bandh’ call evoked a near total response. Normal life was affected in parts of Karnataka as farmers and workers hit the roads. Many organisations in the state came out in support of the bandh. In some states, including in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh, life continued unimpeded. The three contentious laws at the centre of the farmer protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-ends-peacefully-life-hit-in-some-states-as-farmers-take-national-centre-stage/story-ruPcpFo1k4QypzdBW0yIFJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Foreign ministry to fly over 60 foreign envoys to Hyderabad for Covid vaccine briefing||The Centre will tomorrow fly more than 60 heads of foreign missions to Bharat Biotech and Biological E the two biotech companies that are working on a Covid-19 vaccine, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. The envoys would be briefed about the progress made by scientists who are working on the vaccine.Bharat Biotech is among the three companies to have sought emergency authorisation from the government for use of the Covid vaccine. The Serum Institute of India and Pfizer India are the other two.Bharat Biotech, which has developed an Indian vaccine in collaboration with government’s National Institute of Virology, is at present in phase III trials, with over 25,000 volunteers. It uses an inactivated virus to elicit an immune response in people.The foreign ministry had earlier proposed to include Pune-based Serum Institute of India in the itinerary but later dropped the idea.The foreign ministry had last month briefed diplomats from 190 countries and international organisations about the steps taken by India to control the disease. It had then promised to organise visits to institutions engaged in Covid-19 related research and vaccine development programmes.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters that a decision on the approval request for the three vaccines could be taken in a few weeks.In all, six vaccines including Biological E.are in trial stages.Biological E, one of the two companies to interact with the diplomats, is among the six vaccine candidates that are in trial stages in India. Biological E has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-fly-60-foreign-envoys-to-hyderabad-for-covid-vaccine-briefing/story-dchszVG0HPfhu0Zr7QePhO.html
08-12-2020||India||Saarc can realise full potential only in atmosphere free of terror: PM Modi||In a veiled reference to terror emanating from Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the full potential of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terrorism and violence. Modi, however, underscored India’s commitment to work with other countries in the region for post-Covid-19 recovery in a message on the occasion of the 36th charter day of Saarc. The eight-nation grouping’s functioning and activities have virtually stalled because of the strained relations between India and Pakistan. Besides a virtual meeting in March on the Covid-19 situation, Saarc hasn’t had any significant engagements since India pulled out of the summit that was to be held in Pakistan in 2016 in the aftermath of the Uri terror attack. Modi said in his message: “The full potential of Saarc can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence. On this 36th Saarc Charter Day, let us re-commit ourselves to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism, and to work collectively towards a secure and prosperous South Asia.” India, he said, “will continue to work with other countries in the region to ensure a robust recovery after the pandemic”. India is also committed to an “integrated, connected, secure and prosperous South Asia”, and will support the economic, technological, cultural and social development of the region, he added. “The early coordination between Saarc countries for dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic is an example of the benefit that our region can derive from greater collaboration,” he said, referring to the meeting held in March and the creation of an emergency Covid-19 fund with an initial contribution of $10 million from India. Saarc leaders had participated in the virtual meeting at Modi’s initiative. However, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan skipped the meet and the country was represented by its de facto health minister, who created a controversy by raising the Kashmir issue. The charter day marks the signing of the Saarc Charter in 1985 by the leaders of the member countries at the grouping’s first summit in Dhaka. The grouping now includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In a separate message on the occasion, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said the Saarc Charter reflects the region’s “shared vision, collective resolve and mutual pursuit to promote peace, stability and prosperity in South Asia through eradication of poverty, accelerated economic growth and advancement in socio-cultural development”. Oli described the pandemic as an “unprecedented challenge affecting not only health and economy but also social life and livelihoods in the region and beyond” and said it had compounded existing challenges such as poverty, terrorism, transnational crime and climate change. “There is a need for greater regional cooperation today than ever before. To collectively emerge from the pandemic, the situation underlines the importance of more concerted efforts, collaboration and cooperation among the member states of Saarc,” he said. Oli also called for the holding of the stalled Saarc Summit. “The longer we delay, the more will be the opportunity cost. Giving fresh impetus to the stalled Saarc process, including through the early convening of the summit, can rekindle hope among our people and provide ground to move forward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-can-realise-full-potential-only-in-atmosphere-free-of-terror-pm-modi/story-JDqQtBu0ALSlgb8kpC6WGK.html
08-12-2020||India||Serum Institute likely to supply Covid-19 vaccine at Rs 250 a dose to govt: Report||Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine producer by volume, is close to signing a supply contract with the country’s Central government and likely to fix prices at 250 rupees ($3.39) per dose of the vaccine, Business Standard reported on Tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter.The government is pinning its hopes for mass supply on Serum Institute, which lodged the first formal application for emergency-use approval of AstraZeneca’s shot on Monday.Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla had earlier said the vaccine would be priced at 1,000 rupees ($13.55) per dose in India’s private market, but governments signing large supply deals would likely buy it at lower prices.Poonawalla had said Serum will first focus on supplying the vaccine to Indians before distributing it to other countries.With 9.70 million COVID-19 cases recorded so far, India is second only to the United States and is accelerating its review of vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and AstraZeneca to authorize for emergency use, a senior official said on Monday.While the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research and Indian Ministry of Health did not respond to Reuters request for comments, Serum Institute declined to offer one. ($1 = 73.8060 Indian rupees)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-likely-to-supply-covid-19-vaccine-at-rs-250-a-dose-to-govt-report/story-3FryZ805YERh4p1HCGsODL.html
08-12-2020||India||SC stays contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the contempt of court proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in connection with the alleged non-payment of the market rent for the government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and also comprising Justices KM Joseph and Krishna Murari, stayed the contempt proceedings against Koshiyari on his petition against the notice issued to him by the Uttarakhand High Court.The bench, after hearing Koshyari’s petition, issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government and tagged his petition with a pending plea challenging the basis at which market rent rates were decided by the Uttarakhand High Court.Koshyari had moved the apex court on November 17 against the notice issued by the High Court on a plea seeking to initiate contempt proceedings against him for not paying the market rent of a government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister.Koshyari, who served as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand between 2001 and 2002, had sought that the apex court should also grant special leave to him to file the appeal against the judgement of May 03, 2019, order of the Uttarakhand High Court.A plea filed before the Uttarakhand High Court had alleged that Koshyari has till date not paid the market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him.Acting on the plea, the High Court had on October 20, 2020, sought Koshyari’s reply for starting a contempt proceeding against him for his failure to follow a court order to pay market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him as a former Chief Minister.The plea filed before the Uttarakhand High Court had accused Koshyari of committing “willful non-compliance” of the State High Court’s May 3, 2019, order asking him to pay the market rent of the bungalow occupied by him as former Chief Minister within six months of the direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-against-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari/story-tZ2VdPt9nJ9xxg8gdrH5AM.html
08-12-2020||India||Oppn leaders to meet President on Wednesday to seek repeal of farm laws||Leaders from different opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and also express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. On Tuesday, the Congress said it was not against farm sector reforms, but those brought in through the three new farm laws do not reflect those changes. The party also reiterated its demand for a special Parliament session to scrap these laws. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said the opposition leaders will meet to discuss the issue and formulate a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President at 5 pm. “Tomorrow 5-6 people from different political parties are going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We will present our collective stand before the President,” he said. Apart from the NCP, the other opposition parties likely to join the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), which is a last-minute addition to the delegation. The opposition parties also supported Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ called by the farmers’ unions against the three new agriculture laws. Besides Pawar, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. On Tuesday, Pawar met defence minister Rajnath Singh and the two are said to have discussed the land acquisition for the Purandar airport in Pune district. The ongoing protests by farmers have triggered a war of words between the government and the opposition parties. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said Pawar as the agriculture minister in the UPA government had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers in this regard. However, Pawar said the BJP is trying to divert attention by creating controversy over his letters written, asking the chief ministers to amend the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. “I had said the APMC Act should continue but needed some reforms. There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But the new laws do not even mention APMC. BJP is just trying to divert the attention. No need to give importance,” he said at a press conference in Delhi. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said agriculture reforms should be discussed afresh in Parliament and new laws enacted after consulting all stakeholders. He said the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism has to be incorporated in the law to protect the interest of farmers. He alleged the farm laws brought in by the BJP-led government were passed without any consultation with farmers, and these were pushed through amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are not against reforms but current laws must be immediately repealed and a fresh reform process initiated after consultations with all stakeholders and discussion in Parliament,” Hooda told mediapersons at a press conference. He wondered why the government did not agree to the opposition demand of bringing another law to punish those buying farm produce below the MSP. The former chief minister also alleged the BJP-led Haryana government has lost the trust of the people and of the assembly as it “mishandled” the farmers’ agitation. “I have written to the governor demanding immediate convening of the Haryana assembly as the state government has insulted farmers and lost the trust of the people,” he said. Hooda said the Congress would move a no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government as a large number of its supporting legislators have backed the farmers’ protest. He also said the 2019 Congress manifesto promising abolition of the APMC act was being “misrepresented” by the BJP. “We had promised to create procurement centres and mandis in nearby areas for farmers. We did that in Haryana, some even in a village with a small population of 10,000,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-to-meet-president-on-wednesday-to-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-DkCX1MzXPmwnLyc8TQF2RI.html
08-12-2020||India||British foreign secretary begins visit on Dec 16 to focus on trade and security||As the United Kingdom prepares for an uncertain future outside the European Union, British foreign and commonwealth secretary Dominic Raab will begin a two-day visit to India from December 16 that is expected to extensively focus on bilateral trade and security. First Secretary of State Raab and foreign minister S Jaishankar are expected to review the progress made in the effort to draw up a 10-year roadmap “for a quantum jump” in the relationship between the two countries as well as the finalisation of the defence logistics agreement, according to people familiar with the matter.The visit is also seen as a precursor of the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to New Delhi in light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to visit India when they last spoke on November 27. PM Modi had then asked Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at India’s Republic Day parade on January 26.In the same conversation, PM Modi had tweeted that the two leaders had discussed “an ambitious roadmap for India-UK ties in the next decade” and agreed “to work towards a quantum leap in our cooperation in all areas — trade and investments, defence and security, climate change and fighting Covid-19.India’s external affairs ministry hasn’t spoken on the invite to Boris Johnson, underlining that it only comments on visits by foreign dignitaries closer to the date.South Block officials said that there has been a sea change in Britain’s attitude under the Boris Johnson administration with London demonstrating sensitivity to India’s concerns over terrorism, security and interference in its internal affairs.In contrast to 4 September 2019 when anti-CAA protesters broke glass panes of Indian High Commission in London, this time Britain responded swiftly to India’s message on anti-farmers protest on Monday. While the Khalistan supporters infiltrated the protests, the London police not only arrested the protestors but also used smoke bombs to disperse the largely Punjabi activists.It is understood that UK Homeland Secretary Priti Patel sent a message to New Delhi that London would not allow a repeat of the anti-CAA protests.While the UK has always been soft on terrorism emanating from Pakistan, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla found acceptance of India’s concerns when he briefed his UK counterpart on November 3. Johnson has already offered a free trade agreement with India and is keen to bolster economic ties with India against the backdrop of Brexit. India-UK trade was worth £24 billion last year, and India is now the second-largest investor in the British economy. There is uncertainty in UK about trade and commerce with European powers playing hard ball and the incoming Biden administration not so convinced over Brexit. It is only natural that UK would like to strengthen trade ties with the largest democratic market in the world.From a security perspective also, officials indicated that Dominic Raab’s visit would lay the groundwork for a quantum leap for the relationship between the two countries, particularly given how the British government lately appeared to recalibrate its approach towards New Delhi and, as one academic described it, move beyond attempts to balance relationships.When news of India and the United Kingdom negotiating the defence logistics pact emerged in October, Avinash Paliwal at the School of Oriental and African Studies had interpreted it to imply a foreign policy shift in London vis-a-vis China and Pakistan. “Such a defence logistics pact affords clarity of intent i.e. the UK is increasingly wary of China and is unlikely to let Pakistan’s sensitivities hinder a truly strategic partnership with India (something that has been the case for many years),” Paliwal had said.Boris Johnson has already announced its decision to send its largest warship, HMS Queen Elizabeth, and its strike group to the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean and East Asia in 2021, a move aimed at China amid concerns over its increased assertiveness, and the UK’s concerns over the political crackdown in its former colony of Hong Kong.The deployment is seen to be part of what has been described by London as a shift towards greater engagement with the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-foreign-secretary-begins-visit-on-dec-16-to-focus-on-trade-and-security/story-HpFaaiWAJwbNAsGuk6hpAK.html
08-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh farmers can now call emergency helpline for paddy procurement grievances||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to redress all grievances of farmers in Chhattisgarh, including those related to paddy procurement through Dial 112 service, officials said on Tuesday. Officials said the decision was taken by Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel in the larger interest of farmers. Senior officials have been told to include farmers’ grievances redressal service under Dial 112 which would be provided to the farmers during the paddy procurement season. Presently, emergency services are provided under Dial 112 and now Collector and Superintendent of Police (SP) have been directed to ensure immediate redressal of the complaints received from farmers via Dial 112. “Farmers of Chhattisgarh can get all the required information about registration of the procurement and can lodge complaints about any kind of error in the procurement system and can get seek financial assistance by calling on 112 . Under Dial 112 service, their problems and grievances would be quickly redressed and will be monitored by Collector and SPs. Every week the Chief Secretary would review the complaints received from the farmers under Dial 112 and the action taken to redress the same,” said a senior official of Chhattisgarh’s public relations department.The government’s decision comes almost a week after a 45-year-old farmer allegedly died by suicide in Bastar’s Kondagaon district. His family members claimed that he was worried about selling his paddy crops cultivated in over six acres of land after learning that the maximum area of his farm under paddy production was written off in the government record for the purpose of procurement. The district administration later suspended a revenue official for allegedly making an erroneous entry for the farmer’s paddy cultivation area in the government record. However, the administration said that the error was not the reason for the farmer’s death. The farmer was found dead on December 2. As per preliminary information, the farmer had sown paddy on his 2.731 hectare (6.70 acre) of land and was eligible to sell around 100 quintal of paddy at the minimum support price (MSP) in the cooperative society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-farmers-can-now-call-emergency-helpline-for-paddy-procurement-grievances/story-13fNEuQqExMBczCZxpq4xL.html
08-12-2020||India||Winter session of Karnataka assembly cut short, citing upcoming gram panchayat polls||The seven-day long winter session of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly will now be curtailed by three days, in the wake of the upcoming Gram Panchayat polls in the state, Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Tuesday.“It was earlier decided to hold the winter session since yesterday (December 7) to December 15, but as the Gram Panchayat polls have been announced, keeping in mind the opinion of the members, it was discussed in the Business Advisory Committee meeting and it has been decided to hold the session till December 10,” Kageri said.Informing the outcome of the BAC meeting to the Assembly, he said, the proceedings of the House on Friday, Monday and Tuesday stood cancelled.The Karnataka State Election Commission has announced the polls to some 5,700 gram panchayats in the state in two phases on December 22 and 27.The results for both phases will be declared on December 30.The Speaker said, at the meeting it has been decided to take up certain replacement bills for the ordinances that have been promulgated, along with important bills if any and supplementary estimates for discussion during the next two days.The special discussion on the subject “one nation, one election” that was scheduled to take place on December 14 and 15, will now be taken up during the next session, he said.The monsoon session of legislature held in September was also curtailed by two days, due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-karnataka-assembly-cut-short-citing-upcoming-gram-panchayat-polls/story-nU1tjUedWGOX6fJZxY3s8H.html
08-12-2020||India||Yediyurappa claims ‘no one is supporting Bharat Bandh call in Karnataka’||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday claimed that no one is supporting the farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh in Bengaluru and other parts of the state.While talking to media in Bengaluru, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said, “No one is supporting the Bandh in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. The State and Centre are pro-farmer. Prime Minister Narendra Modi won’t take any decision against farmers.”Karnataka CM further said, “It’s not right to give the call for Bandh for political reasons. Police will take proper action on breaking the law.”The farmers’ union had called Bharat bandh on Tuesday against the newly enacted farm laws. The protest has entered into the 13th day with demonstrations continuing on Sant Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari on the outskirts of Delhi and at borders on December 8.Meanwhile, a day before the sixth round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Central government, farmer leaders have been invited to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah at 7 pm on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-claims-no-one-is-supporting-bharat-bandh-call-in-karnataka/story-LIaRiPgw20rSSx6jVp4rnN.html
08-12-2020||India||No midway, just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Amit Shah at today’s meeting, says farmers’ leader||Hours ahead of a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, farmers have reiterated their stance of not compromising on their demand that the three contentious farm laws be repealed.“There is no midway, we will demand just ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from Home Minister Amit Shah at today’s meeting,” farmer leader Rudru Singh Mansa told news agency PTI.Also Read: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayOn the day of a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh observed in protest against the farm laws, Amit Shah invited the farmers for a meeting at his residence at 7pm. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. The meeting comes a day ahead of the sixth round of talks between farm unions and the government, in which both sides will try to resolve the impasse caused by the farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September.Also Read: Sisodia says public not being allowed to meet CM, police refute allegationThe three farm laws that the farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke are -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices. The government, on the other hand, hails the laws as reforms that have opened new doors of possibilities for farmers. “These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities for them. These rights started mitigating problems that were being faced by farmers in a short span of time,” prime minister Narendra Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-midway-just-yes-or-no-from-amit-shah-at-today-s-meeting-says-farmers-leader/story-P3spvJ4b4e3ZVrsOaf8zfN.html
08-12-2020||India||ED arrests Rahul Nanda’s aide M Shashidharan in TOPSGRUP case||TOPSGRUP’S chairman Rahul Nanda’s aide and company’s senior employee M Shashidharan was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on Monday night in the money laundering case in which Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik has been named. According to ED sources, Shashidharan is suspected to have helped Nanda in the majority of funds transfer parts. While staying abroad Nanda was getting all the money transfers done through his company executives including Shashidharan.He is also suspected to be involved in an MMRDA deal involving money laundering with Nanda. He was working on the instructions of Nanda for money transactions, ED sources said.This is the second arrest by ED in the TOPSGRUP case. Amit Chandole, a business associate of Shiv Sena Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik was arrested last month. On Monday, the high court extended Chandole’s custody following a request by the ED. Shashidharan is the same person who on behalf of Nanda has filed an FIR with Mumbai Police recently against TPOSGRUP’s ex-vice president Ramesh Iyer (the complainant in ED case) and others for financial irregularities by cheating and forgery. The Mumbai EOW is now investigating the case.Sources said that ED officials may confront Chandole and Shashidharan in their custody and grill the two together in connection with the suspicious funds transfers linking MMRDA security service contracts, Nanda and Sarnaik.TOPSGRUP had obtained a contract for providing security guards for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) projects in collusion with Pratap Sarnaik through illegal means by a “well-thought out strategy”, the ED had claimed.The agency has claimed that the aim of these illegal manoeuvres was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this “active role and criminal conspiracy”, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract and sometimes, the money used to be transferred to the account of a third person, said ED. Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from TOPSGRUP for the MMRDA projects, ED claimed. Therefore, part of the amount received by TOPDGRUP from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime, said ED. Previously, the Sena leader had termed ED’s actions as an outcome of vendetta politics. “The day I moved a privilege motion against (actor) Kangana Ranaut and (Republic TV editor-in-chief) Arnab Goswami, and spoke about reopening the Anvay Naik (suicide) case (in which Goswami is an accused), I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far,” he said last week after ED raided his properties and questioned his son. Sarnaik on November 25 quarantined himself citing Covid-19 guidelines after returning to the state from Goa. He has asked ED for time to join the investigation. The agency said other people linked to Sarnaik’s businesses would also be soon asked to join the probe.Earlier, Nanda had also denied all the allegations. “Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny in my business or company ever. He or Sena have nothing to do with Tops. This is absolutely absurd,” he said. ED’s money laundering probe is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court against Nanda and his family members. The case was recently transferred to the Mumbai Police economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-arrests-rahul-nanda-s-aide-m-shashidharan-in-topsgrup-case/story-tp0I5X1hVIBXlACoGv0iRI.html
08-12-2020||India||Bengal govt to launch scheme for kharif paddy procurement||The West Bengal government is planning to roll out a scheme to procure kharif paddy for its public distribution system, as it seeks to maintain unhindered supply of free rice to nearly 10 crore people till next June, a state minister said on Tuesday.Under the scheme, the government aims to enrol over 30 lakh farmers, state food and civil supplies minister Jyotipriya Mallick said.Nearly 13 lakh of an estimated 72 lakh paddy farmers in West Bengal have registered themselves for the scheme so far, he said.“We are planning to reach out to as many farmers as possible, with an aim to procure paddy to maintain unhindered supply of rice for our public distribution system. The scheme will be rolled out soon and we will start procuring paddy later this month,” Mallick explained.A super harvest this season and low demand have hit paddy prices, which have fallen below the government-announced minimum support price (MSP), a senior official of the agriculture department said.“We are planning to impose a ceiling on the amount of paddy to be procured from each farmer. This will help us enrol more and more farmers under this scheme,” he said.The government is planning to procure around 45 quintals of paddy from each farmer.Last year, the maximum procurement went up to 90 quintals for every farmer at an MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal.“The price, this time, is yet to be fixed. It will be done keeping in mind the interest of the farmers,” the official said.The state also has plans to set up a special surveillance system to ensure that the enrolled farmers sell their harvest to the government and not to hoarders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-launch-scheme-for-kharif-paddy-procurement/story-5XsqlxtpLU6qWe5MREpmFP.html
08-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccines may get license in coming weeks, says health ministry||India may approve license to some developers of Covid-19 vaccine in the next few weeks, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. The Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied for emergency use approval (EAU) of their respective vaccine candidates against coronavirus in India, Bhushan further said. Astra Zeneca and Pfizer have already applied for EAU in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has held talks with the all vaccine manufactures and scientists. “Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have applied to Emergency Use Approval. PM Modi has interacted with all vaccine manufactures and scientists. 6 vaccine candidates in clinical trial stage in India,” the health ministry said during a press briefing on Tuesday.“Some of the vaccine candidates may get licensed in the next few weeks,” Bhushan added. Six vaccines, including Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Astra Zeneca’s Covidshield, are in trial stages, Bhushan added.Watch l ‘Some vaccines may get licensed in the next few weeks’: Health Ministry The Centre also informed that there are three vaccine candidates under consideration for license approval. “Three vaccine candidates are under consideration of the regulator for licensing. Very active consideration is going on. There is hope that early licensure is possible in respect of all of them or any one of them,” said Dr VK Paul, member of NITI Aayog.The health ministry also said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive will have minimal impact on routine health services including routine immunisation. “There are around 2.39 lakh vaccinators (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife-ANM) across the country. Only 1.54 lakh ANMs to be used for Covid-19 vaccination,” the health ministry said.The preparatory activities for the roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine is being carried out by Centre in collaboration with states and Union territories. “Covid-19 vaccination cannot just be a state or the Centre’s responsibility. It has to be people’s participation,” Bhushan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccines-may-get-license-in-india-in-coming-weeks-says-health-ministry/story-5x5IMpZl8bhl9naANFjnhN.html
08-12-2020||India||Free mobile app Co-WIN to self-register for Covid-19 vaccine. All you need to know||With three vaccine-makers, including Pfizer, having applied for emergency use authorisation of their vaccine candidates in India, the vaccination drive is likely to begin shortly. The health ministry on Tuesday revealed details of how the entire vaccination programme will be conducted, though no date has been made public so far. Addressing a press meet on Tuesday, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Centre has created an application which will monitor the process from the beginning to the end. Co-WIN, the new app which will be available for free download, is an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN). Here is all you need to know about the app> This app will be useful for all those engaged in the process — administrators, vaccinators and people who are going to receive these vaccine shots.> The government will be vaccinating priority groups in the first two phases: frontline workers including all healthcare professionals in the first stage and emergency workers in the second stage. While the data of these people are already being compiled by the state governments, from the third stage onwards where people with co-morbidity will be given vaccines, self-registration will be introduced. And that will happen through the Co-WIN app.Also Watch l ‘Some vaccines may get licensed in the next few weeks’: Health Ministry > There are five modules in Co-WIN app: Administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and report module. Reports said each vaccination will take at least 30 minutes and only 100 people will be administered in each session.> The administrator module is for the administrators who will be conducting these vaccination sessions. Through this module, they can create sessions and the respective vaccinators and managers will be notified.> Registration module is for people to get registered for vaccination. It will upload bulk data on co-morbidity provided by local authorities or by surveyors. > The vaccination module will verify beneficiary details and update vaccination status.> Beneficiary acknowledgement module will send SMS to beneficiaries. It will also generate QR-based certificates after one gets vaccinated.> Report module will prepare reports of how many vaccine sessions have been conducted, how many people have attended those, how many people have dropped out etc. > The app will also send real-time data of the temperature of the cold-storage units to the main server. “Every single India who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated, which roughly includes one crore healthcare workers, two crore frontline workers and 27 crore of prioritised age groups,” Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday quoting the proposal of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration. “It is to be noted that the government will take a final call on this and these stages may not be sequential. Depending on the availability of the vaccines, these can go on simultaneously,” the secretary said. Both Serum Institute of India which is producing Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine and Bharat Biotech, which is producing the first indigenous vaccine, have approached the regulator for emergency use licence. Pfizer India was, however, the first one to approach the Drugs Controller General of India for a licence after the United Kingdom and Bahrain gave the nod to the vaccine candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-mobile-app-co-win-to-self-register-for-covid-19-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-BvSGknvVF3Lhw5HyeEm6DI.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm todayHome minister Amit Shah has invited a group of protesting farmers for a meeting at 7pm Tuesday, two farm union leaders who will be attending the meet have said. Read more.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathCongress leader and former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Kamal Nath on Tuesday came out in support of the farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. Nath said that the farmers today are much better informed than before. Read more.90-year-old gets first Covid-19 vaccine in UK. What’s next for Pfizer?American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer in collaboration with German biotechnology company BioNTech carried out the world’s first Covid-19 vaccination on a 90-year-old British individual, Margaret Keena, on Tuesday. Read more.Mrunal Thakur shares fitness mantra learned from co-stars John Abraham, Hrithik Roshan, Shahid Kapoor and Farhan AkhtarBeing paired opposite some of the most robust fitness enthusiasts-actors in Bollywood, Mrunal Thakur had enough direct inspiration to motivate herself towards a fit lifestyle as she worked with actors John Abraham in Batla House, Hrithik Roshan in Super 30, Shahid Kapoor in Jersey and Farhan Akhtar in Toofan. The diva gained recognition after her television show, Kumkum Bhagya which she quit to work for the international movie, Love Sonia. Read more.Mobile technology to be used for Covid-19 vaccination drive, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that mobile technology will be used for mass inoculation against Covid-19 pandemic. He also pitched for making India a global hub for telecom equipment, manufacturing, etc. Prime Minister was speaking at the fourth India Mobile Congress via video conferencing. Watch video here.Sneak peek at Ford’s upcoming India-bound SUVFord has several new products on the cards for the Indian market and the list majorly includes SUVs made in collaboration with Mahindra. Read more.India vs Australia 3rd T20I: Late DRS call from Virat Kohli against Matthew Wade proves costly for visitorsIndia captain Virat Kohli missed a chance to get rid of Australia batsman Matthew Wade early on in the 3rd T20I against Australia in Sydney. Wade has been in fine form and carried in the same form in the match, scoring 80 runs in 53 balls. Read here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-home-minister-amit-shah-to-meet-farmers-at-7pm-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FQxSKdqzTGEVPCOlEfqbPI.html
08-12-2020||India||MeT office predicts snowfall in four districts of Uttarakhand this week||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light snowfall in four districts of Uttarakhand over the next few days.In a weather bulletin issued on Tuesday afternoon, the MeT predicted that over the next two days very light to light rainfall or snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places especially in higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Pithoragarh districts of the state. Dry weather is likely to prevail in the remaining places of the state.Predicting further for the week, the bulletin mentioned that on Friday, very light to light rainfall or snowfall is likely to occur at a few places in districts of Garhwal region, and at isolated places in districts of Kumaon region of the state.Over the next two days, precipitation is likely to decrease, according to the MeT department prediction.In the past 24 hours, maximum temperatures remained above normal to appreciably above normal in plains and hills of Uttarakhand, while minimum temperatures remained above normal in plains and above normal to appreciably above normal in hills of Uttarakhand. On Tuesday, the highest maximum temperature at 26.7 degrees Celsius was recorded in Dehradun and the lowest minimum temperature at 4.6 degrees Celsius was recorded in Ranichauri.Tracking post-monsoon showers, the state is currently in a deficit of 77% of rainfall since October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-office-predicts-snowfall-in-four-districts-of-uttarakhand-this-week/story-LafJJyb71PxgYhKhHcd75N.html
08-12-2020||India||Meghalaya to allow tourists from December 21||With Christmas around the corner, Meghalaya is bracing to open its doors to visitors as usual, albeit in a more structured manner keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic.An upbeat chief minister Conrad K Sangma announced reopening of tourism for visitors from outside the state from December 21. However, registration and abiding with the prescribed health protocols is an absolute must, the CM tweeted.“To ensure the safety of everyone, registration has been mandatory through the meghtourism app,” he said.The mobile application available on Google Play store must be downloaded and one can register or a registered tour operator can assist visitors in completing the formalities, including a mandatory upload of photo ID. As per the standarding operation procedures (SOPs) laid down by Meghalaya Tourism, visitors should provide a complete itinerary of their proposed visit and share details of confirmed bookings in hotels, guest houses, home stays for at least the first two nights.Those staying with families or friends must share their host/s’ full address and contact details and a complete itinerary is mandatory to generate the e-invite. After the generation of e-invite, the same should be presented at the entry point along with a Covid-19 negative certificate.“We are reopening for tourism and have issued SOPs for the same keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 scenario so as to ensure that everyone is protected within the prescribed guidelines,” tourism director CVD Diengdoh said.The state tourism department has also opened a communication channel for interested visitors who can address their queries and doubts through WhatsApp number 8132011037 from 10am to 8pm on all working days, said the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-to-allow-tourists-from-december-21/story-903JFzxbqZXPoYZVgihyPK.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi, Qatar emir decide to create task force for investments into India||India and Qatar decided on Tuesday to set up a special task force to facilitate investments by the Qatar Investment Authority, part of India’s ongoing outreach to key West Asian states to overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was made when Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the telephone with the emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani. The two leaders also looked at potential Qatari investments in the entire energy value chain in India. The move came ahead of an expected visit to Qatar and Kuwait by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and a trip to Oman by minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. On Tuesday, Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane began the first ever visit by an army chief to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia. The flurry of engagements are part of India’s current outreach to West Asia, seen as part of New Delhi’s extended neighbourhood and home to some nine million expatriates. The leaders of India and Qatar discussed the “robust cooperation” between both sides in investment flows and energy security, and decided to “create a special task force to further facilitate investments by Qatar Investment Authority into India”, the external affairs ministry said. Also read | Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisationThey also decided to explore Qatari investments in the entire energy value chain in India and reviewed recent positive developments in the investment and energy sectors. Modi conveyed his felicitations to the emir for the forthcoming Qatari national day of Qatar, while Al-Thani appreciated the enthusiasm with which the Indian community in Qatar participates in the celebrations.The leaders agreed to remain in regular touch and looked forward to meeting in person after the normalisation of the situation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. In recent weeks, India has focused on the interests of Indian workers in West Asia, and Jaishankar raised the issue of the return of a large number of Indian workers and professionals who want to resume work amid the easing of Covid-19-related restrictions during a virtual meeting with the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) troika last month. The meeting was joined by senior officials of Qatar, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Bahrain. India had despatched medicines and medical rapid response teams to West Asia amid the pandemic and also ensured that there was no disruption of food and essential supplies. This was appreciated by the GCC states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-qatar-emir-decide-to-create-task-force-for-investments-into-india/story-leqVr8oFLsMg29jZL7fqtM.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh puts brakes on normal life in Bihar||Normal life came to a standstill in many parts of Bihar on Tuesday due to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws.Farmers supported by various political parties and trade unions held protests against the new farm laws. Roads were mostly deserted but emergency services, including hospitals and chemist shops remained open. There has been heavy police deployment across the state to prevent any untoward incident. But despite the large number of policemen on major roads and national highways, protesters blocked many routes including state highways and Mahatma Gandhi Setu that connects north Bihar to Patna by placing burning tyres on roads, affecting vehicular traffic leading to long queues of vehicles. A few luxury cars were damaged at Ara, Patna, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur by bandh supporters.Train services too were affected due to ‘rail roko’ agitation at many stations like Jehanabad, Ara, Pawapuri, Rajgir, Laheriasarai, Saharsa, Chhapra over demands to repeal the new farm laws. Hundreds of passengers were stranded at scores of railway stations, bus stations and taxi stands from the morning. A clash between police and protesters was reported from Jehanabad after cops tried to drive away protesters from the national highway. Police said that protestors blocked the national highway after puncturing many trucks. Reports from Jamui, said a clash took out between protestors and passerby at Chakai locality. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Communist supporters fanned out to various parts of Patna, forcing shopkeepers to down their shutters and deflating tyres of vehicles plying on the roads. Many bandh supporters were seen carrying party flags, much to the embarrassment of their leaders who had said that instructions were in place “not to give a political colour” to the support for the bandh. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday under Magadh University and Bihar University’s jurisdiction have been postponed in view of Bharat Bandh, the university administration said. Central and state government offices registered thin attendance while banking services across the state worked unhindered. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Police were deployed in large numbers across the state to ensure that the movement of essential goods and services remained unhindered”.Police patrolling across Bihar has been increased to ensure the shutdown remains peaceful. The security forces are also keeping a vigil at the railway stations to avoid any ‘Rail Roko’ protests in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-puts-brakes-on-normal-life-in-bihar/story-hHEPPoxp74KPTi33X7WJ2N.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra ends, party preps for 2021 Tamil Nadu polls||Tamil Nadu Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday concluded its much-publicised Vetrivel Yatra (victorious spear march) with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan saying that the party’s winning performance in Bihar and Telangana will be repeated in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.“The yatra will wipe out anti-national and anti-Hindu forces in the state like how Lord Murugan defeated demons,” he said speaking in Hindi translated to Tamil by BJP’s former national secretary H Raja. Several times in his speech, Chouhan likened Modi to matinee idol and AIADMK founder leader MG Ramachandran (MGR). BJP usurped MGR for its promotional content of the yatra much to the dismay of its partner, AIADMK. The yatra, which began on November 6, garnered attention primarily because BJP’s ally All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) denied permission citing Covid-19 guidelines. Also, national leaders like JP Nadda were expected to participate but their plans were foiled for lack of police permission. Defying the government’s order, BJP state president L Murugan led a massive roadshow visiting six abodes of Tamil deity Lord Muruga, across the state. BJP promised to safeguard the interest of Hindus and blamed DMK of insulting Hinduism and Hindu deities. The yatra was partially cancelled due to cyclone Nivar and Buveri.However, Tamil Nadu BJP leaders are satisfied with their yatra and their next move is twofold - to plunge into election work by strengthening booth level committees as advised by union home minister Amit Shah during his two-day visit to Chennai on November 21. The other immediate plan is to meet farmers across all districts to explain the three new farm bills amidst large scale agitations by farmers in the capital.“DMK is misleading the farmers to destroy BJP’s image,” said BJP vice-president K S Nagendiran. “They are on the backfoot because of our yatra.”Analysts say that the yatra invoking sentiments of Tamil Hindus is unlikely to garner support. “Believers of Lord Muruga who have traditionally walked for days on special pilgrimage didn’t pay attention to BJP’s rally,” said independent political researcher Geetha Narayanan. Murugan temples are present in foreign countries such as Singapore and Malaysia where there is a widespread Tamil diaspora. But after making gains in the Hyderabad municipal elections, the BJP is hopeful of a better performance in Tamil Nadu. “Every election matters to us. You climb up slowly and that is how you win the big elections,” says Khushboo Sundar, who joined the BJP in October after quitting as Congress spokesperson. “We have seen the results in Hyderabad. I’m sure in 2021 the BJP is going to make a huge mark in Tamil Nadu.”BJP’s national secretary and Tamil Nadu in-charge CT Ravi has repeatedly tried to underscore that the party treated all languages like Tamil, Kannada or Malayalam the same. “Prime Minister Modi quotes Thiruvalluvar in global meetings and brought Chinese President Xi Jinping to Mahabalipuram,” Ravi said. In the 2016 assembly elections, the BJP tied up with a few parties drawing a blank with a vote share of 2.8%. In the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP managed one seat but failed to retain it in 2019 but increased its vote share to 3.6% “It is not going to be like the previous elections where even 1,000 votes was a big factor for BJP,” says Ramu Manivanan, head of political science, Madras University. “BJP will get about 5,000-7,000 votes on their own in every constituency this election with factors like dividing the votes of oppositions, Dalits and bringing votes if actor Rajinikanth joins them,” he said. The BJP’s ideation for the yatra stemmed after the party lodged complaints against a YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam which ridiculed Kandha Sashti Kavasam, a devotional hymn dedicated to Lord Muruga. Police arrested members who made the video. The BJP has blamed DMK of backing the members but the Dravidian party has denied it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-vetrivel-yatra-ends-party-preps-for-2021-tamil-nadu-polls/story-B5thghpj7IKYY1aHvhW4rI.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP worker died of shotgun injuries in Monday’s rally, say Bengal police||The West Bengal Police on Tuesday morning said that a 50-year-old man who died during a pitched battle between the police and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers at Siliguri town in north Bengal on Monday afternoon, was killed with a shotgun that local law enforcement agencies do not use. The post mortem examination was conducted on Monday night. The Bengal police described the incident as “unprecedented” and said armed men were present in the BJP’s rally to incite violence. “As per the PM (post mortem examination) report “death was due to the effects of shotgun injuries.” Police do not use shotguns. It’s obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearms,” the West Bengal Police said in a tweet around 10.30 am. Roy died shortly after he was rushed to a local private hospital. Police used tear gas and water cannons to stop two BJP processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat building in north Bengal. “The deceased received pellet injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard off,” said the state police. “There was a malafide intention to create violence by the use of firearms. CID West Bengal has been asked to investigate. Truth will come out and strong action will be taken against all those who planned and executed the heinous crime,” the police said in a third tweet. The tweets drew immediate criticism from BJP leaders who were observing bandh in Siliguri and alleging since morning that the post mortem examination was done at night to hide something. BJP workers refused to receive Roy’s body and demanded a second examination in the presence of three doctors. The second examination should be recorded on video, they said. “The report confirms our allegation that the police used firearms and Roy was shot by them. The allegation being made against us is ridiculous because Rai was shot in the chest while approaching the police barricades. Had someone in the procession shot him, the injuries would have been found on his back,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who is stationed in Siliguri. “We will not stop till the truth is revealed. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has come down to killing our workers because the ruling party knows that its days are numbered,” said Basu, referring to the assembly polls due in about five months. The BJP won seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the north Bengal region in 2019. The TMC defended the state police. “The police have said that it does not use shotguns that fire pellets. Someone in the rally must have been carrying a shotgun and it went off. The CID will find out the truth. A second post mortem examination cannot be conducted just because the BJP is demanding one. This requires a judicial order. The BJP may go to court if it wants to,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. Monday’s rally was attended by the BJP’s senior central and state leaders such as Tejasvi Surya, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and Dilip Ghosh who demanded a judicial inquiry into Roy’s death. The party called a 12-hour bandh in the north Bengal region on Tuesday protesting the death and the force used by police. “We will not spare the policemen responsible for Rai’s death. They will go to jail,” Vijayvargiya, BJP’s national general secretary, said after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-worker-died-of-shotgun-injuries-in-monday-s-rally-says-bengal-police/story-lXPV14IJk5WMObUM5W5FXN.html
08-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP.Taking a swipe at the Centre over farmers’ protests, Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Speaking to reporters here, Raut said the “non-political” shutdown is receiving support from the people across the country.The ruling Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress have extended their support to the Bharat bandh called by famrer unions for repeal of the three agri laws.Raut rubbished BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’ reported comments that the Sena had supported the farm laws in Lok Sabha, saying the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never did so.“There is no politics involved in it (Bandh). There should be none. Forget about the brain, if the government has heart, then the government, be it the prime minister or home minister, will approach and speak to the farmers,” Raut said.Asked about Fadnavis’ remarks, Raut said, “This is an old issue. We did not support it (laws), never”.Raut further said that instead of talking about what happened 10 years ago, the BJP should talk about what is happening now.“The farmers who are on the streets do not have any political backing. The Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra (Fadnavis) should understand this. The farmers do not have any political flag in their hands. Hence, he should think ten times before speaking as the leader of the opposition,” Raut said.He further said Fadnavis will understand the pains of farmers if he keeps aside political considerations and thinks “why farmers are at present ready to face even bullets on their chests”.To a question, Raut said NCP chief Sharad Pawar will definitely meet President Ram Nath Kovind along with other opposition leaders on Wednesday to raise farmers’ issues.“The President will solve the problem if he has rights. The issue will be resolved if the President can order the (Union) cabinet or the prime minister,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-never-supported-farm-laws-says-sanjay-raut/story-rK9ao7vHm6xdSREz1tIkSK.html
08-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand AAP chief booked for leading protest march in farmers’ support||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Uttarakhand unit president SS Kaler has been booked by police for allegedly violating Covid-19 norms and taking out a protest march without permission in Dehradun along with over five dozen members of the party, said police. The AAP leaders and workers were holding a protest in support of the agitating farmers. “AAP president SS Kaler and AAP workers took out a march towards the chief minister’s residence on Monday without district administration’s permission and without following the Covid norms. They were stopped at Hathibarkala from proceeding ahead.” said Manibushan Srivastava, in-charge of Dalanwala police station. Srivastava said Kaler and over five dozen AAP demonstrators have been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order), 269 (negligent act), 270 (malignant act), of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of The Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. “They are trying to muzzle the voice of the farmers and all those who are trying to come out in support of the farmers. But we will not be affected by such cases. We will continue to fight for the cause of the farmers”, said Kaler. Kaler said that this government has gone to the extent of house arresting Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Can they stop people, parties and groups from coming out in support of the farmers. We continued with our protest for farmers in Rudrapur today”, he said. In October also, Kaler had been booked for allegedly blocking a road and violating Covid-19 norms along with 50 members of the party in US Nagar district. At that time AAP leader had stated they were protesting against harassment of e-rickshaw operators and two-wheeler owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-aap-chief-booked-for-leading-protest-march-in-farmers-support/story-v0fdyRlJ7i3cQ6ujSYxTYK.html
08-12-2020||India||Indian-origin Raj Chouhan elected speaker of Canada’s British Columbia province||Raj Chouhan, an Indian-origin legislator in Canada, has been elected as the Speaker of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly, becoming first from the community to occupy the post, according to a media report.Chouhan, who has represented Burnaby-Edmonds constituency five times in the British Columbia legislature, has served as Deputy Speaker in the previous government and would be replacing retiring Darryl Plecas as Speaker, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) News reported on Monday.Punjab-born Chouhan immigrated to Canada in 1973 and started working on a farm.He was greatly impacted by the plight of other immigrant workers and the wide disparity between the rich and poor in a prosperous country. This contributed to his ongoing advocacy for community and social justice for workers, the report said, citing Chouhan’s biography.“I am truly grateful to have been entrusted with this role by all members of the legislative assembly,” Chouhan was quoted as saying in the report.“As a proud member of the Indo-Canadian community, I am tremendously proud of this historic occasion and honoured to continue my public service in this new role,” he added.Chouhan’s selection was the first order of business Monday as British Columbia politicians returned to the legislature for a brief session after the October election that gave the New Democratic Party (NDP) a majority government.Former NDP cabinet minister Moe Sihota called Chouhan’s selection “a historic day for British Columbia.” “We are in awe of Raj’s accomplishment and what it says about ethnic communities in general, and the degree with which we are beginning to take our place in society,” Sihota said on CBC Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-raj-chouhan-elected-speaker-of-canada-s-british-columbia-province/story-T6D6gw5JS59GQAYVx1HKMJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah to meet farmers at 7pm today||Home minister Amit Shah has invited a group of protesting farmers for a meeting at 7pm Tuesday, two farm union leaders who will be attending the meet have said. The meeting, likely to take place at Shah’s residence, comes a day ahead of a crucial round of talks between farm unions and the government, the sixth time the two sides will be meeting to resolve a crisis sparked by a set of farm-reform laws approved by Parliament in September. Tens of thousands of farmers are protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws with a nationwide shutdown from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. Major Opposition parties have supported their strike call. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months on New Delhi’s borders. “The home minister’s office sent a message. We will meet him. Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union. Also read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws“One of the issues we will raise is the arrest of several farmers in and around Delhi, including Karol Bagh. We will urge the home minister to meet our demands on the three farm laws,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, a farmers’ organisation. Although previous rounds of discussions led by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar have showed no signs of ending the impasse, the home minister has been informally talking to farmers’ representatives to facilitate a solution. The first round of talks was facilitated by several rounds of phone conversations between Shah and key farm union leaders, which took place on December 1. Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets to compete with a network of government-controlled agricultural markets. The government has leaned on a reformist agenda to overhaul India’s antiquated agriculture. Deregulation of agricultural markets will pave the way for more competition and better prices, the government has claimed. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-amit-shah-to-meet-farmers-at-7pm-today/story-pwYu6awy6oOMsg0GwTozRP.html
08-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||Leaders from different Opposition parties are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the ongoing farmers’ agitation, express their concerns over the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and seek their repeal. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said the Opposition leaders will meet to discuss the issue and formulate a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President. Apart from the NCP, the other Opposition parties likely to join the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress, which is a last minute addition to the delegation. All these parties are supporting Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers’ unions. Also read | Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrowBesides Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also likely to join but there is no official confirmation yet. On Tuesday, Pawar met defence minister Rajnath Singh and the two are said to be have discussed land acquisition for the Purandar airport in Pune district. A war of words has erupted between the government and the Opposition parties over the farmers’ protests. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday that Pawar, as the agriculture minister in the UPA government, had asked states to amend the APMC Act and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide financial assistance in absence of the three reforms. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers in this regard. However, the NCP said after taking over as the agriculture minister, Pawar had tried to form a broader consensus among state agriculture marketing boards by inviting suggestions for the implementation of the Act. “The benefit of farmers as per the model APMC Act was explained by Pawar to various state governments, many of which came forward to implement it. Farmers across the country are gaining from the implementation of the Act which was fine-tuned by Pawar to protect farmers’ interests,” it said. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda demanded immediate convening of the Parliament session to repeal the farm laws. He also said that some reforms are needed in the agriculture sector but those have to be framed keeping in mind the interests of farmers. “I agree some reforms are needed but these should be in the interests of farmers. The Acts passed recently have no reflection of such reforms. The government should call a Parliament session to repeal these laws and discuss agricultural reforms that don’t hurt the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-opposition-leaders-likely-to-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-BODZJTBOEswV7zqse15dhL.html
08-12-2020||India||Gautam Navlakha denied spectacles in Taloja jail; Bombay HC calls for sensitization workshop for jail officials||Observing that humanity is most important, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday referred to alleged theft of activist Gautam Navlakha’s spectacles inside Taloja prison and called for the need to conduct a workshop for jail officials to sensitise them on the needs of prisoners.Navlakha is an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said it has learnt about how spectacles of Navlakha were stolen inside jail and the prison authorities refused to accept the new spectacles sent by his family through courier.“Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow. Today, we learnt about Navlakha’s spectacles. This is the high time to conduct a workshop for even jail authorities,” Justice Shinde said.“Can all these small items be denied? These are all humane considerations,” he added.Navlakha’s family members on Monday claimed that his spectacles were stolen on November 27 inside the Taloja prison, where he is lodged.They claimed that Navlakha is “almost blind” without the spectacles and yet, when they sent a pair of new spectacles to him by post earlier this month, the prison authorities refused to accept it and sent it back.“Presently Gautam Navlakha is in acute distress, is unable to see things around him and consequently his blood pressure has shot up,” read a statement circulated on Monday evening by Navlakha’s lawyers that was signed by the activist’s wife Sahba Husain.The high court was hearing two petitions filed by activists, Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe, challenging their arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.Senior counsel Mihir Desai, appearing for Gaichor and Gorkhe, told the HC on Tuesday that the duo were arrested by the NIA only because they refused to make statements before a magistrate against the other accused in the case.The petitions also said the case should be held before the special NIA court in Pune, and not in Mumbai.“The offence is alleged to have occurred in Pune. The case was initially held before a court in Pune. However, after the NIA took over the probe, it was transferred to the special NIA court in Mumbai even when there is a special NIA court in Pune,” Desai said.NIA’s advocate Sandesh Patil sought time, following which the HC posted the matter for hearing on December 21.Navlakha had surrendered before the NIA, which is probing the nearly three- year-old case, on April 14, 2020.Between August 29 and October 1, 2018, the activist had been kept under house arrest.The case pertains to the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtra’s Pune district on December 31, 2017, which, the police alleged, was funded by Maoists.The speeches made by some activists at the conclave triggered violence near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on outskirts of Pune city the next day, according to the police charge sheet.The NIA later took over the case in which several activists and academicians have been named as accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-navlakha-denied-spectacles-in-taloja-jail-bombay-hc-calls-for-sensitization-workshop-for-jail-officials/story-7BFnnKn6aK6l9GkJYQ1UxL.html
08-12-2020||India||Indian Army chief General Naravane begins week-long visit to UAE, Saudi Arabia||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday embarked on a week-long visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, the first ever trip by an army chief to both West Asian states that is expected to significantly boost security ties. This is Naravane’s third foreign tour this year with diplomatic overtones, following his visits to Myanmar along with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in October, and to Nepal in November. “The visit is historic in the sense that it will be the first time an Indian Army chief is visiting the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” the Indian Army said in a statement. Naravane will meet his counterparts and the senior military leadership of the two countries during the tour that will end on December 14. The army chief will be in the UAE during December 9-10, and is scheduled to meet senior military officials to discuss ways to enhance India-UAE defence relations, the statement said. He will travel to Saudi Arabia for the second leg of the tour during December 13-14 to take forward the “excellent defence cooperation” between the two countries through multiple meetings with senior functionaries of the security establishment, the statement said. Naravane will also exchange views on various defence-related issues.Also read: A boost for defence ties in West Asia | HT Editorial The army chief will visit the headquarters of Royal Saudi Land Force, the Joint Force Command headquarters and King Abdulaziz War College. He is also scheduled to visit the National Defence University to address students and faculty. People familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity that the trip was initially slated to begin on Sunday but had to be rescheduled. The reason for this couldn’t immediately be ascertained. The two-day gap between the visits is being attributed to the holidays in West Asian states on Fridays and Saturdays. The visits are part of the Indian government’s outreach to West Asia, seen by New Delhi as part of its extended neighbourhood, and come close on the heels of external affairs minister Jaishankar’s visit to Bahrain and the UAE during November 24-26. This outreach has dramatically expanded defence and security cooperation, especially in counter-terrorism, in recent years. During the visit to Myanmar in October, Naravane and Shringla held talks with the senior leadership, including Aung San Suu Kyi and Senior Gen Min Aung Hlaing, on security and development cooperation. Naravane’s visit to Nepal prepared the grounds for Shringla’s subsequent trip, with both engagements helping nudge bilateral ties towards normalcy after a border row over a new political map issued by Kathmandu that included Indian territories. The latest visit comes against the backdrop of the fast-changing situation in West Asia after the UAE, Bahrain and Sudan normalised relations with Israel. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are home to a majority of the nine million Indian expatriates in West Asia, whose annual remittances amount to about $48 billion. The visit also comes at a time when Pakistan’s ties with Saudi Arabia and the UAE are strained. Angered by Islamabad’s criticism of Riyadh’s position on the Kashmir issue, Saudi Arabia recently sought the early repayment of a $3-billion loan provided to the Imran Khan government in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chief-general-naravane-begins-week-long-visit-to-uae-saudi-arabia/story-Vcvcqya5AccFh6jvbRCVaI.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers to meet Amit Shah today before 6th round of talks tomorrow||As the four-hour Bharat Bandh called by farmers protesting against the farm laws recently passed by Parliament comes to a close, farmers are likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday. National spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait said farmer leaders will meet the home minister on Tuesday at around 7pm.The farmers’ unions which have been protesting since November 26 demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws that they apprehend will corporatise farming are scheduled to meet Union ministers on Wednesday for another round of talks. In Wednesday’s meeting, the Centre is supposed to new draft to the farmers, though both sides remain quite unwavering on their stance — the protesting farmers on their demand to completely withdraw the laws, and the Centre on its decision to amend the laws instead of withdrawing.Click here for live updates of farmers’ protest and Bharat BandhHectic parleys went on throughout Tuesday in preparation for Wednesday’s talks as agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. So far, there have been five rounds of negotiations between the farmers and the Centre since September. The farmers walked out of the first meeting in September as there was no minister present in the meeting. Three rounds of talks took place in December after the farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. Though there has been no headway so far, the proposed meeting between the farmers and home minister Amit Shah comes as a significant development, indicating that the top level of the government is engaged in addressing the farmers’ issues and overcoming the stalemate situation.On Wednesday, several opposition parties will also meet and take a collective stand on the ongoing farmers’ protest before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, NCP president Sharad Pawar has said. The ongoing protest against Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 gathered momentum after political parties, celebrities supported farmers’ cause. The call for nationwide strike on December 8 too received support from political parties, a number of trade, transport, bank unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-meet-amit-shah-today-before-6th-round-of-talks-tomorrow/story-LSv9OAIc5A2SFTACpTWI9K.html
08-12-2020||India||More farmers arrive from Haryana, Punjab; bandh likely to hit supply of rations for protesters||More farmers from Punjab and Haryana trickled in at the Singhu border on tractor-trolleys and cars on Tuesday amid heavy security presence as a nationwide protest called their representatives against the Centre’s agri laws was underway.The ‘Bharat Bandh’, however, hit the supply of essentials, including rice, wheat flour, lentils, oil, milk, soap and toothpaste, for the protesters camping at the border for the 13th day on the trot.“Obviously, the rations supply will be hit. But we have enough stacked up for another 2-3 months. We have come prepared for a long haul,” Gurjaint Singh from Panipat said.But the numbers have started to swell as many more are coming in on bicycles and carts, he said.At lunch time, the protesters sat in rows for a langar organised by several non-profit organisations.After relishing lip-smacking meals, some went back to rest on their trolleys, while others listened intently to their leaders speaking from podiums.Punjabi and Haryanvi songs blared from speakers fitted on tractors as youngsters in jeeps and cars filled service lanes in the area.Many one-stop kiosks along the road have been doling out items of daily need, including inner wear, hair oil, skin cream, socks and soaps, for free to the protesters.Their numbers has been increasing every day, Rajinder Singh Kohli from Mohali said.Fewer vehicles plied on roads amid the bandh called by protesting farmer unions. App-based cabs, auto-rickshaws and DTC buses, however, could been seen on the roads. Most of the shops on the roads leading to the Singhu border remained shut. Agitating farmer unions have threatened to block national highways and occupy toll plazas across the country during their ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11 am to 3 pm as part of their stir. Emergency services will be exempted during the bandh.In its wake, the Delhi Police beefed up security at all border points and made arrangements to maintain law and order across the city, including market places. The bandh has been called against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, all of which were passed by Parliament recently.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-farmers-arrive-from-haryana-punjab-bandh-likely-to-hit-supply-of-rations-for-protesters/story-PvxukYdINm1xNfchDURpeM.html
08-12-2020||India||Delhi auto-taxi union stays away from Bharat Bandh despite supporting farmers||Asserting that the autorickshaw and taxi drivers have already been suffering because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Delhi auto-taxi Union decided to stay away from the Bharat Bandh call by farmers, agitating against the new agricultural laws, on Tuesday.Delhi auto-taxi Union General Secretary Rajendra Soni said they support the demands of the farmers, but not the bandh. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the auto-taxi drivers have been suffering a lot. In such a situation it is not right to go on strike.”He alleged that the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) are doing politics on this issue. “The auto-taxi drivers are being pressurised by the workers of both the parties since morning today to stay away from roads,” he alleged, making it clear that the auto-taxis will run under any circumstance.Many auto-taxi drivers also made it clear that they will continue with their work like normal days. On the other hand, people, especially commuting to and from Noida, Faridabad, and Gurugram are facing trouble, as autorickshaw and taxi drivers avoided going out of Delhi.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmers’ leaders have held several rounds of talks with the central government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-auto-taxi-union-stays-away-from-bharat-bandh-despite-supporting-farmers/story-54NHQiJdPpcjbLMmqubhxK.html
08-12-2020||India||‘This is not LoC,’ AAP tweets after Delhi Police clarify Kejriwal not under ‘house arrest’||After the Delhi Police on Tuesday clarified that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was not put under house arrest and the claims earlier made by the Aam Aadmi Party were totally “baseless and unfounded”, the party again posted a photo of the heavy police deployment in front of Kejriwal’s house and said this is not Line of control. “No! This is not LOC. This is CM’s residence. Does the Chief Minister of India’s capital deserve this treatment? His crime? He supported India’s farmers,” the party wrote after tweeting several photos and videos of Kejriwal’s house. It also said AAP MP Bhagwant Mann was stopped from meeting Kejriwal. Also Read: AAP alleges Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest; Delhi Police deny claim No! This is not LOC. This is CM's residence. Does the Chief Minister of India's capital deserve this treatment? His crime? He supported India's #farmers#BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal #आज_भारत_बंद_है pic.twitter.com/XB5offInZ4“Heavy police force deployed and have surrounded the residence of CM. Entry/exit of people has been banned. But police is allowing BJP councillors to protest right in front of the gate,” the party tweeted.  Latest visuals from CM @ArvindKejriwal's residence.Heavy police force deployed and have surrounded the residence of CM. Entry/exit of people has been banned. But police is allowing BJP councillors to protest right in front of the gate. #BJPHouseArrestsKejriwal pic.twitter.com/61uThHcnV7Delhi Police has repeatedly refuted AAP’s claim that Kejriwal’s movement has been restricted. Delhi’s Special CP Satish Golchha said Kejriwal has been meeting his usual engagements and has also gone out of his residence. “There is adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent any untoward incident,” he said, adding that there will be police intervention if there is any attempt to block the movement of any leader or person. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Tuesday morning Kejriwal has been put under house arrest as not even his domestic help has been allowed to enter his house. The CM had to cancel all his scheduled meetings on Tuesday, he said.“On a day when the entire country is supporting the farmers in the Bharat Bandh, the Central government’s home ministry has asked the Delhi Police to not allow Kejriwal to leave his residence. Yesterday, when Kejriwal, along with all his Cabinet colleagues, went to Singhu border to meet the protesting farmers as a sewadar, the BJP-led Central government got scared. It is the same way as they got upset when Kejriwal did not allow the Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails for the farmers,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-not-loc-aap-tweets-after-delhi-police-clarify-kejriwal-not-under-house-arrest/story-rKhKnVGqZiZumw7HPz3stM.html
08-12-2020||India||Mt Everest’s new height is 8,848.86 metres, say Nepal and China||The height of the world’s highest peak, Mount Everest, is 8848.86 metres, Nepal and China on Tuesday jointly announced ending a long-standing debate about the height of the world’s tallest mountain.The new height is 86 cm - a little less than 3 feet - more than the previous measurement, the country’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali said at a briefing on Tuesday. The height of the mountain peak that straddles the Nepal-China border, was announced simultaneously by Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Kathmandu and Beijing, according to the Kathmandu Post.“This is a historic day,” Foreign Minister Gyawali said, while making the much-awaited announcement on Tuesday.Nepal had been working on measuring Mt Everest’s height since 2011.The official Everest snow height of 8,848 meters (29,028 feet) was measured by the Survey of India in 1954.The precise height of Mount Everest had been contested ever since a group of British surveyors in India declared the height of Peak XV, as it was initially called, to be 8,778 metres in 1847.Between 1849 and 1855, the Survey of India made observations from Dehradun, India base to Sonakhoda base in Bihar during which the Himalayan peaks of Nepal were also observed. At that time it was not known that this peak in the Himalayas was the highest in the world. During computations, the mean computed height of Peak XV came out to be 8839.80 metres, and it was later named after Sir George Everest, the ex surveyor-general of India. The widely accepted height of 8,848 metres was determined by the Survey of India in 1954 from Bihar using the trigonometric method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mt-everest-s-new-height-is-8-848-86-metres-say-nepal-and-china/story-nzpE6jqjV3IPmkXIG04dSJ.html
08-12-2020||India||No buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh from Uttarakhand due to Bharat Bandh||The Uttarakhand Road Transport Union on Tuesday decided to not run buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh over safety of passengers during Bharat Bandh hours. Ashok Chaudhary, state general secretary of Uttarakhand Roadways Employees Union, said that inter-states buses will ply only after 3 pm. “Looking at the safety of passengers during the Bharat Bandh, we decided to not ply buses to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and other plain areas of the state. There is a chance of violence due to the bandh. We are still monitoring the situation and will start the service after the bandh ends,” said Chaudhary. He added that the buses are likely to leave for different states after 2:30 pm. “Taxi and private car services were functional in the state but only in the hilly regions. In plain areas like Dehradun, Haridwar, and Udham Singh Nagar there is a chance of violence; so we informed passengers in advance. No one showed up at the bus terminals in the state in the morning hours of Tuesday,” he added. Meanwhile, Dehradun district administration and police have appealed to people to not forcefully close shops or other establishments during Bharat Bandh. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Shrivastava instructed all the additional district magistrates, deputy district magistrates to take concrete steps to maintain peace in their respective areas. “No one will be allowed to forcibly disrupt any establishment or means of transportation. If someone voluntarily stops operating their establishment or vehicles, it will be their choice. Apart from this, if anyone tries to forcibly disrupt any establishment or vehicle then legal action will be taken against them,” said the district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-buses-to-delhi-uttar-pradesh-from-uttarakhand-due-to-bharat-bandh/story-1ROaq4z0bumLKx30KwFN0I.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Haryana CM Khattar to meet agriculture minister Tomar today||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is scheduled to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protest demanding rollback of the recently passed farm laws.The meeting comes a day before the sixth round of meeting between the government and the farmers’ representatives. It also comes amid speculation that the Khattar government in Haryana could come under a cloud as its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), has joined the chorus for revisiting the recently enacted farm laws. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, appears unfazed by the JJP’s stand. According to a senior party functionary, statements from five JJP MLAs who have expressed support for the ongoing farmers’ protest should not be read as an indication of partnership being on the verge of breaking.Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh here“It is obvious that a political party that counts farmers among its core supporters cannot shy away from taking up their concerns. So the statements from the JJP leaders are politically expedient,” the senior functionary quoted above said. While there is speculation that the JJP could go the Shiromani Akali Dal’s way and break its alliance with the BJP over the farm laws, the BJP leadership in Delhi appeared confident that there is no threat to the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana. “The JJP is in no position to pull out (support) from the government. There appears to be no imminent threat to the Khattar government. Even if the Congress tries, JJP a will not extend support them. Besides, they are short of numbers and cannot ratchet up a government,” the functionary said. The leader also added that the Union government has indicated that it will address the concerns that famers have about certain provisions in the laws. “For instance, there is a fear that in contract farming, the remuneration may begin to decrease after a few years. There are provisions and rules by which such concerns can be addressed. The government is open to making rules that will benefit the farmers,” the leader said.The JJP has been cautious in its demands and has urged the government to consider the demand from farmers that a guarantee for MSP should be given in writing and be made part of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-haryana-cm-khattar-to-meet-agriculture-minister-tomar-today/story-vNjb9wHNo61e63UHH7nIVL.html
08-12-2020||India||Pfizer, Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech apply for EUA in India: Here’s what might happen next||Hopes for an early vaccine for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India have been rekindled after three firms, within days of each other, applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of their respective vaccine candidates in the country. While America’s Pfizer Inc was the first to apply on December 4, Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited applied on December 6 and 7 respectively.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWhile SII will manufacture in India the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s candidate, Covaxin, is the country’s first, and thus far only, indigenously developed vaccine candidate. According to reports, the EUA applications of all three companies will be reviewed on Wednesday.Here’s what is likely to happen next:1. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) describes EUA as “mechanism to facilitate the availability and use of medical countermeasures, including vaccines, during public health emergencies, such as the current Covid-19 pandemic.” For approval for full-time use, a company needs to submit, among other information, data on the vaccine candidate’s efficacy.Also Read | Emergency use authorisation for Covid-19 vaccines explained2. In India, the power to grant EUA lies with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). However, there are no provisions for EUA under India’s drug regulations. In such a scenario, processes to obtain EUA here are not clearly defined. However, CDSCO had granted permission for the use of drugs like remdesivir and favipiravir in June, and itolizumab in July.3. Since there are no fixed rules for granting EUA in India, the minimum efficacy that a candidate needs to have to be granted permission for use in emergency cases is not yet known. In FDA’s case, the agency says it would consider a EUA application only if the vaccine candidate has shown at least 50% efficacy in phase 3 trials. Additionally, the data should have been generated from more than 3,000 participants.4. In terms of how long it might take for a vaccine candidate to be granted EUA in India, Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member, told NDTV it might take 90 days for an EUA application to be reviewed and permission to be granted. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is the department within CDSCO which grants such approvals.5. Globally, Pfizer has filed for EUA in the United States and the application is likely to be reviewed this week. The United Kingdom on Tuesday initiated the use of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate in emergency cases. Bahrain, too, has granted EUA for the US firm’s vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-serum-institute-and-bharat-biotech-apply-for-eua-in-india-here-s-what-might-happen-next/story-n1AFFRpKMQdDkNGsStbsgM.html
08-12-2020||India||Snowfall in higher reaches of Kashmir valley||The famous ski-resort of Gulmarg and other higher reaches of Kashmir received snowfall for the second day on Tuesday, while the plains were lashed by rains, the MET Office.It said there would be a decrease in precipitation in the union territory from Wednesday.Snowfall continued in many areas in the higher reaches of the valley on Tuesday with Gulmarg, in north Kashmir, recording about seven inches of fresh snowfall, officials said.They said other areas like Gurez, Mughal Road and Zojilla axis on Srinagar-Leh road also received fresh snowfall which was going on when the last reports came in.The officials said most places in the plains of the valley received heavy rains which continued this morning.The fresh snowfall and rains have led to the closure of the Srinagar-Leh road – connecting the Kashmir valley with Ladakh u– as well as the Mughal Road – the alternate road-link connecting the valley with the Jammu region, the officials said.The MET Office on Monday issued an ‘Orange Colour’ weather warning for hilly areas of J-K and Ladakh and said the weather was most likely to deteriorate on Tuesday in both the UTs.It said there would be decrease in the precipitation across both the union territories from Wednesday.However, there is a possibility of another spell of widespread rains/snowfall on Saturday, the MET Office said.Gulmarg was the only place in the Kashmir valley to record sub-zero temperatures last night as the mercury there settled at a low of minus 2.4 degrees Celsius, the officials said.All the remaining weather stations in the valley, including Pahalgam, recorded the minimum temperature above zero degrees Celsius, with the night temperature in Srinagar settling at a low of 2.4 degrees Celsius, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-kashmir-valley/story-VFmDdIIjzShIGGJvqtkTQP.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: BJP scared of farmers and Kejriwal, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is perplexed and scared by farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as it thinks he might take to the streets in favour of the agitating agriculturists’ call for the Bharat Bandh. “The BJP is perplexed by the farmers and CM Kejriwal. They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry and exit of people are not being allowed,” Sisodia told news agency ANI. “The BJP is scared that the chief minister will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder Singh because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” he said referring to the Punjab chief minister.Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had also alleged in a tweet that the Delhi Police, on the directions of the central government, “has almost“ put Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he returned from Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers. The Delhi Police, however, categorically denied the allegations and said it is “general deployment” and that the CM’s movement has not been barred in any way.“The Delhi Police will intervene in case of apprehension of breach of peace or any effort is made to block the movement of any critical leader or any person. These claims are totally baseless and unfounded. There is absolutely no restriction whatsoever. The chief minister has been meeting his usual engagements and has been moving out of his residence. There is adequate security in the area to maintain peace and to prevent an untoward incident,” Satish Golchha, Delhi Police’s special commissioner, said.The four-hour Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike started on Tuesday at 11am. Several political parties such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties and many others have extended their support to the farmers ‘call for the strike.The farmer unions are observing the strike against the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Centre’s offer to amend the contentious laws failed to cut ice with farmer groups during the fifth round of talks on December 5. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-bjp-scared-of-farmers-and-kejriwal-says-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia/story-fsZGuOM28yzXMLJ6BKUVJK.html
08-12-2020||India||Teeth of musk deer, head recovered from 5 poachers in Uttarakhand||Five alleged poachers, including four Nepalis, with body parts of musk deer and mountain goat were arrested from Uttarakhand’s Nanda Devi National Park and sent to 14 days of judicial custody on Monday, said officials. NB Sharma, divisional forest officer of Nanda Devi National Park, said that during patrolling, forest staff found unusual footsteps of humans and traces of fire. “On Sunday morning, while patrolling forest staff found the footsteps of humans and saw a local walking around in the forest area. The staff stopped the man, who must have been a porter and was coming down to stock up groceries, and interrogated him. Through that man, the forest staff found the other four poachers,” said Sharma. Sharma said that four teeth of musk deer, one head, skin and two legs of a mountain goat were recovered from the poachers along with wires used for trapping the animals. The five were arrested late on Sunday night and were presented in court on Monday. They were charged under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teeth-of-musk-deer-head-recovered-from-5-poachers-in-uttarakhand/story-tE3NujUUltwbleEavjyCmJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Odisha Lokayukta orders probe into alleged scam in purchase of PPE kits||The Odisha Lokayukta has asked the state vigilance department to probe alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits, masks and other equipment during the Covid pandemic early this year and submit the preliminary report within two months.After the final hearing in the case filed by petitioners Sudarsan Das and Susanta Padhi was over on Monday, Lokayukta Ajit Singh ordered the probe.“A preliminary inquiry has to be conducted by the director of vigilance to see whether to combat Covid-19, essential pharmaceutical good and critical equipment, including 3-layered masks, were purchased on higher rates by Hemant Sharma and other public servants with an ulterior motive for their wrongful gain,” the Lokayukta said in his order.The anti-corruption body also said a competent officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police/additional Superintendent of Police having impeccable integrity has to complete the probe within the next two months.The order came after industry secretary Hemant Sharma and managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Yamini Sarangi appeared before the Lokayukta, in connection with the alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits and masks.Sharma, currently working as principal secretary of the industries department, in April was given the charge procurement for Covid-19 as chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked his officials to be “prepared for the worst”. The officer was among the key people who led the ‘emergency procurement’ team dealing with purchase of personal protective equipment, viral transport media, testing kits and other medical essentials required in the management of the disease.In their petition, the complainants had alleged that there was corruption in the procurement of masks, testing kits, Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) machines, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, Bi-level Positive Airway Pressure (BiPAP) machines, nebuliser, etc, during the Corona pandemic by the Odisha State Medical Corporation Ltd and Hemanta Sharma, who was entrusted by the state government to supervise the process of procurement.On April 6 this year, Sarangi, the MD of OSMC, had issued a public notice seeking an open tender for the purchase of triple layer face mask at Rs 10/- per piece but on April 17, the corporation purchased 30 lakh face masks from M/s Vishnu Disposable Pvt Ltd, Tamilnadu at Rs 16/- per piece flouting the modalities of procurement. The petitioners had alleged that Hemant Sharma was the chief architect of the purchase and his complicity is well made out when he publicly said that blank cheques have been issued for the purchase of the essential pharmaceutical goods and critical care equipment.The complainants alleged that the same quality of masks was purchased by different states at much lower prices.The complainants also alleged that even other essential pharmaceutical goods and critical care equipment were purchased at much higher rates by the officials with an ulterior motive of wrongful gain.Both Sharma and Sarangi in their replies before the Lokayukta denied the allegations of corruption and wrongful gain. Sharma said the procurement was absolutely transparent with no preferential treatment to any supplier.Sarangi said all the procurements were made mainly to protect the people from Covid-19 virus and save their precious lives and that too after approval by the Emergency Procurement Committee and Empowered Group of Ministers as well as by the state Cabinet.Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, additional chief secretary of health and family welfare department, said the process of procurement was undertaken before he joined.“The complaints have to be viewed from a standpoint that the scourge of Covid-19 pandemic has been unprecedented, causing unforeseen consequences and hazards. Apart from the fact that it is a viral disease, the world knows little how to combat it. On the emergence of a situation like this, in a welfare state, the response of the government, to arrest the menace of the pandemic has necessarily to be an out of box one. Nevertheless, in a parliamentary democracy, the people have a right to know, whether the response of the government to the present pandemic, has been an honest one and up to their desired expectation,” the Lokayukta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-lokayukta-orders-probe-into-alleged-scam-in-purchase-of-ppe-kits/story-BapZzKq92BE82YKI6JQI3L.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Metro shuts entry, exit of one station on Green Line||Amid Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation shut the entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Station on Green Line. The station is located in the Bahadurgarh district of Haryana and is near Tikri border — one of the places where farmers are protesting against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September.  Security UpdateEntry & exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed.With several transport and trade unions extending their support to the nationwide strike called by the farmers, cabs, auto-rickshaws are fewer on the road. However, Delhi Metro services are running as usual, including on sections extended to Noida, Haryana. Today’s bandh is a symbolic one, as farmers leaders have said, which should not inconvenience people. “Our bandh is different from that of political parties. It is a four-hour symbolic bandh for an ideological cause. We want that there should be no problem to the common people. We appeal to them not to travel during this period,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikait had said. The protesters also said essential services are exempted from today’s bandh and no one is forced to join the shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-delhi-metro-shuts-entry-exit-of-one-station-on-green-line/story-LsU9kKAKZkaDOiQVP8X2xI.html
08-12-2020||India||Modi govt doesn’t understand D of Democracy: CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat||Slamming the BJP government at the Centre for not listening to the voices of farmers, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Brinda Karat on Tuesday said that the Modi government doesn’t understand the D of Democracy.Asserting that farmers of the country don’t want reforms, Karat asked “who is the Central government bringing the reforms for?”“Democracy starts with the D and the Modi government does not even understand the D of democracy. This government does not understand the meaning of democracy. Whom are the reforms for when the farmers are saying they don’t want this?” Karat said.Alleging that the Central government wants multinational companies to take over the entire farm trade, she said that the reforms have been brought for the welfare of big corporations.“Modi government wants reform for big corporations. The government wants the reform for the big multinational companies to take over the entire trade. The government wants to push down the minimum support price that is a Kisan requires in any democratic country. These are not the reforms, this is destruction,” Karat said.“The BJP has shown its true colours. The reality is that it is not just opposition parties, it is the people of India who is standing by the farmers. Unlike this government, the people of India understand what is the future of our country will be if farmers are oppressed this way,” she added.This comes amid the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called today by the thousands of farmers who have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the farm laws, recently passed by the Central government.Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-doesn-t-understand-d-of-democracy-brinda-karat/story-PUZ2YI6BAtux4R6E3lu7OP.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: India to spend money, not worry about widening fiscal gap, says Nirmala Sitharaman and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nirmala Sitharaman says India is not worried about widening fiscal gap, will step up spendingIndia will not worry about missing its budget deficit target as it seeks to step up spending to support the economy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The stimulus spending won’t be wound down in a hurry, she said in an interview to Bloomberg TV. The government and the central bank together have done a good balancing act, she added. Read moreBharat Bandh: AAP alleges Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest; Delhi Police deny claimThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi Police, on the directions of the Central government, “has almost“ put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he returned from Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers. The Delhi Police, however, categorically denied the allegations and said it is “general deployment” and that the CM’s movement has not been barred in any way. Read more‘Mobile technology will help India embark on one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at IMC 2020Prime Minister Modi said on Tuesday India will use mobile technology for mass inoculation against the coronavirus disease in the country as chances of the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine soon going up. The Prime Minister said mobile technology has enabled benefits worth billions of dollars to reach the deserving and also helped the poor and vulnerable during the pandemic. “It is also with the help of mobile technology that we will embark on one of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive,” he said without giving details. Read moreRelief for small businesses: Now, only four GSTR-3B returns a year instead of 12Goods and Services Tax (GST) taxpayers having annual aggregate turnover up to Rs5 crore will require filing only four tax returns (GSTR-3B) in a year instead of 12 monthly returns that would provide major relief to about 9.4 million small businesses, two officials said. The ‘Quarterly filing of Return with Monthly Payment’ or QRMP scheme would impact about 92% of the total tax base under the GST regime, officials working in the Union finance ministry said requesting anonymity. Read moreAfter MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, he has the opportunity to be next global superstar: Michael Vaughan predicts big things for India starIt has almost been a second coming of all-rounder Hardik Pandya. The dynamic all-rounder had a tough 2019 when he had to undergo a back surgery that kept him out of the team for several months. When he finally got a chance to play for India in the home series against South Africa in March, the pandemic situation changed the plans - leading to the cancellation of the series. Read moreHyundai to recall Kona EV, Nexo hydrogen SUVs to fix faulty brakesHyundai Motor Co is planning to recall a total of 50,864 Kona electric cars and Nexo fuel cell vehicles in South Korea due to faulty electronic braking systems, the transport ministry said. Their braking systems may not function due to software defects, the ministry said, but did not mention if the defects have led to accidents. Read moreHere’s what happened when Esha Deol introduced Bharat Takhtani to DharmendraA daughter will always have an upper hand at pulling her father’s heartstrings more than a son and Dhoom star Esha Deol seemed to be doing just that on Dharmendra’s 85th birthday this Tuesday. Setting all daddies’ girls relating, Esha penned a heartwarming note and shared it with a twinning picture which sent possessive elder daughter vibes right to the core of the netizens’ hearts. Read moreRedditors are freaking out at this pic of a kitchen aisle. Can you spot what it is?Ghosts- Do they exist or is it just a hoax? This question results in different answers from different people. But, whichever answer you pick, this Reddit post may intrigue you if you are also curious about this particular topic. Even if you’re not, the image shared in the post may send a shiver down your spine. Watch ‘Kejriwal under house arrest; orders from MHA’: AAP MLA slams CentreAam Aadmi Party MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj has alleged that Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has been put under house arrest. The AAP leader said that Delhi police officials have barricaded Kejriwal’s house since his return from the Singhu border after meeting farmers. Bharadwaj said that no party leader is being allowed inside the Chief Minister’s residence and said that this is being done on the instructions of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The AAP leader said that the Centre has been miffed since the state government rejected the Centre’s appeal to turn Delhi’s stadiums into jails for farmers. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-india-to-spend-money-not-worry-about-widening-fiscal-gap-says-nirmala-sitharaman-and-all-the-latest-news/story-57SO0coW0YoJaPsJdR57VO.html
08-12-2020||India||Mobile technology will aid India’s Covid vaccination drive, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed technology as the building block of what is going to be the largest Covid-19 vaccination drive in India. Three leading vaccine developers - Pfizer Inc, Serum Institute of India Ltd and Bharat Biotech International Limited - have applied for emergency use authorisation in India.“It is because of mobile technology that India will embark on one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives,” PM Modi said at the fourth Indian Mobile Congress. The conference, which is a three-day event, is being attended by over 110 distinguished speakers and industry leaders from across the globe, including 30 start-ups presenting innovative and sustainable technological solutions. The PM urged the younger generation to keep innovating and also highlighted the crucial role technology played in the handling of the pandemic. “It is important to think and plan how we can improve our lives with the growth of technology,” PM Modi said. “It can help provide better healthcare, better education and better opportunities for our farmers. These are some of the goals we can work towards. It is due to your innovation and efforts that the world was functional despite the pandemic.”Underscoring that India is one of the fastest growing mobile application markets in the world, the PM said, “Our youth is working on many products that have the potential to go global.” The PM also stated that half of India’s mobile users are from rural areas. “We are a country where the tariffs are the lowest in the world. The digital potential of India is unparalleled,” he said. “It is because of mobile technology that we could help the poor and vulnerable during the pandemic.”The inauguration of the conference was attended by Communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, minister of state Communications Sanjay Dhotre, secretary Telecommunications Anshu Prakash and industry leaders such as Reliance’s Mukesh Ambani and Bharti group’s Sunil Mittal. “Digital technology, communication tools and IT platforms have established their extraordinary worth in these challenging times,” Prasad said. “India was united during Covid with digital technology. Covid-19 created a new opportunity, enabling people to talk, meet and share virtually,” the minister added.Prasad further said that 85% of India’s operations are happening with the work from home model. Dhotre highlighted how technology had helped contain the pandemic, while Prakash focused on the massive data surge during the pandemic, asserting how India’s networks had accommodated the surge easily. “Covid-19 pandemic has shown that our networks will not fail us,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-technology-will-aid-india-s-covid-vaccination-drive-says-pm-modi/story-Bkq1KGameItQFxTYzM4teM.html
08-12-2020||India||J&K: Detained at home ahead of Budgam visit, alleges Mehbooba||Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that she had been detained at her house ahead of her visit to Budgam district on Tuesday.She posted a video on her Twitter handle, claiming that she had been detained by the police. “Illegal detention has become GOIs favourite go to method for muzzling any form of opposition. I’ve been detained once again because I wanted to visit Budgam where hundreds of families were evicted from their homes,” she tweeted. In the video shot near the entrance of her official residence at Fairview Gupkar, she can be heard saying that she is not being allowed to move out and later, the Lt Governor says that they (leaders) are free.“GOI wants to continue inflicting oppression & zulm on the people of J&K without any questions asked,” she tweeted while posting another video in which the former chief minister, along with PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari, can be seen arguing with the security deployed at her house. This is not the first time that the PDP president is not allowed out of her house since her release after 14 months. Earlier, police didn’t allow her to travel to Pulwama to meet the family of PDP youth president Waheed Parra a day after his arrest by NIA in New Delhi. Police had then cited security reasons. However, she visited Pulwama later and met the family members of Parra at Naira village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-detained-at-home-ahead-of-budgam-visit-alleges-mehbooba/story-TR8XJFprQcRyYFwybTbHzJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Centre hits out ‘hypocritical’ opposition over Bharat Bandh support, says MSP will continue||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday opposition parties asking for the rollback of the Centre’s farm laws, which are being opposed by thousands of farmers, are hypocrites and pointed out that they had passed the contract farming act while in power.Several political parties such as the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties and many others have extended their support to the farmers ‘call for the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. The four-hour Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike started on Tuesday at 11am.“The opposition which is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto,” Javadekar, the Union minister for environment, forest and climate change, said according to news agency ANI.“Farmers had demanded remunerative price additional to the cost and we are giving them 50% above the cost. Congress has never offered anything during their tenure. It is Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is giving this,” Javadekar added.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said, “It has been an old practice of the opposition parties to mislead the people on every issue and destroy the image of the nation. While in power, parties like Congress, NCP, Akali Dal and Left have supported such bills.”Amid a Bharat Bandh call on Tuesday, the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws entered its 13th day. In view of the nationwide strike, a huge force of security personnel was deployed at Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi.The farmer unions are observing the strike as they are not satisfied with the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Leaders of farmers’ groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-hits-out-hypocritical-opposition-over-bharat-bandh-support-says-msp-will-continue/story-3QzNETZJrbEVlSRanRbBVL.html
08-12-2020||India||Diego Maradona museum in India, golden ‘hand of God’ statue star attraction||A Kerala-based businessman, who brought football legend Diego Maradona to the state in 2012, has announced his plan to build a museum comprising a golden sculpture of the all-time great and other memorabilia related to him. Chairman of the Chemmanur group Bobby Chemmanur said the exact location of the museum was not decided but it will be either in Kolkata or in a city in Kerala. “It will be named “Hand of Gold”, depicting the crucial goal he scored in the 1986 World Cup. It will showcase his professional and personal life. Gold sculpture will be the main attraction,” he said in Kochi on Monday. The proposed museum will be a blend of traditional art and modern technology, he added. “The museum will be best of its kind. It is my tribute to the all-time great. It will be a storehouse of information about him. We have already started collecting memorabilia related to him,” said Chemmanur. He said curator of the museum will be artist-writer Bony Thomas, a founder trustee of the Kochi Biennale Foundation. Recalling his long friendship with Maradona, Chemmanur said once he gifted a miniature gold statue of the football legend who while accepting it with a broad grin expressed his desire to see a life-size gold sculpture related to his “hand of gold” posture. “I find it is my duty to fulfil his wish,” he said. Kerala’s love for the soccer great was well known. The state had observed two-day mourning when he died on November 24 in Buenos Aires at the age of 60. In north Kerala the soccer crazy fans took to the grounds in his favourite jersey No 10 and some of them broke down while talking about the all-time great. They had organised many mini-matches and gatherings. Maradona had visited the state in 2012 and celebrated his 52 birthday in north Kerala’s Kannur. He cut a 25-kg football-shaped cake, sang and danced and kicked many balls to galleries for the ecstatic fans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diego-maradona-museum-in-india-golden-hand-of-god-statue-star-attraction/story-5iTHvD4MzlUddeWlk8LwNN.html
08-12-2020||India||Canara Bank shares zoom nearly 8 per cent||Shares of Canara Bank on Tuesday gained nearly 8 per cent after the firm set the floor price for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore. The stock jumped 7.52 per cent to Rs 126.40 at the BSE. On the NSE, it zoomed 7.70 per cent to Rs 126.45. The lender on Monday said it has set a floor price of Rs 103.50 per share for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore. The bank had received shareholders’ nod in its annual general meeting, held in August, for raising the funds. The sub-committee of the board, at its meeting held on December 7, authorised the opening of the QIP issue and approved the floor price of Rs 103.50 per equity share, Canara Bank said in a regulatory filing. “A meeting of the sub-committee of the board-Capital Planning Process of board of directors of the bank is scheduled to be held on Thursday, December 10, 2020, to consider and determine the issue price for the equity shares as well as the number of shares to be allotted to qualified institutional buyers, pursuant to the QIP,” the bank said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canara-bank-shares-zoom-nearly-8-per-cent/story-b6DvekkYgwWlqMIFnRjy0L.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: All you need to know right now||Tens of thousands of farmers protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws are enforcing a nationwide shutdown from 11am to 3pm on Tuesday. Major Opposition parties have supported their strike call. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months on New Delhi’s borders. The strike has so far been peaceful but it has choked the Capital. Here’s what to expect through the day: How will the Bharat Bandh impact you? The impact of the strike is likely to be most felt in New Delhi and its adjacent satellite towns. The crisis has already snarled traffic into New Delhi at many points. Routes out of Delhi to Meerut, Haryana and Punjab are blocked, police said on Tuesday. An advisory on the Delhi Traffic Police’s Twitter handle has a list of alternate routes commuters may take. What’s open and what’s shut?Banks are functioning as banking unions have withdrawn support to the strike. Major primary agricultural markets across the country are shut, hampering transportation of essentials. The Railways’ two major unions, All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) and National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR), have lent support to the farmers’ strike, which may affect running of trains. Flight and airports are functioning as usual. Why are farmers protesting? Farmers want the Narendra Modi government to revoke three contentious laws approved by Parliament in September. The laws essentially change the way India’s farmers do business by creating free markets, as opposed to a network of decades-old, government-controlled agricultural markets. Catch LIVE Updates of Bharat Bandh hereWhat do the new laws contain? The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. What do the changes aim to achieve? The government has leaned on a reformist agenda to overhaul India’s antiquated agriculture. Deregulation of markets will pave the way for competition in agriculture markers, which currently run on an archaic licenced system. Increasing the food-stocking limits of traders will spur private investments in supply chains and cold chain, which are scarce, officials say. Why do farmers oppose these new rules? Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, whereby the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices. How will the government solve the crisis? The Modi government has so far held six rounds of talks with farmers’ unions, but they have refused to call off the strike, rejecting a proposal to make amendments to the laws. They have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws. The next round of talks is slated for December 9. Does the farmers’ rebellion pose a risk to the government? Modi’s popularity has held up despite the pandemic due to his welfare policies and strong personal appeal. His party won elections in Bihar just last month. The new farm laws however have rattled his administration and pose a political challenge. More than half of the population is dependent on a farm-based income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-all-you-need-to-know-right-now/story-7HJLIpGnjWbaaqUjWVWkcL.html
08-12-2020||India||Rajasthan Panchayat Samiti Election Results: Counting of votes underway, fate of 12,663 candidates on line||The counting of votes polled in all the four phases of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members’ elections is being held in Rajasthan on Tuesday, two days after the polls concluded in the western state. The counting will decide the fate of 1,778 candidates for zila parishad elections and 12,663 candidates for panchayat samiti elections.The counting of votes for all the phases began at 9am at all district headquarters amid elaborate security arrangements. The polling to elect 636 zila parishad members and 4,371 panchayat samiti members was held in four phases on November 23 and 27 and December 1 and 5.The elections were held in 21 districts and 59 panchayat samities of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. State election commissioner PS Mehra said around 7.238 million people were eligible to vote in the panchayat samiti and zila parishad polls for which nearly 25,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used at 10,131 polling stations where more than 50,000 employees were deployed. Nearly 63% turnout was recorded in all the four phases.The election for the head or chief of panchayat will be held on December 10 and the election for the deputy chief will be conducted on December 11. The result will be declared on xxx.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-panchayat-samiti-election-results-counting-of-votes-underway-fate-of-12-663-candidates-on-line/story-Dgiwx0DELvv2nRLSaAwLmL.html
08-12-2020||India||Photos: Farmers stage Bharat Bandh protests across nation||Bharat Bandh protests against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws are currently underway. The nationwide protests come a day before sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm unions are scheduled to take place on Wednesday.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government and states ruled by the party have said they don’t support the bandh, almost all opposition parties and opposition-ruled states have thrown their weight behind the protesting farmers.The farmers have been protesting against the three laws since September, the month these were passed. While initially they blocked railway tracks in Punjab, which has been the epicentre of these protests, on November 26 they started marching towards the national capital and arrived on its borders despite stiff resistance from the Haryana police, in what is a BJP-ruled state.Since then, the farmers have been staging protests on the outskirts of Delhi while others are camping at Nirankari grounds, the site allotted to them by the Delhi police.While the Centre has said it is open to amendments in the three laws and asked for farmers’ feedback, farm unions have demanded a complete repeal of what they have termed as “black laws.” However, according to reports, the government is not in favour of repealing the laws completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-farmers-stage-bharat-bandh-protests-across-nation/story-Dj6Od0IkzOo0uhm8XDJylO.html
08-12-2020||India||Haryana CM Khattar cancels visit after venue vandalised in farmers’ support||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to cancel a programme scheduled for later today after miscreants vandalised the venue on Monday night, a day ahead of the Bharat Bandh call given by various farmer unions seeking repeal of three new agriculture laws.Per information, a group of villagers vandalised the helipad area, uprooted tents in Padha village of Karnal district ahead of the CM’s visit. It is learnt that the venue was vandalised in support of the farmers’ protests as they also burnt the effigy of the CM late on Monday night.Deepika Rani, Sarpanch of Padha village, speaking to HT said, “As per the information from the district administration the chief minister was to visit our village to review the progress of some developmental programmes at 3.30pm on Tuesday.“On Tuesday evening some people gathered in the sports complex and burnt the effigy of the chief minister and vandalised the venue, they also dismantled the helipad.”The CM’s visit was subsequently cancelled.However, some villagers said that the farmers were angry over the failure of the government to resolve the farmers’ issue. Rajesh Kumar, a local BJP leader, alleged that the incident was politically motivated. “The chief minister was to give developmental projects of several crores to Padha and nearby villages but some people could not digest it and they played politics in the name of farmers,” he added.He demanded that the action should be taken against the people responsible for it.The CM was to review the progress of developmental works of an under construction women college and Panchtirthi Tirath and was to address a gathering. Karnal District Collector Nishant Kumar Yadav said the chief minister’s visit to Padha village has been cancelled for now but he will visit to Karnal on Tuesday evening. Karnal Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia said that the main accused are being identified. He said that legal action will be taken under the appropriate sections of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-cm-khattar-cancels-visit-after-venue-vandalised-in-farmers-support/story-n36jRSSVRWEiqR6up2OjsK.html
08-12-2020||India||Computer engineering graduate from Ahmedabad wins GSTN contest with Rs100,000 award||Viraj R. Raval, 23, a computer engineering graduate from Ahmedabad has won a cash prize of Rs100,000 for his video “Benefits of Registering the Business under GST” in the GST-n-You, a creativity contest organised by Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN), an official statement said.Out of the 223 entries for GST-n-You, 16 participants have been adjudged as the winners under three categories in the contest that was open from September 15 to October 15, 2020.Four entries have been selected for the second prize of Rs 50,000 each and the winners in this category are Arun Vijayan of Thiruvananthapuram for his video on “Benefits of GST for Taxpayers and Consumers”, Gautam Mahanti of Navi Mumbai for his creative graphic “Benefit of e-Invoice and SMS based EWB generation”, Shubham Jaiswal of Kanpur for his video ”Benefits of GST for Taxpayers” and Hensi Shah of Anjar in Kachchh for her video “Basic Concepts of Refund on Inverted Duty Structure”, it said.Also read | GST investigators uncover fraudulent transactions of Rs290 crBesides these, 11 other participants have been selected for the third position and have won a cash prize of Rs10,000 each, it added. Apart from these 16 cash prize winners, 14 more participants have been selected for the Certificate of Appreciation for their creativity and originality. The results along with the awarded entries of participants have been uploaded on the GSTN portal, it said.GSTN provides IT infrastructure and services to the Central and state governments, taxpayers and other stakeholders for implementation of GST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/computer-engineering-graduate-from-ahmedabad-wins-gstn-contest-with-rs100-000-award/story-B420R0LGdQQZJlo2Y2yFbN.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: Highway blockades, slogans, police deployment in states||Police in several states tightened security on Tuesday as protests and highway blockades in several states began amid the call for the Bharat Bandh or nationwide shutdown by farmers protesting the three central farm laws. Transport services, offices and shops, particularly those selling fruits and vegetables, are likely to be affected in some states and cities during the Bharat Bandh from 11am to 3pm.The farmer groups are expected to block highways and occupy toll plazas but they have said this will be a “peaceful protest” and emergency services - like ambulances - will not be stopped or delayed.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.As India gears up for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, here’s how states are dealing with it:1. Protesting farmers started preparations to block key roads and occupy toll plazas on Tuesday as part of their call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’ against the Centre’s new farms laws.2. Gautam Buddh Nagar’s additional commissioner of police Love Kumar said they are ensuring that the public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. “Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed the PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force. Officers are making the rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure the security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands,” Kumar said.3. Protests were held in Seoni-Malwa area in Hoshangabad district of Madhya Pradesh in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions against the Centre’s farm laws.4. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) remained closed in many parts of Maharashtra in support of the Bharat Bandh. Members of a farmers’ organisations also staged a ‘rail roko’ in Maharashtra’s Buldhana district.5. Social activist Anna Hazare on Tuesday sat on a day-long hunger strike to support agitating farmers. Hazare also said the agitation should spread across the country so that the government comes under pressure to act in the interests of cultivators.6. Protesters blocked three highways in rural Gujarat by placing burning tyres on roads on Tuesday morning as part of the Bharat Bandh, affecting vehicular traffic for some time.7. Delhi Police on Tuesday tightened security at all border points and made arrangements to maintain law and order across the city, including market places, officials said.8. All examinations scheduled for Tuesday, under Osmania University’s jurisdiction have been postponed, the varsity administration said.9. Azadpur mandi, one of the largest wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables in the country, along with all others in the national capital will remain shut on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh, its chairman Adil Ahmed Khan said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-highway-blockades-slogans-police-deployment-in-states/story-3cBV6dBd3md3fBudbSZYHO.html
08-12-2020||India||‘Mobile technology will help India embark on one of the largest Covid-19 vaccination drives’: Prime Minister Narendra Modi at IMC 2020||Prime Minister Modi said on Tuesday India will use mobile technology for mass inoculation against the coronavirus disease in the country as chances of the availability of a Covid-19 vaccine soon going up. The Prime Minister said mobile technology has enabled benefits worth billions of dollars to reach the deserving and also helped the poor and vulnerable during the pandemic. “It is also with the help of mobile technology that we will embark on one of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive,” he said without giving details.PM Modi was speaking at the India Mobile Congress (IMC), considered the largest digital technology event in India and the biggest international technology conference in South Asia.Three leading vaccine developers - Pfizer Inc, Serum Institute of India Ltd and Bharat Biotech International Limited - have applied for emergency use authorisation in India. Pfizer India has applied to the drug regulator for permission to import its experimental mRNA vaccine for sale and distribution without the requirement for local clinical trials.SII, AstraZeneca’s India vaccine partner, has applied for emergency use authorisation using data from Phase-III trials that were conducted locally, as well as in Brazil and the UK. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has sought a nod for Covaxin, which is being indigenously developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The applications mean that a mass vaccine effort could be shortly underway in India that has the world’s second-largest coronavirus caseload.The Prime Minister also pitched for making India a global hub for telecom equipment, design, development, manufacturing. “We need to work together to ensure a timely roll-out of 5G to leapfrog into the future and empower millions of Indians,” he said.Speaking on mobile technology, he said it was because of this that the government was able to provide benefits worth billions of dollars to millions of Indians. “It is because of mobile technology that we are seeing billions of cashless transactions which boost formalisation and transparency. It is because of mobile technology that we will enable smooth contactless interface on toll booths,” he saidThe government is planning a detailed technological road map to optimise the distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine. The plan will include the use of more regional languages for creating awareness, addressing challenges of last-mile vaccinators and generating alerts about fake vaccines. Health workers will be at the forefront of the immunisation drive while information technology (IT) experts will be in charge at the back end. Experts are working to develop requisite software to ensure the vaccine is properly distributed across the country.An inter-ministerial team for this purpose has members from the ministries of IT and health and as well as the United Nations Development Programme. The government is expected to roll out the COVIN app to track the procurement, supply and distribution of the vaccine to the last mile. The app is likely to be a bolstered version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (e-VIN) used for the polio eradication programme in India. The e-VIN technology is currently active in 32 states and Union Territories and the government plans to roll it out in the remaining ones immediately.“23,507 cold chain points across 585 districts of 22 states and 2 UTs [Union Territories] routinely use the eVIN technology for efficient vaccine logistics management. Over 41,420 vaccine cold chain handlers have been introduced to digital record-keeping by training them on eVIN. Nearly 23,900 electronic temperature loggers have been installed on vaccine cold chain equipment for accurate temperature review of vaccines in storage,” the government said in a statement in August.As per the ministry’s dashboard, 26,567 new Covid-19 cases took India’s tally past the 9.7 million mark to 9,703,770 on Tuesday. India has reported 383,000 active infections, 9.17 million recoveries and 1,40,958 deaths so far.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-technology-will-help-india-embark-on-one-of-the-largest-covid-19-vaccination-drives-pm-modi-at-imc-2020/story-9NuC94hCr1E5WKVI7k0IvL.html
08-12-2020||India||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir: Traffic suspended on Mughal Road, Srinagar-Leh highway||Traffic on Srinagar- Leh highway and Mughal Road has been suspended following fresh snowfall in the region. Since Monday afternoon, the plains have been observing rainfall, while snowfall has been recorded in the upper parts of Kashmir. Officials said Srinagar-Leh highway and Mughal Road are closed due to snow accumulation at many places. The traffic is, however, plying on the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway.Tourist spot Gulmarg that witnessed good snowfall in November has recorded six inches of fresh snow. This is the first snowfall of December in upper parts of Kashmir as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted that intensity of the snowfall could increase later in the day. Also read | Widespread snowfall expected in Western Himalayan region todayJ&K IMD director Sonam Lotus said that the weather could deteriorate further and there is a possibilty of snowfall that could disrupt surface traffic on Mughal Road, Srinagar Leh Road and Banihal-Ramban axis.Srinagar recorded maximum temperature of 9 degrees Celsius and minimun 3 degrees Celsius, while Jammu recorded maximum 25 degrees Celsius and minimum 13.5 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-traffic-suspended-on-mughal-road-srinagar-leh-highway/story-5wKxew7WnkmU8ab2VELM5M.html
08-12-2020||India||In Chhattisgarh, Congress urges people to support Bharat Bandh||The ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh has extended its support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ unions on Tuesday against the three new farm laws enacted by the Centre. The Congress has appealed to people to express solidarity with cultivators.Massive protest is expected in Raipur, Bilaspur and Durg as Congress has directed the district-level workers to actively take part in the bandh. DM Awasthi, Director General of Police, instructed the police chiefs of all the districts to remain alert to prevent any untoward incident in the state.“We have appealed to all sections of society that they should stand by the farmers and support their agitation. Bandh will be observed in an aggressive but peaceful and non-violent manner,” Shailesh Nitin Trivedi, who heads the communication wing of the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee (CPCC), said.He said state Congress president Mohan Markam has given the responsibility to office-bearers and workers of all units of the party in the state to make the bandh successful.Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (CCCI) has also agreed to support the shutdown and to keep commercial establishments and shops shut, he added.Emergency services like hospitals, ambulances, fire brigade and medicine shops have been exempted from the bandh, Trivedi added.Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM) office-bearer Sanket Thakur said, “At least 36 farmers, labourers and social organisations led by the CKMM will take out rallies at various places across the state in support of the bandh”.Road transport organisations have also extended support to the bandh, he said.On the other hand, BJP national vice president and former chief minister Raman Singh has accused the Congress and Opposition parties at the Centre of “hatching a political conspiracy and misleading farmers”.“The Congress party is on the verge of getting extinct in the entire country. Now, it has been hatching a conspiracy to come out on streets in a bid to save its existence,” Singh told reporters.When asked why farmers are not convinced with the new agriculture laws, he said they will come on board.“But there are certain groups which are spreading apprehension and misleading farmers. Wherever there is Congress in power like in Punjab, its chief minister and his government have held hostage that road (apparently referring to protest of farmers on Delhi borders). It is a political conspiracy of Congress and its allies in the UPA,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-congress-urges-people-to-support-bharat-bandh/story-NOoTUJsTUs7dXujnFWGzJI.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi to give inaugural address at virtual IMC 2020||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at the virtual India Mobile Congress (IMC) 2020 on Tuesday, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. The fourth edition of the three-day telecom industry event will be held online for the first time due to the coronavirus pandemic.Here’s all you need to know about India Mobile Congress 2020:1. IMC 2020 is being organised by the department of telecommunications (DoT) and the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) and will be held from December 8-10.2. The title theme for IMC 2020 is Inclusive Innovation - Smart, Secure, Sustainable. The Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement that the aim of IMC 2020 is to align PM Modi’s vision “to promote Aatmanirbhar Bharat, digital inclusivity, sustainable development, entrepreneurship and innovation.” IMC 2020 also “aims to drive foreign and local investments, encourage Research and Development in the telecom and emerging technology sectors”, the statement added.3. IMC 2020 will witness participation from various ministries, telecom CEOs, global CEOs, and domain experts.4. Telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre, and telecom secretary Anshu Prakash will attend the inaugural session.5. Reliance Industries Ltd chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani, Bharti Enterprises chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal, and Ericsson head of South East Asia, Oceania and India Nunzio Mirtillo will also attend the session.6. According to the COAI, participants from over 30 countries, 210 national and international speakers, more than 150 exhibitors and over 3,000 CXO-level delegates are expected to participate in the event.7. In 2019, the event recorded participants from over 60 countries, 350 national and international speakers, 350 exhibitors, 56 live 5G demos, over 50 thought leadership sessions and 75,000 visitors.8. IMC is considered as the largest digital technology event in India and the biggest international tech conference in South Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-give-inaugural-address-at-virtual-imc-2020/story-ZLcpDYK3UMEfENcHdfbZ3O.html
08-12-2020||India||Normal life hit in Odisha as Bharat Bandh begins, govt offices shut||Normal life came to a grinding halt in Odisha as the dawn to dusk Bharat Bandh, called by dozens of trade union bodies, farmer organisations seeking repeal of three new farm laws, stopped all movement of trains, trucks and other vehicles on Tuesday morning. The Bandh is supported by opposition parties such as Congress, CPI, CPM, SUCI, All India Forward Bloc, CPI (ML), CPI (M) and AAP, among others.In Bhubaneswar, vehicle movements came to a stop as bandh organisers burnt tyres at Master Canteen Square and Jaydev Vihar Square while others picketed on train tracks in Bhubaneswar railway station. At Jaydev Vihar square, hundreds of inter-state trucks and ‘night-coach’ buses were stranded between Cuttack and Bhubaneswar.Movement of auto rickshaws and taxis was also stalled. In Baramunda bus stand, passengers had a torrid time as no buses were plying on roads. Several office goers in Bhubaneswar too faced difficulties as the Mo Bus service of the state government remained off the roads due to bandh.Public transportation services were affected as the protesters held picketing at the railway stations and bus stops in Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Rayagada, and several other places. Vegetable markets, shops, shopping malls, petrol pumps were shut as the Federation of All Odisha Traders Association have also extended its support to the farmers’ cause.“The BJP government is against the farmers. If Narendra Modi believes in democracy, he must repeal the new farm laws,” said CPI leader Narayan Reddy.Though the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD government did not publicly support the bandh call, the party indirectly supported it shutting down all the government offices in the state. The party hoped that all outstanding issues can be resolved through dialogues between the Centre and the farmers’ groups.“The party has always been demanding doubling of Minimum Support Prices as suggested by the Swaminathan Committee and will continue to do so for the benefit of our farmers,” a BJD leader said.The state home department has asked district collectors to take all preventive measures to maintain law and order and ensure maintenance of essential services in the districts in view of the Bharat Bandh.Meanwhile, the General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II of the Odisha Civil Services-2019 Main examination scheduled for Tuesday has been rescheduled in view of the Bharat Bandh. As per the new schedule, the OCS 2019 main exam for General Studies Paper 1 and Paper 2 will be held on January 2, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-in-odisha-as-bharat-bandh-begins-govt-offices-shut/story-5S18vZnc2RDMZm7VCtlGdO.html
08-12-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut tweets on Bharat Bandh, shares video against protests||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday tweeted about the call of farmers for a Bharat Bandh or a nationwide strike. Ranaut also shared a video of spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev talking about protests even as the agriculturists are agitatating against the Centre’s new agricultural laws.“Aao Bharat ko band kr dete hain, yun to tufaano ki kami nahi is naav ko, magar laao kulhaari kuch chhed bhi kar dete hain, reh reh ke roz marti hai har ummeed yahaan (Come let’s shut India, though there is no scarcity of storms hitting this boat, but bring an axe to make some holes in the boat, every hope dies here every day),” she tweeted. आओ भारत को बंद कर देते हैं, यूँ तो तूफ़ानों कि कमी नहीं इस नाव को, मगर लाओ कुल्हाड़ी कुछ छेद भी कर देते हैं, रह रह के रोज़ मरती है हर उम्मीद यहाँ, देशभक्तों से कहो अपने लिए देश का एक टुकड़ा अब तुम भी माँग लो, आजाओ सड़क पे और तुम भी धरना दो, चलो आज यह क़िस्सा ही ख़त्म करते हैं 🙂 https://t.co/OXLfUWl1gbAlso read | How Bharat Bandh is likely to pan out across different states“Deshbhakton se kaho apne liye desh ka ek tukda tum bhi maang lo, aajaao sadak pe aur tum bhi dharna do, chalo aaj yeh kissa hi khatam karte hain (tell the patriots to ask for a piece of the nation for themselves as well, take to the streets and you also protest, let’s end this story once and for all),” she said.Also read | As states brace for Bharat Bandh, police departments issue travel advisoryRanaut has been voicing her opinion on the issue of farmers’ agitation and has been speaking against it through her tweets. She was recently involved in a Twitter spat with actor and singer Diljit Dosanjh among others over the farmers’ protests after she tweeted, and later deleted the post, misidentifying an elderly woman protester as Shaheen Bagh dadi Bilkis Bano.Police across several states have tightened security and made arrangements to maintain law and order across in view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmer unions against the Centre’s new farm laws, officials said. Farmers’ leaders have said emergency services will be exempted and appealed to their affiliates to not force anyone to join the shutdown. Protesting farmers will block key roads and occupy toll plazas during their ‘chakka jam’ protest from 11am to 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-tweets-on-bharat-bandh-shares-video-against-protests/story-7dgjjSi2hoTAeBLjHWbpTJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Widespread snowfall expected in Western Himalayan region today||A Western Disturbance is likely to cause widespread and heavy snowfall in the Western Himalayan region today.Under its influence, rain and snow is very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh during December 7 to 9. Heavy rain and snow also very likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on Tuesday.But temperatures in the northern plains will not fall immediately. “We are not expecting a fall in temperatures immediately because there are consecutive Western Disturbances which are affecting the Western Himalayas. With a Western Disturbance, there is usually clouding and temperatures are marginally above normal. Just behind tomorrow’s Western Disturbance, there is another Western Disturbance approaching on December 11 so it’s unlikely that temperatures will fall significantly now. A significant drop in temperatures is expected only once the Western Disturbances pass and there is no other Western Disturbance approaching,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.Air quality hovered in the very poor to severe range in most parts of northwest India on Tuesday. While Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 394 in very poor category, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Noida, Bulandshahr recorded severe air.There is mild to moderate fog in most parts of northwest India on Tuesday morning. A Western Disturbance was impacting the Western Himalayan region on Monday and brought rain and snow to the higher reaches. There was also an intense cyclonic circulation over Haryana and neighbourhood and winds were somewhat easterly which means they are moisture laden winds. The combination of moisture availability, convergence of winds, relatively low temperature in some places has led to dense fog developing on Monday,” said Sathi Devi.Moderate to very dense fog had disrupted traffic and flights on Monday over many parts of Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, West Rajasthan, east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim.A cyclonic circulation is lying over Gulf of Mannar and another cyclonic circulation lies over southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Maldives. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-snowfall-expected-in-western-himalayan-region-today/story-330g6pvLuHM9iNvMuzMTHJ.html
08-12-2020||India||India registers less than 30,000 new Covid-19 cases as tally crosses 9.7 million||India registered a substantial fall in its latest daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as less than 30,000 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Tuesday. As per the ministry’s dashboard, 26,567 new Covid-19 cases took India’s tally past the 9.7 million mark to 9,703,770.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, which on Monday had fallen below 400,000 for the first time since July, remained below that mark, and are currently at 383,866 or 4.10% of the total cases. The trend of more new recoveries than daily infections also continued, as 39,045 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking the number of such cases to 9,178,946 or 94.45% of total cases. Also, the virus claimed a total of 385 lives in this duration, taking the death toll to 140,958 or 1.45% of total cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOver the last few days, the country has been recording less than 40,000 daily Covid-19 cases. But this is the first time in several months it has logged less than 30,000 new daily infections. Globally, India remains the second worst-hit country behind the United States, and is immediately ahead of Brazil.These latest numbers come at a time three firms, two of which are Indian, have applied for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of their respective vaccine candidates in the country. America’s Pfizer Inc was the first to seek approval for its candidate to be used in emergency cases. Pune’s Serum Institute of India (SII), which will manufacture Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine candidate in India, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, too, have applied for their candidates to be used for emergency cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-less-than-30-000-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-crosses-9-7-million/story-PROAsTsNAkHjCYz68qVvXL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: As states brace for shutdown, police departments issue travel advisory||Police in several states have issued advisories to commuters on Tuesday ahead of the farmers’ unions call for a Bharat Bandh or a nationwide strike against three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament. Commuters in several states are likely to be affected as farmers have said they are planning to block roads, highways and borders as a part of the Bharat Bandh from 11am to 3pm.Haryana Police and Delhi Police have issued travel advisories informing people that they may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways. In Delhi, nearly 4,000 traffic personnel and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate traffic and avoid any untoward incidents. Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), prohibiting gathering of people, is already in place in the entire city.As on Tuesday morning, the Capital’s Tikri, Jharoda and Dhansa borders were closed for any traffic movement, Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers and the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, they added. Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here Haryana Police also took to Twitter to inform citizens about the expected blockades saying, “It is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways, within Haryana and blockage them for some time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm. There may be some disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time.”“According to reports, it is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways within Haryana and block them for some time,” Navdeep Singh Virk, the additional director general of police (law and order), said. Almost all the districts in the state except Nuh and Narnaul are likely to be impacted by big or small road jams. In addition, there may also be disruptions on various toll plazas in the state, he added.Meanwhile, buses of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will not ply till 1pm, the state’s agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu had said on Monday. In Maharashtra, however, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses will run as scheduled during the bandh. The All India Motor Transport Congress, an apex body of trucker outfits, said it would “join the Bharat bandh and suspend their operations on December 8”.Farmers’ leaders, who have demanded the scrapping of the three laws, have assured that emergency services will be allowed during the Bharat Bandh. They also said they did not want any trouble for common people.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-as-states-brace-shutdown-police-departments-issue-travel-advisory/story-D32NMgvihsrTSDxHxRAX9N.html
08-12-2020||India||Panel to oversee development of 65-acre land on Ram Janmabhoomi campus||The Ram Mandir construction committee on Tuesday decided to constitute a separate committee headed by Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj to oversee development of 65-acre land on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus where the temple will be constructed. Govind Dev Giri is the treasurer of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The committee will work under the Ram Mandir construction committee. The Ram Janmabhoomi campus comprises 67.77 acre land. Out of this, in the 2.77-acre land stands the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. Nripendra Misra, chairman of Ram Mandir construction committee, on Monday presided over a meeting in Ayodhya to review test reports related to laying of foundation pillars of Ram Mandir. It will continue on Tuesday also.“A separate committee will be constituted to oversee development work of the rest of the 65-acre land at Ram Janmabhoomi. Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj will head this committee,” Dr Anil Mishra, a member of the trust, told mediapersons after the meeting. “This committee will have architects, engineers and experts of Tata Consulting Engineers. It will also review suggestions received by the Trust related to the development work of the 65-acre campus of the Ram Janmabhoomi,” Mishra said. On the issue of sand being found below the surface while testing foundation pillars of Ram Mandir, Mishra said: “The surface (on which foundation will stand) will be made strong. We are discussing all aspects with experts.” Earlier in the day, Nripendra Misra, along with engineers of Larsen and Toubro, Tata Consulting Engineers and members of the Trust, inspected the ongoing foundation laying work of the Ram Mandir. Trust wants to expedite the work which got delayed due to the pandemic. On September 11 this year, the Trust had started the work for testing the foundation pillars. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-oversee-development-of-65-acre-land-on-ram-janmabhoomi-campus/story-X07AOzc4JaKu7b3a4jSOcM.html
08-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Haryana farm group backs Centre’s agricultural laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new lawsA group of farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to three new farm laws, appealing the minister not to repeal the legislation. Read moreSonia Gandhi not to celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protests, Covid-19Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday on Wednesday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic, a party functionary said Tuesday. Read more‘Mystery disease’ in Eluru: Central team to take stockThe Centre rushed a three-member expert team to the Andhra Pradesh town of Eluru on Monday as authorities struggled to control a yet-to-be-identified “mystery” disease and 171 more patients were admitted to hospital. Read moreChina sends warplanes, troops for drill in PakistanChina has dispatched fighter aircraft and troops to a Pakistani airbase close to the Gujarat border to take part in the latest edition of a bilateral military exercise, the Chinese military announced on Monday evening. Read moreIndia will have a strong attack if he plays with Bumrah and Bhuvi: Sehwag names third Indian pacer for T20 World Cup 2021Former Indian opener and captain Virender Sehwag has opined that pacer T Natarajan can play a major role in making the Indian bowling attack look extremely dangerous in next year’s ICC World T20. Read moreTwitter reveals what Indians talked about the most this yearTwitter has revealed what Indians have talked about the most on its platform this year. The results aren’t surprising as the most talked about topics were Covid 19, Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Hathras gang rape. Read moreMumbai Police shares viral video of kid getting haircut. Here’s whyIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you must have seen the viral video of a kid named Anushrut. The clip shows the cutie being less-than-pleased about getting a haircut. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-haryana-farm-group-backs-centre-s-agricultural-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-nzV4DWLykbgQBWNSgaDYaM.html
08-12-2020||India||Parliament: A look at how seating arrangement has evolved over the past 68 years||The Indian Parliament, that will see 55% additional seating capacity for MPs in its new building, has been no stranger to additions and alterations of seats in the past 68 years since the first Lok Sabha. The Lok Sabha chamber, used as the Legislative Assembly much before independence, had only 145 seats. After 1947, “the chamber was remodelled to accommodate a much larger number of members when the Constituent Assembly took over the function of the Central Legislature”, according to documents available with the Lok Sabha secretariat. The first Lok Sabha election in 1952 had 461 seats but within three years, the seats swelled up to 499. “Subsequently, the seats went up to 522, then to 530 and “now, presently up to 550 within the same building,” said Parliament documents. And it was during this period that the House authorities had no other choice but to install a few seats that are always hidden behind the pillars of the chamber—places where no MP likes to sit. Also read | New Parliament building will be temple of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: Lok Sabha Speaker Om BirlaThe proposed chamber will be better designed and the architect firm has assured that no seat for MPs will be obstructed by pillars or other structures. From time to time, Parliament has cleared constitutional amendments to increase the seats of both Houses. The share of seats from each state depends largely on the census and the current strength of 545 seats was construed with reference to the 1971 census. The delimitation of the current seat allocation will expire in 2026 and it is widely anticipated that the government will refer to the 2001 census to review the seat allocation of different states as the first census of the new century is expected to reflect the population trend more appropriately. The new Parliament building, for the first time, would also allot individual offices for each MP—a departure from the current practice where only the ministers are allotted chambers in the Parliament building. Transport Bhawan and Shram Shakti Bhavan would be demolished to build the office complex for MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-a-look-at-how-seating-arrangement-has-evolved-over-the-past-68-years/story-N2ymUfaLNZyo8yBCmfMsGK.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: UP government advisory asks police to avoid confrontation with farmers||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued an advisory asking police personnel to avoid confrontation with farmers. It also asked the police not to take any harsh action against the protesters during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. The government also issued an advisory to create six check points between six and 10km stretch on the Noida–Delhi border to prevent the entry of agitating farmers from the state into Delhi. Also read | Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different statesBesides, the government directed for checking at entry points on all borders which Uttar Pradesh shares with Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The state government has also directed the police to look for anti-social elements to ensure they do not mingle with the farmers and indulge in violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-up-government-advisory-asks-police-to-avoid-confrontation-with-farmers/story-xYgnLBDDevdeDRo7y2F2IP.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech seeks nod for Covaxin use||Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech on Monday applied to the central drug regulator seeking emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, news agency Press Trust of India quoted an official as saying. Covaxin is being indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It wasn’t immediately clear whether the authorisation request was based on trial data from Phase 1 and Phase 2 of human trials – the results for which were reported as a success but haven’t been released in the public domain – or the ongoing Phase 3. However, the timelines involved in Phase 3 suggest that the use of this data was unlikely. The first enrollment for Phase 3 trial was done on November 11 after the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its approval in October. According to the trial procedure, after the first dose, a second dose is administered 28 days later, and the evaluation is conducted another two weeks after that. This suggests that the first reliable data from Phase 3 is unlikely to be available before December 23. On December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed hope that a Covid-19 vaccine could be ready in a few weeks. That evening, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer sought emergency use approval for its vaccine from DCGI. The Serum Institute of India sought a similar nod for the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6. The Phase 3 data of these vaccines has shown 95% (Pfizer) and up to 90% (Oxford) efficacy respectively, according to data released by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-nod-for-covaxin-use/story-PDVXeKrpaHQhDKEjbsxxyK.html
08-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi not to celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protests, Covid-19||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday on Wednesday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic, a party functionary said Tuesday. The leader, who will turn 74 on December 9, is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to shift out of Delhi in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection.Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her. Even last year, she did not celebrate her birthday in the wake of rise in incidents of rape in various parts of the country and concerns over women’s security. The decision came after the death of a rape victim, who was set ablaze, at a hospital in Delhi and also the incident of a young veterinarian being raped, killed and set ablaze in Hyderabad by four people last year.Also read | Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different statesThe Congress has already extended its support to the farmers’ agitation and demanded repeal of the three new agriculture laws. Sonia Gandhi had made a brief appearance at the Indira Gandhi Memorial on November 19 to pay tributes to the late Prime Minister on her 103rd birth anniversary. Earlier, she was admitted to the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on July 30 after chairing a meeting of party’s Rajya Sabha members. “She has been under heavy medication pursuant to her discharge from hospital in August,” a party functionary had said. On September 12, Sonia Gandhi, accompanied by Rahul Gandhi went to the United States for a few days for her routine medical check-up. The two missed the monsoon session of Parliament from September 14 to 23. Before leaving for the US, she had carried out major organisational changes, reconstituted the Congress Working Committee and her team of office bearers, and also formed a special panel to help her in organisational and operational matters. Sonia Gandhi left Delhi at a time when there are rumbling in the Congress over the debacle in Bihar assembly elections and bypolls in several states with the group of 23 dissenters, who had written a letter to the party chief in August this year seeking organisational overhaul, calling for introspection over the electoral setbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-not-to-celebrate-her-birthday-over-farmers-protests-covid-19/story-las7rP0QktZh2MLtTUE8dI.html
08-12-2020||India||Kerala local body elections: 6,910 wards, 395 local bodies, 5 districts in 1st phase polling||The first phase of voting for the three-phased elections to the decentralised tiers of local bodies at the village, block and district levels in Kerala will be conducted by the Kerala State Election Commission on Tuesday. The elections are being conducted for panchayats, municipalities and corporations in which 27.1 million voters are eligible to vote across 34,744 polling stations.Kerala’s three political coalitions — CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) are in the fray in these polls. The polls are being held five months ahead of crucial assembly elections in Kerala, which are likely to be conducted in May 2021.Here’s all you need to know about the Kerala local body elections 2020:1. In the first phase of polling on Tuesday, voters from five districts of Kerala — Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki — will exercise their franchise. The fate of 24,584 candidates would be sealed during voting from 7am to 6pm. As many as 11,225 polling booths have been set up and webcasting has also been introduced in 320 problematic polling booths, officials have said. Authorities have deployed 56,122 personnel for election duty.2. The second phase of polling on 10 December will see voters from Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts head to the polls. The third and final phase on 14 December will see voting in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod districts in northern Kerala.3. Out of the 1,200 self-government institutions in Kerala across 14 districts, elections will be held to 1,199 local bodies which includes 15,962 wards in 941 village panchayats, 2,080 seats in 152 block panchayats, 331 seats in 14 district panchayats, 3,078 wards in 86 municipalities and 414 wards in six municipal corporations.4. According to the State Election Commission, 74,899 candidates will contest the polls which include 38,593 men, 36,305 women and one transgender candidate.Read more| Fierce three-cornered contest in Kerala local body polls5. There are 88,26,873 voters in the first phase, including 41,58,395 males, 46,68,267 females and 61 transgender people. This includes 150 NRIs and 42,530 first-time voters.5. The polls were originally scheduled to take place in October as the tenure of elected representatives to the local bodies was set to end on November 12 but due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state election postponed the polls till December.6. In the 2015 polls, out of the six corporations, the LDF won in four and two are in the UDF’s kitty. Currently, the LDF rules the majority of the municipal and local bodies.7. The LDF’s prime focus during the campaign has been the achievements of the four-and-half-year-old Pinarayi Vijayan government as the party has touted its social welfare schemes and handling of the coronavirus pandemic. But LDF is not in a comfortable position this time in the polls as UDF and the BJP have questioned the ruling party on controversies related to the gold smuggling case, corruption in the Life Mission project and allegations against the Pinarayi Vijayan government. The BJP-led NDA is trying to create a dent in the state, pinning hopes on various development programmes initiated by Prime minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.8. Notably, Kerala has reserved 50% of seats in local body polls for women.9. The local body polls are being held under strict Covid-19 norms and voters have been asked to sanitise their hands as they enter and exit the polling booths. To maintain social distance markers are used and face masks are mandatory. Only three voters are allowed inside the booth at a time.10. Apart from postal ballots, Covid-19 patients are allowed to vote after regular voters cast their votes. Listed as special voters, they must arrive at the polling station before 6pm. Polling officials and agents have been instructed to wear personal protection equipment (PPE) kit before special voters can enter the polling station.11. The state election commission has said that those treated at government-run hospitals will be taken to the polling station by the health department. Special voters living in non-government-controlled institutions or homes should come with a PPE kit at their own expense and drivers ferrying them must also wear a PPE kit.12. Votes will be counted on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-elections-6-910-wards-395-local-bodies-5-districts-in-first-phase-polling/story-lAZ4XHdhRQwCK9ZQWzdD0O.html
08-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC stays Centre’s approval to OIL for drilling in national park||The Gauhati high court on Monday stayed approval given to Oil India Limited (OIL) to explore hydrocarbons at seven locations inside the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) in Assam. A division bench comprising chief justice (acting) N. Kotishwar Singh and justice Manish Choudhury passed the order while hearing a plea by petitioners Mrinmoy Khataniar and Amar Jyoti Deka, who had sought the stay on permission given to OIL by the Centre in May to drill for hydrocarbons at seven locations in DSNP. After hearing arguments by advocates Debajit Kumar Das, RS Choudhury and H Betala, who represented the petitioners, the division bench stayed the environmental clearance for non-compliance with a Supreme Court order of 2017 which required OIL to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study. The decision is another setback to OIL, which this month abandoned a well at Baghjan in Assam, seven months after it blew out and 17 days after the blaze it caused was doused.The company faced a loss in production and a backlash from local residents over its handling of the blowout. As the well was located close to DSNP and the Maguri Motapung Wetland, the blowout and fire also raised concerns of damage to ecology. In an affidavit filed last month, OIL had stated that no public consultation for environmental clearance or biodiversity impact assessment had been done yet for proposed drilling for oil and natural gas in DSNP. The company maintained that existing rules do not require it to conduct public consultation and stressed that no work on oil and gas exploration and extraction had started till date. OIL said it was committed to the undertaking submitted before the apex court with regard to conducting a biodiversity study prior to the start of drilling. OIL had maintained that the company won’t operate inside the national park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-stays-centre-s-approval-to-oil-for-drilling-in-national-park/story-9OLJO9eINDwBN36LKvKdUI.html
08-12-2020||India||Fog spell continues in Delhi; AQI remains in very poor category||A thick layer of fog continued to envelop the national Capital on Tuesday, a day after the city witnessed the season’s first episode of fog, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). There was moderate fog at Palam with visibility of 300 metres this morning.The fog spell also added to the foul air quality, with the air quality index at 7am being 394, in the very poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. IMD forecast for Tuesday read that dense fog in isolated pockets was expected over Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Manipur, Mizoram,Tripura and Assam and Meghalaya. Isolated heavy rain and snow was also expected over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad today. On Monday, at the Safdarjung Observatory -- representative of Delhi’s weather, moderate fog was observed with the visibility reduced to 300 metres at 8.30am. “The season of fog has started. Easterly winds that were blowing over Delhi till Sunday noon brought moisture. High moisture content combined with low wind speed resulted in heavy fog. On Tuesday, we are expecting dense fog at Safdarjung while very dense fog at Palam,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He added that at Safdarjung, the visibility may reduce to less than 200 metres on Tuesday morning. Also, air quality is likely to remain in the higher end of very poor because of the impact of fog, which makes the air heavier, allowing higher concentration of pollutants. “Though moisture content will start reducing from Tuesday, its impact will be felt only later in the day. Also, wind speed will pick up to 10-12 kmph, which may result in an improvement in air quality on December 9-10,” said Srivastava.Also, Delhi may see very light rain or drizzle on December 11 on account of a Western Disturbance that will affect the whole of northwest India. “Till at least December 12, there will be no significant change in the morning and night temperatures. Only after the passing of the WD, there could be a drop in temperature,” he said.On Monday, the minimum temperature was 12 degrees C, three notches above normal. The maximum settled at 26.3 degrees C, two notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-spell-continues-in-delhi-aqi-remains-in-very-poor-category/story-PpBPpG5l95pfwQtt1LQqcK.html
08-12-2020||India||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 400k in India for first time since July||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) caseload in India fell below 400,000 on Monday — the lowest number of active cases since July – while recoveries rose to over 9.1 million, according to the Union health ministry.According to the data uploaded at 8am on Monday, the country reported 9.67 million Covid-19 infections, with 32,981 new cases reported the 24 hours to Monday, while the death toll rose to 140,573 with 391 new fatalities. According to HT’s dashboard, the total cases as of Monday night stood at 9,704,800 and fatalities at 141,013. India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 2 million-mark on August 7, with the next million being reported in 17 days on August 23. It crossed the 4 million mark on September 5, and 5 million on September 16. Thirteen days later, the total number of infections crossed 6 million, and went past 7 million on October 11. On October 29, India recorded 8 million cases, and surpassed 9 million on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), as many as 147,787,656 samples have been tested till December 6, with 801,081 samples being tested on Sunday itself. The 391 new fatalities on Monday, according to the Union health ministry, included 69 from Delhi, 46 from West Bengal, 40 from Maharashtra, 28 from Kerala, 24 each from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and 20 from Punjab. So far, the country has recorded 140,573 fatalities, with Maharashtra bearing the brunt with 47,734 total deaths, followed by 11,856 in Karnataka, 11,793 in Tamil Nadu, 9,646 in Delhi; 8,723 in West Bengal, 7,924 in Uttar Pradesh, 7,033 in Andhra Pradesh; 4,916 in Punjab, 4,081 in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh with 3,337 fatalities. The health ministry stressed that more than 70% of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-400k-in-india-for-first-time-since-july/story-17L2W0TbtJs2XZIEEgpSbP.html
08-12-2020||India||Voting for first phase of BTC election passes peacefully; over 77% polling reported||Polling took place in the first phase of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) election on Monday, with 77% of the eligible voters turning out. Polling started at 7:30 am and continued till 4:30 pm in 1,739 polling stations. In some stations, voters who had turned up at the polling stations cast their votes even after 4:30 pm. A total of 130 candidates were in the fray in 21 constituencies in Udalguri and Baksa districts in the first phase. Voting for the other 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts will take place on Thursday. “We recorded nearly 79% voting till evening. The figures are still being collected and the percentage might go up slightly. Polling was peaceful and there was no report of any law and order problem,” Ranjan Sarma, deputy commissioner of Baksa said. While there are 11 constituencies in Baksa, 10 others are in Udalguri. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, polling officials were given face masks and sanitisers for themselves and also to offer voters who came to the polling stations without masks. Social distancing was also maintained during voting. “We recorded 75.4% polling in our district, but the figures are still being collected. There was no major issue anywhere and voting took place smoothly,” said Prakash Ranjan Gharphalia, deputy commissioner of Udalguri. This is the first election being held in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under BTC placed under Governor’s rule. Assembly polls in Assam are due in March-April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-for-first-phase-of-btc-election-passes-peacefully-over-77-polling-reported/story-PxOypJPNmc4JiJc4P1gw7J.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh: How strike is likely to pan out across different states||Farmers, agitating for nearly two weeks against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre earlier this year, have called for a nationwide strike on Tuesday. The general strike from 11am till 3pm will be backed by several political parties and a joint platform of 10 central trade unions.The Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Trinamool Congress (TMC), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Samajwadi Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) have extended their support to the call. Several cab and taxi unions are also supporting the Bharat Bandh due to which travelling across the states is likely to be disrupted.Follow latest updates on Bharat Bandh here The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.ALSO WATCH | Bharat Bandh: Farmers stop train in Maharashtra’s Buldhana, several detained Thousands of farmers have gathered on Delhi’s borders since November 26 to protest against the three contentious laws. Due to the demonstrations, seven borders of the national capital are completely closed. They are protesting the three legislation —The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Here’s how the bandh will come to pass across different states of the countryDelhi: While the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is all set to lend its support to the Bharat Bandh call and peaceful protests against three contentious laws, the Delhi Police on Monday said that they will take strict legal action against persons who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops. Nearly 4,000 traffic and thousands of security personnel will be deployed on the borders and the city roads to regulate the traffic and avoid any untoward incidents.Punjab: Farmers who have been protesting for the past 13 days are mainly from the northern states of Punjab and Haryana. Punjab is therefore likely to witness a major impact of the strike. All political parties, traders’ bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended support to the call. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, on Tuesday said the strike will be complete.Haryana: In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades along major highways. Haryana’s additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the public may have to face traffic blockages while travelling on various roads and highways of the state on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh: Thousands of protesters from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled UP have marched to the Capital. Opposition parties, including the Congress, Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party have supported the bandh. The general strike is likely to have a major impact in western UP where the Bhartiya Kisan Union has influence. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials not to compromise with peace and order at any cost and take all necessary steps for ensuring that people do not face any problem because of the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday. West Bengal: The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal has decided to extend “moral support” to the nationwide strike called by farmers. The party, in solidarity, will stage sit-ins in various parts of the state for the next three days. Senior TMC leader and lawmaker Saugata Roy said the party will not enforce the strike called by the farmers as it is against “bandh culture”.Maharashtra: The ruling alliance of the Shiv Sena, Congress, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have supported the Bharat Bandh. Offices in major cities like Mumbai and Pune may continue to operate but highways in rural areas of Marathwada and Vibadhra could be blocked.Bihar: Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties have supported the call for the bandh in Bihar, which is ruled by a coalition of the BJP, Janata Dal(United) or JD(U) and other small parties. Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD has announced protests across the state due to which the police fear major blockades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-how-nationwide-strike-is-likely-to-pan-out-across-different-states/story-nfzqkXBF8oZTUbuhNok0iN.html
08-12-2020||India||11 days on, body found near MiG-29 crash site; DNA report awaited||A body believed to be of Indian Navy pilot Commander Nishant Singh, missing since his MiG-29 combat jet crashed into the Arabian Sea 11 days ago, has been found by rescue teams and officials are awaiting the result of a DNA test to confirm his identity. The result of the DNA test alone can confirm the identity as the body was beyond recognition when it was found, people aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity on Monday. “Mortal remains of a human body have been recovered in the vicinity of the wreckage. The samples are being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity,” said a statement from the Indian Navy. The people cited above said the body was found near the spot where the MiG-29 crashed into the Arabian Sea on November 26. One of the two pilots in the jet was rescued soon after the crash. “All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats, have been accounted for using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The FDR/CVR [flight data recorder/cockpit voice recorder] along with other important material have been recovered so far for analysis [and] investigation,” the statement said. The Navy had mobilised nine warships, 14 aircraft and several small vessels for the search and rescue mission to locate the missing pilot. The statement said maritime surveillance aircraft and helicopter had flown sorties totalling 270 hours during the search. The Navy has ordered an inquiry into the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-days-on-body-found-near-mig-29-crash-site-dna-report-awaited/story-l4M2TnB3wYlvhkMfUNZRWM.html
08-12-2020||India||Jail statistics to include transpersons’ data||The Centre on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it had directed all states and Union territories to include data on transgender prisoners in jail statistics beginning this year.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing for the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), told a bench comprising chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan that the Prison Statistics India report would henceforth classify prisoners as male, female and transgender.The submission was made during a hearing on a plea filed by Karan Tripathi, an independent researcher in criminal justice and criminology, seeking a direction to the NCRB to “make requisite policy and format amendment to include the data on transgender prisoners either in the latest Prison Statistics Report, 2019 (through revision)” or “incorporate the same in the subsequent reports, which will be published in the coming years”.At the last hearing, the court had sought to know from the authorities what steps they had taken for including data on transgender prisoners.Following the additional solicitor general’s submission, the court disposed of the plea, which had sought a direction to the Centre to ensure prison authorities and departments “maintain data on transgender prisoners/inmates in each and every document/report required to be maintained by them”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jail-statistics-to-include-transpersons-data/story-9SnIJcnDW1Bwkad1WBUrVM.html
08-12-2020||India||GoM lays out plan for govt’s media outreach||The Union government is working on a new strategy to overhaul its media and public outreach, with a group of ministers (GoM) comprising nine Union ministers recommending a focus on 10 key areas as well as detailing ways in which criticism can be addressed and positive messaging can be spread wider.The recommendations, part of a report accessed by HT, were made after extensive sittings by the GoM to discuss “Government Communication” and include evolving a multipronged strategy to amplify messages through media engagement, outreach programmes at the level of states and districts, and working with influencers. The suggestions also include developing Prasar Bharati News Service as a key news agency of the country and developing DD International along the lines of “best international public broadcasters”. “The deliberations of the GoM focused on evolving multipronged strategy to take these 10 big narratives to the people by various means including direct connect by elected representatives and state and district level representatives, engaging with media houses and academia at national and international level, utilising all types of media, feeding them with positive stories and testimonials, developing institutional mechanisms for structured engagements, developing DD International on lines of best international public broadcasters and strengthening a resource pool of domain experts,” the report said. Two officials aware of the discussions confirmed the deliberations, while asking not to be named.“The GoM was formed to streamline communication strategy a few months ago. We felt that there was a need to assess how we could reach out in a more effective manner. Various ministers were part of it to remove gaps in government communication. During Covid, small media outlets found it difficult to collect information and get videos. We figured out we needed to share videos [too],” said one of these people. “This process has been underway for some time now,” the second official added. The group has met six times since June 14 and its recommendations will now be sent to the Cabinet secretariat.The 10 core narratives include projecting India’s soft power, the country’s standing in the international community and marquee government initiatives such as Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Digital India.10 key areas identifiedIndia @ 75 (2022) and Republic @75 (2025) celebrations$5 trillion economy plansAatmanirbhar Bharat initiativesSabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas initiativeDigital India effortsSwachh Bharat, Swasth BharatNaari Shakti programmesSkill India initiativeSustainable development focusProjecting India’s soft power globallyThe recommendations also appeared to focus on social media discourse, saying there is a need to constantly track “negative influencers”, and to engage with “positive influencers” to put the “government’s view point in the right perspective.” The GoM also proposed to identify journalists who have lost their jobs recently who are “supportive of the government or are neutral”, so that their services could be utilised by various ministries.The GoM includes Cabinet ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, and Union ministers Kiren Rijiju, Hardeep Singh Puri, Anurag Thakur and Babul Supriyo. The group has made its first presentation to the Prime Minister, who guided the GoM with his insights and gave vital inputs, the report noted.A group of secretaries has also been formed to monitor each of the key areas mentioned under the 10 core narratives. The recommendations also spoke of previous efforts to ensure digital media reporting “is not biased”. “Steps have been taken to ensure that the news reporting on digital media is not biased primarily due to its foreign investment component. It has been decided to cap the foreign investment to 26% and the process to implement the same is under way,” the report said. During discussions, which was also included in the report, concerns were raised over foreign media coverage with one member suggesting there be curbs on interacting with foreign journalists. The report concluded that international outreach is an important component in putting government’s stand properly in an international forum and opted for the opposite. “Regular interaction with foreign media journalists would help disseminate correct information and perspective of the government, especially on sensitive issues,” it added. The report added that there should be local level outreach, for which volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS), National Cadet Corps, National Youth Corps (NYK) and party leaders be involved. The GoM suggested that every ministry should identify two major public outreach programs in a year along with one day of pre-event publicity and one day of post-event coverage. “This way, for around 300 days in a year, there will be coverage of one or the other government program,” the report said. The GoM recommendations also called for a new communication wing and to establish a strong ‘Fact Check Unit’ to more effectively use the social media for targeted communication. The group has also suggested a research unit to collate all information in proper format for easy and timely retrieval.“Based on the agreed/approved action points, the timelines for each one will be drawn and then these will be implemented. A review and monitoring mechanism also needs to be put in place. Either the same GoM can be entrusted with the responsibility to review and monitor the progress on a quarterly basis or a separate mechanism in the cabinet secretariat can be established,” it added. The ministry of information and broadcasting has sought inputs from the group of secretaries on the action plan to implement the above recommendations. A communication regarding this was sent on Thursday. HT has reviewed a copy. “There is nothing wrong in the government planning better media outreach. Any entity whether public or private is entitled to do so. However it is a little disconcerting that people might get influenced to be more pro-government to gain favours now that they know they will be tracked,” said Pradyuman Maheshwari, editor-in-chief and founder of MxMIndia, a media and advertising analytics firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-lays-out-plan-for-govt-s-media-outreach/story-nAV6jIlO6IDzfJI3pAE7LJ.html
08-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi won’t celebrate birthday over farmers’ agitation, pandemic||Congress president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on Wednesday, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against the three farm bills and the Covid-19 situation across the country, a party functionary said on Tuesday. Gandhi is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to move out of the national capital in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection.Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her. Farmers protesting the Centre’s agricultural sector laws have called a ‘Bharat Bandh’ on Tuesday after several rounds of talks with the government over the new farm laws remained inconclusive. Farmers’ unions on December 4 decided to intensify their agitation against the farm laws calling for ‘Bharat Bandh’ stating that they were not satisfied with amendments to the agricultural legislation being proposed by the government.The ‘Bharat Bandh’ or the nationwide strike called by the farmers against the farm laws will begin at 11am and continue till 3pm on Tuesday. Haryana Police and Delhi Police have issued travel advisories informing that people may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways.“It is expected that agitating groups may sit in dharna on various roads and highways, within Haryana and blockage them for some time. The peak time of impact is expected to be between 12 pm to 3 pm. There may be some disruptions on various toll plazas in the state. The main national highways Delhi-Ambala (NH-44), Delhi-Hisar (NH-9), Delhi-Palwal (NH-19) and Delhi to Rewari (NH-48) may also see some traffic disruptions for a short time,” the travel advisory by Haryana Police read.Thousands of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly-enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Leaders of farmer groups have held several rounds of talks with the government but all of them remained inconclusive so far. After the fifth round of talks, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has called another meeting on December 9.Meanwhile, India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crossed 9.67 million after 32,981 new infections and 391 deaths were reported from across the country, according to the Union health ministry on Monday. The nation’s death toll has mounted to 140,573 and the active cases stood at 396,729.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-won-t-celebrate-birthday-over-farmers-agitation-pandemic-report/story-h3G2S5zlLZCSCXL3gnMJfM.html
08-12-2020||India||Kerala to move SC against new farm laws: State agriculture minister||Kerala will move the Supreme Court against the new farm laws in a couple of days, said state agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar. He said that since agriculture falls in the concurrent list, the new laws encroach upon the rights of states and are against the federal structure of the country. The state government claims to have sought legal opinion and received advice that the validity of the laws can be challenged the apex court. “Agriculture falls into the state list as per the seventh schedule of the constitution. States were not consulted before bringing such legislation and farmers’ bodies were also kept in the dark. We feel this legislation will only benefit big corporate houses engaged in the sector,” said Kumar. The minister said the state will introduce an alternative mechanism for procurement and distribution of produce, that involves agriculture co-operative societies and self-help groups. “Farmers are on the street for more than two weeks but their cries fall on deaf ears. The union government can’t go ahead like this, crushing farmers’ interests,” he said. The Bharatiya Janata Party has criticised the decision saying it is politically motivated. “Kerala is not an agrarian state and it will be least affected. The state wants to score some political points.This is nothing but sheer drama,” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state. In 2018-2019, agriculture accounted for 11% of Kerala’s GSDP (industry 25% and services 64%), and only 32% of the state’s population, as opposed to 58% at the national level identified themselves as belonging to an agricultural household. As the first phase of local body election is being held on Tuesday, Kerala is not participating in the nationwide bandh called by various farmers’ outfits. Usually in the state, such protests turn a forced shutdown but political parties arrived at a consensus to facilitate smooth electioneering this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-move-sc-against-new-farm-laws-state-agriculture-minister/story-dXJpbhkEIJPt8XmqzBGNVI.html
08-12-2020||India||BJP, Opposition slugfest over stir intensifies||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday accused political rivals, who have found a rallying point in the ongoing farmers’ agitation, of displaying “shameful double standards”, saying that parties such as the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) had once supported what are now key provisions of the new laws that have triggered the protests.Addressing media persons on Monday, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the parties were opposing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in a bid to “retain their political relevance”.“The Congress party in their 2019 manifesto had promised to repeal the APMC Act and make trade of agricultural produce including export free from all restrictions,” Prasad said.Hitting out at NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Prasad said, “He had written to the then Delhi chief Minister Sheila Dikshit and MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that agricultural sector needs improvement and that the market requires huge investment in infrastructure including cold chain and private sector participation is essential...”He also said as the Union agriculture minister in the United Progressive Alliance government, Pawar had strongly advocating for greater participation of the private sector in the farm sector and highlighting the need for making suitable regulatory and policy changes for that.“Now they are opposing what they had been working to do when in power. This exposes their shameful double standards. This is opposition for the sake of opposition,” he added.The NCP said Pawar, as the agriculture minister, persuaded many “reluctant” states to implement the BJP-led Atal Bihari Vajpayee government’s model APMC Act.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said Pawar took decisions with consensus and never imposed them on states. “After the NCP declared support (to farmers stir), the people of BJP have circulated some letters, claiming Pawar saheb himself was encouraging privatisation.The Congress said farmers were justified in opposing the alleged “corporatisation” of agriculture. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said, “Please do not follow America. Government should not become a lobbyist for the corporate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-opposition-slugfest-over-stir-intensifies/story-B8DyitZJ9aqq6GcBzZuPWN.html
08-12-2020||India||SC dismisses plea seeking protection for Republic TV staff||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition filed by Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami seeking blanket protection from arrest for all employees of the channel, quashing of all pending criminal cases and an omnibus direction to transfer all probes pending against the company to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).“This is a little ambitious,” remarked a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee, pointing to the general orders stated in the petition. Senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the holding company of Republic TV – ARG Outlier Media Private Limited -- and Goswami informed the court that the petition was filed in anticipation of the arrest of several employees of the company.The bench pointed out: “You are seeking a direction to the Union government to protect all employees of the news channel, restrain Maharashtra police from arresting any of your staff, quash all FIRs {first information reports} lodged against the company and transfer all cases to the CBI. It is better you withdraw this petition.” Sathe agreed to do so in order to pursue a remedy as and when an occasion arose in any matter. The court agreed to the request.The same bench had granted Goswami interim bail on November 11 following his arrest in a two-year old abetment to suicide case of a businessman, Anvay Naik.The current petition was not filed with regard to any specific case. The plea said: “The liberties of the employees of petitioner 1 ( ARG Outlier) and petitioner 2 (Goswami) are under attack by the political dispensation in the state of Maharashtra, Maharashtra Police by way of a series of targeted, malicious, wrongful, high handed and arbitrary acts of respondent 1 (Maharashtra government).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-protection-for-republic-tv-staff/story-zlTMdhC0HtJx0IWn2gNvXN.html
08-12-2020||India||Ahead of Bharat Bandh, states told to bolster security||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has asked all states and Union territories to enforce Covid-19 health and safety protocols strictly and make adequate security arrangements during the nationwide shutdown strike called by farmers’ groups on Tuesday, demanding the repeal of three laws that seek to liberalize agricultural markets.All opposition parties except the Biju Janata Dal and YSR Congress Party, the ruling parties in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, and major labour and workers’ unions have supported the Bharat Bandh, which is likely to have an impact in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, western Uttar Pradesh, and parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana. In an advisory, the home ministry also asked state governments and the police to ensure that all Covid-19 guidelines are strictly adhered to by the protestors, officials familiar with the matter said. “Peace and tranquility should be maintained during Bharat Bandh and security arrangements should be in place to avoid any untoward incident,” said the advisory, a copy of which was reviewed by HT.Also Read: Strike over new farm laws across India todayAfter the MHA sent out its advisory, the governments of states such as Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh instructed district administrators to take “stern action” against those engaging in violence or violating Covid-19 guidelines.The impact of the bandh, which will start in the morning and will continue until 3 p.m., is expected to be felt particularly in Punjab, where all political parties, trade bodies, truck unions and mandi associations have extended farmers their support. The Sikh Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee (SGPC), the highest religious body of Sikhs, said on Monday that the strike will be complete. In Haryana, five legislators of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janata Party have extended support to the protest. All major markets in the state are expected to remain closed with farmers’ bodies planning blockades.In Uttar Pradesh, opposition party leaders Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and Mayawati of the Bahujan Samaj Party asked their workers to participate in the bandh. The police expect the bandh to have impact in western UP, where Bharatiya Kisan Union has considerable influence. “The opposition parties are trying to mislead innocent farmers on the Centre’s revolutionary and historic laws to further their selfish political ends,” UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportIn Rajasthan, various farmers groups have announced plans to block all highways in the state until 3 p.m. even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot appealed to protestors to maintain peace. In Maharashtra, the ruling Shiv Sena, along with its alliance partners, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, has supported the bandh. In Madhya Pradesh, over 50 farmers groups have decided to block traffic on various highways on Tuesday. Gujarat has invoked prohibitory orders across the state to prevent major protests, officials said.There would be no strike in Kerala, where local body polls are to be held on Tuesday, even though the state government on Monday decided to approach the Supreme Court against the three farm laws. In Tamil Nadu, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief M K Stalin will lead the protests .In West Bengal and Jharkhand, the bandh is expected to have impact as all main parties and trade unions have called for a complete strike. “Our government does not support strikes, but the TMC fully supports farmers’ struggle,” said Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Thousands of farmers from Punjab have massed on Delhi’s borders to protest against the Centre’s new agricultural laws. “The response is overwhelming, not only in Punjab or the neighbouring states; it would be a total bandh in the entire country,” said BS Rajewal, president of a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bharat-bandh-states-told-to-bolster-security/story-d6nCZaReMXLLXxizx9SPCL.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat braces for Bandh||A day before their proposed Bharat Bandh against three agricultural laws, farmers’ leaders on Monday appealed for peaceful protests and asked demonstrators not to force anyone to take part in the nationwide strike, but indicated again that their campaign will continue till the central government repeals three contentious farm laws that have emerged as a rallying point for political rivals of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Agitating farmers have urged shopkeepers to join their “four-hour symbolic bandh” and shut their establishments, and said they will occupy key roads between 11am and 3pm in different parts of the country. Multiple unions, including those representing autos and taxis, traders at several mandis, transporters, and even railwaymen have said they will support the call either by stopping work during those hours or by gathering at protest sites.As authorities across the country rushed to put in place arrangements to deal with possible law and order challenges, several political heavyweights — from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal — reiterated their support for farmers, while Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad accused the BJP’s rivals of displaying “shameful double standards” and alleged that some of them had in the past backed efforts for farm sector reforms.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says officialSeparately, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, stressed the need for reforms in bringing about development while launching a Metro rail project in Agra through a video conference, a pitch that came a day ahead of the strike that is expected to stall life and impact traffic and supply of essential items in several parts of the country, including in Delhi, with tens of thousands of farmers across the country.“Reforms are very much needed for a new order and to give new facilities. We cannot build the next century with the laws of the previous century,” Modi said, without mentioning the ongoing protests. “Some laws that used to be good in the past century have become a burden in the present century. Reforms should be a continuous process.”Farmers’ leaders, however, appeared steadfast in their demand for scrapping the three laws while they assured that emergency services will be allowed during the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. They also said they did not want any trouble for common people.“The Modi government will have to accept our demands. We want nothing less than withdrawal of the new farm laws,” farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, addressing a press conference at the Singhu border connecting Delhi and Sonepat — one of the key points blocked since thousands of protesters from Punjab and Haryana reached there on November 27 as part of their protests.Another farmers’ leader, Darshan Pal, said the bandh will be apolitical. “It will be a peaceful bandh. We are firm on not allowing any political leaders on our stage,” he added. A large section of farmers has demanded the repeal of the three controversial laws enacted by Parliament in September, which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power, weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, and will eventually be detrimental to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Five meetings between the government and farm leaders have remain deadlocked, with the next round of dialogue slated for Wednesday. Farmers want a legal guarantee for MSPs, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, as well as a special session of Parliament to repeal the laws. They have even rejected four major amendments — verbally proposed by the government — to the set of farm laws. On Monday, political rivals upped the ante against the Centre with all major parties — except Odisha’s ruling Biju Janata Dal and Andhra Pradesh’s ruling YSR Congress Party — seeking to mount pressure on the BJP over the farmers’ protests.Also Read: Strike over new farm laws across India today“The BJP government (at the Centre) should immediately withdraw the farm bills or step down. It should not continue to remain in power after sacrificing the rights of the farmers,” West Bengal CM and Trinamool Congress leader Banerjee said at a rally in West Midnapore district.Rajasthan CM Gehlot said the Centre must not delay paying attention to issues of farmers’ welfare. “The NDA (National Democratic Alliance) government must shun its arrogance, insensitivity, adamant attitude and roll back the black farm laws. The Congress party stands with our farmers in ensuring the mandi system, MSP must continue & farmers & farm lands are saved from big corporate,” he said on Twitter.The BJP hit back, stressing that parties such as the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party had once supported what are now key provisions of the new farm laws. Union minister Prasad alleged that the Opposition was conspiring to create “unrest” by misleading people over the issue, but at the same time appreciated farmers’ unions for not linking their stir with any political party.Addressing BJP supporters at an event in Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the three farm laws were not anti-farmer. “If a farmer can sell his produce for a better price outside the market, what is the problem to anyone? What is so anti-farmer about this? If a farmer is assured of a price for his produce, if a trader buys more from a farmer without any ceiling for stocks, what is against the farmer about it?” he asked.As the political tug of war continued, law enforcement authorities focused on putting in place arrangements to avoid trouble, as instructed by the home ministry in an advisory. The Centre also asked states and Union Territories to ensure all Covid-19 guidelines were followed by protesters. The Delhi Police, which function under the Union home ministry, said they had taken elaborate steps and warned that strict action will be taken against those trying to disrupt movement or “forcefully” shut shops. “Delhi Police have also issued a traffic advisory for smooth movement of vehicles and commuters. Anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement, life or forcefully closes shops will be strongly dealt with, as per the law,” Eish Singhal, Delhi Police public relations officer, said.Also Read: One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new lawsSinghu and Tikri borders connecting Delhi to Haryana, and the Chilla border on the Noida Link Road were expected to remain closed on Tuesday as well in view of the protests, just like the past few days. On Monday, the Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi.Though the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) and All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA) said they will not participate in the strike, some auto and taxi unions — including those associated with app-based aggregators — and traders’ groups in Delhi announced that they will be a part of the agitation, in what could impact transport facilities and supplies of vegetables and fruits.Adil Ahmed Khan, chairman of Delhi’s Azadpur Mandi — a wholesale market for fruits and vegetables — said several traders’ associations, including those in Ghazipur and Okhla, decided not to operate on Tuesday. However, not all traders appeared to agree with Khan.“Traders have even put banners at all gates of Azadpur Mandi in solidarity with the one-day strike. This is a historic decision because if there are no farmers, then there will be no traders in our mandis. But there is nothing to panic. Delhi will not face any crisis due to the shortage of supplies,” said Khan.The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), which is the apex body of transporters representing about 9.5 million truckers, said it will suspend operations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-braces-for-bandh/story-TWBc5cCozlzQGJbCS8IPuO.html
08-12-2020||India||One farm group in Haryana backs Centre’s new laws||A group of farmers from Haryana met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to three new farm laws, appealing the minister not to repeal the legislation. Their demand comes at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, have called for a nationwide blockade on December 8 in protest against the farm laws and vowed to intensify their agitation if the government did not repeal the laws. This is the first time since the agitation began when a section of farmers have come out in support of the laws. The farmers, representing Har Kisan, an organization of 116 farmer-owned agri enterprises known as farmer producer organisations, met the agriculture minister and asked for a separate meeting with him with more members of their organization. Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says officialThe farmers’ group from Haryana said they were not opposed to any amendments that the government may be considering but they want to the laws to be in force. “We want MSP to continue, we also want the mandi system to continue but we also want more marketing options that these new laws will create,” said Satpal Singh, one of the signatories of a memorandum submitted by the delegation to the farm minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-farm-group-in-haryana-backs-centre-s-new-laws/story-tWXPmG7PlzaCHAIEHekceL.html
08-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers to explore all measures, says official||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked ministers negotiating with farm unions to explore “all possible measures” to secure farmers’ rights and incomes to end the ongoing agitation, a person familiar with the matter has said. The PM is open to amendments or new rules, if necessary, the person added. Modi has advised his key ministers that the government should explore more safeguards to protect farmers against exploitation, strengthen existing notified markets, known as Agricultural Produce Market Committees, bring stricter provisions to secure farmers engaging in contract farming, and also expand procurement of crops at state-set minimum support prices (MSP). The ministers are likely to draw up their final proposal along these guidelines. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, railways and food minster Piyush Goyal, and minister of state (commerce) Som Prakash are set to meet farmers’ representatives again on December 9 -- the sixth round of talks -- a day after a nationwide Bharat Bandh called by the unions on Tuesday. “The PM’s message is that all safeguards possible for farmers should be created. If amendments are needed to strengthen farmers rights over their land and resources, there should be no hesitation. Procurement should be strengthened...,” the person said. Also Read| Bharat Bandh: Police warn strict action against disruptors, to use drones to keep an eye on protestersGovernment officials on Monday hastily went over proposals they think might help resolve the stand-off: while the government hasn’t showed any signs it will rescind a set of pro-market policies, farmers have stuck to the demand for a complete repeal of three new farm laws. “If the farmers had cited specific provisions and objections, we would have been in a better position to come up with proposals,” the person cited above said. The government pushed three laws in September to deregulate markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future, which, officials say, will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers in India, on average, receive lower-than-global prices because of rising costs of cultivation and policies to keep food cheap. Farmers are seeking a law prohibiting sale of any farm produce below MSP. Many economists say such a law could turn demand-supply laws upside down, causing private traders to exit markets during gluts, when buying at MSP will not be profitable. On the other hand, the government cannot be a monopoly buyer of all farm produce. Thousands of protesting farmers have marched towards the capital and are camped at several entry points. They largely oppose the laws saying they will be swallowed by big corporations. A background note from the government-run think-tank Niti Aayog, which the negotiating team will draw on, says farm sectors, such as horticulture, milk and fishery – where government intervention is low – has grown on average 4-10% annually, compared to a flat growth rate of 1.1% in cereals where government intervention is high. “This clearly indicates that in recent times liberalized markets are more favourable to agricultural growth than government support and intervention in markets,” an official said. The government is likely to argue that there are ways to ensure existing notified markets can co-exist with free markets, the official said. Also Read: Farmers say they will block roads, seek supportSome economists say competition could lead to better price discovery. It is a fallacy that APMC markets offer any price security for produce other than rice and wheat, according to noted farm economist Ashok Gulati. A second official contended there will be no impact of free markets to reformed APMCs in at least 12 states that “do not charge commission on notified crops”. Nine such states charge only a reasonable fee and service charges from 0–1%. The “real threat” to APMC mandis and their business is from “excessive and unjustified charges in these markets”, the second official said. Farmers aren’t convinced. “The issue is not about one particular clause, but about the direction in which the government is pushing farming in India,” said Avik Saha, a farm activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-to-explore-all-measures-says-official/story-vWaeSyTPwctoXYKSr5MOOL.html
08-12-2020||India||Review of Covid vaccine applications of Pfizer, SII, Bharat Biotech tomorrow: Report||An expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) will meet on Wednesday to review applications of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates, official sources said on Monday night.The decision was taken late on Monday evening after the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech became the third pharmaceutical firm to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin.Also Read: Hailing ‘turning point’, Britain begins roll-out of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine The Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer had on December 4 sought approval for its vaccine from the central drug regulator, after the firm secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India sought the nod for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, on December 6. “DCGI has already started processing the applications. The subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 at CDSCO will deliberate on the applications by Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech seeking emergency use authorisation for their COVID-19 vaccines on December 9,” a source said. After evaluation, the SEC will give its recommendations to the DCGI on whether emergency use approval for the vaccine candidates should be granted or not, the source said. At an all-party meeting on December 4, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had expressed hope that a Covid-19 vaccine may be ready in a few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-of-covid-vaccine-applications-of-pfizer-sii-bharat-biotech-tomorrow-report/story-PjfowCTwrCLheo8A5724zO.html
08-12-2020||India||Bharat Bandh Updates: Centre not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meeting with Amit Shah, reports PTI||Thousands of farmers are protesting against Centre’s new farm laws in and around Delhi with a nationwide strike or Bharat Bandh held on Tuesday from 11am to 3pm. A day before the sixth round of talks between farmers’ representatives and the government, Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday invited the leaders of farmers’ union for talks. The meet which began after 8 pm was held at the office of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. As many as 13 farmer leaders were invited for talks with Shah which ended post 11pm. The farmer leaders said that Centre was not ready to repeal the farm lawsFarmers have been protesting the three contentious farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament.The next round of talks between the government and the protesting farmers is scheduled to take place on Wednesday. Follow live updates here:Govt not ready to repeal farm laws, say farmer leaders after meet with Amit ShahThe meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders finally ended with farmer leaders saying that the Centre was not ready to repeal the farm laws. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Hannan Mollah post the meeting said the home minister told the government would give in writing about the amendments it is willing to make, reports PTI. Plea in Supreme Court to allow farmers to protest at designated placeA PIL seeking to allow farmers, who are protesting at several border points of the national capital against the new farm laws, to protest at the designated place by following Covid-19 guidelines has been filed in the Supreme Court. The plea filed by Delhi-based lawyer Reepak Kansal has sought framing guidelines to balance citizens right to protest with right to free access and movement, according to PTI.‘Excellent at drama’, says Meenakshi Lekhi on Kejriwal’s house arrest claimResponding to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s claims regarding Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house arrest, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Tuesday said that “everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama”. “It is not house arrest but rest in the house. We have video footage of last night in which he can be seen, we do not know what did he eat at some marriage function that he is at his house. Everyone knows he is excellent at doing drama, I doubt if his degree is from the Indian Institue of Technology (IIT) or the National School of Drama (NSD),” Lekhi, Lok Sabha MP from New Delhi constituency told ANI.Amit Shah meets farmer leaders ahead of crucial talks on farm lawsA day before the government’s crucial sixth round of talks with representatives of protesting farmers, Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday met a select group of union leaders in a bid to break the deadlock. According to a report in PTI quoting sources, 13 farmer leaders were called for the meeting, which began after 8 pm. The farmer leaders included eight from Punjab and five from various nationwide organisations.5-member Oppn delegation to meet President tomorrow on farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on December 9 over concerns on the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Centre in September and to seek their repeal, senior leaders said Tuesday. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that the five-member delegation - Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and he - will meet the President tomorrow at 5 pm on behalf of the Opposition parties.Taking to our people on location for meeting with Shah, says Rakesh TikaitWe are talking to our people on where the meeting is to be held: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union on being asked about the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.‘Tomar assures MSP to Haryana farmers’, says Khattar after meeting minister“For our government, the interest of Haryana’s Annadata has always been important and will always be. Regarding farmers’ issues today I met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. He has assured over Minimum Support Price and said “MSP pr kbhi aach nhi aayege,” Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar tweeted after meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday in New Delhi.Wanted to go to the border not as CM but as a common man, says KejriwalI had planned that today I would go to the border not as CM but as a common man to express my solidarity with the farmers. I think they came to know about my plan and they did not let me go: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.“If I was not stopped, I would have gone and supported the protesting farmers in their Bharat Bandh movement. I am glad that Bharat Bandh was a success. I prayed for the protesting farmers while sitting inside,” he added.Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest Punjabi singer Jass Bajwa joins farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws, at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border)“The Government should agree to the demands of the farmers,” Jass Bajwa said.We should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground, says Punjab Kisan UnionWe do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone from Delhi or Haryana, we should be allowed to hold protest at Ramlila Ground: RS Mansa, Punjab Kisan Union at Singhu (Haryana-Delhi border)Delhi deputy CM Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside Kejriwal’s houseDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia holds sit-in protest outside chief minister’s residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. #WATCH: Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia hold sit-in protest outside Chief Minister's residence alleging Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is under house arrest. pic.twitter.com/QGeedRLXTXProtests held in parts of Nagpur city, rural areasProtests were held in several parts of Maharashtra’s Nagpur city and rural areas on Tuesday in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding repeal of the Centre’s agriculture laws.The bandh, however, received a mixed response from traders who supported farmers but did not shut their establishments.Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathAre the farmers stupid that they’ve gathered here in such numbers? There’s a huge difference in the farmers from 30 years ago and now. The farmers today are much much better informed: Congress leader Kamal Nath said, as quoted by news agency ANI.BKU’s Tikait says farmer leaders to meet Amit Shah at 7 pmRakesh Tikait, spokesperson of (Bhartiya Kisan Union) BKU Tikait faction UP, said that farmer leaders are going to meet Amit Shah. Meeting to take place at 7 pm today.There will be a press conference at Singhu border, says Rakesh Tikait. He also urged farmers to clear the blocked carriageways going towards Ghaziabad from DelhiShiv Sena never supported farm laws, says Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said the Uddhav Thackeray-led party never supported the three farm laws in Lok Sabha as alleged by the BJP. Raut suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union Home Minister Amit Shah can hold talks with cultivators who are observing the Bharat Bandh against farm laws.Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meetingHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hold a meeting at the latter’s residence.Group of farmers block a carriageway of NH-44 near Singhu borderA group of young farmers have blocked one carriageway of NH-44 outside a Gurdwara, a few kilometers before Singhu border.Centre should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these reforms: Bhupinder Singh HoodaFormer Haryana chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, “I agree that some reforms are needed. But these Acts which have been passed, have no reflection of these reforms. They should call a Parliamentary session and discuss these exact reforms.”Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at Narendra Singh Tomar’s residenceHaryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar arrives at the residence of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to meet him.Farmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of PuducherryFarmers’ associations demonstrate march on the streets of Puducherry, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Central Government’s farm laws.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy was also present.Shopkeepers in Delhi’s Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protestsDelhi shopkeepers in Sarojini Nagar market tie black ribbons around their arms to show solidarity with farmers’ protests, on Bharat Bandh.“We are doing this to show our support for the farmers’ cause. Why can’t the government grant a simple demand of the MSP,” says one shopkeeper.BJP is perplexed by farmers and Arvind Kejriwal: Manish SisodiaDelhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the BJP is perplexed by the farmers and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “They are perplexed after he went to meet the farmers at Singhu border. He has been put under house arrest ever since he returned, his house has been barricaded. Entry/exit of people not being allowed. BJP is scared that the CM will take to the streets in favour of Bharat Bandh and speak for farmers. They don’t say anything to Captain Amarinder because the two are colluding to call the farmers anti-nationals,” Sisodia said.DMRC closes Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green lineThe Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has closed Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green line (Inderlok to Mundka) for security reason. DMRC officials said that trains will not stop at this station. The station is located near Tikri border. “Entry and exit gates of Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line are closed,” DMRC tweeted.Will present oppn parties’ collective stand before President tomorrow, says Sharad PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said five to six people from different political parties are on Wednesday going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We have a 5pm appointment with the President and will present our collective stand before him.Activists, leaders of Bharatiya Kisan Union and others blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway Activists and leaders of BKU, BKU( Tomar), Bhartiya Kisan Sabha, Kisan Vichar Manch and Bhartiya Kisan Andoland have blocked Delhi- Pauri Highway at Mawana Khurd in Meerut district.Arvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette: Smriti IraniArvind Kejriwal had shown his support for the farm bills when he notified a gazette. Gazette is notified when the government accepts a bill administratively and politically. So he has given his acceptance to this bill already, says Union Minister and BJP Leader Smriti Irani.Shops in Maharashtra seen open amidst Bharat BandhShops in Maharashtra seen open. There is regular traffic movement in Matunga area of Mumbai amidst Bharat Bandh.TRS leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhTelangana Rastriya Samiti leaders K Kavitha, KT Rama Rao and others, along with party workers, protest in Ranga Reddy in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Centre’s farm laws.If government can make law they can repeal it as well: Farmer leaderFarmers’ associations demonstrate at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (Delhi-UP) border as part of Bharat Bandh call.“If government can make law they can repeal it as well. They must work with farmer associations and experts. We will leave only after we get it in writing,” says a farmer leader.Police take positions along barricades at Singhu borderThe police have taken positions along the barricades and at several other points at the Singhu Border amidst the ongoing Bharat Bandh. They have set up new restrictions using ropes to prevent people from taking one of the two walkable routes along the borderline. The stage at Singhu Border saw a much larger gathering than earlier days, and farmers said that there has been an influx of new farmers since Monday night. “About 200 trucks laden with farmers are set to arrive at Singhu Border by today afternoon. Many have already reached, hence the increase in the rush,” said anavjeet Singh, a farmer from Balauli village of Ropar district.Punjab farmers protesting farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highwayPunjab farmers protesting the farm laws in Mohali, block Chandigarh highway, on Bharat Bandh.Farm laws brought by Centre will finish farmers of the country: Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationThe farm laws brought by the Centre will finish the farmers of the country. Farmers have started a massive agitation in north India and Bharat Bandh was announced for today. Mumbai Dabbawala Association supports the Bandh, says Subhash Talekar, president, Mumbai Dabbawala AssociationClaim of Arvind Kejriwal being put on house arrest is incorrect, says Delhi PoliceThis statement is absolutely incorrect. As being the CM of Delhi, he can move around wherever he wants, says Anto Alphonse, DCP North, Delhi.Opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical : Prakash JavadekarThe opposition who is asking to roll back these laws is hypocritical as they had passed the contract farming act while in power. Congress has mentioned the introduction of these laws in their manifesto, says Union Minister Prakash JavadekarAssam Police detain a few people who were protesting Assam Police detain a few people who were protesting in front of Janata Bhawan in Guwahati today, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions.BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residenceBJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi will join the mayors and other councilors outside Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma is outside the CM’s residence. Arvind Kejriwal has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, Deputy Commissioner of Police North, DelhiIt is a general deployment to avoid any clash between AAP and any other party. CM has not been put under house arrest: Anto Alphonse, DCP North, DelhiNo one is allowed to go inside Arvind Kejriwal’s residence: Saurabh BharadwajNo one is allowed to go inside. He (Kejriwal) is not allowed to come out. MLAs, who had a meeting with the chief minister yesterday, were beaten up by Police when they went to meet him. Workers were not allowed to meet him either. BJP leaders are being made to sit outside his residence, says Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi Police barricaded Kejriwal’s residence, putting him in house arrest like situation: Saurabh BharadwajThe chief minister met farmers at Singhu border yesterday. He had said that we will serve them like ‘Sevadars’ and support them. After he returned, Delhi Police barricaded his residence from all sides, putting him in a house-arrest like situation, at the behest of Home Ministry, says AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest after his visit to farmers, tweets AAPDelhi Police has put chief minister Arvind Kejriwal under house arrest ever since he visited farmers at Singhu Border yesterday, tweets Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi Protestors in Jharkhand raise slogans and go on a march in Ranchi on account of Bharat Bandh, against the new farm laws.CITU took out a portest march in AsansolCentre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) took out a protest march in Asansol today, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against Central Government’s farm laws.Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws  Left parties in West Bengal raise slogans against farm laws and burn effigies in Jadavpur area of Kolkata“In West Bengal there is complete bandh in support of the peasant’s demand. We imagine similar situations prevailing across India as well,” says Sujan Chakraborty, CPI(M) leader.If govt has a heart, it will talk to farmers: Sanjay RautIf the government has a heart, be it the Home Minister or the Prime Minister, they themselves will go and talk to them (farmers), says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut.RJD workers show support for Bharat BandhWorkers of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) workers burn a tyre at Ganj Chowk in Darbhanga in protest against the central government and show their support to Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions.Karnataka Congress leaders protest in support of Bharat BandhKarnataka Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, BK Hariprasad, Ramalinga Reddy and others protest in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions. They raise slogans against the Centre and show black flags in front of Gandhi statue at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru.Appeal to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh: Rachakonda Police, TelanganaIt is appealed to all to maintain peace in Bharat Bandh. Action will be taken against those who indulge in any forcible closure or stoppages, say Rachakonda Police, TelanganaOfficers are ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly: Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarOfficers are taking rounds in their respective areas and ensuring that no one imposes Bandh forcibly. Everyone has been instructed to ensure security of railway stations, bus stands, metro stations and autos. We will strictly deal with anyone who takes law in their hands: Additional CP.Ensuring public don’t face inconvenience : Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh NagarWe are ensuring that public don’t face inconvenience and there’s no traffic disruption. Adequate security deployed at all important entry/exit points to/from the district. We also deployed PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) force, says Love Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police, Gautam Buddh Nagar.Slogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s KalaburagiSlogans against the new farm laws raised by Left organisations in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi, on account of Bharat Bandh Telangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat BandhTelangana Road Transport Corporation workers in Kamareddy extend their support to Bharat Bandh by farmer unions. A bus driver says, “CM raised his voice against Farm laws. Going with him, we the workers of RTC are protesting here. Farmers should not be subjected to injustice.”Left political parties protest in Andhra Pradesh in support of Bharat BandhLeft political parties protest in Parvathipuram of Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers unions, against Central Government’s farm laws.Pune APMC market remains open on ‘Bharat Bandh’“We support farmers’ agitation. But we’ve kept the market open today so farm produces coming in from other states can be stored or else they will rot. It will be sold tomorrow only,” says a local trader, Sachin PaygudeDelhi Traffic Police lists borders to Haryana that are open Available open borders to Haryana are - Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Tikri, Jharoda borders, Dhansa are closed for any traffic movement. Badusarai border is open only for light motor vehicles like cars and two-wheelers. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheeler traffic, says Delhi Traffic Police.Farmers try to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest in AmritsarFarmers tried to close liquor shop near Hall gate Golden temple during Bharat Bandh protest against the farm laws in AmritsarBharat Bandh: Banks to remain open Bank unions have said they stand in solidarity with the farmers but will not participate in the bandh. Our protest will be completely peaceful: Bharatiya Kisan Union spokespersonOur protest will be completely peaceful. If someone gets stuck for 2-3 hours in a Bandh called by us, we provide them with water and fruits. Ours is a different concept: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan UnionFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morningFarmers staying at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam Ground gathered for prayers this morning. The protest at the Ground entered 13th day today. Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station Left political parties, trade unions and farmer unions in Odisha stop trains at Bhubaneswar Railway Station. Swabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train todaySwabhimani Shetkari Saghtana staged ‘Bharat Bandh Rail Roko’ protest and briefly stopped a train today in Malkapur of Buldhana district. They were later removed from the tracks by police and detained.All examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction postponed: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversityAll examinations scheduled on December 8 under Osmania University jurisdiction have been postponed due to Bharat Bandh. The revised schedule will be given in due course of time. Examinations scheduled from December 9 will be held as per schedule: Controller of Exams, Osmania UniversitySonia Gandhi to not celebrate her birthday in view of farmers’ protestCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi will not celebrate her birthday on December 9, in view of the ongoing farmer’s agitation against agriculture bills and Covid-19 situation across the country.Will take strict legal action against disruptors: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police have said they will take strict legal action against those who would try to disrupt the movement of traffic or people or forcefully close shops during the Bharat Bandh.There will be complete ‘Bharat Bandh’ till 3 pm: Farmer leader Balbir Singh RajewalThere will be complete ‘Bharat bandh’ till 3 pm on Tuesday, but emergency services will be allowed, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/bharat-bandh-today-live-updates/story-LdVg0trDXKLvcS2Oh1ZFAO.html
08-12-2020||India||Central Vista redevelopment: Halt activities, wait for verdict, SC tells Govt||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are planned to be built. With the court rebuking the Centre for reportedly going ahead with constructions and shifting of trees in the area without waiting for a final judgment on validity of the Central Vista redevelopment plan, the government had to furnish an apology and record an undertaking to restrain itself. “We thought we were dealing with a prudent litigant,” the SC bench, led by justice AM Khanwilkar, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Central government in the bunch of petitions that have challenged the Central Vista plan over change of land use, conservation of heritage structures and environmental regulations. The bench, which included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, referred to a recent press release issued by the government as well as certain media reports about how trees were being shifted since the construction on the proposed site may begin this month. “The fact that there is no stay does not mean you can go ahead with everything. We did not expect you to go ahead and start construction so aggressively. We only allowed you to go ahead with the paperwork but we are now concerned over all this,” it said. The bench reminded Mehta that the court order on March 6 this year clearly recorded that everything the authorities do pertaining to the redevelopment project would be subject to its judgment.  “We showed you some deference when we did not pass a specific order of stay on that date (March 6). We expected you to also show deference to this court. But now, we want to make it clear. No constructions, no demolition, no cutting of trees till we finally decide...we can pass that order today itself,” the bench told Mehta. At this, the solicitor general requested the bench to give him time till Tuesday to come back with instructions, as he added that some trees might have already been translocated, but that the construction is still two months away. In response, the bench asked Mehta to seek instructions from competent authorities on the phone right away. Five minutes later, Mehta joined the proceedings again, and tendered an apology on behalf of the government. “We tender our apology. On instructions, I am ready to make a statement that there will be no construction, no demolition, no cutting of trees or translocation till this court finally decides the matter,” Mehta submitted before the bench. The court then recorded the solicitor general’s undertaking in its order while clarifying that the government could only proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony on December 10, and procedural paperwork but that there cannot be alterations to the site. “We don’t want any physical changes or alterations because they can be irreversible,” it told Mehta while wrapping up the suo motu (on its own notice) proceedings. Also Read: Govt denies CPWD request for tweaks in Central Vista projectAhmedabad-based HCP Design Planning and Management Private Ltd has been tasked with redeveloping the Central Vista avenue, which includes constructing a new Parliament building with state-of-the-art technology and expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, 11 buildings to house the administrative offices of all 51 central ministries, an underground Metro station running below these Central Secretariat offices, chambers for members of the Parliament, the Prime Minister’s office and residence, and even an arboretum of rare plants behind the Mughal Gardens. The redevelopment plan also involves turning the North and South Blocks into a National Museum, refurbishing and extending the National Archives, and moving the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts to the India Gate hexagon. The new Parliament complex with a built-up area of approximately 60,000 metre square was expected to be ready by 2022 (Tata Projects won the bid in September to construct the building for ₹862 crore). The other structures had varied timelines but the entire project was expected to be completed by 2024. The bench had on November 5 reserved its judgment in the matter after hearing in detail a clutch of petitions. Argued through senior counsel Shyam Divan, Sanjay Hegde and advocate Shikhil Suri, the petitions objected to the proposed change in land usage of the Central Vista — the historical boulevard of approximately 3.5 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, and further to the National Stadium, by the Delhi Development Authority. Issues of environmental norms and possible destruction of heritage buildings have also been raised in the petitions, which have further emphasised that the “Central Vista is a symbol of India’s historic past, its nationhood and its vibrant democracy.” On its part, the Central government, through the solicitor general, has defended the project, saying the plan was based on a broad vision to save approximately ₹1,000 crore of public money every year by housing all the ministries in 10 buildings that will be connected through a metro route, and improving their coordination. It has added that the existing Parliament building, on account of being nearly 100 years old, was under tremendous pressure and that not a brick of the heritage structures will be touched while building a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and various ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-redevelopment-halt-activities-wait-for-verdict-sc-tells-govt/story-tfPSazKGCB5htjETxv0lxM.html
08-12-2020||India||Strike over new farm laws across India today||As law enforcement authorities prepare for a Bharat Bandh called by farmers, the Centre has issued an advisory asking all states and Union Territories to make adequate arrangements so as to prevent any trouble. Several states —those governed by political rivals of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — have backed the bandh and made public their support for peaceful protests against three contentious laws that the farmers are protesting. On Tuesday, travel may be affected in several parts of the country with a section of cab and taxi unions supporting the bandh. Several traders at mandis, too, have decided to join the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strike-over-new-farm-laws-across-india-today/story-XSa6FAbicAeNxESZzZtICN.html
08-12-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention on January 9: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention to be held in virtual format on January 9, the ministry of external affairs said on Monday. The website for the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2021 will be launched by minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Tuesday, marking the commencement of online registration for participation in the convention, the MEA said in a statement. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the 16th PBD Convention will be held in virtual format on January 9. Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention is the flagship event of the government of India and provides an important platform to engage and connect with the overseas diaspora. The theme of PBD 2021 is “Contributing to Atmanirbhar Bharat”. On the forenoon of January 9, Prime Minister Modi will inaugurate the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, the MEA said. The winners of ‘Bharat ko Janiye Quiz’ will also be announced in the inaugural session. The PBD Convention will include two Plenary Sessions -- ‘Role of Diaspora in Atmanirbhar Bharat’ and ‘Facing Post Covid Challenges-Scenario in Health, Economy, Social and International Relations’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-pravasi-bharatiya-divas-convention-on-january-9-mea/story-hcVJtoGctG3ECmI2nPch7N.html
08-12-2020||India||Govt’s criticism can’t be ground for penal action, says Supreme Court||Criticism of the government, even in the strongest terms, must be protected from criminal prosecution under charges of hate speech or public mischief, ruled the Supreme Court on Monday, outlining the contours of hate speech and constitutionally--protected freedom of expression. In a 128-page judgment, justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna held that “disloyalty” to the government by law and comments was not an offence if it did not call for violence and public disorder. The judges, who were hearing a petition by journalist Amish Devgan to quash FIRs over his controversial comments on Sufi seer Moinuddin Chishti, also underlined that “political speech relating to government policies requires greater protection for preservation and promotion of democracy” as freedom to express and speak is the most important condition for political democracy. “Comment or criticism of the government action, in howsoever strong words, must be protected and cannot be a ground to take penal action unless the words written or spoken, etc have pernicious tendency or intention of creating public disorder,” said the bench, adding that law and policies are not democratic unless they have been made and subjected to democratic process including questioning and criticism. “Dissent and criticism of the elected government’s policy, when puissant, deceptive or even false would be ethically wrong, but would not invite penal action...Government should be left out from adjudicating what is true or false, good or bad, valid or invalid as these aspects should be left for open discussion in the public domain,” held the court, pointing out that elected representatives in power have the right to respond and dispel suspicion. The court maintained that without exciting the feelings that trigger public disorder by acts of violence, “political views and criticism cannot be made subject matter of penal action” because there is difference between ‘government established by law’ and ‘persons for the time being engaged in carrying on administration’. “Disloyalty to the government by law and comments even in strong terms on the measures or acts of the government so as to ameliorate the condition of the people or to secure cancellation or alteration of those actions or measures by lawful means, without exciting of those feelings of enmity and disloyalty which imply excitement to public disorder or use of force, is not an offence,” asserted the bench. The court clarified that what would not be protected is an anti-democratic speech in general and political extremist speech in particular, which has no useful purpose, if and only when in the nature of incitement to violence that ‘creates’, or is ‘likely to create’ or ‘promotes’ or is ‘likely to promote’ public disorder. During a television show on June 15, Devgan made objectionable comments against the seer held in high esteem by tens of thousands of devotees. The journalist tweeted his apology soon after the show, but multiple FIRs were registered against him across the country under laws related to hate speech and outraging religious feelings of a community. The court declined to quash the FIRs on the ground that it would be for the trial court to examine the content of the TV debate to ascertain whether his comments violated any law or not. It, however, clubbed all the FIRs into one case to be tried at Ajmer in Rajasthan, and also protected Devgan from arrest till the completion of investigation on the condition that he will cooperate with the probe. At the same time, the judgment, authored by Justice Khanna, extensively discussed the concept of hate speech, as it said that any attempt at dissemination of discrimination on the basis of race, religion, caste, creed or regional basis must be condemned. Describing ‘tolerance’ as a great virtue, the court said, “Dignity of citizens of all castes, creed, religion and region is best protected by the fellow citizens belonging to non-targeted groups and even targeted groups. As stated earlier, in a polity committed to pluralism, hate speech cannot conceivably contribute in any legitimate way to democracy and, in fact, repudiates the right to equality. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-s-criticism-can-t-be-ground-for-penal-action-says-supreme-court/story-3q4NMC9JAmOROpVh79AGOL.html
08-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The evidence is anecdotal at the moment, but there would appear to be a mini-boom in tech jobs in Bengaluru, Chennai, and some of the smaller cities in the South that have traditionally been hubs for technology businesses, with many of the new jobs coming from multinational companies that already have a presence in these regions. It is anecdotal, but not counterintuitive.In a conversation with this columnist in September, ahead of the launch of his book, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings spoke of how his company would try and get people back to work as soon as it was safe to do so because WFH wasn’t “as good as being together and talking about things”. He added that Netflix wasn’t “optimising the culture for the pandemic” and spoke of the challenges of remote work. “We are all coasting on relationships we built before Covid. I think it is very challenging to develop new employees who never get to know us.” Hastings said that while in his experience “the physical workplace is superior”, this was the case for him, and that “maybe for a 20-year old who grew up on Tinder” the reverse would be true.I feel exactly the same way, but there are many companies that have discovered the benefits of WFH in the course of this very strange year. At least some of them have decided that a significant portion of their workforce will continue to WFH even after the pandemic. This isn’t always driven by the right motives – cost, not quality of life, is a driver in many cases – and there may be a price to pay for it down the line (in terms of organisational or workspace culture, and all that contributes to the business), but WFH is here to stay. This is true in every geography.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicCompanies that were pioneers in outsourcing work to India – and tech firms are on top of this list by a long distance – are figuring out that if they are anyway going to move to remote working for many of their employees, then they might as well – provided the right kind of people are available – move those jobs in India, where they could be remote, or not.That could explain the scramble for technology workers in Bengaluru. One technology recruiter I spoke to made it sound like the boom days of the late 1990s and mid-2000s, when technology workers could and would literally walk across the road to their new companies (I wonder what the WFH equivalent of that could be). He might be overstating the intensity, but the trend is clearly there.It is also becoming clear that this trend could extend well beyond technology. Any work that is currently being done remotely, and which the company believes can continue to be done remotely, is work that is no longer restricted by geography, no matter what might previously have been assumed. All such work (or at least some of it), could move – and all the things that worked to India’s advantage during the first waves of IT and business process outsourcing will likely work for it in this context. That includes a well-educated, technically savvy, English-speaking workforce; excellent connectivity; and lower salaries and cost of living than in most Western nations.Also Read: 2 Indian Covid-19 vaccine producers apply for approvalWhile the anecdotes I have heard have come Bengaluru and Chennai, this is a trend any city with good connectivity, schools, and health care facilities, can leverage to its advantage (readers will notice that I didn’t use the more expansive quality-of-life descriptor simply because it is very tough for a city to suddenly improve its).Urban renewal, in India’s current, emerging and aspiring outsourcing hubs should be part of the post-Covid plans of state governments if they want to tap into it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-pned3AMzi2pWCkwpsfEhTO.html
08-12-2020||India||Govt denies CPWD request for tweaks in Central Vista project||The Union environment ministry’s Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) on infrastructure projects has rejected an application by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to amend the terms of reference for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings as part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. The application was made a day after environment ministry approved the earlier terms of reference. In the minutes of its meeting on November 25, published on Monday on the ministry’s Parivesh website, EAC said CPWD should “refrain from the piecemeal approach for the proposed development and redevelopment.” CPWD and its consultant Kadam Environmental Consultants Limited agreed to withdraw the proposal in the present format, according to the minutes. “ EAC (Infra-2) decided to return the proposal in original and asked project proponent to apply afresh while adopting an integrated approach for the proposed development/ redevelopment,” the minutes added.CPWD had submitted a conceptual plan for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings and central conference centre along with the Prime Minister ‘s office and residence, a Special Protection Group (SPG) building and the vice-president’s enclave -- all part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Project -- to the environment ministry for environmental clearance. Also Read| Central Vista redevelopment: Halt activities, wait for verdict, SC tells GovtAll these buildings were not part of the initial plan submitted by CPWD to the environment ministry, official documents suggest. The original plan submitted involved only the common central secretariat and the central conference centre.  The application angered citizen groups, which were upset by the piecemeal approach taken towards implementing the Central Vista project.The CPWD had received an environmental clearance for only one project as part of the Central Vista redevelopment -- a parliament building. The clearance granted for that project is being challenged in the Supreme Court. CPWD categorised the central secretariat and other buildings in question as a separate development (although they are a part of overall Central Vista project) for which a clearance hasn’t been granted. The first step is to apply for the terms of reference, which are approved by the EAC after an EIA is conducted. Based on the EIA, the EAC decides to approve or reject a project. That stage has not yet been reached in the case of the central secretariat project.An EAC member said on condition of anonymity: “Though the parliament building has been approved separately, we don’t want to consider other parts of the same project in isolation. They have been asked to submit a consolidated proposal for all other related projects of the Central Vista redevelopment.”The application for amending the terms of reference, available on the Parivesh website and seen by HT, suggests that the Prime Minister’s office, Prime Minister’s residence, vice-president’s enclave and Special Protection Group building were added to the proposal. This led to an increase in the built-up area from 1,754,057.35 sqm to 1,837,057.35 sqm and a rise in waste water generation, municipal waste generation and investment cost from Rs 11,038 crore to Rs 11,794 crore.The approval of the terms of reference is the initial clearance needed for any development project. Several citizens wrote to the chairman of the EAC, T Haque, to reject the application on grounds that it is only a part of the larger Central Vista Redevelopment Project, which was being pursued in a piecemeal manner, leading to improper assessment of its environmental impact.“The project proponents have been taking advantage of laws and regulations by calling this ‘an evolving project’. Many new components of this project have come to light only due to public questioning. EAC has at least pushed for an integrated environmental assessment. Who will ask for a full cost and viability assessment? So far there has been no government disclosure on any of this,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.Haque did not respond to queries from HT on the return of CPWD’s application to amend the terms of reference. CPWD did not respond to queries from HT on whether the department will put in place a consolidated plan for Central Vista Redevelopment Project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-denies-cpwd-request-for-tweaks-in-central-vista-project/story-pRlSdY4wRzVginFP8h7KjI.html
08-12-2020||India||Jobless for 9 months, over 8,000 Tripura teachers go on indefinite protest||Nine months after losing jobs, over 8,000 terminated school teachers of Tripura started an indefinite sit-in protest demanding the state government to provide a permanent solution to their crises. The teachers formed a joint forum comprising three separate organizations - Justice for 10323, Amra 10323 and All Tripura Ad Hoc Teachers’ Association - to protest in Agartala since morning. They claimed that they met chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb in September this year and were assured of a permanent solution.“We didn’t get any response since the chief minister assured us of giving a permanent solution. We are without our jobs for last nine months and are facing difficulties to meet our domestic expenses. So, we are protesting for an indefinite period till we are given permanent jobs and die-harness jobs to families of the deceased terminated teachers,” said Dalia Das, a member of the joint forum. Also read: Prez Macron dials PM Modi, gets support on action against terror and radicalisationBefore their meeting, the state cabinet approved age-relaxation for these teachers to provide them opportunity for applying in 9,700 group C non-technical posts which would be notified in a phased manner. The age relaxation would be in force till March 31, 2023.The Tripura High Court terminated a total of 10,323 school teachers due to their faulty recruitment process in 2014. These teachers were appointed in postgraduate, graduate and undergraduate posts in different phases since 2010. Challenging the order, the sacked teachers and the erstwhile Left Front government filed Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court and the apex Court upheld the High Court’s order in 2017. Of the total 10,323 teachers, over 8,000 were reappointed on an ad-hoc basis, the tenure of which expired on March 31 this year. The rest got themselves placed in different positions in government departments. After their termination, they held protests in different phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jobless-for-9-months-over-8-000-tripura-teachers-go-on-indefinite-protest/story-bTs2duw1ss2eIAQHxng8tJ.html
08-12-2020||India||‘No ornaments of Lord Jagannath went missing during special ritual’: Temple administration||About 10 days after it was alleged that the ‘sun and moon’ ornament of Lord Jagannath went missing, the Sri Jagannath Temple Administration on Monday said the jewels were never missing. The precious ornaments were used in the Nagarjuna Vesha ritual.Nagarjuna Vesha of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in the temple was held on November 27 without the presence of any devotees due to Covid-19 restrictions. A day after the ritual, an employee of the temple was seen coming out of the temple carrying the decorative ‘sun and moon’ piece that stirred a controversy.However, on Monday, the niti administrator of the termple, Jitendra Kumar Sahoo, said the “sun and moon” ornaments which were seen outside the temple on November 28 were actually made of thermocol.Also read: No clue yet about mysterious disease at Eluru in AP, patients flood hospital“Temple servitor Basant Chandra Rana had prepared two extra ‘sun and moon’ ornaments of thermocol, beyond the items listed by the temple commander for Nagarjuna Vesha. As the same ornaments made of gold were already there, the thermocol ornaments were not used,” he said.The Niti administrator said after the Nagarjuna Vesha was over, two senior servitors, Bhandara Mekap Madhusudhan Mekap and Daita sevayat Ramchandra Das Mahapatra, were handed over the artificial ‘sun and moon’ ornaments on their request.Nagarjuna Vesha is observed during the month of Kartika when Panchuka (last five days of Kartika month) is observed as six days instead of five. The vesha is celebrated in commemoration of the killing of Kartyavera Arjuna, one of the main kings slain by Parsuram. The vesha was last observed in 1994 when six devotees were killed in the ensuing stampede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ornaments-of-lord-jagannath-went-missing-during-special-ritual-temple-administration/story-rlJUOSSTWCDtAX6C653YaK.html
08-12-2020||India||Former Odisha minister arrested in job scam to face Lokayukta probe||Former Odisha minister Pradeep Panigrahy is likely to face more trouble after the state government recommended a probe by the Lokayukta into the charges of corruption against him.This is the first corruption allegation referred by the state government to the Lokayukta after the anti-corruption Ombudsman was created in Odisha a little more than a year ago. “The government led by chief minister Naveen Patnaik is known for its strong action against corruption in public life and committed to provide a transparent administration to the people of Odisha,” the Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement.Panigrahy, who was arrested by the state CID last week on charges of cheating, forgery and conspiracy had allegedly conspired with his would-be son-in-law Akash Pathak to dupe several youths in Ganjam district. Pathak and Panigrahy had allegedly taken Rs 6 lakh each from around 120 job aspirants by promising them jobs in Tata Motors. They had taken money from the job aspirants with the promise to engage them as Engineering and Management trainees in Tata Motors with a salary ranging from Rs 7 to 8 lakh per annum.Pathak, who had projected himself as the Managing Director of Tata motors, was to marry Panigrahy’s daughter on December 11 in a palace hotel of Udaipur. At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, Panigrahy had allegedly flown in chartered planes with the Pathak family to various places in the country and stayed in expensive hotels.The 56-year-old Panigrahy who was the blue-eyed boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik not long ago, had lost his access to the CM, whose assembly constituency Hinjili he looked after for almost 10 years. Last week, he was expelled from the primary membership of BJD after his links with suspended IFS officer Abhay Kanta Pathak and his son Akash was revealed. The IFS officer is now in jail in a disproportionate assets case.Panigrahy’s woes also may mount after the court of additional district judge in Bhubaneswar rejected his bail petition on Monday. The MLA who has been sent in judicial custody for 14 days by the order of the SDJM’s court, had moved the Khurda District and Sessions Court for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-odisha-minister-arrested-in-job-scam-to-face-lokayukta-probe/story-9dCQHbFeL1SA3fRr6PavVO.html
08-12-2020||India||College principal in Guwahati arrested for allegedly raping daughter||Police in Guwahati have arrested the principal of a college for allegedly raping his daughter several years ago. He was arrested on Sunday based on a complaint from his daughter, police said. He was produced in a city court on Monday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. According to the police, the complainant had lodged an FIR on November 30 alleging that her father had sexually harassed her for several months. The FIR has been lodged under sections 376, 354, 352, 506 and 294 of IPC for rape, criminal assault to outrage modesty, criminal intimidation, obscene acts etc. “The accused was arrested following complaints by his daughter. The complainant says that she was sexually assaulted around 10 years ago, but she hadn’t complained then as she was very young,” said Nikumoni Bhuyan, in-charge of all-women police station at Panbazar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-principal-in-guwahati-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-daughter/story-3aAfFY123MWCDnoAvkmnsO.html
08-12-2020||India||RERA Act introduced to remove problem of trust deficit between builders, homebuyers, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that there was a trust deficit between builders and home buyers, and the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act was introduced to remove this problem. While inaugurating the construction of the Agra Metro project via video conferencing, Modi said, “People with wrong intentions brought disrepute to the entire real estate sector, upsetting our middle class.” The prime minister said that there was a trust deficit between the builders and the home buyers, and the RERA law was introduced to remove this problem. He added that some recent reports showed that middle class homes were getting completed quickly after the introduction of this law. He also said that all-round development, from modern public transport to housing, was going to make life easier in cities. Noting that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana was inaugurated from Agra, the prime minister said that more than one crore houses have been approved for the urban poor under this scheme. Modi said help is being provided to middle class families of the city to buy houses for the first time. He said so far, more than 12 lakh urban families have been given help of about Rs 28,000 crore to buy houses. The prime minister said infrastructure like water and sewer are being upgraded in several cities under the AMRUT mission, and help is being given to local bodies to make public toilets better in cities and to implement a modern system of waste management.Also Read |  BJP govt able to start, finish development projects on time: PM Modi “Dreams of today’s new India are big (‘badhe’) and enormous (‘viraat’). But, visualizing the dreams is not enough, courage is needed to fulfil them. When you move ahead with courage and dedication, no obstacle can stop you. The youth of India and smaller cities are displaying this courage and dedication,” he said. “The role played by metro cities in the 20th century is now being played by smaller cities like Agra,” the prime minister said. He said that metro rail coaches are being made in India under the Make in India mission. When it comes to the matter of metro network, India is becoming self-reliant, he said, and added that Agra is the seventh city of Uttar Pradesh to have the metro rail facility. “Agra has an age-old identity. Now, a new dimension of modernity is getting attached to it. The city which has treasured history of hundreds of years is all set to march in tune with the 21st century,” Modi said. “In the past six years, the speed and scale with which work has been done on the metro network in UP and in the country, shows the identity (‘pehchaan’) and commitment of the government,” he asserted. Modi also remarked that cities of western UP have everything, which is needed for self-reliance. “The farmers here have a tremendous potential. In the matter of animal husbandry, this region is a leader in the country. There is a huge scope for the dairy and food processing industry here, and this region is also moving ahead in the service and manufacturing sector,” he said. He added that with modern infrastructure and modern facilities, this potential of western UP is increasing. The first Rapid Rail Transport System (RRTS) is being constructed between Delhi and Meerut, he said, adding that a 14-lane expressway between Delhi and Meerut will soon serve people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rera-act-introduced-to-remove-problem-of-trust-deficit-between-builders-homebuyers-says-pm-modi/story-TCLWZirCL6FxN0o1YjQlvI.html
