09-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President Kovind, ask for repeal of farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without discussion and consultation.The meeting came a day after a Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions in protest against these laws. Thousands of farmers are currently protesting at Delhi’s borders after they were denied entry into the Capital. Odisha cabinet passes resolution urging Centre to implement MSPs for all cropsThe five-member delegation of opposition leaders included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader TKS Elangovan. The delegation was limited to five because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Farmers’ protest: Centre sends proposal to farmers “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the President. “The new agri laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporate,” it added. The memorandum said over 20 political parties, including those running states, extended their solidarity with the farmers over their struggle and supported their bandh call on December 8, demanding the repeal of the agri laws and the electricity amendment bill. “We met the President and informed him of our views regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed him that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after the meeting. “The way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them. They will not relent and will continue their peaceful agitation till the laws are taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief claimed that the new laws were aimed at handing over the farm sector to the “friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the farmers are fearless and will not back off. They have lost faith in the government,” he added. Pawar said various political parties requested the President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in a select committee of Parliament. “Not a single suggestion offered by opposition leaders in Parliament was accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste,” he said. “In this cold, the farmers are on the streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” Pawar added. His views were echoed by Yechury. “We told the President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws,” he said. The CPI(M) leader said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. “The Prime Minister has been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws are in their favour then why are they protesting out in the cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-president-kovind-ask-for-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-eYOhL0I8SGaTDzJewXpXII.html
09-12-2020||India||Odisha cabinet passes resolution urging Centre to implement MSPs for all crops||On a day protesting farmers in Delhi rejected the proposals of the Narendra Modi government on amendments for the three contentious farms laws, the Naveen Patnaik government adopted a cabinet resolution urging the Centre to implement all the recommendations of MS Swaminathan Commission on MSP for all crops.“Farmers are the soul of our economy and the fundamental strength behind our socio-economic dynamics. The nation and society thrive with the prosperity of farmers. The state government considers MSP an essential tool for providing income security to farmers. National Agriculture Commission chaired by eminent agriculture scientist Dr. MS Swaminathan had recommended an MSP 50 per cent higher than the average cost of agricultural production. We all should take care that no farmer is deprived of the appropriate price for his produce. It’s his right,” the government said in a statement Wednesday evening.The state cabinet in its resolution said when almost all the sectors are facing a slowdown during the Covid-19 pandemic, the farm sector like an oasis in the desert, has helped the economy to survive. It noted that in last 16 years, the agricultural GDP has doubled in Odisha with agricultural growth rate reaching 4.5, higher than national average of 3.1.“Farmers’ income must grow proportionate to the growth of income in other sectors. In agriculture sector, the income enhancement must be considered keeping the cost of production in view. To make farming profitable and protect the farmers from all types of volatility, the MSP must be fixed on realistic basis. The state government reiterates the need for implementation of all the recommendations of Swaminathan commission regarding MSP fully across all crops,” said the state cabinet resolution.The State Assembly had unanimously adopted resolution twice, in 2017 and 2018, for enhancing MSP as per Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations.The Congress said the resolution was perfunctory as the Naveen Patnaik government just wanted to guard its image.“Had they been serious, then BJD MPs would have opposed the farm Bills in Parliament. But they just walked out. In all these years, the state government has not added an extra Rupee to the MSP announced by the centre,” Odisha’s Congress unit chief Niranjan Patnaik said.Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal which rode back to power in 2019 assembly polls on the back of KALIA, a cash transfer scheme for small and marginal farmers of the state, has already shelved two of its farm laws that would have triggered reforms in the agriculture sector. Having opposed the twin farm laws of Centre in September on opening of agricultural sale and marketing outside the APMC mandis for farmers, as well as allowing contract farming, the Naveen Patnaik government has quietly buried the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020.The two ordinances promulgated in May this year aimed at registration farmers with contract farming companies for improving production and productivity and amendment of Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1957, for geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state and country.While the ordinance on contract farming was not re-promulgated in November this year, the second ordinance was brought in as a Bill in the winter session of the Assembly which concluded early this month. However, it could not be passed. The government meanwhile has re-promulgated the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 keeping it alive for the next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cabinet-passes-resolution-urging-centre-to-implement-msps-for-all-crops/story-ArBanATXWfpU7VeHa6gS6H.html
09-12-2020||India||Policies, regulatory regime need to be evolved to reap full benefits of 5G: Trai chief||Next generation 5G technology would have a transformational impact on industries and Indian society, placing them on “unprecedented growth trajectory” and accordingly, policies, licensing framework and regulatory regime need to be evolved to reap its full benefit, Trai Chairman P D Vaghela said on Wednesday. Describing 5G as a “gamechanger”, Vaghela said it will be widely used not only within telecom but by all other sectors, and help bridge urban-rural divide. “To reap its benefits, the country’s policies, licensing and regulatory environment also need to be evolved to enable 5G,” Vaghela said addressing India Mobile Congress (IMC) 2020. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) is working “whole heartedly” in this direction, said Vaghela. Supporting policies need to be evolved to position India as global destination for technology products, Vaghela said. He further said 5G would usher seamless coverage, ultra-high speeds, and highly reliable communications for mission-critical applications. “5G promises new range of services to consumers and enterprises, beyond traditional voice and data, through enabling technologies like Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), robotics, augmented reality and virtual reality and host of new emerging applications,” he said. It would also bring use cases like smart cities, smart manufacturing, smart agriculture, and industrial automation, amongst others, besides encouraging spectrum and network efficiency. “5G is likely to transform industries and Indian society, accelerating them on unprecedented growth trajectory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policies-regulatory-regime-need-to-be-evolved-to-reap-full-benefits-of-5g-trai-chief/story-SNPTjKjTWXAMmjnzXI04GM.html
09-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu CM visits rain-hit regions, says over 80,000 hectares of crops affected||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Wednesday inspected the damage due to the rains here and in other adjoining regions, distributed relief to people and said crops in over 80,000 hectares have been damaged.After surveying flooded farmlands in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, Palaniswami said due to the recent ‘Nivar’ cyclone, 15,660 hectares of crops were affected, including 3,473 hectares of horticulture crops.In the wake of the ‘Burevi’ cyclone, crops spread over 66,874 hectares have been damaged, he told reporters.“Water-level has not receded yet. If some affected areas have been left out, the damage there should also be taken into account and a report should be filed by district collectors and I have directed them on this aspect,” he said adding that the crops affected include paddy fields and banana plantations.The Central government has been urged to depute its team to assess damage due to Burevi cyclone as well and they would visit Tamil Nadu for sure, he said.An inter-ministerial Central team that assessed damage caused in Tamil Nadu due to the ‘Nivar’ has completed its task and called on Palaniswami at the Secretariat in Chennai on Tuesday before leaving for Delhi.Apart from damage to crops, 9,907 houses have been affected due to the two recent cyclones, Palaniswami said.Fishermen panchayat leaders submitted a memorandum appealing for suitable corrective measures to strengthen the rubble mound wall at the Tarangambadi fishing harbour that was damaged during the recent cyclones.Reiterating his government’s support for the farm laws, the Chief Minister said even the DMK’s election manifesto for 2016 Assembly polls assured a new policy for marketing farm products by overcoming barriers like middlemen.“The farm laws are being opposed out of political vendetta,” he alleged.On DMK chief M K Stalin hitting out at the proposed caste-wise survey as an election stunt, he said,”He (Stalin) will only comment in such a manner. The survey will be completed for sure.” Palaniswami commenced his tour after offering special prayers at Vailankanni church and Nagore dargah.The Chief Minister, who inspected the deluge-hit Cuddalore on Tuesday inspected Nagapattinam, and Tiruvarur districts today and distributed relief materials to the affected people.Also, he visited damaged houses and also gave an order to a beneficiary for rebuilding his house under the green house scheme (Chief Minister’s Solar Powered Green House Scheme).Accompanied by Ministers and officials, Palaniswami participated in a special prayer at the shrine Basilica in Vailankanni.He also prayed at the dargah of Saint Hazrath Syed Shahul Hameed Quadir Wali at Nagore.Later, he visited the Dharmapuram Aadhennam, an ancient Shaivite Math, in Mayiladuthurai and sought the blessings of the pontiff Sri Sri Masilamani Desika Gnanasambandha Paramacharya Swami, along with his Cabinet colleagues.Palaniswami stopped his convoy at many places and interacted with the farmers and listened to their grievances and assured relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-visits-rain-hit-regions-says-over-80-000-hectares-of-crops-affected/story-mpAPhfLXFIs8coSIdMkcnK.html
09-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar reviews law and order for second time in 10 days as crime spikes||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reviewed the law and order situation for the second time in 10 days on Wednesday amid rising crime that not only put him in the opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) line of fire but also spurred ally BJP to voice concern.Ironically, even as the review meeting was on, the state recorded two cases of robbery and a murder in different places.Armed criminals looted gold ornaments worth over Rs 5 crore in Darbhanga town, while in another incident a collection agent of the Bandhan Bank identified as Pawan Kumar Singh was shot at when he resisted robbers at Nadarganj in Gaya. Criminals looted Rs 1.5 lakh from his possession. Minutes after the incident, a veterinary doctor was gunned down in Ghoraghat of Gaya district. The BJP has flagged the disconcerting statistics of crime in the state as a matter of concern. In the last two months, the state has witnessed 505 murders, 176 rapes, 13 abductions for ransom, 5073 theft and 704 burglaries, according to official figures of the police headquarters. Faced with the challenge to controlling crime, Nitish Kumar has now issued a directive that in case of crime, accountability would not be fixed on the police station concerned only, but also on senior officers.“The rule of law must be enforced and the anti-social must fear law. It is important to give emphasis on speedy trial and proper investigation and prosecution. The senior officials must do regular monitoring,” he said at the meeting according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO).He also asked officials to explain the reason behind spurt in crime and why police patrolling was not proper. The CM directed the officials to focus on foot patrols with a large number of policemen, identify habitual offenders and book them at the earliest. “The DM and the SP must hold a joint meeting once in a month to solve only land-related disputes. The SDO and the SDPO will hold similar joint meetings at the sub-division level once in a fortnight while the circle officer and the station house officer will do so once a week. The officials should take stern actions against those who are found guilty of doing wrong in land disputes,” he said.The RJD claimed that Nitish Kumar has lost grip over administration“The growing number of cases reflects the round reality – criminals are free to prosper with the police failing to keep them in check. The CM has lost grip over administration and his claim of establishing the rule of law has fallen flat. He has surrendered before criminals in his self-proclaimed good governance,” said RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav.In another tweet in Hindi, he asked, “Why is ‘maharaja’ of the maha jungle raj silent?” Wednesday’s heist at a jewelry shop in Darbhanga evoked a sharp response from the BJP’s Sanjay Saravagi, the MLA from the town. Saravagi said the fear of the police has reduced among criminals. Congress MLC Premchand Mishra demanded a full-fledged home minister in the state. Nitish Kumar currently holds that portfolio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-reviews-law-and-order-for-second-time-in-10-days-as-crime-spikes/story-O6nfzvtoENEErpx5YlseiI.html
09-12-2020||India||Stop playing games with farmers: SAD to Centre on farm laws||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday asked the BJP-led Centre to “stop playing games” with innocent farmers and withdraw the three farm laws “immediately and unconditionally”.The SAD, which had pulled out of the National Democratic Alliance amid the consistent digs at it by the Congress after the enactment of the laws, also backed the farmers’ rejection of the Centre’s proposal on these laws.“These proposals were nothing but delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers,” it said.“We are with the farmers in everything and in every way,” it added.Farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal on the three contentious agriculture-marketing laws and said they would intensify their agitation against the legislations with a nationwide protest on December 14.In a statement here, senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said there was nothing new in these proposals.”These are the same proposals which had been rejected by the SAD before quitting the government and the NDA to stand with farmers,” he said. “It is so tragic that the country’s ‘annadata’, the farmers, are battling cruel and biting cold along with their family members ranging from barely 14-day-old infants to elders in their late eighties and nineties,” said the Akali leader.He urged the government to “abandon its stubborn refusal to listen to farmers and announce an unqualified and unconditional acceptance of their demands”. “The government says the farm laws are meant for farmers’ welfare. If the farmers don’t want these, it is absolutely unreasonable, wrong and undemocratic to thrust these laws upon them,” said the former minister.The senior Akali leader expressed grave concern over how “our country’s soft and civilised image is taking a huge beating with the government’s repressive handling of a peaceful stir”.“What an irony that people and institutions from all over the world, including the UN, have felt deeply touched and extended solidarity with our brave but beleaguered farmers while our own elected government continues to be utterly callous and insensitive to their sufferings,” alleged Majithia.“The unspeakable miseries, which the country’s breadwinners are braving, present a touching human spectacle that can move even the most heartless enemy,” he said.The Akali leader alleged that the government’s “apathy” towards its people and its “love and preference for the rich corporates” have brought back memories of the “colonial rulers”.“The pity is greater because the rulers today are not foreigners but our own elected representatives. People elected them in the hope that they would address their problems as does a parent in a family. Unfortunately, the parent has turned cruelly and heartlessly against its own children,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-playing-games-with-farmers-sad-to-centre-on-farm-laws/story-2h0NFNHKk1mQq0sjdn0ifI.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Expert panel seeks more data from Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech||The expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Wednesday sought additional safety and efficacy data from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech for their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, after deliberating upon their applications seeking authorisation for the shots.At a meeting to review the emergency authorisation of vaccine makers, the CDSCO’s subject expert committee (SEC) reviewed the authorisation sought by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech but did not consider a similar application from Pfizer-BioNTech because their US experts could not attend the meeting.An official with direct knowledge of the matter told news agency Reuters that a decision on the vaccines would be taken “in toto” and it was too early to say whether they would be rejected or accepted, even as the government has said that some vaccines may be approved in the coming weeks.Another official said: “The CDSCO just wants more data on efficacy and safety before making a decision. It is part of the process”.While considering Serum Institute’s application, the CDSCO is learnt to have asked for updated safety data of phase-2 and phase-3 clinical trials in the country, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India, along with the outcome of the assessment of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), news agency PTI quoting government officials said.As for Bharat Biotech, after detailed deliberations, the SEC recommended that the firm should present the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing phase-3 clinical trial in the country for further consideration, the officials said.Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, requested approval for the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, on December 6.US drugmaker Pfizer sought Indian approval on December 4 after securing clearances in the UK and Bahrain. On Monday, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech became the third vaccine manufacturer to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use authorisation for its indigenously-developed vaccine, named Covaxin.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has shown an efficacy of 62% when volunteers were given two full doses of the vaccine, but a higher 90% when the first was a half-strength dose, according to interim results from trials in the United Kingdom and Brazil. In India, the vaccine’s trials are being carried out by Serum Institute, which is also producing a billion doses of the shot.According to top-line data released by Pfizer, its vaccine has 95% efficacy.The candidate of Bharat Biotech still undergoing large scale Phase 3 clinical trials and the data from the combined Phase 1/2 trials is not public yet.To be sure, the only locally made vaccine anywhere close to being approved is the SII-manufactured AstraZeneca/Oxford one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-expert-panel-seeks-more-data-from-serum-institute-of-india-bharat-biotech/story-AUlmJ8VDnWB4X3Ip7OewGK.html
09-12-2020||India||China says joint launch of stamp cancelled due to lack of feedback from India||China said on Wednesday that it cancelled the joint launch of a commemorative stamp with India because New Delhi hadn’t given its feedback on the matter within the time frame agreed to by the two sides. The cancellation of the launch of the stamp marking the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties had created a flutter on Tuesday because it occurred against the backdrop of the nearly eight-month standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Regarding cancellation of joint issue of commemorative stamp to mark 70th [anniversary of diplomatic ties between] #China & #India, the reason is Indian side had not given feedback before launch time agreed by both sides,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a tweet. “China State Post Bureau made the notice according to customary practices,” she said, without giving further details. There was no official response to the development from Indian officials. India and China haven’t organised any of the 70 events they had planned to mark 70 years of diplomatic ties. Each side was to have held 35 events, and the activities were initially put off due to the Covid-19 pandemic before being totally derailed by the border standoff that began in May. When the two sides exchanged messages between their presidents, prime ministers and foreign ministers on April 1 to mark the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations, the external affairs ministry had said in a statement that they were holding talks on “commemorating this historic anniversary in a manner truly reflective of its significance”. It also said the two sides were working to jointly design a logo to mark the celebrations. Chinese state media had quoted a statement posted on the postal service’s website on Tuesday to report the cancellation of the joint launch of the stamp. “The State Post Office has decided to cancel the planned joint issue of stamps between China and India in the 2020 special stamp-issue programme,” the brief statement said. The launch of the stamp and the other events had been agreed on during the second informal summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping in Chennai in October 2019. Though the standoff began in May, diplomatic ties have been particularly tense since June, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley after being attacked by Chinese troops using rocks and clubs. Beijing hasn’t revealed the casualties of the People’s Liberation Army. Several rounds of talks between diplomats and military commanders – the last one held on November 8 – have not helped push forward disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-says-joint-launch-of-stamp-cancelled-due-to-lack-of-feedback-from-india/story-IByc8VMOFxilX6BUAyvtTL.html
09-12-2020||India||Karnataka assembly passes anti-cow slaughter bill amid bedlam||Amid bedlam by main opposition party Congress legislators, the Karnataka legislative assembly on Wednesday passed the ‘Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle ill 2020.’ The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators sporting saffron shawls shouted ‘Gau Mata Ki Jai’ and cheered the passage of the contentious bill even as opposition members trooped to the well of the house protesting against the provisions of the bill.Speaker Vishweshar Hegde Kageri called on the minister of animal husbandry Prabhu Chauhan to table the bill even as Congress members claimed that they had not been informed about the bill being tabled and this was not discussed in the business advisory committee. Earlier Chauhan wearing a saffron shawl had worshipped cows in front of the assembly before coming in and tabling the bill.Leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah said that they had not been given a copy of the bill and that introduction of such key legislation after the announcement of Panchayat Raj polls was a violation of the model electoral code of conduct.Another senior Congress leader and former rural development minister H K Patil accused the Speaker of being partisan and running the house like his ‘party’s office’ and claimed that ‘rules and regulations of the house were not being adhered to.’ The Speaker, however, overruled the objections and the bill was declared passed by a voice vote.For some time, the opposition and ruling party members tried to drown each other with slogans before the Congress decided to walk out of the assembly. Speaking to the media outside the house, Siddaramiah said that the rural economy would be destroyed because of the bill. “They did not provide even a copy of the bill. In states like UP and MP because of the introduction of such bills animal husbandry has taken a hit. In UP alone there are now 10 lakh fewer cows because of the bill as farmers steer away from taking up animal husbandry,” he claimed.Accusing the Speaker of being a puppet of the ruling party, Siddaramiah said that his party would approach the EC and complain that the bill has violated the model code of conduct. He also said that his party would boycott the assembly on Thursday which is the last day of the truncated winter session.The session which was originally to run for a week was later cut short to four days. Siddaramiah said that the bill had been introduced with a communal mindset and was aimed at dividing the society.The Congress leader also said that all those whose jobs depended on beef would lose their livelihood and that ‘bill had been prepared by the RSS.’The BJP state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel expectedly welcomed the passage of the bill and said ‘I congratulate the CM Yediyurappa for introducing this historic legislation which is in the interest of the farmers. We worship the cow as our mother and the rural economy will benefit because of this bill.’ Other senior leaders of the party including MP Shoba Karandlaje welcomed the blanket ban on slaughter of cows in the state.The BJP unit in Karnataka is planning to celebrate the passage of the bill by conducting Gau Pooja (cow worship) in front of the party’s headquarters in Bengaluru on Thursday. All party MLAs and senior leaders including the CM are expected to attend the ceremony. This even as CLP leader Siddaramaiah called for an emergency meeting of the legislature party to decide on the next course of action against the anti-cow slaughter bill.In 2010 too the then Yediyurappa led BJP government had introduced and passed a similar anti-cow slaughter bill but this had been repealed by the Siddaramiah led Congress government when it assumed power in 2014. However, there are a few key differences between the 2010 and the 2020 bills with the new one prescribing much harsher punishment for any transgression.In the new bill any cow or bull under the age of 13 cannot be slaughtered. A violation would invite jail term between 3-7 years and a fine between Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakhs. Repeat offenders would have to pay between Rs 1-10 lakh and a jail term of 7 years.A permit would be needed from relevant state government authorities for interstate movement of animal husbandry and transportation should be done according to central government norms. Any violation would invite a jail term of 3-5 years with a fine of Rs 50,000. The stance of the regional JDS party wasn’t clear though some of its senior MLA’s including Shivalinge Gowda were seen supporting the Congress members.The ruling BJP would need JDS support if it wants to pass the bill in the legislative council where it has only 31 members in a house of 75. JDS leaders were not immediately available to comment on the party’s stance on the anti-cow slaughter legislation. Political analyst Manjunath said that in spite of Congress’s protestations, the BJP government had clearly indicated its intention of introducing anti-cow slaughter and in the next session ‘love jihad’ related legislation. “Congress seems to have been caught by surprise only by the speed with which the state government has got this passed, otherwise the discussion around it has been in air for months. All parties are signalling to their respective voter base and that is the reason why BJP has passed this ahead of panchayat polls and Congress has opposed it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-passes-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-amid-bedlam/story-8BFyVCloS5UYKx8N0jLlYN.html
09-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm laws and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September this year, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without any discussion and consultations. Read more‘Really impressed to see how far you’ve come’: Foreign envoys laud India’s Covid-19 vaccine progressThe foreign envoys, who travelled to Hyderabad on Wednesday to visit two biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines, said they are impressed by the progress made by Indian drug companies. Read moreIf farmers don’t stand up today, they will be silenced forever: Rahul Gandhi after meeting President over farm lawsA delegation of opposition parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) chief Sharad Pawar met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, demanding roll back of three farm laws passed by Parliament recently. Read moreWant to be remembered as one who always put his hand up for the team: Parthiv PatelA career spanning 18 years, featuring only 25 Tests and 38 ODIs could be viewed as a career of unfulfilled ambitions. But Parthiv Patel’s cricket-journey is not just about how much he played, but also how he played and what he was part of along the way. Read moreIAF objects to Anil Kapoor’s costume in AK vs AK trailer, actor issues clarificationAfter raising objections against Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl and taking Dharma Productions to court, the Indian Air Force has expressed objections against another one of Netflix’s movies, AK vs AK. Read moreChris Evans’ woke up to see the sweetest thing ever… his dog staring at him. WatchIt’s no secret that Chris Evans loves his dog Dodger. He often takes to Intagram to share sweet moments of interaction with his lovely pet. His recent post is no different and it may leave you with a warm feeling in your heart. Read moreSpanx: New mom Katy Perry shares secret to her post-baby bodyKaty Perry loves to keep it real, and the 36-year-old pop singer who has belted out hits like I Kissed A Girl, TGIF, Bon Appetit, Roar, among others, is giving her fans and followers the down low on ‘what makes a woman.’ Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws-and-all-the-latest-news/story-634YiSSYz4rxm91vavH1hI.html
09-12-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone of new Parliament building on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the bhoomi pujan and lay the foundation stone of the new parliament building on Thursday in a programme that would be attended by more than 200 guests including former Prime Ministers and former Lok Sabha Speakers and leaders of all political parties. Modi, who goes online to participate in most of his events due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will be physically present at the function and deliver a speech. Twelve dharma gurus of different faiths and religions will participate in prayers for the new building that will be triangular in shape with all modern facilities and more space for MPs to sit in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The new complex would also see expansion of the parliament estate and two government offices would be razed to build offices for individual MPs - a first such facility for Indian lawmakers. “All former Prime Ministers and former Lok Sabha Speakers have been invited. Efforts are also on to ensure all political parties also send their representatives at the function even if their top leaders are unable to attend,” said a senior Lok Sabha official. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, custodian of the Parliament complex is in charge of all the arrangements. Apart from PM and Birla, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh and other guests will be present. The programme will start at 1 PM with the bhoomi pujan and the laying of the foundation stone. After the multi-faith prayer ceremony, Harivansh Narayan Singh will read out messages from President Ram Nath Kovind and vice president Venkaiah Naidu. The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are planned to be built. The Apex court, however, allowed the government to proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony on December 10, and procedural paperwork stating that there cannot be alterations to the site. The deadline for completing the new Parliament complex is 2022. According to Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) order, the construction is required to be completed strictly within the prescribed time limit of 21 months with the “highest standards of quality and workmanship”. “The new building is an intrinsic part of the vision of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and will be a landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament for the first time after independence, one which will match the needs and aspirations of ‘New India’ in the 75th anniversary of independence in 2022,” the PMO said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-new-parliament-building/story-mMyz1sZc1zA2uBl0dZx6xI.html
09-12-2020||India||ED files charge sheet over kickbacks in UPA-era Embraer aircraft deal||New Delhi: Twelve years after India signed a deal with Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer for the supply of three fully modified EMB-145 aircraft for Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet alleging that the company paid commission worth $5.6 million (around Rs 41 crore according to Wednesday’s forex rates) in return for a $210 million (around Rs 1,544 crore) contract. According to ED’s investigation, shared by an officer at the agency on condition of anonymity, Embraer entered into an agreement with alleged middleman, NRI arms dealer Vipin Khanna, in 2005 for his services at a commission of 9%, three years before the contract with IAF was signed (on July 3, 2008). The agency has named in its charge sheet Embraer SA, and companies and individuals used for routing the money including Singapore based firm -- Interdev Aviation Services Pte. Ltd, KRBL Ltd , which is one of the largest Basmati rice exporting firms and whose brands include India Gate basmati rice, its joint managing director Anoop Kumar Gupta, his nephew Anurag Potdar, and others, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). In a statement to the stock exchange late on Wednesday, KRBL termed the allegations “false, frivolous and baseless”.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case in October 2016 against unknown officials of DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation), Embraer, Vipin Khanna and other unknown persons on the basis of which ED had initiated its money laundering probe in the case. The allegation is that Khanna received $5.6 million from the Sao Paulo based firm in return for influencing the ministry of defence (MoD) and DRDO officials for the contract to supply three fully modified EMB-145 aircraft to the Government of India as a platform for the Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) project. In September 2016 , Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo reported that Embraer was under investigation by the US Justice Department since 2010 over a contract with the Dominican Republic. According to details accessed by HT, Embraer entered into an agency agreement with Khanna’s company, Cleveden Limited, somewhere around February 8, 2005 for his services at a commission of 9%. “This agreement was kept in a safe box in London. Three years later, Embraer signed a contract with IAF (on July 3, 2008) for providing three highly specialised military aircraft for approximately $ 210 million. The very next day, Vipin Khanna contacted Embraer and demanded his commission,” said an ED officer. ED said in a statement on Wednesday that its probe has established payment of commission by Embraer. It said “the kickbacks were routed by M/s Embraer SA through its subsidiaries to M/s Interdev Aviation Services Pte Ltd, Singapore in lieu of sham agreement.” “The kickbacks to the tune of around USD 3.275 million were further routed from M/s Interdev Aviation Services to M/s KRBL DMCC, Dubai (a 100% owned subsidiary of KRBL Ltd) in lieu of sham agreement to finally reach India through M/s KRBL Ltd projecting the same as untainted money. Further, investigation revealed that Anoop Kumar Gupta, Director of KRBL Limited, signed the sham agreement held between Interdev Aviation Services and KRBL DMCC (Dubai) to receive Proceeds of Crime (PoC) which were finally received in the bank account of KRBL Ltd in which he is one of the directors,” ED statement said. The agency has, so far, attached immovable properties worth Rs 16.29 crore belonging to KRBL in the case. “At the outset we would like to state that the allegations leveled by the Enforcement Directorate are false, frivolous and baseless. KRBL Ltd has not entered into any sham agreement with any entity. We have been cooperating with the entire investigation by the Enforcement Directorate for the last 3 years and have given all documents asked by the Enforcement Directorate, none of which in any way cement the allegations advanced by the Enforcement Directorate. The prosecution complaint has been filed by the Enforcement Directorate, only with the sole intention of attempting to justify its illegal attachment orders, wherein they have failed to take possession of the property due to the interference of both the Hon’ble Appellate Tribunal and the Hon’ble High Court. KRBL shall defend such actions of the Enforcement Directorate as it has done before and shall succeed in due course,” the KRBL statement said.Email queries sent to Embraer were not answered. Interdev’s representatives and Khanna could not be located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-charge-sheet-over-kickbacks-in-upa-era-embraer-aircraft-deal/story-cuV7DTUlnAVu5QvCvJrAbO.html
09-12-2020||India||Air India’s non-stop Hyderabad-Chicago flight from Jan 15||National carrier Air India would fly non-stop from here to Chicago, USA, starting from January 15, the Hyderabad International Airport announced on Wednesday.Prior to the suspension of international operations in late March due to the coronavirus pandemic, the disinvestment-bound Air India was operating to Chicago from the city airport via Delhi.Air India would be starting the flight between Hyderabad and Chicago effective January 15, 2021, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd said in a press release.The airline would deploy its 238-seater Boeing 777-200 aircraft with eight seats in first class,35 in business and the remaining 195 in the economy class, the release said.The Telugu diaspora from the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh regions is one of the fastest growing community in the US and a direct connectivity to the US from Hyderabad was long due, it said.Hyderabad-USA-Hyderabad has been the largest unserved passenger origin and destination (O&D) market between India and the US with a potential of over 7,00,000 passengers annually, the release said.With the city being the gateway to South and central India, it offers convenient proximity for passengers originating from the nearby cities in the region, pushing an additional demand of approximately 2,20,000 passengers annually, it said.The launch of this route brings two destinations closer for all our passengers who have been waiting eagerly for a direct flight from Hyderabad to the USA. We are constantly working on linking more cities domestic and international with focus on high standards of safety to serve our passengers,” said CEO, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd., Pradeep Panicker, Hyderabad is second home to many US-based companies and as much as 70 per cent of the total IT exports to the US is from Hyderabad, said the release, adding that the city is known as the Pharma Capital of India and a vaccine manufacturing hub of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-s-non-stop-hyderabad-chicago-flight-from-jan-15/story-6DycpRNvaq371SDwSjNXEO.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President, seek repeal of farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind to seek repeal of the three new farm laws enacted in September this year, alleging that the government had “insulted” the farmers by getting these passed in Parliament in an “undemocratic” manner without any discussion and consultations. The meeting came a day after the Bharat bandh called by various farmers’ unions in protest against these laws. Thousands of farmers are currently agitating on various borders of Delhi. The five-member delegation of opposition leaders included former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader TKS Elangovan. The opposition delegation was limited to five because of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas,” the opposition leaders said in a memorandum submitted to the President. “The new agri-laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporate,” it added. The memorandum further said over 20 different political parties, including those running state governments, have extended their solidarity with the farmers over their ongoing struggle and also supported their ‘Bharat bandh’ call on December 8, demanding the repeal of the agri-laws and the electricity amendment bill. “We met the President and informed him of our views regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed him that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after the meeting. “The way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them. They will not relent and will continue their peaceful agitation till the laws are taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief claimed that the new laws were aimed at handing over the farm sector to the “friends” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the farmers are fearless and will not back off. They have lost faith in the government,” he added. Pawar said various political parties have requested the President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the select committee of Parliament. “Not a single suggestion offered by opposition leaders in Parliament was accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste,” he said. “In this cold, the farmers are on streets protesting peacefully, expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve this issue,” Pawar added. The NCP chief said the MSP has not been mentioned in the new farm laws and that is why the farmers are disturbed. His views were echoed by Yechury. “We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws,” he said. The CPI (M) leader said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. “The Prime Minister has been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws in their favour then why are they protesting out in the cold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-president-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-Mtjcn8XS59ZvG5EjftGHnI.html
09-12-2020||India||If farmers don’t stand up today, they will be silenced forever: Rahul Gandhi after meeting President over farm laws||A delegation of opposition parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) chief Sharad Pawar met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, demanding roll back of three farm laws passed by Parliament recently. Calling it an “anti-farmer” laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the Centre for passing the laws without consulting with the opposition parties and the farmers. Gandhi pointed out that the way the bills were passed is an “insult to farmers” who are out on the streets, protesting in cold weather.“The manner in which these three bills were passed, without any discussion, without any conversation with the opposition parties and certainly without a discussion with the farmers of this country, who have built India, is an insult to the kisans (farmers) of this country,” Gandhi said. The Congress leader was addressing the media after his meeting with the President over the farm laws.The delegation leaders said that they have urged the President to take back the laws. Gandhi said that the farmer no longer believes in the government’s intention. “The kisan (farmer) has lost faith in the government. The kisan does not believe that the government is acting in their interest and that is why lakhs of them are on the streets, non-violently and compassionately. They are struggling in cold weather with complete respect. So, we have informed the President that it is absolutely critical that these bills are taken back,” he added.Also read | Farmer leaders reject govt proposal, call for nationwide protest on Dec 14, to block Delhi-Jaipur highway on Dec 12The five-member delegation of opposition leaders that met the President on Wednesday also included CPI general secretary D Raja and DMK leader TKS Elangovan.Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi alleged that the true agenda of the three farm laws is to “handover India’s agriculture system to PM’s friends”. “Our prime minister said that these bills are for the benefit of our farmer, if that’s true, then why are they (farmers) on the streets? Why is the farmer so angry? Because the true agenda of the three farm bills is to handover India’s agriculture system to prime minister’s friends, and the kisan is very well aware of this,” the former Congress chief said. “Nobody can stand in front of a farmer’s strength. The government should have no misunderstanding that the farmers will move, will get scared because India’s farmers will not move until these bills are taken back,” he added.Earlier today, the farmer unions rejected the proposal sent by the Centre to end the protests over the agri laws and said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12 and hold demonstrations protesting the farm laws in several parts of the country on December 14.Rahul Gandhi urged the farmers to not be afraid and assured complete support of opposition parties. “Government should have no misconception. Our farmers will not compromise because they know that if they compromise today, then they will have no future in the country. And I am telling this to our farmers, that if you do not stand up today, then you will be silenced forever, and we are standing with you. You are Hindustan,” the Congress leader said at the end of press conference. Also read | As protests intensify, opposition leaders meet President Ram Nath Kovind, demand repeal of farm lawsThousands of farmers have been protesting at various borders in and around Delhi against the new agriculture laws since November 26. The three farm laws which were passed in September have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will help remove the middlemen and give farmers the right to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have said that the new farm laws will take away the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the mandis, giving power to big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-farmers-don-t-stand-up-today-they-will-be-silenced-forever-rahul-gandhi-after-meeting-president-over-farm-laws/story-2Nkanmx69Zwuv5kIs66YQL.html
09-12-2020||India||Carcass of wild elephant in Assam tests positive for Anthrax||The carcass of a wild elephant found inside Joypur reserve forest in Assam’s Dibrugarh district last week has tested positive for Anthrax, the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) said Wednesday. Though the highly infectious disease caused by the bacteria called ‘Bacilhus anthracis’ had earlier been detected in cattle in the state, this is likely to be the first confirmed case of Anthrax in wild elephants in Assam. Forest officials had found the carcass of a sub-adult female aged nearly 10 years in the Soraipung range of the forest on December 3. Two days later, carcass of another female elephant aged around 18-20 years was found few hundred metres away from the spot where the first carcass was found. Both elephants are believed to be from the same herd. Usually, carcasses of wild elephants are buried, but since forest officials suspected the deaths to be due to Anthrax, the two elephants were cremated using safety measures. “We had conducted autopsy on both the elephants along with veterinarians from the state forest department. The lab result of the autopsy of the first elephant has tested positive for Anthrax,” said Khanin Changmai, a veterinarian with the WTI. ‘We are still waiting for result of the autopsy of the second elephant. Though there have been cases of Anthrax infection in livestock, this could be the first case of the disease in wild elephants in Assam,” he added. Senior forest officials did not respond to calls on what measures have been taken following detection of Anthrax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-wild-elephant-in-assam-tests-positive-for-anthrax/story-2ijwbTyW5IJc2m8CKqtiRM.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Really impressed to see how far you’ve come’: Foreign envoys laud India’s Covid-19 vaccine progress||The foreign envoys, who travelled to Hyderabad on Wednesday to visit two biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines, said they are impressed by the progress made by Indian drug companies. The group of 60 envoys visited the facilities of two companies - Bharat Biotech and Biological E.“I was really impressed to see how far you have come, how dedicated you’re to combat Covid, how focused you’re on helping humanity. It is not just commercial or nation first interest. You’re really connecting with the world and helping all of us,” said F Svane, Ambassador of Denmark to India, according to news agency ANI.WATCH | Covid vaccine: India takes foreign diplomats to Hyderabad labs for briefing Australian Ambassador Barry O’Farrell said that India has the manufacturing capacity to produce sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of citizens in every country.“There are many vaccines being produced in countries around the world but there’s only one country that has the manufacturing capacity to produce sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of citizens in every country and that’s India,” ANI quoted O’Farrell as saying.He also tweeted, “#Hyderabad - the vaccine hub of Flag of India - produces a third of all vaccines manufactured globally. Witnessed first-hand the impressive research and manufacturing facilities at Bharat Biotech and Biological E. Limited and the progress India is making in its COVID vaccine efforts. Thanks to MEA India.” #Hyderabad - the vaccine hub of 🇮🇳 - produces a third of all vaccines manufactured globally. Witnessed first-hand the impressive research & manufacturing facilities at @BharatBiotech & @biological_e & the progress India is making in its COVID vaccine efforts. Thanks to @MEAIndia pic.twitter.com/uRcvrRDJUbWhile visiting Bharat Biotech, the ambassadors were briefed by the company’s joint managing director Suchitra Ella on the development of Covaxin.Suchitra said Covaxin had garnered interest from several countries worldwide for supplies and introduction. “It is an honour to have with us all the distinguished ambassadors of various countries. It makes us proud to note that the world is looking up to India in the common fight against this deadly pandemic,” she said.The delegation was led by MEA, and comprised of high commissioners and government representatives from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America, South America and Oceania.Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Yella also briefed the delegation about the company’s vaccine development programme, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV).Yella, who is spearheading the Covaxin’s research, development, clinical trials and production teams, explained the company’s research process, manufacturing capabilities and expertise, He gave virtual and physical tours of the facilities.India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer and has been contributing significantly to global efforts against Covid-19 pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier said that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. He had visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on November 28 to conduct an extensive review of the vaccine development and manufacturing process.Bharat Biotech had on Monday applied for emergency use authorisation for its indigenously developed Covaxin. It is the second Indian company to apply for emergency use authorisation after SII applied for such use for the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/really-impressed-to-see-how-far-you-ve-come-foreign-envoys-laud-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-progress/story-YkrwjPZFuFRREJoq9v1eFL.html
09-12-2020||India||UP to have 35k Covid vaccine storage centres under CCTV watch: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh would set up 35,000 centres for the Covid-19 vaccine and all of them would be put under CCTV camera vigil, chief minister Adityanath said on Wednesday.Besides, all vaccine carrier vehicles will have GPS (global positioning system) trackers.He tasked the health and home departments with preparing a foolproof work plan for secure storage and cold chain for prospective Covid vaccines, eliminating any possibility of misuse of the vaccine. In his third dedicated meeting on the vaccine, he also said, “The vaccine is likely to come in the near future. Considering this, the home department and the health department together should make a foolproof work plan for the safe, secure storage of the vaccine and maintenance of the cold chain. Make sure that under any circumstances, there’s no misuse of the vaccine.”“Use the previous experience of rubella and measles vaccination programmes carried out in the state,” he said.Reminding them of the deadline, the chief minister asked the officials concerned to put in place safe storage facilities by December 15 and bringing all of them under CCTV camera vigil.A press statement by the state government also said the central government conducted a training for master trainers for the vaccination and the chief minister observed it virtually.Adityanath said that the state government was working in all seriousness for Covid-19 vaccine storage as the government was committed towards saving people from the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-have-35k-covid-vaccine-storage-centres-under-cctv-watch-adityanath/story-EtxuLbDqW4GXczaEV2MqhO.html
09-12-2020||India||Adani Group clarifies it does not buy food grains from farmers; only manages storage for FCI||With its name echoing in farmer protests against agri reform bills, Adani Group has said it neither buys food grains from farmers nor decides the pricing of food grains.The port-to-energy conglomerate said it only develops and operates grain silos for Food Corporation of India (FCI).“The company has no role in deciding the volume of storage as well as pricing of grain as it only a service/ infrastructure provider for the FCI,” it said in a statement posted on its Twitter handle. FCI buys food grains from farmers and stores them in silos built through a public-private partnership. While private players are paid a fee for building and storing the food grains, the ownership of the commodity as well as its marketing and distribution rights, belong to FCI. FCI, it said, controls the procurement and movement of food grains for the Public Distribution System (PDS).The statement came as farmer groups in their agitation against the three farm reforms bills that among other things give farmers the freedom to sell their produce to anyone, alleged that the legislations were brought to favour Ambani and Adani.Some farm groups have alleged that the Adani group is building grain storage facilities for hoarding food grains and selling them at a higher price later.“We do not own any food grains procured from farmers, and are in no way connected to the pricing of grains,” it said.Adani Group said it is in the business of developing and operating grain silos for FCI since 2005. It sets up storage infrastructure after winning competitive and transparent tender by the Government of India.Private rail lines that it built as part of these tenders are to facilitate the movement of grains from silo units to their distribution centres across India, the statement said.FCI, it said, awarded such contracts with a view to modernising the storage and transport infrastructure in the country so that food grains could be safely stored and quality stuff is supplied to the PDS system.“Using ongoing issues for mudslinging is a clear attempt to not only tarnish the reputation of a responsible corporate but also misguide public opinion and hurt their sentiment,” Adani Group said. FCI has partnered with private investors to commission high tech silos equipped with latest fumigation and preservation techniques for food grains for two to four years and dispatch it in bulk form through special trains across India. It is estimated that since inception, some of the prominent private food storage facilities have registered an average direct receipt, from farmers, of around 80,000 tonnes per year in the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adani-group-clarifies-it-does-not-buy-food-grains-from-farmers-only-manages-storage-for-fci/story-qp4xcAnFXP9ClqBorRjbWP.html
09-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand tweaks rule to bar Chinese firms from participating in state’s global tenders||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday amended its procurement rules of 2017 to prevent those countries which share borders with the state from participating in global tenders floated by the state government, effectively targeting Chinese firms. Citing “national security concerns” without naming China, the amendment is aimed to prevent Chinese companies from participating in Uttarakhand’sglobal tenders, said a senior government functionary who did not want to be named.Uttarakhand shares borders with China and Nepal. The decision was taken during the state cabinet meeting led by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at the state secretariat in Dehradun. The proposal for the same came along with 28 others discussed in the meeting. However, citing the upcoming assembly session from December 21, no media briefing was held on the cabinet decisions. A government official privy to the development said, “As per the amendment, those countries which share borders with India, would be prohibited from participating in government tenders due to national security concerns and direct or indirect reasons,” said the official adding that the amendment is “targeted at China”. Sino-India ties have nosedived this year amid a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May.The cabinet also made another amendment in the Procurement Rules under which the government could now procure products up to ₹5 lakh from the self-help groups without any hassle. “The move is to promote the self-help groups which would help in the economic development of hilly areas of the state,” said the official. In the other decisions related to Covid-19 pandemic, the government also decided to open higher education institutions from December 15. “All the degree colleges and universities would be allowed to open from December 15 while following the necessary Covid-19 guidelines. However, coaching centres will remain closed,” he said. Among the other major decisions taken by the cabinet, the government has decided to make a separate list of promotion for female police personnel and allow Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Selection Commission to make recruitments for the police department. “The former decision will increase the prospect of promotion for the female police officers as till date the promotion list was a combined one under which the female officers had less chance of promotion,” said the government official. “Also, as per another government decision the government doctors pursuing post graduation would now get only stipend or half of their salary, not both. Till now they were getting both. Their guarantee money has been reduced from ₹1 crore to ₹ 50 lakh,” said the official. State urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik refused to speak much on the cabinet meeting citing the upcoming Assembly session but informed that, “There were a total of 29 proposals discussed out of which decision was taken on 27. On the remaining two, one would be taken in the next cabinet meeting while on the other, a committee has been formed under the state chief secretary before taking a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-tweaks-rule-to-bar-chinese-firms-from-participating-in-state-s-global-tenders/story-MziaFpAG8BCh6E9pmQ5TFO.html
09-12-2020||India||India well-positioned to provide globally-skilled workforce: MEA official||India is well-positioned geo-economically and geopolitically to create and provide globally-skilled workforce, an official of the Ministry of External Affairs said on Wednesday.Addressing the 9th Global Summit on Skill Development, MEA Secretary (CPV & OIA) Sanjay Bhattacharyya said India stands ready to improve the presence of highly-skilled workers and professionals through mutually-beneficial arrangements with Europe, the US and Japan.Today’s world is characterised by globalisation that thrives on mobility of global talent. Specialisation, domain-specific knowledge and skills are key to success and will also determine employability of the youth, who form India’s demographic dividend and an advantage the country shall have into the second half of 21st century, according to Bhattacharyya.Speaking on ‘The Future of Work -- Creating Globally Competitive Skilled Workforce’ the senior MEA official said India was well-positioned in traditional labour markets in the Gulf and Europe.“India’s success story in the Gulf is well-known and there are over 9 million Indian workers and professionals in these countries,” he said. “The leadership in the Gulf has acknowledged their contribution to the development of the region and Indians are the preferred option for Gulf countries.” Noting that India’s share in the European labour market has also shown positive signs, Bhattacharyya said a recent Organisation for Economic Cooperation (OECD) study revealed that of the 12 crore migrants living in OECD countries, 30-35 per cent were highly-educated with academic and vocational training.India was ranked at the top with more than 3 lakh highly-educated Indians in the OECD countries, which is reflective of the skilled and trained workforce that India possesses, he said.Bhattacharyya said the signing of the India-EU Declaration of Common Agenda on Migration and Mobility in 2016 affirmed the shared objectives of better organising and promoting regular migration at all levels, maximising the development impact of migration and mobility for mutual benefit.“We are also working to provide enabling frameworks through Migration and Mobility Partnerships. While the agreement has been concluded with France, agreements with Portugal, Germany, Benelux, UK and Japan (outside EU) are in the pipeline,” he said, adding that several other countries were also interested in such agreements.“India stands ready to improve the presence of highly skilled workers and professionals through mutually beneficial arrangements with Europe, the US and Japan,” Bhattacharyya said.“India is well-positioned geo-economically and geo-politically to create and provide globally skilled workforce due to our competitive advantage, the English language, and strong core skills in STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) subjects,” he said.Strengthening English and other business language programmes like German, Spanish, French or Japanese will ensure greater mobility, employability and readiness to join the global workforce, he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-well-positioned-to-provide-globally-skilled-workforce-mea-official/story-et03dz4Hsea7nCY8H840aJ.html
09-12-2020||India||I want to sing for all music composers, says Ankit Tiwari||Composer-singer Ankit Tiwari had his share of struggles before making it big with songs like, ‘Sunn Raha Hai…,’ ‘Galliyan,’ in Bollywood. A number awards and appreciation later, there has been no looking back for the Kanpur-born musician. “It has been a contented journey as I made it without a filmi background tag, but at the same time, a lot remains to be done because there is much good music in me.”Remembering his days, when he left for Mumbai, Ankit said, “Oh, it was a tough call to reach Mumbai leaving friends and home behind but I knew ‘it’s now or never’. So I embarked on my new journey. I remember how after much struggle, when things were not working, my mother asked me to come back and I was like, ‘Mummy fail toh ho jaane do theek se…varna malal rahega…’ But thankfully, I was able to get work, and the rest is history.”The singer feels that as he is known as a composer - singer, very few songs of other composers come to him to sing. “I’m a born music lover and want to sing for all music composers as well but due to some false impression many makers feel that I prefer to make my own music and sing, though I’m equally comfortable in both. At the end of the day, it is good music that matters to me, so I’m open to offers,” said, the ‘Dil Darbadar’ singer (from the blockbuster ‘PK’).Ankit s worked tirelessly in the last few months on the music of various music albums, films including ‘Ek Villan 2’ and singles, “Besides, I’ll also be seen on TV next year for Indian Pro Music League, a fun musical show where I’ll be captain of Team Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-want-to-sing-for-all-music-composers-says-ankit-tiwari/story-qjdxKuGvEklWj74rbMQcSL.html
09-12-2020||India||As protests intensify, opposition leaders meet President Ram Nath Kovind, demand repeal of farm laws||A joint delegation of opposition parties met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday over the contentious farm laws. During the meet, the delegation comprising Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, Communist Party of India’s (CPI) D Raja, Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leader Sitaram Yechury and TKS Elangovan of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) told the President that it is critical to take back the three legislations which have triggered protests across the country for over 10 days now. They also presented a memorandum asking to repeal the recently enacted agriculture laws.“We informed the President that it is absolutely critical that these anti-farmer laws are taken back,” Rahul Gandhi told meadipersons after the meeting. He also said that the way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, “we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them”. “The farmers will not back down and will continue their protests till the laws are taken back,” Gandhi added.Also Read | Farmer leaders reject govt proposal, call for nationwide protest on Dec 14, to block Delhi-Jaipur highway on Dec 12“We have given a memorandum to the President. We are asking to repeal agriculture laws and electricity amendment bill that were passed in an anti-democratic manner without proper discussions and consultations,” said Yechury. The NCP’s Sharad Pawar said that it is Centre’s duty to resolve the issue over the legislations.Farmers from across the country are protesting against the three farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They were passed by the Parliament during the monsoon session in September.The government has held five rounds of talks with farmer leaders to resolve the issue, which have remained futile so far. Earlier in the day, the government sent a draft proposal of amendments which it plans to incorporate in the farm laws to the protersters at the SInghu border near Delhi, the epicentre of the stir. However, the proposal was rejected by the farmers.Watch | Farmers’ protest: Center sends proposal to farmers Meanwhile, the farmers have given a call to block Delhi-Jaipur and Agra highway on December 12 as they remain firm on the demand of complete withdrawal of the laws.They are also planning to ‘gherao’ Bharatiya Janata Party’s offices and hold demonstrations on December 14. “We are also giving a call to farmers from other parts of the country to reach Delhi,” said farmer leaders at Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-protests-intensify-opposition-leaders-meet-president-ram-nath-kovind-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-wsSQdSlOYqDEbD2wmMUG3N.html
09-12-2020||India||DRDO successfully demonstrates quantum communication between two labs||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Wednesday successfully demonstrated communication between its two labs using Quantum Key Distribution (N) technology.“Secure communications are vital for defence and strategic agencies world over and distribution of encryption keys from time to time is an important requirement in this context... Quantum based communication offers a robust solution to sharing the keys securely,” said an official statement.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO for successful demonstration of QKD-based communication between its two labs in Hyderabad, said the statement.The Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) and The Research Centre Imarat (RCI) were the two labs that participated in this demonstration.“Quantum Communication using the time-bin QKD scheme was performed under realistic conditions. The setup also demonstrated the validation of detection of a third party trying to gain knowledge of the communication,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-successfully-demonstrates-quantum-communication-between-two-labs/story-8IiVkcPtgXAB9QpHFdwBRO.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine to have differential pricing, says Pfizer||Global pharma major Pfizer has said it will have differential pricing on its Covid-19 vaccine for different countries, as the company aims to make the vaccine available across the world.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The company’s Indian arm has sought emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19 in the country from the Indian drug regulator.After the UK approval for the vaccine, Pfizer and BioNTech are anticipating further regulatory decisions across the globe in the coming days and are ready to deliver vaccine doses following potential regulatory authorisations or approvals, Pfizer had earlier said.“The fundamental that went into the pricing was that we make sure we make it very quickly available to everyone,” Pfizer Inc Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla said at a virtual press conference organised by International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA) on Tuesday.“We are having a tier pricing. It is one price for the developed world based on their GDP, another price, lower for the middle-income countries and in the low-income countries, like countries in Africa etc we are giving it on a not-on-profit base,” he added.Even in developed countries, the price is what they can afford to pay. In the US the price is USD 19.50, the price of an average meal, Bourla said.The company is in talks with various governments for the vaccine, he added.Bourla also said the company is also working on a new formulation that will be able to avoid the -70 degree requirement and can be stored in simple refrigeration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-to-have-differential-pricing-says-pfizer/story-sKxoFxpr7xMhWOoSHScmaK.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition delegation meets President, seeks repeal of farm laws||Opposition parties on Wednesday met President Ram Nath Kovind and sought repeal of the three farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting on various borders of the national capital. The five-member delegation of opposition leaders included Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and DMK leader TKS Elangovan. The opposition leaders submitted a memorandum to the President that said, “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade your government not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadatas.” The memorandum also said, “The new agri-laws, passed in Parliament in an anti-democratic manner preventing a structured discussion and voting, threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporates.” The memorandum to President further said that more than 20 different political parties, including many parties running state governments, have extended their solidarity with the ongoing historic struggle of the Indian peasantry and extended wholehearted support to their call for a Bharat Bandh on December 8, demanding the repeal of the retrograde agri-laws and the Electricity Amendment Bill.“We met President and informed him of our view regarding the three farm laws. We have asked for their repeal. We informed the President that it is critical that they are taken back,” Gandhi told reporters after meeting President. He said the way the farm laws were passed in Parliament, “we feel it was an insult to farmers and that is why they are protesting in the cold weather against them”.“The farmers will not relent and will continue their protests till the laws and taken back,” he said. The former Congress chief said the new laws appeared aimed at handing over the farming sector to the “friends of the prime minister”, but the farmers are fearless and would not back off and will continue with their peaceful agitation.NCP leader Pawar said various political parties have requested President that these farm laws should be repealed as they were not discussed with either stakeholders or in the Select Committee of Parliament. The former agriculture minister said not a single suggestion of opposition leaders raised in Parliament were accepted by the government and all these bills were passed in haste. He said the MSP has not been mentioned in the new farm laws and that is why the farmers are disturbed. Yechury said, “We told President that the three farm laws were passed undemocratically in Parliament and have sought the repeal of these laws.” He said the government should repeal the acts in view of the widespread protests by farmers. The opposition leaders said the prime ministers have been saying that these laws are in the interest of farmers, but the question is if these laws in their favour then why the farmers are protesting out in the cold. The opposition delegation was limited to five because of the Covid-19 situation. The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-delegation-meets-president-seeks-repeal-of-farm-laws/story-oItMgz4ChjpBxqhFpNoCSL.html
09-12-2020||India||India playing key role against Covid-19, says Bharat Biotech as 64 envoys visit facility||The world is looking up to India in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic as the development and clinical evaluation of Covaxin marks a significant milestone for novel vaccinology in the country, Suchitra Ella, Joint Managing Director of Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday. She was addressing a team of 64 ambassadors and high commissioners who visited the Bharat Biotech facility at Genome Valley, Hyderabad to learn more about their work to establish a safe and efficacious vaccine against Covid-19. The delegation was led by the Ministry of External Affairs comprising high commissioners and government representatives from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America, South America, and Oceania. Suchitra said Covaxin had garnered interest from several countries worldwide for supplies and introduction. “It is an honour to have with us all the distinguished ambassadors of various countries. It makes us proud to note that the world is looking up to India in the common fight against this deadly pandemic,” she said. Earlier, Bharat Biotech chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Yella briefed the delegation about the company’s vaccine development programme, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV). Yella, who is spearheading the Covaxin’s research, development, clinical trials and production teams, explained the company’s research process, manufacturing capabilities and expertise, He gave virtual and physical tours of the facilities.In a statement, the company said the envoys appreciated Bharat Biotech’s work of national and global public health significance, through several months to establish a long-lasting efficacious vaccine to combat the extraordinary Covid-19 pandemic. Welcoming the dignitaries, Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar explained how the state which is the youngest in the country, had achieved tremendous progress in attracting top companies from across the world by introducing an investor-friendly industrial policy. “The combined value of the pharma sector in the state is around 50 billion US dollars. Hyderabad is the vaccine hub of not only India but the entire world with 33 per cent of the entire vaccine production being done in Hyderabad,” he said. Principal Secretary, Industries and IT, Jayesh Ranjan made a power point presentation at Bharat Biotech and showcased the investment potential of the state to the visiting dignitaries. He said that Hyderabad Pharma city will be operational in a couple of months. Similarly, a medical devices park is being set up near the ORR in 500 acres. The high-level contingent of envoys was divided into two batches and taken to Bharat Biotech Ltd and Biological E Limited in turns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-playing-key-role-against-covid-19-says-bharat-biotech-as-64-envoys-visit-facility/story-288eXn6ZPStJ9nxjBxFsHP.html
09-12-2020||India||Foreign envoys laud India’s Covid-19 vaccine development programme||Many of the 60 foreign heads of missions who visited the biotech companies in Hyderabad-- Bharat Biotech and Biological E-- lauded the work being done at the Indian facilities for the development of Covid-19 vaccines.F Svane, Ambassador of Denmark to India, said that India is not working for commercial or national interest but is also working for countries around the world. “I was really impressed to see how far you have come, how dedicated you’re to combat Covid, how focused you’re on helping humanity. It is not just commercial or nation first interest. You’re really connecting with the world and helping all of us,” F Svane told ANI.Besides the Danish envoy, Australian Ambassador Barry O’Farrell also praised India, saying that it has the manufacturing capacity to produce sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of citizens in every country.“There are many vaccines being produced in countries around the world but there’s only one country that has the manufacturing capacity to produce sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of citizens in every country and that’s India,” said Barry O’Farrell.Later in the day, the Australian envoy also tweeted while putting up a picture. “#Hyderabad - the vaccine hub of Flag of India - produces a third of all vaccines manufactured globally. Witnessed first-hand the impressive research and manufacturing facilities at Bharat Biotech and Biological E. Limited and the progress India is making in its Covid vaccine efforts. Thanks to MEA India.”While praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mahima Datla, the Managing Director of the Biological E Ltd, said it is a testament to PM Modi’s vision who’s not only showcasing collaboration but is keen to ensure that Indian companies play a vital role in delivering vaccines around the world.“It’s a testament to PM’s vision who’s not only showcasing collaboration but is keen to ensure that it’s not just India that receives vaccine but Indian companies play a vital role in delivering vaccine to the world,” said Mahima Datla on the visit of the foreign envoys.India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer and has been contributing significantly to global efforts against Covid 19 pandemic.Earlier today, sources had said there is a lot of interest in India’s vaccine development efforts.Prime Minister Modi has said that India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis.He visited the Zydus Biotech Park in Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India in Pune on November 28 to conduct an extensive review of the vaccine development and manufacturing process.On November 30, he had virtual meetings with teams from Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd Pune, Biological E Ltd Hyderabad and Dr Reddys Laboratories Ltd Hyderabad. The three teams are working on developing and manufacturing vaccine for Covid-19.Bharat Biotech had on Monday applied for emergency use authorisation for its indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ to Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).It is the second Indian company to apply for emergency use authorisation after the Serum Institute of India applied for such use for the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-envoys-laud-india-s-covid-19-vaccine-development-programme/story-0fKqitDvqCDgZXiv0qZ0KL.html
09-12-2020||India||Indians are proud of Kamala Harris and wish her success, says MoS Muraleedharan||Indians are proud of Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, the first woman to reach the apex of power in the United States, and wish her success, said V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs on Wednesday.Muraleedharan was addressing a virtual Pravasi Bharatiya Divas conference on the theme “Role of Diaspora in Promotion of Indian Culture Abroad.”The event was organised by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) and the Overseas Indian Affairs Division of the Ministry of External Affairs in partnership with the Diaspora Research and Resource Centre, Antar Rashtriya Sahayog Parishad (ARSP). This conference constitutes an important part of the annual flagship Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2021.“The Indian Diaspora is the second-largest diaspora in the world. It is counted among the most successful ex-pat communities anywhere in the world. Today, they occupy high positions in the fields of politics, economy, industry, technology, and education. This heterogeneous group drawn from different historical and cultural contexts of migration are identified and held together by their ‘Indianess’ and a deep cultural and emotional attachment towards Mother India,” Muraleedharan said at the virtual meeting.Also Read | ‘Grateful for opportunity’: Indian-American Dr Vivek Murthy after being named US surgeon general amid Covid-19“I would like to recall the formations of Government under President Irfan Ali in Guyana and President Chandrikapersad Santokhi in Suriname. Indian origin leaders have also done exceptionally well at the recently-held elections in the United States. There are leaders of Indian origin in Congress, Senate and scores have won seats in the State legislatures in the USA. We are all proud of their victories, congratulate them and wish them all success,” he added.“India is recognised internationally for its intellect, scientific temper, way of life through Ayurveda, Yoga. While diasporas have seamlessly integrated with the countries of their adoption, they have also maintained close links with their ethno-cultural roots in India. They have been bridges, mediators, facilitators, lobby and advocacy groups for taking primacy of India’s national security and economic interests and soft power projection,” Muraleedharan said.“We were also looking forward to sharing with you in person the various policy initiatives for shaping the idea of “New India”, including the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added.The next PBD is scheduled on 9 January 2021. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it will be held virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-are-proud-of-kamala-harris-and-wish-her-success-says-mos-muraleedharan/story-i9ZilqDMGasECkiO3KQhFI.html
09-12-2020||India||Special divers could be only hope for 2 Jharkhand miners trapped for 2 days||A team of professional divers from Odisha’s Cuttack was pressed into service Wednesday morning to rescue two miners trapped in a flooded underground coal mine since Tuesday morning in Jharkhand’s Mugma colliery area of Eastern Coalfield Limited (ECL).Mugma area general manager (GM) of ECL Sanctoria (Burdman district of West Bengal) Vibhash Chandra Singh told media persons that besides National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams from Ranchi and Asansol, a six-member squad of Odisha divers has been pressed in to rescue the two miners.“We have also installed four pumps for pumping out water from the seam of underground coal mines so that trapped miners could be brought out as soon as possible,” he said.Officials said pump operator Basiya Manjhi (56) and his assistant Manik Bauri (52) were missing after water suddenly flooded one layer of the mine at around 4 am on Tuesday. A total of four miners were engaged in the dewatering exercise in the mine at that time.While two of them came out, Basiya Manjhi and Manik Bauri were missing, officials said.Rescue teams from Mugma (Dhanbad) and Sitarampur (West Bengal) were the first to be deployed for the search of the missing miners. When they failed, colliery management sought help from Professional Diving Services, Cuttack.AD Mishra, director, Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS), the country’s mines monitoring body, also reached on the spot with his team. “Our first priority is to bring out missing miners from the underground mine. Thereafter a probe would be started,” he said.Samir Tudu, one of the four miners, who came out safely, said a massive flow of water suddenly flooded the spot where they were working. He along with Vikash Bhuian managed to come out of the mine in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-divers-could-be-only-hope-for-2-jharkhand-miners-trapped-for-2-days/story-kD4gNecVYW2Ar5RUelL0YI.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine drive: Centre to send additional storage equipment to states from tomorrow||Starting from December 10, the Centre will send additional vaccine storage equipment to states and union territories, as the preparation for starting the vaccine drive is going on in full swing.Three vaccine candidates, including that of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, have applied for emergency use authorisation. While the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation reviews the applications, the Centre is readying the ground work for vaccine delivery.According to health ministry, the present cold chain system consists of 85,634 equipment for storage of vaccine at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country. The number (85,634) includes all auxiliary equipment as well like walk-in coolers, transport box etc.The Centre had already asked the states and UTs to assess their cold-storage requirement, if they need extra walk-in coolers, walk-in freezers, deep freezers, ice-lined refrigerators etc., as the present equipment are also used for other immunisation programmes. The supply will start from December 10, the ministry has said.The current cold chain is capable of storing additional quantity of Covid-19 vaccine required for first 3 crore people — health care workers and frontline workers, the ministry has said.Here is what we know about vaccination drive> Health care workers will get vaccine shots in the beginning followed frontline staff. Then people with co-morbidities will be given priority.> All three groups can be vaccinated at the same time, depending on the availability of the vaccine.> In the first month, there can be a limited supply of vaccine, but n the following months, supply will be augmented> It will be a voluntary exercise.> Out of 2.39 lakh vaccinators (auxiliary nurse midwife), 1.54 lakh will be deployed for Covid-19 vaccination> At present, there are 13 immunisation programmes in India.> Centre is finalising a vaccination SOP with inputs from states. > Centre will launch Co-WIN app to monitor the entire process. People will be able to register themselves for vaccination through the app.> In each session, 100 people will be vaccinated. At least 30 minutes will be required to complete the process of vaccinating each recipient.The health ministry has also zeroed in on five principles to carry out the vaccination drive: One, orderly, smooth implementation driven by technology; Two, no compromise of existing healthcare services, especially national programmes and primary care; Three, utilise experience of elections and universal immunisation programme; Four, ensure people’s participation; Five, no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms, other SOPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-drive-centre-to-send-additional-storage-equipment-to-states-from-tomorrow/story-YsSlPxpPKiLhPQ7GhXCFOL.html
09-12-2020||India||Delhi HC asks Prasar Bharati to treat as representation plea seeking to resume all AIR units||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the public broadcaster Prasar Bharati to treat as a representation plea seeking to resume all channels, stations, services and units of All India Radio (AIR) discontinued during the Covid-19 pandemic.With these directions, a division bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan disposed of the public interest litigation filed by All India Radio Casual Announcers and Comperes Union and AIR Broadcasting Professionals Association.The PIL, filed by through advocate Akash Vashishtha, was moved against the closing down of the National Channel of All India Radio and its Regional Academies at Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Shillong and Thiruvananthapuram, without conducting any assessment.The plea sought directions to the Centre and Prasar Bharti to resume all channels, stations, services and units of AIR mentioned in the present petition and those closed, stopped or discontinued during the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, with immediate effect.It sought directions to compensate the contractual casual announcers, radio jockeys, presenters and comperes serving in AIR’s stations, and those closed in the past six months, for the loss of work and wages they suffered since the closure of their channels/stations/services/units.“The instant plea also raises the manifestly arbitrary, irrational and unreasonable shutting down of some of the most popular Channels/Services of the All India Radio such as the DTH, AIR World Service (Nepali, Russian, Arabic, Swahili, English, Hindi, etc.), Indraprastha Channel and Rajdhani Channels from the designated studios, using Covid-19 as a garb,” the plea said.It alleged that the Prasar Bharati, in a virtual abuse of power, has further arbitrarily and irrationally halted the broadcasting services from the AIR Chhatarpur, AIR Shahdol and AIR Betul stations.“Some of the strategically important, flagship popular channels such as the AIR World Services have been delinked from the main studios and instead run as small-time programmes on YouTube channels that are of foreign origin,” the plea said.“The programmes run on YouTube are not only inferior in quality but are also critically low on viewership. Further, YouTube is a service run by foreign agencies that may change its terms and conditions at any time and may cease to operate at any moment. In such an event, AIR will have no means to keep records of its broadcast materials intact, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-prasar-bharati-to-treat-as-representation-plea-seeking-to-resume-all-air-units/story-43L1IKKXCBCkNsAdb3F6ZO.html
09-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves Provision of Submarine Optical Fibre Cable Connectivity between Mainland, Lakshadweep Islands||The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, gave its approval for Provision of Submarine Optical Fibre Cable Connectivity between Mainland (Kochi) and Lakshadweep Islands (KLI Project).The Project envisages the provision of a direct communication link through a dedicated submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) between Kochi and 11 Islands of Lakshadweep viz. Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Agati, Amini, Androth, Minicoy, Bangaram, Bitra, Chetlat, Kiltan, and Kadmat, said Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in a press briefing here. The estimated cost of implementation is about Rs 1,072 crore including operational expenses for 5 years. The Project would be funded by the Universal Service Obligation Fund.As per an official release, the submarine connectivity project will have a vital role in the delivery of e-governance services at the doorstep of citizens, potential development of fisheries, coconut-based industries and high-value tourism, educational development in terms of the education and in health care in terms of telemedicine facilities.It will help in the establishment of numerous businesses, augment e-commerce activities and provide adequate support to educational institutes for knowledge sharing. The Lakshadweep Islands have the potential to become a hub of logistic services.The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has been nominated as Project Execution Agency and Telecommunications Consultant India Limited (TCIL) as the Technical Consultant of the Project to assist Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) under the Department of Telecommunications (DoT).The project is targeted to be completed by May 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-provision-of-submarine-optical-fibre-cable-connectivity-between-mainland-lakshadweep-islands/story-AjPDZ59UEq60fTTAZHT9MP.html
09-12-2020||India||BMC sets up new Covid-19 vaccine storage facility in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is setting up a new Covid-19 vaccine storage facility at one its buildings in Kanjurmarg area here, officials said on Wednesday.The new vaccine storage facility will be in addition to the existing cold storage facilities at four civic-run hospitals in the city, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The BMC has identified its own five-storey building at Kanjurmarg in the eastern suburbs for the new Covid-19 vaccine storage facility, which will be set up on its first floor, another civic official said.Currently, the Sion Hospital, Nair Hospital, KEM Hospital and Cooper Hospital here have vaccine storage facilities, he said.These hospitals have a limited vaccine storage capacity, which is sufficient for the ongoing vaccination programmes but inadequate for the forthcoming Covid-19 vaccination, Kakani said.The civic body aims to make the facility at Kanjurmarg ready before this year-end and is initiating the process of procurement of coolers and freezers for the storage of Covid-19 vaccines at low temperatures, he said.“We are trying to make the vaccine storage facility ready before December 31,” Kakani said.The new vaccine storage facility is being set up considering the city’s need for extensive Covid-19 vaccination, and it would be used for long-term, he said.Kakani said for the storage of vaccines, they are going to install two “walk-in coolers and freezers” each, which could maintain temperature between 2 to 8 degree Celsius and -25 to -15 degree Celsius, respectively.Till Tuesday, Mumbai reported a total of 2,87,175 Covid-19 cases and 10,920 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-sets-up-new-covid-19-vaccine-storage-facility-in-mumbai/story-g2cziFA7MMw2g811ekKYaP.html
09-12-2020||India||Govt approves PM WANI scheme to unleash ‘massive Wi-Fi revolution’: All you need to know||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a framework for the proliferation of public Wi-Fi networks through the PM Wi-Fi Access Network Interface (PM WANI). Briefing about the cabinet decisions, Union telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said at a press conference in New Delhi that through this scheme, the government is planning to “unleash a massive Wi-Fi revolution in the country”.The framework includes multiple elements like Public Data Office (PDO), Public Data Office Aggregators and app providers to deliver public Wi-Fi services without a licence. “No licence, no registration, and no fee would be applicable for the PDOs, which could be small shops or even Common Service Centres,” Prasad further said.According to the government, the Covid-19 pandemic has necessitated delivery of stable and high speed broadband internet (data) services to an increasingly large number of subscribers in the country. These include areas which do not have 4G mobile coverage.Here is all you need to know about PM WANI:- As per the framework, PDO or public data centres will be opened across the country. It will establish, maintain, and operate only WANI compliant Wi-Fi Access Points and deliver broadband services to subscribers. - Public Data Office Aggregator (PDOA) which will curate information regarding public data centres will be set up to perform the functions relating to authorization and accounting.- There will be no requirement for the proposed categories of PDOs. However, The aggregators, who will work closely with the PDOs and app providers, will have to register themselves through the online registration portal (SARALSANCHAR; https://saralsanchar.gov.in. They will be registered within a week of putting in an application.- The users can register and discover WANI compliant Wi-Fi hotspots in the nearby area through an app to access the internet service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-pm-wani-scheme-to-unleash-massive-wi-fi-revolution-all-you-need-to-know/story-U4pXWMGHfcFNkl2PLRQQgK.html
09-12-2020||India||PM’s entourage can’t be brought into public domain: IAF challenges CIC order||Security apparatus and the entourage of the Prime Minister of India cannot be brought into the public domain for security reason, said the Indian Air Force (IAF) challenging a Central Information Commission (CIC) order in the Delhi High Court for its disclosure under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.The plea, moved by the IAF through its Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), sought to quash an order dated July 8, 2020, passed by CIC whereby it had directed the CPIO to provide details of relevant Special Flight Returns-ll to Commodore (retd) Lokesh K Batra, who had sought the details via an RTI applicant, within 15 days.The IAF said that the CIC has failed to consider that the information sought by the RTI applicant can’t be disclosed as it is extremely sensitive in nature and since it relates to part-II of the Special Flight Returns [SFR] and official records of functioning and working of the security apparatus of the Prime Minister of India.“The information so sought includes details related to the entire entourage, names of Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel accompanying the Prime Minister on foreign tours for his personal safety, and the same, if disclosed, can potentially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State,” the plea said.It said the CIC has made a grave error in law as well as on facts as it ignored that the details of SPG have been explicitly exempted from the purview of the RTI Act. Hence, the impugned order is bad in law as well as on facts and deserves to be quashed, it added.“The CIC failed to consider that the SPG was raised in 1985 with the intention to provide proximate security cover to the Prime Minister, former Prime Ministers and their immediate family members. It was only after the assassination of former Prime Minister Late Indira Gandhi by her own bodyguards in 1984, the need for a specialised and dedicated force arose,” the plea said.“The SPG has strict protocols concerning the security of the Prime Minister and even the details regarding the name and number of SPG personnel engaged in the personal security of the Prime Minister of India are not brought into the public domain as unfortunately there have been assassinations of two previous Prime Ministers,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-s-entourage-can-t-be-brought-into-public-domain-iaf-challenges-cic-order/story-cH2HKWcQg4SZyk6mInZPdI.html
09-12-2020||India||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in hospital with breathing problem||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee,76, was rushed to a private hospital in Kolkata Wednesday afternoon with symptoms of breathlessness. He was first admitted in the emergency ward and later shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU). A hospital spokesperson said in the evening that Bhattacharjee was in critical condition and was on ventilator support. “He also has pneumonic patches in his lungs. He is on antibiotics,” said the spokesperson. The former chief minister was unconscious when he was admitted to the hospital around 2 pm and remained so till the evening, hospital authorities said.No visitor was allowed inside the ICU as Bhattacharjee has infection. Bhattacharjee, one of the senior leaders of the CPI(M), has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. Bhattacharjee’s wife, daughter and several leaders of the CPI(M) were present at the hospital. In September last year, the CPI(M) leader was admitted in the same hospital after he complained of an acute breathing problem. His blood pressure was found to be quite low and his oxygen concentration had also deteriorated. Bhattacharjee, however, recovered in a few days. The hospital authorities said Bhattacharya tested negative for Covid-19 when a rapid test was done. A four-member panel of doctors has been formed for his treatment. Bhattacharjee will undergo several tests, including a CT scan. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern about Bhattacharjee health.“Concerned to hear that former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee has been hospitalised with breathing problems. Praying for his speedy recovery and wishing him well,” tweeted Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-in-hospital-with-breathing-problem/story-mSNzj8AfIyMAtVpB971iYM.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmer leaders reject govt proposal, call for nationwide protest on Dec 14, to block Delhi-Jaipur highway on Dec 12||The farmer unions on Wednesday rejected the proposal sent by the Centre to end the impasse over farm laws. The farmers protesting near national capital Delhi said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12 and hold protest demonstrations in many parts of the country on December 14.The protesters also urged farmers from other states to reach Delhi.“Agra-Delhi Expressway will be blocked on December 12; no tax to be paid on that day at any toll plaza in country,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said.“We will block all roads in Delhi one by one if the three farm laws are not scrapped,” the farmer leaders present at the Singhu border (on the Haryana side) near Delhi said. They also said that no decision has been taken on next round of talks with central government.The protest against the farm laws has been going on since November 26. On Tuesday, the farmers unions had enforced a Bharat Bandh (nationwide strike) from 11 am to 3 pm, which was peaceful. The central government has held five rounds of talks with the farmer leaders, but no breakthrough has been achieved.Union home minister Amit Shah had called the farmer leaders on Tuesday evening for informal negotiations, and informed them that a list of proposal will be shared with them. That list, with seven proposed amendments, was handed over to the leaders of 13 farm unions on Wednesday.The leaders held discussions and rejected the proposal on Wednesday. “There is nothing new in government proposal; we will continue our protest against three agri-marketing laws,” farmer leader Prahalad Singh Bharukheda said.In the proposal, the government had agreed to give a written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the main concerns raised by the protesters. It had also tried to allay their fears over mandis (marketplace) and taking over of farmlands by big corporates. But the farmers are firm with their demand that the farm laws should be repealed.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reached home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Wednesday evening for discussions.The farmers are protesting against three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reject-govt-proposal-will-block-delhi-jaipur-highway-on-dec-12-farmer-leaders/story-42av5yEJggVp4Y7S9EMU5M.html
09-12-2020||India||Minimum temperatures hover above normal limits in Haryana, Punjab||Minimum temperatures hovered above normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, the Meteorological Department here said.Fog reduced visibility at a few places in the two states in the morning including Ambala, Karnal, Bhiwani, Ludhiana and Patiala, MeT department officials said.Chandigarh recorded a minimum temperature of 10.8 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Sirsa recorded a low of 11.2 degrees Celsius, Bhiwani 9.6 degrees Celsius, Ambala 9.2 degrees Celsius, Karnal 9 degrees Celsius and Hisar 8.7 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Ludhiana recorded a minimum temperature of 12.4 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 11.3 degrees Celsius in Amritsar.Patiala recorded a low of 11.2 degrees Celsius, Pathankot 12.4 degrees Celsius, Gurdaspur 11.5 degrees Celsius and Bathinda 11.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-limits-in-haryana-punjab/story-sxDxaT2miwF4Nt18IteRlM.html
09-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: Rajasthan, Telangana and Arunachal poll results show people prefer BJP, says Javadekar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan, Telangana and Arunachal poll results show people prefer BJP: JavadekarThe Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) performance in the zila parishad elections in Rajasthan, in the local body elections in Telangana and in the gram panchayat elections in Arunachal Pradesh is an indication that the people prefer the party and that there is groundswell of support for reforms in agriculture, said Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday. Read more Covid-19: More than 60 envoys visit vaccine facilities in HyderabadMore than 60 heads of foreign missions who travelled to Hyderabad on Wednesday to visit two biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines were briefed by Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella on the development of Covaxin. Read more Jaishankar calls out China, cites 5 differing explanations for Ladakh violationsChina has offered “five differing explanations” for its deployment of thousands of soldiers on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that pushed bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Read more Govt sends proposal to farmer unions: List of 7 amendments proposed in itThe Centre on Wednesday sent a proposal to farmer protesting near Delhi that it is ready to give written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) - one of the key demands of the protesters. Read more ‘He is more serious about his golf than cricket’: Virender Sehwag claims Glenn Maxwell plays IPL ‘only for enjoyment’Former India batsman Virender Sehwag has taken a fresh jibe at Australia all-rounder Glenn Maxwell following his half-century against India after the third T20I on Wednesday. Read more Land Rover Defender 110 scores five-star safety rating in Euro NCAP crash testLand Rover Defender 110 has managed to gain full marks - and five stars - in the latest round of Euro NCAP crash tests. Built for the outdoors, the latest Defender has been launched in several markets, including India, in recent months and is now backing its safety features almost as much as its terrain-conquering highlights. Read moreHere’s why Pornhub is going strict on video uploads, banning downloads for millionsPornhub, an adult website owned by MindGeek, is going strict on the type of content it has on the portal. In a bid to keep objectionable content off its platform, the website has announced that it will allow only verified users to upload videos and will ban downloads, except for paid content from verified users. Read more Andrew Garfield, Kirsten Dunst reprising roles for Tom Holland’s Spider-Man 3; Tobey Maguire, Emma Stone expected to return tooSony and Marvel are leaving no stone unturned in attracting audiences to Spider-Man 3, which is currently filming in Atlanta with Tom Holland in the lead role. Read more 144-floor-high tower in UAE gets demolished, achieves world record title. Netizens have mixed reactionsDemolition of a 541.44-foot-tall building in Abu Dhabi has bagged the Guinness World Record title on November 27. The 144-floor-high tower known as Mina Plaza was demolished in just 10 seconds in a controlled manner. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-javadekar-says-rajasthan-telangana-and-arunachal-poll-results-show-people-prefer-bjp-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2x2GxGOXqgYJvnk1TuxSML.html
09-12-2020||India||BJP boss JP Nadda shown black flags in Kolkata, agitators condemn farm laws||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J P Nadda was shown black flags by a group of Hindi-speaking youths outside the new office of the party in south Kolkata shortly after he arrived in the city on a two-day visit. The demonstrators condemned the new farms laws and shouted “J P Nadda murdabad, BJP murdabad” (down with J P Nadda, down with the BJP). The agitators were not carrying flags of any political party.It was a snap demonstration that caught the police and BJP workers by surprise. The demonstrators climbed on the cars parked outside the office and raised slogans. This is the first time any BJP leader in Bengal faced a demonstration on the farm law issue. The demonstration started when Nadda was leaving the BJP office for the city’s Bhawanipore area to take part in an outreach programme. “We are with the farmers,” the agitators shouted. BJP workers rushed out and got into verbal exchange with the demonstrators. Stones were also thrown from both sides. The demonstrators dispersed on their own in 20 minutes. No police officer or BJP leader commented on the incident till 3.45 pm . The Bengal BJP lodged a complaint at Hastings police station in Kolkata. Nadda arrived in the city around 1 pm as his plane from Delhi took off late due to delay in flight operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-boss-jp-nadda-shown-black-flags-in-kolkata-agitators-condemn-farm-laws/story-SY95ixXPBSm6FSWD6g27QI.html
09-12-2020||India||BJP brass steps in to stall Tripura CM’s public meeting amid infighting||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership has stepped in to iron out differences between Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Deb and a section of party functionaries in the state. The party high command has asked Deb not to hold a public meeting on December 13 to seek “people’s mandate” on whether he should continue in the CM’s position, said a BJP functionary aware of the details.The widening divide in the BJP unit in Tripura became evident earlier this week when a section of party leaders raised slogans against the chief minister during the visit of Vinod Sonkar, the newly appointed state in-charge.The CM’s team blames the Left cadre for raising slogans against him. On Tuesday, Deb said would seek the people’s mandate on continuing in his post on December 13 at a public meting.A party functionary aware of the details said the differences in the party unit have been exacerbated by the friction between the CM and legislator and strong man Sudip Dev Barman.“The central leadership has stepped in to resolve the differences. The party’s interests override all else,” the functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-brass-steps-in-to-stall-tripura-cm-s-public-meeting-amid-infighting/story-AL16ElYI8tScKhR2sjP4fL.html
09-12-2020||India||ED files charge sheet in UPA-era Embraer defence deal; says commission were paid for contract||More than four years after a formal investigation was launched into alleged irregularities in UPA-era USD210 million worth defence deal with Sao Paulo-based firm – Embraer SA, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet against the company and several others for allegedly facilitating routing of money, officials said on Wednesday. Those named in the charge sheet under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are M/s Embraer SA, Brazil; Singapore based firm - M/s Interdev Aviation Services Pte. Ltd, owner of a Basmati rice exporting firm - Anoop Kumar Gupta (Director of KRBL Limited), his nephew Anurag Potdar and others. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had registered a case in October 2016 against unknown officials of DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation), Embraer, NRI arms dealer Vipin Khanna and unknown persons on the basis of which ED had initiated its money laundering probe in the case. Also read | ICICI bank fraud: Drivers, gardeners were directors in Deepak Kochhar and Dhoot’s companies, says EDIt was alleged that Khanna had received USD5.6 million – as kickbacks– from the Sao Paulo-based firm to influence the ministry of defence (MoD) and DRDO officials for the contract to supply three fully modified EMB-145 aircraft to Government of India as a platform for the Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) Project. In the first week of September 2016, Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo reported that Embraer was under investigation by the US justice department since 2010 over a contract with the Dominican Republic. According to a statement issued by ED on Wednesday, its investigation has revealed that Embraer SA obtained the contract for supply of aircraft to Indian Air Force (IAF) after paying commission of USD5.76 million to a middleman named Vipin Khanna for influencing the said contract in its favour. It said, “the kickbacks were routed by M/s Embraer SA through its subsidiaries to M/s Interdev Aviation Services Pte Ltd, Singapore in lieu of sham agreement.” “The kickbacks to the tune of around USD3.275 million were further routed from M/s Interdev Aviation Services to M/s KRBL DMCC, Dubai (a 100% owned subsidiary of KRBL Ltd) in lieu of a sham agreement to finally reach India through M/s KRBL Ltd projecting the same as untainted money. Further, investigation revealed that Anoop Kumar Gupta, Director of KRBL Limited, signed the sham agreement held between Interdev Aviation Services and KRBL DMCC to receive Proceeds of Crime (PoC) which were finally received in the bank account of KRBL Ltd in which he is one of the directors,” ED statement said. The agency has, so far, attached immovable properties worth Rs16.29 crore belonging to KRBL in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-files-charge-sheet-in-upa-era-embraer-defence-deal-says-commission-were-paid-for-contract/story-kcarJiL4Ppm6VGY0gwrjmM.html
09-12-2020||India||Govt sends proposal to farmer unions: List of 7 amendments proposed in it||The Centre on Wednesday sent a proposal to farmer protesting near Delhi that it is ready to give written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) - one of the key demands of the protesters. It proposal, sent by Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, also tried to allay their fears about the weakening of the mandi system.The proposal was sent to 13 farmer unions, part of the protest which has been going on since November 26. In total, the government proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues.However, the proposal did not mention anything about the main demand of protesting farmers for the repeal of the laws. The farmers have said that they will hold discussion on the proposal before saying anything.Here are the key points from the government proposal sent to farmers:• On concerns raised by farmers about the scrapping of the MSP regime and shifting of trade to private players, the government said it is ready to give a written assurance that the existing MSP will continue.• On farmers’ fears that mandis would weaken after the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them.• On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card is allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the government said to rule out such apprehensions, the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers.• On the issue of farmers not getting the right to appeal in civil courts for dispute resolution, the government said it is open to making an amendment to provide for an appeal in civil courts. Currently, the dispute resolution is at SDM level.• On fears that big corporates will take over farmlands, the government said it has already been made clear in the laws, but still, for clarity, it can be written that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required.• On demands to scrap the proposed Electricity Amendment bill 2020, the government said there won’t be any change in the existing system of electricity bill payment for farmers.• On farmers’ demand to scrap the Air Quality Management of NCR Ordinance 2020, under which there is the provision of penalty for stubble burning, the government said it is ready to find an appropriate solution.“The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the government said in the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-send-proposal-to-farmer-unions-list-of-7-amendments-proposed-in-it/story-QUFaCCaH3jHWP8f8qLgGhJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Five injured in grenade attack in J-K’s Baramulla district||Five civilians were injured when unidentified persons in a grenade attack in north Kashmir’s Singhpore area on Wednesday, police said.Police said that an unidentified person tossed a grenade towards a vehicle which missed the intended target and exploded on the road causing injuries to five civilians. The injured persons were shifted to Pattan sub district hospital. The village is located 32 kilometers from Baramulla town on the Srinagar-Baramulla national highway.Soon after the attack senior police officers reached the area and a search operation was launched in the neighbouring villages. However, no arrests were made till the afternoon.Baramulla’s senior superintendent of police Abdul Qayoom said that they are trying to find out the persons responsible for the attack. “Five people were injured in the attack. We don’t know whether the SSB vehicle which was near the spot was target or the attack was to create panic in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-village-near-j-k-s-baramulla/story-0p1TNVdddIgP3xWw8ZvtiL.html
09-12-2020||India||Mystery illness in Eluru: More test results awaited to confirm what caused metal poisoning||The mystery illness of Eluru which has killed one and sickened over 500 in Andhra Pradesh in a short span of time has grabbed the attention of international media, while it is not yet clear how metal poisoning took place. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences authorities, Mangalgiri, in its preliminary investigation, found that it was a case of neuro-toxicity caused by heavy metals like lead and nickel. Here is what happened so far:> The first case of this strange illness with symptoms like seizure, giddiness, froth in mouth was recorded on December 5.> Within 24 hours, hundreds of people belonging to different parts of Eluru reported same symptoms and were all hospitalised.> The symptoms stayed for 10 to 15 minutes, though a 45-year-old man died on December 6.> According to some reports, a few cases of relapse have also been noticed. However, the number of overall cases reduced.> Is it a case of water pollution? Scientists, health officials, municipal and revenue department officials have been roped in to track whether the metal poisoning has been caused by drinking water. Contamination of water by pesticides has not been ruled out yet.> Hyderabad’s National Institute of Nutrition has also collected samples of water, milk, rice and vegetables from the affected persons. Biological samples have also been collected from areas where people suffered these symptoms. It will submit the report this week.> AIIMS, Mangalgiri will also submit its final report by this week.> AIIMS, New Delhi is examining how heavy metals crept in.> A team of World Health Organisation also took stock of the situation. > A team of the Union health ministry also collected samples.> Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology has sought stool and bile samples of the victims for a viral and bacteriological analysis.> In regard to this strange illness, two terms are being used: Neurotoxins and organochlorines. Lead, ethanol are neurotoxins that are destructive to nerve tissue when abnormally contacted. Organochlorines are used as pesticides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mystery-illness-in-eluru-more-test-results-awaited-to-confirm-what-caused-metal-poisoning/story-QMYdcec4YowcDfafNnN88I.html
09-12-2020||India||Nearly 4,800 ineligible persons in Assam NRC, state coordinator informs Gauhati HC||Nearly 4,800 ineligible persons got included in the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) for Assam, says an affidavit filed in Gauhati high court (HC). The affidavit was filed this week by the office of Assam state coordinator for NRC in the court of justice Manojit Bhuyan and justice Soumitra Saikia in connection with a petition. According to the affidavit, while verifying details of 10,199 persons on the updated list released in August last year, the NRC office detected 4,795 ineligible persons. These persons included doubtful (D) voters, declared foreigners, persons against whom cases are pending in foreigners’ tribunals and their family members—all categories which were to be excluded from the updated NRC. Similarly, among the 10,199 persons whose details were verified, names of 5,404 persons which should have got included in the NRC didn’t make it to the list.Also read | Beware of BJP’s NRC, NPR agenda, Mamata Banerjee tells coal belt votersIn October this year, the court had asked the NRC state coordinator to file a comprehensive affidavit on how some ineligible persons managed to get included in the final NRC list. The court was hearing a petition by Rahima Begam, a resident of Mukalmua in Nalbari district, who had challenged a 2019 order of a foreigner’s tribunal that had declared her a foreigner. But despite the tribunal’s order, Begam’s name was in the NRC list which aimed to weed out illegal foreigners. The court noted that the present case was of “great importance” and was not a “solitary instance” and stressed that insertions of names of ineligible persons in the NRC list was “against the law”. The updated NRC released in August last year had excluded over 1.9 million of the 33 million persons who had applied to be included in the list that sought to identify genuine Indian citizens in Assam and weed out illegal immigrants. The list, which was an update of a similar list in 1951, was drawn following a Supreme Court order and the exercise was conducted under its supervision. Soon after its release, almost all political parties and organisations in the state denounced the list, stating it included names of ineligible persons and left out many genuine citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-4-800-ineligible-persons-in-assam-nrc-state-coordinator-informs-gauhati-hc/story-atDqhS0P57oDsiHR91WXkJ.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Ready to give written assurance on continuing MSP’: Govt in proposal to protesting farmers||The government has said that it is ready to give “written assurance” to farmers protesting near Delhi that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. The farmers have been protesting near Delhi for nearly a fortnight seeking the repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament. The government and the farmers have held five rounds of talks so far but the impasse is still continuing.The government talked about written assurance on MSP in a proposal sent to 13 agitating farmer unions on Wednesday. The government also said it is ready to provide all necessary clarifications on their concerns about the new farm laws enacted in September. However, the proposal did not mention anything about the main demand of protesting farmers for the repeal of the laws.“The government has tried to address the concerns of farmers with an open heart and with respect for the farming community of the country. The government appeals the Kisan unions to end their agitation,” the proposal sent by Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal said.On farmers’ fears that mandis would weaken after the new laws, the government said an amendment can be made wherein state governments can register the traders operating outside mandis. States can also impose tax and cess as they used in APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) mandis on them.On concerns that farmers may be duped as anyone having just a PAN card is allowed to trade outside APMC mandis, the Centre said in the proposal that the state governments can be given the power to register such traders and make rules keeping in mind the local situation of farmers.Further allaying the concerns that big corporates will take over farmlands, the proposal clarifies that no buyer can take loans against farmland nor any such condition will be made to farmers. On attaching farmland under contract farming, the government said the existing provision is clear but still it can be clarified further if required.The proposal was sent after a meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders in the national capital on Tuesday evening. At the meeting at the state-run Indian Council of Agriculture Research’s (ICAR) Pusa Complex, Shah had said that agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a concrete proposal.The farmers’ leaders, however, had reiterated that their only demand is the scrapping of the legislation that liberalise farm trade.The farmers have been protesting since November 26 against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers had on Tuesday enforced a national shutdown (Bharat Bandh) from 11 am to 3 pm, which was peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-give-written-assurance-on-continuing-msp-govt-in-proposal-to-protesting-farmers/story-Yq6AQ3r6AIoiepH2IXRPtK.html
09-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh’s journalist protection law to cover freelancers, digital scribes||Freelancers, bloggers and contributors will also be covered under the proposed Chhattisgarh Protection of Media Persons Act, which also proposes jail term of a year for those found to be harassing journalists, according to a draft of the law submitted to the state government. The draft was submitted to the state government last week and a bill is expected to be tabled in the budget session of the legislative assembly next year.In the final draft, the definition of media persons has been widened to include all forms of news gathering including photos, video, digital graphics and text content provided the journalist seeking protection has at least three published works in three to six months before making the complaint.Those who have been paid thrice in the last six months by a media outlet will also be entitled for protection under the new law. “Those writing or working for any digital media would also be covered in addition to newspapers and television news,” said a member of the committee that drafted the proposed law.The committee member said that the new law proposes the constitution of a media protection unit in every district and at state-level, in which the representatives of the media would be elected by the local journalists.“Whoever, being a public servant, willfully neglects their duties under this Act or the rules made under this Act shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or both. Similarly, whoever, actively prevents, obstructs, or in any way hinders the registration of a person entitled to registration as a media person under this Act shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees, or both,” the final draft stated.Drafting committee member Ruchir Garg who is also media adviser to chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said, “The draft has been completed and one important thing which has been added to the proposed law is that the journalists who will be member of risk management committee will be elected by the media persons themselves.”But Kamal Shukla, a local journalist questioned the logic of including the collector and the SP in the risk management committee.“We want that the collector and superintendent of police (SP) should not be part of risk management committee of the district, How can this Act give justice to the local journalist when the local SP and collector are in the committee?” said Shukla who was assaulted by Congress workers in October following which journalists had staged protests at several places in Chhattisgarh.Shukla claimed that according to data that he has collected since December 2018 when the Congress came to power in the state, 34 journalists have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. He said that the proposed law is a farce and only journalists who write in support of administration and government would be benefitted.The BJP also said only pro-government journalists will benefit from the law.“We all know that in the last two years, there have been attacks on journalists across the state. Recently, a journalist was beaten in a Bastar district. This is a fact that no journalist who will fight for truth will be benefited by the law,” said BJP leader and spokesperson, Gauri Shankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-s-journalist-protection-law-to-cover-freelancers-digital-scribes/story-ERDYWEk2ljE8yYxEwgLF0O.html
09-12-2020||India||Rajasthan, Telangana and Arunachal poll results show people prefer BJP: Javadekar||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) performance in the zila parishad elections in Rajasthan, in the local body elections in Telangana and in the gram panchayat elections in Arunachal Pradesh is an indication that the people prefer the party and that there is groundswell of support for reforms in agriculture, said Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday. “Despite the Corona pandemic, global economic crisis and the Opposition’s propaganda against the farm reforms, people everywhere are opting for the BJP,” he said, addressing the media. The party has won 14 of the 21 zila parishads in Rajasthan which is a Congress-ruled state. “The election result is phenomenal for BJP. The people in the rural areas have given a decisive mandate to the BJP defeating the Congress with a huge margin,” Javadekar said.“The margin of wins is also big. In (deputy CM) Sachin Pilot’s Tonk area, the zila parishad election has also been won by the BJP. At least four ministers could not save the zila parishad in their respective areas. This is an indication of what is to come. It shows how voters across India prefer BJP,” Javadekar said. He said since a bulk of the voters who cast their ballot in the zila parishad polls are farmers or those associated with agriculture, it shows people support the farm reforms. “In Rajasthan, a trend has been reversed. There, zila parishad elections used to be won by the party in power; it happened in 2010 when the Congress was in power and in 2015 when the BJP was in power. But this time, the BJP has won,” he said. Referring to the recent gains that the party made in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections where it won 49 seats, up from the previous terms four seats, the minister said there is a pan India preference for the BJP. “It is notable that while the BJP won 49 seats and the TRS 55, it is the BJP that bagged more votes than the TRS,” he said, suggesting the popularity of the party in the southern state.“Even in Arunachal Pradesh, the BJP has got success. Out of the 240 seats in the zila panchayat, it won 96 unopposed. Of the 8,291 gram panchayats seats, the BJP won 5,410 seats unopposed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-telangana-and-arunachal-poll-results-show-people-prefer-bjp-javadekar/story-qTcrbMkgDWf15DXtsFL0OM.html
09-12-2020||India||Nine states implement ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ system: Finance ministry||As many as nine states have completed One Nation One Ration Card reform following which the central government has allowed them to raise an additional Rs 23,523 crore, said an official release on Wednesday. The states which have successfully completed the Public Distribution System (PDS) reforms are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh is the biggest beneficiary with an additional borrowing window of Rs 4,851 crore, followed by Karnataka Rs 4,509 crore and Gujarat Rs 4,352 crore. Department of Food and Public Distribution in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is the Nodal Department to certify that a State has met the conditions stipulated for this reform, the Finance Ministry statement said. Further, to become eligible for additional borrowing, the States have to complete the reforms by December 31, 2020, it said, adding, it is expected that many more states will complete this reform before the stipulated date. In addition to the One Nation One Ration Card, it said, other reforms specified as a precondition to avail additional borrowing are : ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. In view of the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic for mobilisation of financial resources, the Indian government has strengthened the hands of the States through multiple measures including grant of additional borrowing permission of 2 per cent of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21. This has enabled the States to mobilise additional financial resources to fight the pandemic and maintain the standards of service delivery to the public, it said. However, it said, to ensure long-term debt sustainability and prevent any adverse impact on future, a part of the additional borrowing was linked to the States carrying out reforms in the sectors critical for service delivery to the citizens. One of the sectors identified for reforms is the Public Distribution System, it said, adding, out of the additional borrowing limit of 2 per cent of GSDP, 0.25 per cent is linked to implementation of “One Nation One Ration Card system”. This was aimed to ensure that the beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes, especially the migrant workers and their families, get ration from any Fair Price Shop (FPS) across the country. Other aims of the intended reform were to better target beneficiaries, elimination of bogus/duplicate/ ineligible ration cards and thus enhance welfare and reduce leakage, it said. For this, it said, the reform conditions stipulated Aadhar Seeding of all Ration Cards, biometric authentification of beneficiaries and automation of all the Fair Price Shops (FPS) in the State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-states-implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-system-finance-ministry/story-sg9U175eMS7kxyfLy4IUQJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves Rs 22,810 crore outlay for Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved Rs 22,810 crore outlay for a new employment scheme that aims at encouraging businesses to do fresh hiring.Under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana, the government for two years will provide employee and employer contribution to the retirement fund for new hires by businesses and entities, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said.The scheme would till 2023 entail an outgo of Rs 22,810 crore and would benefit around 58.5 lakh employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-atmanirbhar-bharat-rojgar-yojana-announced-in-3rd-stimulus-package-by-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-will-cost-rs-1-584-crore/story-8ARkFWmSArIhCX4qzx3eJO.html
09-12-2020||India||Indian-origin scientist’s rapid test can detect Covid-19 in less than 5 minutes||A team led by an Indian-origin scientist has developed a rapid, ultrasensitive Covid-19 test using a paper-based electrochemical sensor that can detect the presence of the novel coronavirus in less than five minutes. The researchers from the University of Illinois in the US created a graphene-based electrochemical biosensor with an electrical read-out setup to selectively detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 genetic material. According to the research published in the journal ACS Nano, there are two components to this biosensor: a platform to measure an electrical read-out and probes to detect the presence of viral RNA. To create the platform, the researchers led by professor Dipanjan Pan first coated filter paper with a layer of graphene nanoplatelets to create a conductive film. They then placed a gold electrode with a predefined design on top of the graphene as a contact pad for electrical readout.Both gold and graphene have high sensitivity and conductivity which makes this platform ultrasensitive to detect changes in electrical signals, the researchers noted.“Graphene exhibits unique mechanical and electrochemical properties that make it ideal for the development of sensitive electrochemical sensors,” said Maha Alafeef, a graduate student at the University of Illinois Grainger College of Engineering.Current RNA-based Covid-19 tests screen for the presence of the N-gene (nucleocapsid phosphoprotein) on the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they said.In the new research, the team designed antisense oligonucleotide (ASOs) probes to target two regions of the N-gene.Targeting two regions ensures the reliability of the sensor in case one region undergoes gene mutation, according to the researchers.The gold nanoparticles (AuNP) are capped with these single-stranded nucleic acids (ssDNA), which represents an ultra-sensitive sensing probe for the SARS-CoV-2 RNA.The team tested the performance of this sensor by using Covid-19 positive and negative samples.The sensor showed a significant increase in the voltage of positive samples compared to the negative ones and confirmed the presence of viral genetic material in less than five minutes.The sensor was able to differentiate viral RNA loads in these samples. Viral load is an important quantitative indicator of the progress of infection and a challenge to measure using existing diagnostic methods.The researchers noted that this platform has far-reaching applications due to its portability and low cost.The sensor, when integrated with microcontrollers and LED screens or with a smartphone via Bluetooth or wifi, could be used at the point-of-care in a doctor’s office or even at home, they said.Beyond Covid-19, the research team also foresees the system to be adaptable for the detection of many different diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-origin-scientist-s-rapid-test-can-detect-covid-19-in-less-than-5-minutes/story-cuuvRP9bgMxUeUpJALRuPM.html
09-12-2020||India||Scooty owner in Odisha fined Rs 26000 for letting minor ride it, bike seized||Odisha police on Wednesday fined a person with Rs 26,000 for letting a minor ride his scooty in violation of the Motor Vehicle Act, 2019.Officials said the minor boy was found riding the scooty with a pillion rider in Khandagiri area in Bhubaneswar this morning and penalised Rs 26,000. The two-wheeler is owned by one Niranjan Dash.While Rs 25,000 fine was imposed on the scooty owner for letting a juvenile ride the bike in violation of the MV Act, another Rs 1,000 was levied as the minor did not wear a helmet.The two-wheeler was also seized under Section 207 of MV Act as the rider did not have a driving license.In February this year, the father of a minor in Odisha was issued a challan of Rs 42,500 for letting his son ride his scooty in violation of several sections of MV Act including not wearing a helmet.Also Read: Odisha Lokayukta orders probe into alleged scam in purchase of PPE kitsThe penalty comprised Rs 500 for General Offence, Rs 5,000 for allowing person to drive a vehicle without valid/proper driving licence, Rs 5,000 for driving against the flow of traffic, Rs 1,000 for more than two persons riding a two-wheeler, Rs 1,000 for riding without helmet and Rs 25,000 under offences by Juveniles under Motor Vehicles Act 2019.Nudged by the SC committee on road safety, the state transport authority (STA) has recently made helmet compulsory for pillion riders and warned that driving licence of riders will be suspended if the pillion riders are caught without helmets. The government would also penalise those talking on mobile phones while driving or driving against the flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scooty-owner-in-odisha-fined-rs-26000-for-letting-minor-ride-it-bike-seized/story-8BV8qAFbQZ1MHNNHypZ5GP.html
09-12-2020||India||ASI to begin restoration of St Francis Xavier’s 400-year-old casket in Goa||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will begin work from Thursday to restore the four-century old silver casket that houses the mortal remains of Spanish Jesuit St Francis Xavier at the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa, church authorities said.The casket that is said to be in a precarious condition was last tended to in the year 1698 has been braving the elements within the Basilica of Bom Jesus at Old Goa that is part of the UNESCO declared heritage complex of what was once the capital of the Portuguese maritime empire and an important trade centre. Back in 2018 a team of three specialists were dispatched from “Opificio delle Pietre Dure e Laboratori di Restauro di Firenze” (A restoration laboratory in Florence, Italy), who studied the artefacts from May 27 to June 3, 2018 had sounded the alarm and urged that the casket must be attended to with top priority or else, it would fall apart within the next 10 years.“The ASI Chemical Branch from Aurangabad, who are specialists in conservation, have taken the initiative under the mandate from ASI Dehradun to commence the work to conserve and restore the Mastrillian Casket. The negotiations began long back, ever since ASI Delhi ordered that the treatment be done by their specialists in India. The work will be done at the Basilica itself under strict security and will commence from December 10,” Fr Patricio Fernandes, the Rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, said. The silver casket dates back to 1624 when, for the first time the mortal remains of the saint were taken away from public view and ensconced in a silver casket and kept atop a specially constructed mausoleum within the Basilica of Bom Jesus at Old Goa. Fr Marcello Mastrilli, an Italian Jesuit priest who was miraculously revived from near death on two occasions, and who believed it was through St Francis Xavier he was saved, had commissioned the work on the silver casket as a thanksgiving to the saint in 1633. Fr Mastrilli, however, did not live to see the casket being completed after he was killed in Nagasaki in Japan barely months prior to it being readied.The mortal remains of Francis Xavier in the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa draws tourists and devotees from around the world. Once in a decade the relics are lowered from the high altar at the mausoleum and placed in a glass casket for viewing as part of an exposition. Church authorities had earlier insisted that the restoration be done by experts from Italy, who had offered to do the restoration for free, but the Archaeological Survey of India declined permission, instead saying that they would do it themselves with the help of in-house experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-to-begin-restoration-of-st-francis-xavier-s-400-year-old-casket-in-goa/story-gRCBD5kSylvDpYIqITVgCK.html
09-12-2020||India||Pwc India’s study finds India leads in AI adoption during Covid-19||The pandemic that hit the world a year ago crippling the lives of both individuals as well as organisations, has created a winner -- high technology adoption across the globe, with Indian organisations leading such upgrades.According to a global study by PwC India, the highest increase in use of artificial intelligence (AI) during Covid-19 times has been witnessed in India.The study also showed that 94 per cent of the over 200 chief executives in India surveyed said they’ve either adopted or are planning to implement AI in their companies. While the survey for India was conducted between August and September, globally it was conducted among 670 high ranking officials in September-October. The study said India witnessed the highest increase in AI use compared to major economies like Britain, Japan and the US, with over 70 per cent of Indian organisations having implemented AI in some functional areas in 2020 as compared to around 62 per cent last year. Also, over 90 per cent companies are implementing or planning to invest in AI solutions to address current business concerns, the survey said.According to the survey, AI adoption in India was led by the travel and hospitality sector with 89 per cent of the surveyed firms doing so, followed by telecom, media & technology firms (86 per cent), financial services (82 per cent), and 73 per cent of healthcare and pharma companies adopting it during the year.AI is deployed across business functions like customer service, finance and tax, HR, IT and cyber security, manufacturing and operations, R&D, risk, legal and compliance, sales and marketing, supply chain and logistics, among others.The survey also shows that optimism with regard to AI in reducing cost and maximising revenue has gone up significantly from 72 per cent to 92 per cent in India , and 45 per cent of organisations have increased the use of AI since the pandemic hit them.Further, 94 per cent of the respondents have either implemented or are planning to implement AI in their organisations. AI is now regarded as a key enabler for organisations to emerge from the present crisis, plan for transformation and making fundamental changes to the operating model for lasting competitive advantage, said Sudipta Ghosh, a partner and leader for data and analytics at PwC India. To get the best out of AI, businesses need to start viewing it as a necessity rather than a luxury and weave it into the organisational fabric, he added.However, companies also find adopting AI difficult and fail to realise the optimum value from their AI investments. For instance, 37 per cent of them find it challenging to identify the right use cases for AI and 28 per cent lack high-quality data for use in AI solutions, the survey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pwc-india-s-study-finds-india-leads-in-ai-adoption-during-covid-19/story-2kUMXmBBDbvLnFKOdkFJ1K.html
09-12-2020||India||Northeast’s first human milk bank opens in Guwahati||The first human milk bank in the northeast was opened in Guwahati, Assam, on Wednesday. Opened in Satribari Christian Hospital (SCH), the bank, which is the 15th such unit in India, will be able to store human milk for up to six years. “Breast milk is the best food for newborn babies. To bring down cases of neonatal mortality and mortality below 5 years of age, exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months, starting within the first hour of birth is recommended,” said Dr Devajit Sarma, paediatric and neonatal care specialist at SCH. “In India, there are many cases of newborns not getting enough milk in the first few days as the mother could be sick, have some infectious disease or not produce enough milk. The human milk bank will be the best option for such babies,” he added. In India, the practice of wet-nursing (breastfeeding by someone in the family or an acquaintance) exists. But doctors say such practice has drawbacks, for instance, the breastfeeding woman may have some infection that could then be transmitted to the baby. “The best option for babies in such case is pasteurised donor milk, stored in a milk bank. In the milk bank, we will collect milk from lactating women who are willing to donate. It will then be pasteurised and stored in deep freeze. The milk can be stored from 6 months to 6 years,” said Dr Sarma. “We have over 100 deliveries in our hospital per month and can collect milk from some of those mothers. We will also encourage other lactating mothers to donate to the bank. In coming days, we might even include some incentives for the donors,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northeast-s-first-human-milk-bank-opens-in-guwahati/story-ceLqbxzHJFdVcO0EE64uzM.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers in Karnataka protest amendments to farm laws, march to Vidhan Soudha||Farmers backed by various unions on Wednesday took out a protest march to the Vidhana Soudha here, where the winter session of the Karnataka Legislature is underway, demanding that the state government scrap the recent amendments to the farm laws.The protests were against the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act-2020 and Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Act-2020.While the KLR (Amendment) Act-2020 was passed by both the Houses, the APM (Amendment) Act-2020 is waiting for clearance from the Council after being approved by the Assembly in the Monsoon session.Following a call given by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and allied organisations, the farmers geared up for another show down, a day after joining the nationwide protests against the farm bills brought by the Centre.Many protesters arrived in the city by the train due to which security was beefed up at the Bengaluru City Railway Station.The rally started from the Railway station to the Anand Rao Circle and converged at the Freedom park.Later, the farmers will march towards the Vidhana Soudha carrying whip used to guide bulls.The police barricaded all the roads leading to the Vidhana Soudha and intensified the security measures to prevent any protester venturing closer to Karnataka’s seat of power.The prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC are in place around the Vidhana Soudha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-karnataka-protest-amendments-to-farm-laws-march-to-vidhan-soudha/story-ChwGGaL67nq2ob462W9lSO.html
09-12-2020||India||Jaishankar calls out China, cites its 5 differing explanations for Ladakh violations||China has offered “five differing explanations” for its deployment of thousands of soldiers on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that pushed bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. India-China ties have been “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of agreements on maintaining peace and tranquillity on the LAC, and extensive contacts at different levels between the two sides have so far failed to address the basic issue that “agreements are not being observed”, he said in an online conversation with the Australian think tank Lowy Institute. With the India-China border standoff in its eighth month, Jaishankar said, “We are today probably at the most difficult phase of our relationship with China, certainly in the last 30 to 40 years...or even more.” Noting that the 20 Indian soldiers killed in the clash at Galwan Valley on June 15 were the first military casualties on the LAC since 1975, Jaishankar said the relationship has been “very significantly damaged” because all positive developments in the past 30 years – including China becoming India’s second largest trade partner and engagements in tourism and travel – were based on the fact that the two sides had agreed to maintain peace and tranquillity in border areas while trying to solve the boundary question. Also read | West has policy to engage India in ‘anti-China games’, says Russian foreign minister LavrovPointing to multiple agreements signed since 1993 that committed both parties not to bring large forces to the LAC, he said, “Now for some reason, for which the Chinese have to date given us five differing explanations, the Chinese have violated it. “The Chinese have literally brought tens of thousands of soldiers in full military preparation mode right to the LAC in Ladakh. Naturally the relationship would be profoundly disturbed by this.” Jaishankar didn’t go into the details of the five explanations offered by the Chinese side. While there were arguments and face-offs between troops in the past, there had never been a major breach of understanding, he said. With soldiers of the two sides very close to each other this year, it was “not entirely surprising that something went horribly wrong”, he said in a reference to the Galwan Valley clash that resulted in 20 Indian casualties and “completely changed national sentiment”. Getting the relationship back on track is now a “very big issue”, though communications between the two sides aren’t an issue, Jaishankar said. He had personally spoken on phone with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi and met him on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow, while there were also meetings and contacts between the defence ministers, military commanders and diplomats. “Communication is not the issue, the issue is the fact that we have agreements and those agreements are not being observed,” he added. Jaishankar said China had, since 2008-09, evolved into a “very much more nationalistic” country, and this was being expressed “down the line in a variety of ways and in policies”. All of this was happening at a time when the global order is witnessed the creation of a new architecture and new norms and regimes because of rebalancing and multi-polarity, he added. Responding to a question on India’s relations with the US under president-elect Joe Biden, Jaishankar said the former vice president had made a “big contribution” to bilateral ties while in the Senate foreign relations committee and his “goodwill for India is very manifest”. Deep convergences in many areas have brought India and the US closer since the time of former president Bill Clinton’s administration, and Washington now realises New Delhi’s more prominent role in a multi-polar world as it needs more partners while going beyond the traditional system of alliances, he said. Jaishankar expressed satisfaction at the rapid expansion of ties between India and Australia in the past 18 months, saying the two “cricket-playing Commonwealth democracies” can contribute to shaping the emerging global order. The two countries are expanding an existing trilateral with Japan and looking at shaping new ones with Indonesia and France, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-has-given-five-differing-explanations-for-troop-build-up-on-lac-says-jaishankar/story-4cb08AoFdVQg9PAJXlrNFI.html
09-12-2020||India||PIL for regulating techfin firms like FB, Google, Amazon; HC seeks Centre, RBI stand||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought response of the Centre, RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on a PIL seeking a detailed legal framework for regulating operations of techfin companies such as Facebook, Google and Amazon in India’s financial sector space. According to the petition filed by an economist, techfin entities are technology, telecommunications or e-commerce companies which have entered the financial sector to provide financial services and need to be regulated.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministries of finance and law as also Reserve Bank of India (RBI), NPCI, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) seeking their stand on the plea by Resmi P Bhaskaran. Bhaskaran, in her plea filed through advocate Deepak Prakash, has alleged that the “lackadaisical approach” of Indian financial regulators permits unregulated operation of techfin firms and claims that this could adversely affect the financial stability of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pil-for-regulating-techfin-firms-like-fb-google-amazon-hc-seeks-centre-rbi-stand/story-ILxnhOJt0SPJyInZavg4vO.html
09-12-2020||India||What Covid-19? Life is all normal in Lakshadweep||The world may be in the grip of Covid-19 pandemic, disrupting daily schedules and robbing many of their weekend getaways, but life seems to be normal in the small Lakshadweep islands, which is yet to record the first positive case of coronavirus.No masks, no sanitisers, and many rules of Covid-19 are not in place and every human activity, including marriages and public gatherings continue, thanks to strict Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that bars easy entry of people to the island in the Arabian sea.According to P P Mohammed Faizal, who represents the islands in the Lok Sabha, Lakshadweep has staved off the Covid-19 pandemic since its outbreak earlier this year, reporting zero cases as of December 8.“So far not a single case of coronavirus has been reported from Lakshadweep because of the exemplary precautionary measures we have taken”, Faizal told PTI.Gaining entry to the 36 sq km island comes with its set of strict measures. Whether it is a common man, officials or people’s representatives-- they will have to fulfill the measures including a mandatory seven-day quarantine at Kochi, the only point from where transportation via ships and helicopters to the Union Territory is allowed.Faizal said no Covid-19 restrictions have been imposed on the people in the islands.“No masks, no sanitisers because it is a green area.Lakshadweep is the only place where the schools are open and classes are being conducted. From September 21 onwards, the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi )has allowed to open the schools.” “It is like normal. All the functions, including religious ones and others like marriages are being held as usual. Everything is normal here”, the two-time MP said.The smallest UT in the country, Lakshadweep is an archipelago consisting of 36 islands with an area of 32 sq km. All the islands are 220 to 440 km away from the coastal city of Kochi in Kerala. According to Census 2011, it has a population of 64,000.Faizal said the moment Kerala reported the first case of Covid-19, also the country’s first, in January, the local administration mounted a strict vigil.The first concern was to stop the arrival of tourists-- both international and domestic.“In the month of March 2019, we stopped it”, the MP said.The administration then stopped the entry permit to each of the islands from the mainland and allowed access only to capital Kavaratti from Kochi with the approval of the administrator, officials said.By curtailing the issuance of entry permit, the administration could control the inflow of non-islanders to Lakshadweep, they added.For the entry of islanders who work in other parts of the county and abroad, officials deployed in Lakshadweep and those who travel to mainland for treatment purpose, a standard operating procedure was formulated. Accordingly, those who want to come to Lakshadweep will have to undergo seven days institutional quarantine in Kochi, with the administration bearing the cost involved in it.To ensure proper testing of samples of islanders quarantined in Kochi, the administration has provided a testing machine to the Kalamassery Government Medical College.“Those who tested negative will be allowed to come to Lakshadweep. Once they reach their particular island, again they have to be home quarantined for a week. That has been strictly monitored by medical and police departments,” Faizal said.The Parliamentarian said he has travelled thrice to Delhi during the pandemic period and followed all the sets of laid down rules before returning to the islands, including getting quarantined for seven days in Kochi.“After testing negative, I come back to Lakshadweep where I undergo one (more) week of quarantine at my house,” said Faizal, who attended the monsoon session of Parliament and two official meetings in Delhi during the period.He said many cases of coronavirus were reported when they were quarantined in Kochi.“Those infected people will be shifted to the administration’s special facility in Kochi where they will have to stay for 10 days,” he said.After 10 days they will be tested again.“If they test negative they will have to spend 14 more days in the administration’s facility and taken to the island only after conducting one more test”, he said.A Kerala Health department official said those outsiders who test positive for the virus in the state will be included in its list of cases but the states they belong will be mentioned along with it.Fazial further lauded the steps taken by late administrator of Lakshadweep, Dineshwar Sharma, for being instrumental in making Lakshadweep green.“He was so particular to make our island green in all the ways possible. He has gone the extra mile for this and he was such a nice person”, Faizal said.Sharma died at a Chennai hospital on December 4 following severe lung disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-covid-19-life-is-all-normal-in-lakshadweep/story-KQv7CFsG2ePoxAsPVYsnfJ.html
09-12-2020||India||JP Nadda to launch BJP’s door-to-door campaign from Mamata’s backyard||BJP president JP Nadda will Wednesday launch a door-to-door campaign in Kalighat locality here, close to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s home, as part of the massive public outreach the party has planned in the run up to the state assembly election.Nadda, who arrived here on a two-day visit to the state, will also inaugurate an election control room at Hastings and party offices in nine districts digitally.He will visit residences on the Girish Mukherjee Road, considered Banerjee’s backyard in Kalighat, during the ‘Griha Sampark Abhiyan’ as part of the BJP’s ‘Aar Noi Annay’ (No More Injustice) campaign.The BJP chief will also offer prayers at the Kalighat temple, a senior party leader said.He will chair a closed-door meeting of state BJP leaders which will also be attended by party national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and vice president Mukul Roy.Nadda will visit Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency, the bastion of TMC Lok Sabha MP and Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee, on Thursday.Assembly polls are likely in West Bengal in April-May next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-to-launch-bjp-s-door-to-door-campaign-from-mamata-s-backyard/story-eMYlJOXLOwODgo0dnqWK7O.html
09-12-2020||India||Assam: Kokrajhar MP detained ahead of BTC polls; released on bail||Police in Assam detained Independent MP from Kokrajhar, Naba Kumar Sarania, on Tuesday night ahead of second phase of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) elections. According to reports, Sarania and two of his supporters were detained over allegations of distributing money among voters ahead of the second and final phase of polling on Thursday to the council which administers four districts. “There are allegations of violation of the model code of conduct by the MP. Police have also recovered some cash from his possession. He was released on bail on Wednesday,” Rakesh Raushan, superintendent of police, Kokrajhar, said. A case has been registered against the 51-year-old MP under section 171C of IPC on charge of undue influence at election. “These are false charges. Along with some associates, I had gone to a party worker’s house at Jaregaon in Salekati, after campaigning ended on Tuesday, to have dinner and discuss poll strategy. But some young men arrived there and started attacking our candidate from the area,” Sarania said on Wednesday. “My security guards tried to chase them away... I was first taken to Salekati police station and then to Kokrajhar. I immediately informed the deputy commissioner of the district about what happened. We have secured bail and are ready to face any probe,” he added. A former United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) rebel-turned-politician, Sarania had won the Lok Sabha polls as an Independent candidate from Kokrajhar in 2014 and 2019. Recently, he floated a party called Gana Surakha Party which is contesting 35 of the 40 seats in BTC. Voting for the first phase of BTC polls took place on Monday in 21 seats in Baksa and Udalguri districts. Polling will take place in 19 seats on Thursday in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-kokrajhar-mp-detained-ahead-of-btc-polls-released-on-bail/story-sIwu6WhFpNTC859y1Wd6jN.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers harden stance, say ‘if government is stubborn, so are we’||As the Centre on Wednesday sent a new proposal, including the assurance of minimum support price, change in the APMC act, tax on private players etc., the protesting farmers hardened their stance and said if the government is stubborn to not withdraw the laws, then the farmers are stubborn too to carry on with their protests. “Farmers won’t go back. It’s a matter of their respect. Will government now withdraw laws? Will there be tyranny? If the government is stubborn, then so are farmers. Laws have to be withdrawn,” Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said, indicating no thaw in the ongoing stalemate, which has laid siege to the Capital.The farmers’ protests against the three farm laws that they fear would corporatise farming have entered the 14th day on Wednesday, as all the attempts to come to an understanding so far have failed. The farmers now demand a complete withdrawal of the laws while the Centre has made it clear that there will be amendments to the provisions to which the farmers have objection but the laws will not be repealed. Starting from September — after the laws were enacted — there have been five meetings between farmers and the Centre. Three meetings have been held after ‘Dilli Chalo’ protests began on November 26. The sixth meeting scheduled to have taken place on Wednesday was cancelled as no side is ready to blink first.As the talks began, the farmers expressed their apprehension over the abolition of the MSP, which the government allayed. The Centre also agreed to strength APMC mandis, create a level-playing field with private markets. A provision would be created for farmers to approach higher courts for dispute resolution, the Centre assured. But the situation has now boiled down to the question whether the laws will be withdrawn. A five-member delegation of the opposition parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, a representative of the DMK, CPI general secretary D Raja and CPI(M) general secretary Sita - will meet the President today at 5pm.As the protests continued, traffic was disrupted at border points with farmers agitating on Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-harden-stance-says-if-government-is-stubborn-so-are-we/story-4kcs7SGNcDq2k3C9SLTkEO.html
09-12-2020||India||SC seeks reply from Centre, states on Covid-19 guidelines, fire safety in hospitals||The Supreme Court Wednesday sought “detailed” response from the Centre as well as states on issues ranging from adhering to Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks and social distancing norms to implementation of fire safety guidelines in hospitals and nursing homes across India.The top court was hearing a suo motu case registered by it to ensure proper treatment of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and dignified handling of dead bodies there.Recently, it also took cognisance of the fire incident in a designated Covid-19 hospital in Gujarat’s Rajkot in which several patients had died, raising the issue of lack of proper fire safety measures in hospitals across the country.  A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the Gujarat government, to file detailed affidavits within three days on the issues such as enforcing of Covid-19 guidelines and fire safety measures in hospitals and nursing homes.  The bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, directed the states as well to file affidavits by Friday on steps taken on these issues and fixed the suo motu case for hearing on December 14.  The bench directed that the Justice (Retd.) DA Mehta committee will probe the Ahmedabad fire incident, besides the fire tragedy at a Covid-19 hospital at Rajkot which is already being inquired into by the panel.At the outset, the law officer said he would request the Gujarat government to appoint a judge to probe the fire incidents in hospitals if the apex court suggest any name to head such an inquiry.  “It is upon the discretion of this court,” Mehta said.Mehta said the Centre has asked all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to send status report on the implementation of fire safety guidelines to prevent recurrence of fire incidents in hospitals and nursing homes.A detailed report on fire safety would be prepared after getting the inputs from states, he said.The bench then asked about the fire safety audit of Gujarat and hospitals there and said as to how many nodal officers have been appointed.  It then enquired about the steps taken to enforce the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks in public and adhering to the social distancing norms.  “You file a detailed affidavit giving all steps taken,” it said.  Earlier, the apex court had said that people are violating “with impunity” the Covid-19 guidelines on wearing of face masks at public places and are not adhering to social distancing norms.It had pulled up the authorities for not ensuring strict compliance of these measures to contain coronavirus and had asked the Centre and states to give suggestions so that appropriate directions can be issued to implement these guidelines.The top court had however stayed the Gujarat High Court direction to send people caught without wearing masks to do community service at the Covid-19 patient care facilities.It had taken note of the submissions of the Gujarat government that the order was harsh, having serious repercussions on health of the violators.The top court had asked the Gujarat government to strictly enforce the Covid-19 guidelines.  The apex court had also expressed concern over the spurt in number of Covid-19 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-reply-from-centre-states-on-covid-19-guidelines-fire-safety-in-hospitals/story-SQ9B1VDoOmQsyo7dxLlZSO.html
09-12-2020||India||Protest not in favour of country, farmers should accept proposal, says MoS Som Prakash||Asserting that the ongoing farmers’ protest is in favour of neither the country nor Punjab, Som Prakash, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, on Wednesday said they should end the agitation and accept the Centre’s proposal “if most of their demands are met”.“The ongoing farmers’ protest is in favour of neither the country nor Punjab. On Tuesday, the Centre listened to their demands in detail, based on which a proposal with all possible amendments will be sent to the farmers for deliberation. Yesterday, Union minister Amit Shah, along with others, met a delegation of farmers for the sixth time. After that, they will tell us their future course of action. We have already done five rounds of meetings with the farmers,” said Prakash.“If most of their demands are considered by the Centre then they should conclude the agitation,” he added.Also Read |  Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leaderEarlier today, Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, said that the farmer unions will hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, and hoped that the farmers’ future course of action will be clear by 4.00 pm to 5.00 pm today.“We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. The sixth round of talks with the government, which was scheduled for today, remains cancelled. The Union government wants to send us a draft of their proposal and wants us to look at it. We will decide our further course of action after looking at the draft and discussing it among ourselves. We hope things will be clear by 4.00 pm to 5.00 pm today,” said Tikait at Gzaipur border.On Tuesday, leaders of farmer unions held a meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal at Shah’s residence, over their demands regarding the three agricultural laws that were passed earlier in September.The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-not-in-favour-of-country-farmers-should-accept-proposal-says-mos-som-prakash/story-ccEFQY5eszwUxoMD25rSAM.html
09-12-2020||India||Lawsuit filed for restoration of temple claimed to be situated inside the Qutub Minar complex||A lawsuit has been filed in a Delhi court seeking restoration of Hindu and Jain deities and the right to worship within, what the petitioners claimed was temple complex situated inside the Qutub Minar complex at Mehrauli.The matter came up for hearing on Tuesday before Civil Judge Neha Sharma who fixed the next date of hearing on December 24.The suit has been filed on behalf of Jain deity Tirthankar Lord Rishabh Dev and Hindu deity Lord Vishnu through next friend advocate Hari Shankar Jain and advocate Ranjana Agnihotri respectively.The lawsuit claimed that short history displayed by the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) narrated that 27 temples were demolished and reusing the materials of the construction of Quwwat-ul-Islam Mosque was raised inside the complex.The suit, filed by advocate Vishnu S Jain, sought declaration that  principal deity Tirthankar Lord Rishabh Dev and principal deity Lord Vishnu, along with Lord Ganesh, Lord Shiva, Goddess Gauri, God Sun, Lord Hanuman including presiding deities of 27 temples, have right to be restored and worshipped with rites and rituals, performance of regular pooja within the alleged temple complex situated in the area.It further sought issuance of mandatory injunction directing the Central Government to create a trust, according to Trust Act 1882, and to hand over the management and administration of the temple complex situated within the area of Qutub Complex.“Decree be passed in the nature of mandatory injunction, directing the Trust, to be created by the Central Government, to manage the affairs of 27 Hindu and Jain temples with Iron Pillar, in accordance with the scheme of administration framed by the Central Government, situated within the area of Qutub Complex.  “Decree be passed in the nature of permanent injunction, restraining the defendants (Centre and ASI) permanently from interfering in making necessary repair works, raising construction and making arrangements for ‘pooja’, ‘darshan’ and worship of deities…,” the suit said.It claimed that there existed huge and lofty Hindu and Jain temples of Lord Vishnu and Lord Rishabh Dev as presiding deities along with Lord Shiva, Lord Ganesh, God Sun and Goddess Gauri and Jain Tirthankars along with constellations, within the precincts of Qutub Minar.It further alleged that the temple was partly demolished by Qutubdin Aibak, a general in the Army of Mohamad Gauri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawsuit-filed-for-restoration-of-temple-claimed-to-be-situated-inside-the-qutub-minar-complex/story-sSqMy06D0VQ5mUjevg99xM.html
09-12-2020||India||NCB’s ‘biggest drug haul’ linked to Sushant Singh Rajput case: All you need to know||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Wednesday seized drugs worth nearly Rs 2.5 crore during raids in Mumbai. This is the “biggest seizure” of drugs in the case linked to Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his residence on June 14.Here is all you need to know:> During the raid, Malana cream of Rs 2.5 crore was seized. The raids are still going on.> Apart from drugs, Rs 16 lakh cash has also been recovered during the raids. > Rigel Mahakala, an accused, has been arrested late on Tuesday night. According to the NCB, Mahakala used to supply drugs to Anuj Keshwani, another accused who was arrested in September this year.> Mahakala was on NCB radar for a long time was absconding. Now, based on his information more raids are going on, the NCB has said. Also Read: NCB arrests 2 key suppliers, seizes drugs worth Rs 2.5 crore> The NCB has not disclosed whether Mahakala has any direct link to Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. Both of them were arrested and are now out on bail.> Accused peddler Kaizan Ibrahim who gave out the name of Keshwani and Kehswani told NCB that Rigel used to supply him. > When the NCB had raided Keshwani’s residence, it seized 590 grams of hashish, 0.64 grams of LSD sheets, 304 grams of marijuana, including imported marijuana joints and capsules. Hence, the seizure of 5 kilogram of hashish (Malana cream) comes a the biggest seizure by the agency so far.> The person who used to supply to Mahakala, Azam Sheikh Jumman, has also been arrested.> The agency has arrested over 20 people in the drug angle that it is probing.> A number of Bollywood personalities, including Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Arjun Rampal have been interrogated by the NCB. Comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa were arrested in NCB’s drug probe and were later granted bail. The NCB started its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty’s mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-s-biggest-drug-haul-linked-to-sushant-singh-rajput-case-all-you-need-to-know/story-er8n57OHT4BimXlW6XGCgI.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Detained three times in 15 days, why are BJP ministers campaigning?’ asks Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday questioned her detention over security reasons, saying that BJP ministers are allowed to campaign freely for District Development Council (DDC) elections.The former J&K chief minister said that she has illegally been detained three times in less than a fortnight.“Illegally detained today for the third time in less than a fortnight. Too much democracy indeed. If my movements are curbed due to ‘security concerns’, then why are BJP ministers allowed to campaign freely in Kashmir while I’ve been asked to wait until culmination of DDC elections?,” she tweeted, while posting a letter from Director SSG mentioning that the former CM can’t go to Budgam due to security reasons and her programme may be deferred till the culmination of DDC polls.On Tuesday, she had alleged that she had been detained at her house ahead of her visit to Budgam district. She had even posted a video on her Twitter handle, claiming that she had been detained by the police. “Illegal detention has become GOIs favourite go to method for muzzling any form of opposition. I’ve been detained once again because I wanted to visit Budgam where hundreds of families were evicted from their homes,” she tweeted.Also read | J&K sees 6 deaths, 470 infectionsAccording to PDP leaders, Mufti was scheduled to visit a village in Budgam where families have been served eviction notices by the forest department. Earlier, she had also visited Pahalgam and met Gujjar families who were asked to vacate forest land.This is not the first time that the PDP president has been restricted to her house since her release after 14 months. Earlier, police didn’t allow her to travel to Pulwama to meet the family of PDP youth president Waheed Parra a day after his arrest by NIA in New Delhi. At the time, the police had cited security reasons. However, she visited Pulwama later and met the family members of Parra at Naira village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-three-times-in-15-days-why-are-bjp-ministers-campaigning-asks-mehbooba/story-UUoKZOMuywZLQ0xXI1XqrI.html
09-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: CBI scrutinised 16 lakh medical students and doctors to nab Vyapam scam accused and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CBI cast a wide net, scrutinised 16 lakh people to nab Vyapam scam accusedCentral Bureau of Investigation (CBI) scrutinised data of 16 lakh medical students and doctors to nab 36 impersonators, who had taken Madhya Pradesh pre-medical test or MPPMT-2009 on the behalf of actual candidates and cleared it, said an officer of CBI. Read moreWill consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leaderThe farmers agitating against three agriculture laws enacted in September will consider a proposal from the government if it’s in a written form and on the repeal of the contentious laws, not amendments, farm union leader Hannan Mollah said on Wednesday. Read more‘Symbol of national pride of strong India’: In letter to PM Modi, KCR hails Central Vista projectA day before prime minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the grand Central Vista project, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday wrote to PM Modi, stating that the project was “long overdue” and will be a “symbol of national pride of a confident and strong India.” Read moreCovid-19 vaccine: Applications of Pfizer, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute to be reviewed todayThe Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which is the National Regulatory Authority of India, will review the applications of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — the three pharma companies that have sought emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates. Read moreGoogle’s Look to Speak app lets you select phrases with your eyesGoogle has launched a new smartphone app that aims to make communicating easier for people with speech and motor difficulties. Look to Speak uses people’s eyes to select phrases from their phone and speak it out loud. Read moreOnus of making country Aatmanirbhar lies with industry: Pawan GoenkaThe onus of making the country self reliant in manufacturing lies with the industry and not with the government which can at best act as a facilitator, Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) Managing Director and CEO Pawan Goenka said on Tuesday. Read moreFormer India wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel announces retirement from all forms of cricketFormer India wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel, who made his international debut at the age of 17, has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Patel, 35, informed about his retirement through a tweet. Read moreAditya Narayan says media underestimated his purchasing power, reveals actual cost of his new marital homeSinger Aditya Narayan has said that the media have underestimated his wealth. He offered a fact-check on the correct cost of his new house, and said that it is worth more than has been reported. Aditya tied the knot with Shweta Agarwal earlier this month, and is ready to settle into life in his new house. He also has more than one honeymoon planned. Read moreEsha Gupta’s winter wardrobe has cosiness mixed with glamour and these pictures are proofThe season of hot chocolates, oversized cardigans and cosy sweaters is here and amid it, Bollywood diva Esha Gupta is teaching us how to rock a winter wardrobe. Whenever we think of winter wear, generally, dark and gloomy colours come to the mind. However, the Baadshaho actor is proving that colours are not season specific and shows fashionistas who to paint their winter look in myriad hues. Read moreBags- Inside Out: This London museum’s historical handbag exhibit may stun youFrom the humblest pouch to Birkin bags to Louis Vuitton luggage, a new exhibition in London will explore the function, design and craftsmanship of the accessory that carries our stuff, but can mean so much more. See hereAyesha Raza, Shweta Basu Prasad, Amruta Subhash, Indira Tiwari on Aur Batao with RJ StuteeIn the latest episode of ‘Aur Batao’, RJ Stutee speaks to Ayesha Raza, Shweta Basu Prasad, Amruta Subhash, Indira Tiwari. The actors talk about how they resist being typecast and what is it that they would like to change in Bollywood. Aur Batao is not your regular photoshopped chat show but makes hanging out with celebs a different (and fun) ballgame. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-cbi-scrutinised-16-lakh-medical-students-and-doctors-to-nab-vyapam-scam-accused-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Uhvgo0IDX7gUBY407NFHDI.html
09-12-2020||India||CBI cast a wide net, scrutinised 16 lakh people to nab Vyapam scam accused||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) scrutinised data of 16 lakh medical students and doctors to nab 36 impersonators, who had taken Madhya Pradesh pre-medical test or MPPMT-2009 on the behalf of actual candidates and cleared it, said an officer of CBI. CBI filed supplementary charge-sheets in the court of special magistrate in Gwalior on Tuesday against 126 accused including candidates, impersonators, parents/guardians and middlemen related to PMT-2009 conducted by Vyapam now known as Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB). “CBI had registered the case on August 21, 2015 on the orders of Supreme Court of India. During CBI investigation, it was found that 36 candidates had allegedly arranged impersonators to appear in the written examination of MPPMT-2009 on their behalf with the help of middlemen, parents and accordingly they illegally passed the examination and got admission in a private medical colleges,” said CBI public relation officer RK Gaur said.He suggested it required voluminous work by the CBI to nab the accused. “CBI had prepared a database of around 16 lakh students including the students who were taking coaching of PMT in various institutes, MBBS students of various medical colleges and registered doctors of MP and Uttar Pradesh. CBI also took expert opinions from forensic experts on photographs and handwritings available on the OMR answer sheets of accused candidates,” said Gaur. Also Read: Madras HC raises querieson the CBI’s state of affairsAfter comparing pictures and handwriting, CBI found some new impersonators, he added. According to an investigating officer, this investigation took about more than four and a-half-years after the CBI had filed a charge-sheet against the accused booked by State’s special task force (STF) in June 2016. In all, 3,500 people were made accused by the CBI in different cases and 250 of them are new accused, who were not identified by the probe conducted by STF.The Vyapam scam came to light in July 2013 when Indore police arrested 20 impersonators appearing for medical entrance examination helping undeserving candidates to secure high ranks. The cheating net also involved a clique of politicians and bureaucrats that facilitated the fraud in exchange for bribes, according to investigators. The CBI took over the case in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-cast-a-wide-net-scrutinised-16-lakh-people-to-nab-vyapam-scam-accused/story-CKqnZ3FfTTRLwBF5GjPMDM.html
09-12-2020||India||India’s weapons procurement from the US jumps to USD 3.4 billion in 2020||India’s weapons procurement from the United States jumped from a meagre USD 6.2 million to a whopping USD 3.4 billion in the final year of the Donald Trump’s administration, according to official data. As per the data released by the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), the jump in the sale of American weapons to India comes at a time when sale of weapons from the US to other countries has dipped to USD 50.8 billion in 2020 from USD 55.7 billion in 2019.In 2019, the sale of US weapons to foreign countries was USD 55.7 billion. In 2017, it was USD 41.9 billion, it said.Major buyers of American weapons in 2020 were India (USD 3.4 billion up from USD 6.2 million in fiscal year 2019), Morocco (USD 4.5 billion up from USD 12.4 million), Poland (USD 4.7 billion up from USD 673 million), Singapore (USD 1.3 billion up from USD 137 million), Taiwan (USD 11.8 billion up from USD 876 million), and the United Arab Emirates (USD 3.6 billion up from USD 1.1 billion), the data showed.Several countries reported a drop in purchase of weapons from the US.Prominent among them were Saudi Arabia which came down from USD 14.9 billion in 2019 to USD 1.2 billion in 2020, Afghanistan (USD 1.1 billion down from USD 1.6 billion), Belgium (USD 41.8 million down from USD 5.5 billion), Iraq (USD 368 million down from USD 1.4 billion), and South Korea (USD 2.1 billion down from USD 2.7 billion).According to the 2020 edition of the Historical Sales Book, India purchased weapons worth USD 754.4 million in 2017 and USD 282 million in 2018. Between 1950 and 2020, US sale of weapons to India under Foreign Military Sales (FMS) category was USD 12.8 billion. For Pakistan, the official figures reflected that sale of weapons under FMS did happen, even though there was a freeze in any military and security assistance to Islamabad from the Trump administration. In 2020, US sale of weapons to Pakistan was USD 146 million, in 2018 it was USD 65 million and in 2017 it was USD 22 million.In 2019, there was no sale of US military weapons to Pakistan. In fact, the US refunded USD 10.8 million to Pakistan, taken for the purchase of weapons. Between 1950 and 2020, Pakistan purchased weapons worth USD 10 billion from the US under FMS. However, the total supply of American military weapons to Pakistan is much more, as a major chunk of weapons to Pakistan has gone from United States as military and security assistance. According to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political Military Affairs Clarke Cooper, fiscal 2020 saw a total of USD 175.8 billion in US government-authorised arms exports. This is overall a 2.8 per cent increase since fiscal year 2019. The overall value of State Department-authorised government-to-government FMS cases implemented by the Defense Security Cooperation Agency decreased 8.3 per cent from USD 55.39 billion in Fiscal Year 2019 to USD 50.78 billion in Fiscal Year 2020. “The dollar value of potential FMS sales, formally notified to Congress, also rose by more than 50 per cent from USD 58.33 billion to USD 87.64 billion. This was driven by the July potential sale of USD 23.11 billion worth of F-35 aircraft to Japan, which was the second largest single FMS notification ever authorised by the Department of State,” Cooper said.The Direct Commercial Sales (DCS), which is the Department of State-authorised commercial export licenses, totalled USD 124.3 billion in fiscal year 2020, and this was up from USD 114.7 billion in fiscal year 2019, he said. “This represented an 8.4 per cent increase. This total value covers authorisations of hardware, defense services, and technical data. The total number of licences issued decreased by 20-per cent from 36,111 in Fiscal Year 2019 to 28,800 in Fiscal Year 2020,” Cooper said.The top commercial DCS notified to Congress in Fiscal Year 2020 included a USD 8.39 billion sale to Australia, Canada, Denmark, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom for F-35 components. This also included a USD 3.2 billion sale to Australia for P-8 aircraft parts, and a USD 2.48 billion sale to United Kingdom and Australia for E-7 airborne early warning and control aircraft, Cooper said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-weapons-procurement-from-the-us-jumps-to-usd-3-4-billion-in-2020/story-0FZOxhkUGyieHw0UIIt8zL.html
09-12-2020||India||IMD predicts light to moderate rainfall in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday said that light to moderate rainfall is likely to occur over few places in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the next 24 hours.“Light to moderate rain is likely to occur at a few places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal area on December 9,” IMD said.It also warned about light to moderate rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal area on December 10, December 11, and December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-light-to-moderate-rainfall-in-tamil-nadu-puducherry/story-WIkPZriFzbYRt3qLYc6QvM.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19: More than 60 envoys visit vaccine facilities in Hyderabad||More than 60 heads of foreign missions who travelled to Hyderabad on Wednesday to visit two biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines were briefed by Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella on the development of Covaxin. During his presentation to the senior diplomats, Ella pointed out that the medical industry is working to realise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of making vaccines available for humanity. Covaxin in India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV). Bharat Biotech recently started phase-III trials for Covaxin, which seems to have been largely safe and significantly triggered the immune response needed to fight off the infection. Ella also told the heads of missions that 33% of global vaccines are produced in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley, a high-technology business district spread across 600 sq km. Hyderabad also has the largest US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved vaccine facilities, he said. The diplomats will also visit Biological E, whose vaccine candidate is set to start early phases I and II trials. The visit by the diplomats to Hyderabad is part of India’s efforts to develop partnerships for the manufacturing and delivery of vaccines. It is also a follow-up to the November 6 briefing for the diplomatic corps in New Delhi on trials of vaccines underway in the country and efforts to manufacture and deliver the doses. Also read | 32,080 new cases push India’s Covid-19 tally over 9.73 mn; recoveries above 9.21 mnThe diplomats, who flew to the southern city in a special Air India flight with all Covid-19-related precautions, are drawn from different parts of the world. Besides representatives of countries in the region such as Afghanistan and Bhutan, the group included South Korean envoy Shin Bong-kil and heads of mission of African countries. “More than 60 heads of missions are being taken to leading biotech companies in Hyderabad. This is the first such visit and it will be followed by trips to facilities in other cities,” a person familiar with planning for the visit said. Others familiar with developments said India has been contributing significantly to global efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic and there is a lot of interest in India’s vaccine development and manufacturing efforts. The November 6 briefing, led by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, was attended by envoys and senior members of the diplomatic corps. Niti Aayog member VK Paul, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and other senior officials were part of the briefing, which was one of the key Covid-19-related interactions handled by the external affairs ministry. Given India’s position as the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, many countries, especially developing nations, are looking to New Delhi for a helping hand with the doses. Amid the pandemic, India had rushed essential medicines and equipment to some 150 countries around the world. India is looking for partners to co-produce vaccines so that they can be manufactured faster and distributed on a larger scale. New Delhi could offer free supply or trial partnerships to South Asian, European, West Asian, African and Latin American countries for the vaccine to ensure they can adequately protect their populations from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-more-than-60-envoys-in-hyderabad-to-visit-vaccine-facilities/story-O1gDIKiWqkwly6y8nsS9iJ.html
09-12-2020||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath to give appointment letters to over 3,000 newly selected tubewell operators||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute appointment letters to the newly selected 3,209 tubewell operators of the Irrigation and Water Resources Department on Wednesday under “Mission Rojgar”. On this occasion, the Chief Minister will also communicate with the candidates getting the appointment letters, via video conference. The state government has taken this effort to provide employment to the youth. By adopting a fair recruitment process by the state government, over 3.5 lakh candidates have been given jobs in various state services so far, according to an official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-to-give-appointment-letters-to-over-3-000-newly-selected-tubewell-operators/story-EjaNzNBuM9q8CkFaZV3CYN.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Long and healthy life,’ PM Modi, Nitin Gadkari wish Sonia Gandhi on her birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday tweeted wishing Congress chief Sonia Gandhi a long and healthy life on her birthday. “Birthday greetings to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji. May God bless her with a long and healthy life,” PM Modi tweeted. Union minister Nitin Gadkari too extended her wish to Gandhi. Sonia Gandhi turns 74 today. Birthday greetings to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji. May God bless her with a long and healthy life. Birthday greetings to the President of the Indian National Congress party Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided not to celebrate her birthday in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 pandemic.The Congress chief is currently in Goa after doctors advised her to shift out of Delhi in view of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated her chest infection. Her son and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is accompanying her.Last year too, she did not celebrate her birthday in the wake of rise in incidents of rape in various parts of the country and concerns over women’s security. The decision came after the death of a rape victim, who was set ablaze, at a hospital in Delhi and also the incident of a young veterinarian being raped, killed and set ablaze in Hyderabad by four people last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-and-healthy-life-pm-modi-nitin-gadkari-wish-sonia-gandhi-on-her-birthday/story-IgA5T4ZMXcAlyA0Dyb0tjJ.html
09-12-2020||India||NIA arrest arms syndicate member in AK47 stealing and trade case||Sleuths of National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested an alleged arms trafficker from Bihar’s Gaya district in connection with the theft of weapon parts from Madhya Pradesh’s Central Ordnance Depot (COD). NIA official said that one Rajeev Ranjan Singh alias Chunnu Singh, a mukhiya of Tetar Panchayat was arrested from his residence situated at Atri block in Gaya. The NIA has already arrested and charge-sheeted 13 accused in the case. The case pertains to the recovery of three AK series weapons in Munger from the house of an accused, Rizwana Begum. The case was originally registered at Muffasil police station on September 7, 2018. This case was later taken up and re-registered by the NIA for investigation.The Munger police under the leadership of the then SP, Babu Ram, had busted the racket and registered a case against 26 accused and some unknown persons before the case was taken over by the NIA for further investigation.In fact, Ram and his team had recovered 22 AK-47 assault rifles and more than 500 spare parts stolen from the COD. During the investigation NIA found that Singh was involved in the illegal arms dealing syndicate. It also unearthed incriminating evidence against Singh, a habitual arms trafficker and one of the main conduits for supply of weapons in this case. Also Read: NIA arrests Trombay man in international counterfeit currency racket linked to Dawood gangProhibited AK series weapons were stolen and smuggled from the sheds of Central Ordnance Depot in Jabalpur by serving and retired personnel of the depot and sold to arms traffickers in Munger, which were eventually sold to various Maoists organisations and criminal syndicates. More than 76 AK series rifles, their parts and 13 self-loading rifles (SLRs) were stolen from the sheds of the ordnance depot between 2012 and 2018. The kingpin of the racket, Purshottam Lal Rajak, used the parts of the stolen weapons to make cannibalised AK series rifles and SLRs before selling them to weapon-dealers in Munger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrest-arms-syndicate-member-in-ak47-stealing-and-trade-case/story-czIRsMYuZTJbquzKEr3nIP.html
09-12-2020||India||Will consider govt’s ‘written’ proposal only on repeal of farm laws, not amendment: Farmers’ leader||The farmers agitating against three agriculture laws enacted in September will consider a proposal from the government if it’s in a written form and on the repeal of the contentious laws, not amendments, farm union leader Hannan Mollah said on Wednesday.“They (government) said they will send something in writing today. We have told them that if it’s in writing, we’ll look into it. We have our meeting at 12 pm today. A broader committee will discuss it,” Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest hereThe farm union leader made the agricultural community’s stance clear on any amendments that the government may offer and said that only if the legislations are revoked, they will consider the draft proposal, which if looks “positive” to them, they will be ready to hold another round of talks with the central leadership on Thursday. According to ANI, Mollah said, “If the writing is on amendment, our position is very clear. If it’s a repeal of the Bill, only then can we take note of it & consider. That meeting (today’s meeting with Centre) is cancelled. If a letter comes and we consider it positive, a meeting can be held tomorrow.” Earlier in the day, the minister of state, commerce and industry, Som Prakash, said that the government will send the farmers a proposal on Wednesday and added that the peasants’ best interest was being kept in mind. “Home minister Amit Shah spoke to Kisan Unions yesterday about amendments. The government will today give a written proposal to Kisan Unions and they’ll think over it. Whatever will be in the interest of the country and farmers, is being considered by all, he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This comes after the sixth round of talks between the government and farmer unions to end the protests on Delhi’s various borders, which was scheduled on Wednesday, was cancelled over farm leaders’ refusal to attend. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said they’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre, adding that there will be more clarity on their next move by evening. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait said. Thousands of farmers have been demonstrating at borders of the national capital against three laws that they say will hamper their income and leave them at the mercy of large corporates. While the government maintains that farmers will benefit from the legislations that liberalise farm trade, farmers are demanding a complete rollback of the contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-consider-govt-s-written-proposal-only-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-not-amendment-farmers-leader/story-MOh9sOeTiMlRdF6R95YMBJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Unsurprising that India’s farmers are worried about agricultural reforms, says US lawmaker||In the midst of a global pandemic, it is unsurprising that India’s farmers are worried about the impact of the recent agricultural reforms, a top American lawmaker has said, coming out in support of the agitating farmers who have been protesting against the new farm laws. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and several other states have been protesting on various borders of Delhi since November 26, seeking repeal of three farm laws enacted in September. Dubbing these laws as “anti-farmer”, these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. “In the midst of a global pandemic, it’s unsurprising that India’s farmers are worried about the impact of recent agricultural reforms. As we know from our own experience in the US, citizens have every right to protest peaceably, be accommodated and their concerns listened to,” Congressman Brad Sherman, Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on India and Indian Americans, said on Tuesday.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Free fuel to protesters heading to Delhi “As chair of the Caucus on India & Indian Americans, I’ve proudly championed the close partnership between the world’s largest and oldest democracies. It’s a partnership built on both interests and values, including a shared dedication to human rights and freedom of speech,” he said in a series of tweets. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and politicians on protests by farmers as “ill-informed” and “unwarranted”, asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. “The farmers yearning to be heard are another powerful example of how peaceful protest is just one of the many cherished democratic traditions binding our countries together,” Sharman said. Congressman-elect David G Valadao also supported Indian farmers. “As farmers peacefully make their voices heard, the Government of India has a responsibility to allow their citizens to exercise this right to assemble,” Valadao said. Farmer leaders have been firm on their demand for repeal of three new farm laws. They have claimed that the laws will benefit corporates and end the mandi system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The government has maintained that it is committed to the welfare of farmers and have presented these laws as major reforms for their benefits. A late-night meeting called by Home Minister Amit Shah ended in failure on Tuesday as farmer leaders rejected the government’s offer to amend new farm laws, saying they would settle for nothing less than the scrapping of the legislations, while many of them threatened to boycott Wednesday’s scheduled talks with ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unsurprising-that-india-s-farmers-are-worried-about-agricultural-reforms-says-us-lawmaker/story-CTK5HTSV3tmGaznrXuvDdM.html
09-12-2020||India||BJP’s lead in Rajasthan local body polls shows trust of poor, farmers in PM Modi: Nadda||With his party racing ahead of the Congress in local polls in Rajasthan, BJP president J P Nadda asserted on Wednesday that this victory symbolises the trust the poor, farmers and labourers have in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership.In a tweet, Nadda expressed his thanks to women, farmers and other rural voters in the Congress-ruled state for putting “faith” in the BJP.  राजस्थान में पंचायती राज और जिला परिषद चुनावों में प्रदेश के ग्रामीण क्षेत्र की जनता, किसानों व महिलाओं ने भाजपा में जो विश्वास प्रकट किया है, इसके लिए मैं उनका आभार व्यक्त करता हूं। यह जीत गांव, गरीब, किसान और मजदूर के प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी में विश्वास का प्रतीक है।The BJP appeared to win the lion’s share of seats in the Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad elections held in Rajasthan. The elections were held in 21 districts and 59 panchayat samities of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.The counting was still underway, an official said on late Tuesday night.Out of the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats, the BJP has already bagged 1,835 of them while the Congress has managed to win 1,718 seats, the official said, adding other winners include 420 independents and 56 Rashtriya Loktantrik Party candidates.Similarly, out of the 636 seats of the Zila Parishad, the BJP cornered 266 seats leaving 204 for the Congress, the official said.State election commissioner PS Mehra said around 7.238 million people were eligible to vote in the panchayat samiti and zila parishad polls for which nearly 25,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used at 10,131 polling stations where more than 50,000 employees were deployed. Nearly 63% turnout was recorded in all the four phases.The election for the head or chief of panchayat will be held on December 10 and the election for the deputy chief will be conducted on December 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-win-in-panchayat-zila-parishad-polls-in-rajasthan-shows-trust-of-poor-farmers-labourers-in-pm-modi-party-president-j-p-nadda/story-Mh5YMTnA9FG0RDUqNV6ObO.html
09-12-2020||India||‘Symbol of national pride of strong India’: In letter to PM Modi, KCR hails Central Vista project||A day before prime minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the grand Central Vista project, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday wrote to PM Modi, stating that the project was “long overdue” and will be a “symbol of national pride of a confident and strong India.”Also Read | New Parliament building landmark opportunity to build peoples’ Parliament: PMO“I join you with a sense of pride on the occasion of laying of foundation stone for grand project of Central Vista. Project was long overdue as existing government infrastructure in the national capital is inadequate and also associated with our colonial past,” the Telangana CM wrote in his letter to PM Modi, reported news agency ANI. “The new Central Vista project will be a symbol of self-esteem, prestige and national pride of a resurgent, confident and strong India. I wish for the speedy completion of this prestigious nationally important project,” the letter further stated. The new Central Vista project will be a symbol of self-esteem, prestige & national pride of a resurgent, confident & strong India. I wish for the speedy completion of this prestigious nationally important project: Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar writes to PM Narendra Modi https://t.co/dWGG1uKA9SThe Central Vista project, which has attracted a lot of controversy, envisages a new Parliament building, a common secretariat for central government offices along with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and residence, Special Protection Group (SPG) building and Vice-President Enclave. The plan also calls for a revamp of the historic 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.Also Read | Modi to lay the foundation stone of new Parliament building on Dec 10The new Parliament complex, once it comes up, will be of triangular shape and will be big enough to house more than 1,200 Members of Parliament (MP)-888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Rajya Sabha. The existing complex, which is 93-years-old, can house 545 Lok Sabha and 245 Rajya Sabha MPs. While the new Parliament building is expected to be complete by 2022, the 75th year of India’s independence, the entire project is expected to be built by 2024, when the next Lok Sabha elections will take place.On Monday, the Supreme Court ordered the Centre to halt all construction activities related to the Central Vista project but allowed it to go ahead with the December 10 ceremony. On November 5, the apex court had reserved its orders on a batch of 10 petitions filed by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava and others, challenging the manner in which the Central Vista project got various clearances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symbol-of-national-pride-of-strong-india-in-letter-to-pm-modi-kcr-hails-central-vista-project/story-kqYiJKMfaFIe4DQbhK6nLI.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Free fuel to protesters heading to Delhi||In an attempt to intensify the farmers’ protest which entered its 14th day on Wednesday, a few workers of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) started providing free fuel at a petrol pump at Delh-Amritsar national highway to encourage more and more farmers to head towards Delhi. “We have started this to encourage more and more people of Punjab to join the agitation and further strengthen it. We are doing this with the help of the local youth and our NRI friends,” Gursharan Singh, a SAD worker said.A day after Bharat Bandh, the protest seems more on track as the late-night talk between the farmers’ union leaders and Amit Shah offered no way out of the ongoing impasse. Meanwhile, traffic in and around the Capital remained congested as Singhu, Auchandi, Piao, Mangesh borders remain closed.Earlier, the farmers had said that unless their demands are met, they are prepared to be on the road. They have set up langar at Singhu border. The farmers have come with ration, cylinders, stoves and other necessities. Arrangements of WiFi, tractors with amenities, air-conditioning are also there. If the protest goes on till May, June, we can conduct our meetings in the tractor, a protester said.The farmers were supposed to meet Union ministers for the sixth round of talks over the farm bills that were enacted in September, but after the meeting with Amit Shah where, as farmer leaders claimed, it was made clear that the Centre won’t repeal the laws, the meeting stands cancelled. The Centre will send a draft proposal to the farmers and the next course of action will be decided after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-free-fuel-to-protesters-heading-to-delhi/story-mVF8GJppbayklNyqQkF1EM.html
09-12-2020||India||Mizoram launches project to assist migrant workers find employment||The Mizoram government has launched a project to assist the migrant workers, who lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic, find suitable employment.The Rs 3.3 project under the Mizoram Youth Commission (MZC) christened as ‘Livelihood Generation for Returned Migrant Workers’ was launched by Chief Minister Zoramathnga on Tuesday.The project funded by the North East Council will cover more than 2,600 people, who will be given skill-based training and entrepreneurship development training, to help them find suitable employment.Speaking on the occasion, Zoramthanga said the global pandemic has affected the whole world and Mizoram is no exception.He expressed regret for many state residents, who have returned to the state after losing their jobs due to the pandemic.Zoramthanga exhorted the educated youths to work with great determination and perseverance so as to make Mizoram one of the states in the northeastern region that has the highest percentage of central civil servants.He said that coaching and sponsorship programme will be expedited to produce more and more officers under Central service.MYC chairman and ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) legislator Vanlaltanpuia said at least 2,637 migrant workers have lost their jobs and returned to the state due to Covid-19 pandemic.He said that the ‘Livelihood Generation for Returned Migrant Workers’ project will have seven components to assist the migrant workers for livelihood generation.Entrepreneurship development programme will be implemented in all the 11 districts and 550 candidates are targeted under this component.While 150 people are targeted under the skill training component to be implemented by Labour Employment, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship department, 100 candidates are expected for entrepreneurship skill training to be conducted by Mizo University.Around 637 people will undertake training on BPO, animation, gaming and designing and 120 are targeted for home based food processing.About 100 people will be trained for tour guides and a sizeable number of candidates will also be trained for e- commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-launches-project-to-assist-migrant-workers-find-employment/story-4NSvUJO5MHavE7rRnsNg4I.html
09-12-2020||India||BJP leads Congress in Rajasthan panchayat polls, dubs it verdict on Gehlot govt||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has outrun the Congress in the Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad election held in 21 districts of Rajasthan, counting for which is still underway. Till Wednesday morning, results were declared for 4,051 seats of 4,371 panchayat samitis, out of which BJP won in 1,836, Congress in 1,718 and independents bagged 422. Hanuman Beniwal’s Rashtriya Loktantric Party (RLP) won 56 seats, CPIM 16 and BSP 3. Most results have been declared for the Zila Parishad election for 636 seats. The BJP has won 326 seats, followed by 250 seats by the Congress, 10 by the RLP, two by the CPI(M) and the rest by others. The results of 30 seats are still awaited. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje has congratulated all the winners of the BJP. “Heartiest congratulations to all the hardworking candidates and workers of the BJP who won the Zila Parishad and Panchayati Samiti elections. Heartfelt thanks to the people of the state, who have reposed their faith in the BJP by denying the false claims of the Congress government,” she said. BJP state president Satish Poonia claimed that the results of the Panchayati Raj elections show that the days of a “corrupt” Ashok Gehlot government were numbered. He added that the people of the villages have expressed confidence in the BJP and appreciated the efforts of the Narendra Modi government and the BJP organization. The BJP has performed particularly well in constituencies of top Congress leaders. In Laxmangarh, the constituency of state unit chief Govind Singh Dotasara, the Congress won only 11 out of the 25 Panchayat Samiti seats, while the BJP won 13 and one seat went to an independent candidate. Also Read: Congress misleading farmers with ‘Bharat Bandh’: Rajasthan BJP chiefIn Tonk, home turf of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, BJP won 9 out of the 19 Panchayat Samiti seats, Congress could only win 7 and independent candidates won three. Similarly, in cabinet minister Raghu Sharma’s constituency of Ajmer, BJP swept 9 out of the 11 Panchayat Samiti seats leaving just two for the Congress.The BJP also won 14 of the 17 seats in the Nimbahera Panchayat Samiti area, Congress minister Udai Lal Anjana is from this region. In Hindoli, from where sports minister Ashok Chandna hails, 13 out of the 23 Panchayat Samitis seats have been won by the BJP and 10 by the Congress. The results indicate that the BJP can form a board in 14 districts of Ajmer, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittaurgarh, Churu, Jalaire, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tank and Udaipur. Compared to this, Congress will only be able to form a board in five districts of Banswara, Bhilwara, Pratapgarh, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer. Beniwal’s RLP has left both the BJP and the Congress behind in Nagaur by winning 20 seats, followed by 18 won by the BJP and nine by the Congress.RLP is also in a kingmaker position in Barmer where it won one seat on its electoral debut. The BJP and the Congress have won an equal number of seats here. In Dungarpur, Bharatiya Tribal Party will form the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leads-congress-in-rajasthan-panchayat-polls-dubs-it-verdict-on-gehlot-govt/story-GWZkpJTVTG8iSZ1lpimTxI.html
09-12-2020||India||Centre-farm unions meeting cancelled, farmers say will discuss after draft proposal||As the farmers’ protest against three agricultural laws has entered day 14, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said their meeting with the central leadership on Wednesday stands cancelled and they will discuss and decide on their next move after the government shares with them the draft proposal with amendments in the contentious farm laws enacted in September. An official confirmed that the crucial sixth round of talks with protesting farmers’ unions has been cancelled due to farm leaders’ refusal to attend, according to news agency PTI. “We’ll hold a meeting over the draft that will be sent by the Centre. That meeting is cancelled. Draft will be discussed & further course of action will be decided. We hope things will be clear by 4-5 pm today,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read: Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet The announcement comes a day after a group of 14 leaders of the agricultural community met Union minister Amit Shah to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation triggered by agri laws that they say will hurt their incomes and benefit large corporations. according to Hanan Mollah of the Kisan Sabha, Shah had said the government would propose amendments related to a fee structure in notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs), stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights, strengthening of notified markets, and a guarantee on minimum support prices (MSPs) in Wednesday’s meeting. Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here The farmers, however, have demanded a complete rollback of the three legislations that the government pushed in September to deregulate farm markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which officials say will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers say government-controlled notified markets will collapse due to competition from deregulated markets under the new laws, as trade in the latter will be free of any fees or service charges.“The government is likely to present a plan spelling out specific measures to strengthen notified markets, such a fee structure so that both new free markets and notified markets can co-exist in a true competitive spirit,” an official said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the legislations since November 26 when they launched their “Dilli Chalo’ march following which several of the national capital’s borders have been choked. They are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/today-s-meeting-with-centre-cancelled-will-discuss-after-draft-proposal-farmers-leader/story-swMSQ3oDpCptQsvzS8mWtL.html
09-12-2020||India||‘BJP leading in majority of seats in Rajasthan’s local body polls’, says official||The BJP on Tuesday appeared set to corner the lion’s share of seats in the Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad elections held in Rajasthan’s 21 districts.The counting for which was still underway, an official said on late Tuesday night. Out of the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats, the BJP has already bagged 1,835 of them while the Congress has managed to win 1,718 seats, the official said, adding other winners include 420 independents and 56 Rashtriya Loktantrik Party candidates. Similarly, out of the 636 seats of the Zila Parishad, the BJP cornered 266 seats leaving 204 for the Congress, the official said. “The counting of votes to elect members of Panchayat Samitis and Zila Parishads is still underway,” a state election commission spokesperson said.The two elections were held simultaneously. Meanwhile, in Fatehpur police station area of Sikar district, a man was killed and 10 others were injured in a group clash between people of two communities during an election victory procession. The deceased was identified as Kanhaiya Lal, said police, adding the injured people have been admitted to a government hospital.Also Read | Opposition may meet Prez Kovind over farm stir today An additional police force was deployed in the area to maintain law and order, police said. In Tonk Panchayat Samiti, no party got majority and three independent winners, who hold the key to form the board, have pledged their support to Congress leader and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot to help the Congress form the board. Of the total 19 seats, the BJP won nine, Congress seven and independents three. Ramlal Gurjar, the husband of one of the candidates, Hansa Devi Gurjar, said the independent candidates have extended their support to Pilot, to help the Congress form board in the Panchayat Samiti. Former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje has congratulated the BJP candidates on her victory. “Heartiest congratulations to all the hard-working candidates of the BJP who won the Zila Parishad and Panchayati Samiti elections,” Raje said in a statement. “Heartfelt thanks also to the people of the state, who have reposed faith in the BJP by denying the false claims of the Congress government,” she said. BJP state president Satish Poonia said the results of the Panchayati Raj elections are a “sure sign of a farewell to this corrupt government”. The people of the village have expressed confidence in the BJP and appreciated the efforts of the Narendra Modi government and BJP organisations of the Centre, he said.The polling to elect a total of 636 Zila Parishad members and 4,371 Panchayat Samiti members was held in four phases in 21 districts of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.The result will decide the fate of 1,778 candidates in the Zila Parishad elections and 12,663 candidates in the Panchayat Samiti elections.Elaborate security arrangements were made for the counting process. The polling was held on November 23 and 27, and December 1 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leading-in-majority-of-seats-in-rajasthan-s-local-body-polls-says-official/story-sEeYpHg5Ji7JycNyOU4weN.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Applications of Pfizer, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute to be reviewed today||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which is the National Regulatory Authority of India, will review the applications of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — the three pharma companies that have sought emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates. The Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer had on December 4 sought approval for its vaccine from the central drug regulator, after the firm secured such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. On December 6, Pune’s Serum Institute of India sought a nod for its Oxford Covid-19 vaccine. Subsequently, Bharat Biotech applied for the same on December 7. What does India’s regulatory framework say about emergency authorisation?There is no law by the name of emergency use authorisation law for granting licence to vaccine makers in India. But there are provisions for the purpose. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has said that the exact phrase — emergency use authorisation — is not used but the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, clearly specify that under specific special situations, relaxation, abbreviation, omission, or deferment of data including local clinical trial data may be considered for approval.How will India review the applications?It will be a very deep scrutiny, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava has said. “It involves looking at voluminous data. We hope the decision would be expeditious but it will never compromise on scientific rigour and the processes therein,” he said. The experts will grant the authorisation only when they will be satisfied with the risk-benefit ratio that is if the benefit is more than the risk.Addressing a press meet in which the details of India’s proposed vaccination drive were revealed, Health secretary said that in the next few weeks some vaccine-makers will get licences. “But it is difficult to foretell which one will get or when. Most of the vaccines consist of two to three doses and there will be a gap of a few weeks between doses. Even after vaccination, precaution must be taken,” Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-applications-of-pfizer-bharat-biotech-and-serum-institute-to-be-reviewed-today/story-GPiijVvCn7PynvSvYYtb2L.html
09-12-2020||India||32,080 new cases push India’s Covid-19 tally over 9.73 mn; recoveries above 9.21 mn||With 32,080 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in the past 24 hours, India’s infection tally has crossed 9.73 million while recoveries from the disease have surpassed 9.21 million, according to latest figures released the Union minister of health and family welfare on Wednesday morning. With a high number of Covid-19 patients recovering every day and the sustained fall in the mortality rate, India’s steady trend of registering dipping active cases continued with the country’s active caseload remaining below 400,000 at 378,909, which is merely 3.96% of the total confirmed cases. While there were 10 lakh cases of Covid-19 on September 18, the tally came down to four lakh on December 6 and have since been dropping. Maharashtra continues to report the maximum number of active cases in the country at 74,460 followed by Kerala with 59,873 active cases whereas Delhi has reported 22,310 active cases, 5,65,039 recoveries and 9,763 fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. India also witnessed a steady decline in the number of daily deaths recorded in the country. Less than 400 new deaths were recorded in the country in the last 24 hours. In the absence of a vaccine against the deadly disease, the number of recoveries continue to bind the hopes of the citizens. As many as 36,635 recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the total number of recoveries to 9,215,581. India’s recovery rate stands at 94.59%, according to the health ministry. This comes on a day when the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which is the National Regulatory Authority of India, will review the applications of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — the three pharma companies that have sought emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccine candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-080-new-cases-push-india-s-covid-19-tally-over-9-73-mn-recoveries-above-9-21-mn/story-WRYFCQkboSDWa9XIi226cK.html
09-12-2020||India||Don’t confuse forests for farms: Environmentalist Wanjira Mathai||A new study by the World Resources Institute (WRI) to be released on Wednesday on the potential of restoring land in Sidhi, a remote district in eastern Madhya Pradesh, has estimated that as many as 363,000 hectares have potential for restoration.If restored, it could sequester over 7 million metric tonnes of carbon over 10–20 years and increase forest carbon stock (carbon sequestered from the atmosphere) by 37%. To achieve the full restoration potential, 39.5 million saplings would need to be planted, creating employment opportunities of 3.75 million person days over two years.One of India’s nationally determined contributions (NDC) under the Paris Agreement is to achieve a cumulative carbon sink of 2.5–3 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent by 2030 so the Centre has been mooting an agro-forestry policy that could help achieve the target. Wanjira Mathai, WRI’s regional director for Africa and former Chair of the Green Belt Movement in Kenya said such a goal was achievable by being radially inclusive and by not confusing indigenous forests for farms. Excerpts from an interview:How do you think such a large goal of creating a massive carbon sink can be achieved, especially when most people in India have small landholdings and common lands are often encroached on?The business of restoration has to be radically inclusive. The only models that have worked in the past are where local communities have been engaged and empowered. We saw it in Kenya’s Green Belt Movement. The planning and design of restoration initiatives have to be developed as per local land use practices. Both the quality of plantation material including seedlings, and survival of plantations are dependent on people. We have found that the element of nurturing the plantations is critical.Why do you think local people or villagers will participate in land restoration? Any learnings from Wangari Mathai’s (Wanjira’s mother and the first African woman to win the Nobel Prize) Green Belt Movement?The first thing to know about the Green Belt Movement was that it evolved around a need—the need for fodder, fuel wood and the need for nutritious food and the movement was established to address those issues that are fundamental in sustaining life as we know it. The model of ‘how’ was created directly with women. It involved working with women who in many communities, including in India, are the ones who bear the brunt of fetching firewood, fetching drinking water and ensuring there is a nutritious meal on the table.Also read | India lost 118 billion work hours due to heat in ’19: StudyThey were feeling the pressure of the lack of those resources. They were very responsive to coming together to plant trees. Planting of fruit and fodder trees, branches that could be cut for firewood, was a real winner for the movement. But I think the genius of the Green Belt Movement was involvement of local grassroots women, the idea that many would understand the patience and commitment to grow and find quality seedlings. Women were like foresters. The Green Belt Movement deliberately organised women because of the scale that was needed. There was clarity that for this movement to be successful, it needed to be at scale.How did you ensure the movement covered a very large area? Since 1977, the movement has ensured plantation of over 51 million trees in Kenya.Volume was incentivised. Women farmers were encouraged to form groups of 5 to 20, not all from the same family, and to mushroom those groups. Those groups gave themselves a name, opened a back account and were ready to engage with the movement in a transactional way. They could receive cheques as part of their accountability so the structure of groups was quite important. In the first phase of the movement, they planted in public spaces—in schools, around their homes, in market places etc. They began to make these farms of green around their communities and restored greenery outside gazetted forests. The women were also being compensated for seedlings that survived first for three months, and then for six months, which was also a very important aspect of the campaign. For seedlings that survived, they got a token amount of 2 US cents when the movement started. That was the incentive for volume. It was fun and transformative for women. It later moved to larger scale projects like gazetted forests. And gradually fostered a tripartite partnership between government, people and the Green Belt Movement. Governments usually have a hard time in producing such quality planting material. I think the Green Belt Movement is the most powerful model for inclusive land restoration.In India, we have a compensatory afforestation policy where, every time that forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes like mining or industry, the user agency is supposed to pay for planting forests over an equal area of non-forest land, or when that is not available, twice the area of degraded forest land. But there is a massive shortage of land for such plantations. Most private lands have been exhausted.We have to begin to look at the utility of the infrastructure we are building for our people. Going forward and what Covid-19 has taught us is that we have to be urbanising in ways that are a lot greener and inclusive and climate resilient. A lot of traditional infrastructure is not that. There will not be an infinite amount of land to plant trees but on the other side of the equation, we need to study what we are building. Who does it serve and is it actually inclusive? In Kenya, a lot of infrastructure is not serving the majority. It is not moving people, it’s moving vehicles. Pedestrian infrastructure and micro-mobility, for example, is so important for health, pollution and the climate. There should be a valuation of the quality of the tree that is being cut. Sometimes, it could mean cutting a hundred-year-old tree and putting ten small ones instead. There should definitely be a big disincentive to that. The focus should be on how to make sure that we don’t just clear and plant somewhere else because that becomes the easy route.How can we ensure survival of plantations?Survival of plantation is mainly dependent on the quality of planting material but it’s also crucial to ensure that we are not planting very young seedlings. In the Green Belt Movement, you could not plant a tree that was less than 2 feet tall. They were still nurtured for a couple of years to take care, to do spot weeding etc. Ensuring survival of trees is all about the quality of planting and nurturing, so it’s an investment. The government will have to invest in it and not consider it a cheap solution. Restoration is a job creator. As far as species are concerned, local wisdom is very important. World Agroforestry Institute has a tool that helps you identify species that are best suited for a particular area.How do you think India can meet our carbon sequestration NDC effectively?What is important at the moment is that we don’t confuse forests with farms. Forests have very dense biodiversity, they are teeming with life. Forests are not monocultures of trees. It’s important that we don’t confuse protection of indigenous forests and biodiversity for farms of trees. Covid-19 as a zoonotic disease reminds us how important it is to maintain a barrier between indigenous forests from plantations. It’s also important that we don’t encroach on forests in our thirst for commercial plantations. Commercial plantations have their place. People can plan their life around cash crops or commercial plantations. It’s a matter of getting our priorities right and safeguarding our forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-confuse-forests-for-farms-environmentalist-wanjira-mathai/story-kGVq70rNK2Hdt8G0pstIKN.html
09-12-2020||India||Ayodhya Ram Temple foundation work likely to start after December 15||The Ram Mandir construction committee is likely to start foundation work of Ram Mandir after December 15 when engineers and technical experts hand over their reports related to the temple’s foundation to the committee. The two-day meeting of the Ram Mandir construction committee ended on Tuesday. Nripendra Misra, chairman of the committee, was in Ayodhya to preside over the meeting. Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj, the treasurer of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, said, “Construction work of Parkota (surrounding wall) of the temple will also start by the end of this month”.“The two-day meeting (December 7-8) has been fruitful and important decisions related with construction work of Ram Mandir were taken,” he added. Giri will oversee the development of 65-acre land on the Ram Janmabhoomi campus where the temple will be constructed. Testing work for the foundation pillars of Ram Mandir is almost over. Technical experts of Larsen and Toubro, IIT Chennai and Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, among others are analysing the results of this testing. Trust wants to expedite ongoing work of laying the foundation which got delayed due to the pandemic. On September 11 this year, the trust had started the piling work for testing the foundation pillars. Around 1,200 pillars will be laid 100 feet below the surface to prepare the temple’s foundation. In technical terms, this process is called piling. Also Read: Panel to oversee development of 65-acre land on Ram Janmabhoomi campus12 foundation pillars have been subjected to heavy testing to check their strength and durability and the results are being analysed by experts of IIT Madras, Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consulting Engineers Limited. Architect Ashish Sompura, engineers of Larsen and Toubro, Tata Consulting Engineers and Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee among others were present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-ram-temple-foundation-work-likely-to-start-after-december-15/story-SeIbpXEwMpersJqe4nmrWP.html
09-12-2020||India||BJP chief Nadda to begin two-day Bengal tour today; Mamata to hold rally in Bongaon||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda will begin a two-day tour of West Bengal on Wednesday to participate in various programmes targeted at strengthening the party’s cadre as well as its presence at the booth level.Nadda is expected to land at the NSCBI airport in Kolkata around 12noon. He is scheduled to inaugurate the BJP’s new office in Hastings. Party leaders said this would be the BJP’s war room for the forthcoming assembly polls. He would also virtually inaugurate nine BJP offices in various districts across the state. “Around 3pm, he is scheduled to take part in the Griha Samparka Abhijan (door-to-door campaign) in Bhowanipore area and later, offer puja at the Kali temple in Kalighat. Union home minister Amit Shah had also performed puja at the temple during his visit to the state earlier this year,” said a BJP leader. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 election, in which the BJP won 18 out of the state’s 42 parliamentary seats, the party is now hoping to replicate the performance in the 2021 West Bengal assembly. On Thursday, Nadda is expected to camp in Diamond Harbour, another TMC stronghold, adjacent to Kolkata in south Bengal. Diamond Harbour is Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency, who is TMC MP and nephew of the chief minister. The BJP president will address a press conference and also party cadres and will interact with members of the fishermen community. Top BJP leaders in West Bengal had earlier said that Shah and Nadda are expected to visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over. “He will also participate in a community outreach programme on BJP’s mission of Aur Noi Anyay,” Anil Baluni, the national media in charge of the party said.On Saturday, the party launched a campaign against what it calls the misrule of the Mamata Banerjee government in the state. Also read | TMC MP Mahua Moitra draws flak, media boycott for ‘2 paisa’It has formed a 117-member election management team to prepare for the upcoming election. The team has been divided into 31 units and will be responsible for preparing the campaign, data collection, booth management and social media management for their party. Senior party leaders and Union ministers have been deputed to work in the state. Nadda’s tour is part of his 120-day national tour that is aimed at strengthening the parties presence across the country.Meanwhile Banerjee, the Trinamool Congress chief, who is camping in the districts of south Bengal, is scheduled to address a rally in Bongaon, a seat dominated by the Dalit community and won by the BJP for the first time in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Banerjee has been taking on the BJP from public rallies in the districts where the BJP has made deep inroads. On Wednesday, she would address the rally at Bongaon, a bastion of the Matuas, a Dalit community. The Matua community has a presence across at least 70 out of 294 assembly seats in the state. In the 2019 elections, the Matuas supported BJP’s Shantanu Thakur who defeated his aunt, ruling Trinamool Congress’s Mamata Bala Thakur, from Bongaon. Before the 2019 polls the All India Matua Mahasangha, a Dalit body, had played host to a rally addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-to-begin-two-day-bengal-tour-today/story-AEEP6E9neABWmsbXSm0ohJ.html
09-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2 terrorists killed in gunbattle in J-K’s Pulwama and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two unidentified terrorists killed in Pulwama, operation underwayTwo unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter at South Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday morning, police said. A joint operation was launched by the police, army and the CRPF in the wee hours after forces received an input that two to three terrorists were hiding at Tiken village in Pulwama. Read more Opposition may meet President Kovind over farm stir todaySix opposition party leaders are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday to discuss the farmers’ campaign against three newly enacted agricultural laws that have angered farmers, and seek the repeal of the legislation pushed through by the Centre in September. Read more Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet Farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered day 14 on Wednesday amid indications the impasse between the government and farm unions will not end anytime soon. Read more Bad-air law drafted, cleared in less than a weekIt took less than a week in October for the environment ministry to draft and promulgate an ordinance mandating a commission to monitor air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR), a Right to Information (RTI) reply has revealed. Read moreIntense western disturbance to bring rain to plains, heavy snowfall to Western HimalayasThunderstorms and lightning with hail is expected in many parts of Jammu, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on December 11 and 12 and light rain in Delhi between December 11 night and December 12noon, according to the India Meteorological Department. Read more Fardeen Khan reveals how he dealt with being body-shamed by trolls, says he’s open to auditioning for rolesFardeen Khan, who recently revealed that he is planning a comeback to films, has spoken about what he was up to in the decade that he has spent away from Bollywood. Fardeen fuelled rumours of a return last week, when he was spotted outside the office of casting director Mukesh Chhabra. Read more Australia’s David Warner ruled out of first India Test in AdelaideAustralia will be without their dynamic batsman David Warner for the first Test against India in Adelaide starting December 17 after it was confirmed that the star batsman will need ‘another 10 days’ to recover from the groin strain he sustained during the ODI series. Read more Artist shares ‘how it started vs how it’s going’ video. It may leave you amazedIf you’ve been around the Internet recently, then you may have seen the ‘how it started vs how it’s going’ posts doing rounds on social media. These usually contrast something in the past with how it is in the present. Now, a self-taught pencil portrait artist has boarded the trend train and uploaded a video documenting his progress. Read more In Conversation with Manchester United legend Denis IrwinManchester United legend Denis Irwin will be speaking to fans from India as part of #ILOVEUNITED campaign this weekend when United take on derby rivals Manchester City. Ahead of the exciting fixture, he speaks to Hindustan Times in an exclusive interview. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-2-terrorists-killed-in-gunbattle-in-j-k-s-pulwama-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8y5kvmFjwI2m9ywZBaaB2H.html
09-12-2020||India||3 terrorists killed in Pulwama from Pak-based Al-Badr group, say police||Three terrorists reportedly belonging to the Al-Badr group were killed in an encounter at South Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday morning, police said.A joint operation was launched by the police, army and the CRPF in the wee hours after forces received an input that two to three terrorists were hiding at Tiken village in Pulwama.Police say all three militants killed in the operation belong to the Pakistan based Islamic terrorist outfit Al-Badr Earlier in the day the police spokesman had confirmed the killing of two terrorists . “02 unidentified #terrorists killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow,” J&K police spokesman had tweeted. Also Read: Detained ahead of Budgam visit, says Mehbooba MuftiThe identity of the slain terrorists have not been revealed by the police. This is the third operation launched by the forces in Kashmir since last night. Two other operations were launched in north Kashmir, however, no contact was established with terrorists during those cordon and search operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-unidentified-militants-killed-in-pulwama-operation-underway/story-UdHjf89PiNjGsBjq0uZLPK.html
09-12-2020||India||Bad-air law drafted, cleared in less than a week||It took less than a week in October for the environment ministry to draft and promulgate an ordinance mandating a commission to monitor air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR), a Right to Information (RTI) reply has revealed, showing that the process of framing the law started only after the top court ordered the formation of a committee (a different one) to track pollution.On October 16, the Supreme Court said it was setting up a committee headed by former Supreme Court judge Madan Lokur for monitoring stubble burning and air pollution in the NCR and nearby areas, considered to be some of the most polluted in India, particularly in the winter months when post-harvest crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana causes the capital to be shrouded by smoky haze.Five days after the SC order, the ministry started the process of setting up CAQM (Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas) with statutory backing and on October 24, it requested the court not to constitute the panel. The SC agreed to the request. “The first draft of the Ordinance was created on October 23, 2020,” the reply to an RTI application filed by this correspondent said. And the Ordinance was promulgated on October 28, it added.The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020 mandated the statutory body to adopt a consolidated approach towards monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR by coordinating with state governments which, however, were not consulted on the law.The ordinance replaced the 22-year-old Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) which introduced several important interventions to control pollution. According to the Ordinance, based on court orders, various ad hoc committees like the EPCA had been formed to assist in the implementation of court directives, but the new commission would subsume them.The commission works under the supervision of the central government and comprises members from all NCR states and the Central Pollution Control Board, apart from ministries such as petroleum and natural gas, agriculture and commerce. The commission is empowered to take decisions and act against sources of pollution under various laws like the Environment Protection Act and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act. Former petroleum secretary MM Kutty was appointed as the first chairperson of the commission on November 7.Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) Prasoon Tripathi, in the RTI reply on December 2, admitted that there had been no consultations with the states or public on the draft. This was in reply to a question whether the state governments and public had been consulted on the important air pollution mitigation legislation.“The ministry of law and justice was consulted. The ministry of law and justice promulgated the draft for its promulgation,” the reply said.He did not provide the file notings and different versions of the draft law before the ordinance was promulgated, saying the file was not with him. “As and when the file is received to the undersigned, the relevant information will be provided.” An environment ministry functionary familiar with the development said the commission was set up in a short time to initiate a coordinated effort to control air pollution in NCR. “The government was swift to act and provided a platform of all stakeholders including the civil society to become part of the government’s effort to control air pollution,” he said, requesting anonymity. Legal experts said the new commission had become a hub of civil servants.“It is obvious that the environment ministry was not keen on another SC appointed committee to monitor air pollution. So, it promulgated the Ordinance, (creating the commission) which is dominated by bureaucrats. Of the 15 members, only three members represent NGOs. The majority of ministries engaged in actions that contribute to the pollution such as that of power, housing and road transport are there but crucial ones such as rural development and health are missing. No farmer body has been included even though stubble burning is said to be main cause of air pollution in northern India,” said Ritwick Dutta, an environment lawyer. The central government has effectively taken control of anti-pollution measures in the Delhi-NCR, as is evident from the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government appointee, said Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research think tank.  “The enforcement mechanism is clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third-party monitoring and citizen-driven enforcement,” she said.On Tuesday, the air pollution levels in Delhi and National Capital Region was between very poor to severe with Ghaziabad being the most polluted city with Air Quality Index (AQI) of 415. Many towns in Uttar Pradesh such as Bulandshahr and Kanpur reported AQI of more than 400. Delhi had AQI of 386, which meant that the capital’s air quality was poor despite lesser number of vehicles on road because of Bharat Bandh called by farmer bodies demanding repealing of three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-air-law-drafted-cleared-in-less-than-a-week/story-RX2ixxLQ2NnmM85n0rD3fO.html
09-12-2020||India||Intense western disturbance to bring rain to plains, heavy snowfall to Western Himalayas||Thunderstorms and lightning with hail is expected in many parts of Jammu, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on December 11 and 12 and light rain in Delhi between December 11 night and December 12noon, according to the India Meteorological Department.This is due to the influence of an intense western disturbance which will affect the Western Himalayan region and the north-western plains. Under the influence of the western disturbance and moisture feeding from Arabian Sea over northwest Himalayas at middle-tropospheric levels, scattered to fairly widespread rain and snowfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during December 8 and 9.In quick succession, a fresh western disturbance, its induced cyclonic circulation and moisture feeding from Arabian Sea is likely to cause widespread rain and snowfall over J&K, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh scattered rain or snowfall is likely over Uttarakhand during December 11 and 12.Scattered rainfall is also very likely over Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab during the same period. Heavy rain or snow is likely over J&K, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on December 11 and 12 and over Himachal Pradesh on December 12.Thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and hail are also likely at some places over Jammu Division, Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh on December 11 and 12. “We are expecting light rain and thundershowers in Delhi from December 11. This is mainly because of a very intense western disturbance which will bring heavy snow to the hills and rain to the plains,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2 to 3 degree C once the western disturbance passes by December 13 or 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intense-western-disturbance-to-bring-rain-to-plains-heavy-snowfall-to-western-himalayas/story-mbRLP8A0tnYhwHQ2lWAz2N.html
09-12-2020||India||Executive not following court orders will lead to anarchy: SC||Allowing the Executive to act in violation of court orders will be “an invitation to anarchy”, the Supreme Court held in an order released on Tuesday, as it reproached the Centre for not being able to appoint a judicial member in the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) since the last four months. A top court bench, headed by justice SK Kaul, also shot down a request by the government and the CERC to let the commission resume its work, saying the court cannot help consumers when the “government does not seem to be interested in coming to the aid of the consumers or making the commission functional”. The CERC – a regulatory body to determine power tariffs – has been non-functional since August after a restraining order by the court.In 2018, the court had ordered the CERC and all state commissions to make certain they appoint a member-law, who must be either a sitting or a retired judge, or a person with substantial knowledge and practise of the law whenever the next vacancy arises. Subsequently, a contempt plea was moved this year to point out that the government had appointed two members in the CERC without complying with the judgment to first appoint a member-law. On Monday, the SC underlined that as many as 177 judgments and orders were pending disposal before the CERC. “The Executive cannot be expected to act nor permitted to act in breach of the judgment of this court. This would be an invitation to anarchy! The mutual respect of the three pillars of democracy requires each of them to respect the role and functioning of the other,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/executive-not-following-court-orders-will-lead-to-anarchy-sc/story-xRJDQ0v5Nd4aMBSOVKrDVK.html
09-12-2020||India||Amit Shah’s meet with farmers makes no headway; today’s talks hang in balance||After Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with farmers protesting against three contentious agricultural laws failed to make headway on Tuesday, the course of Wednesday’s meeting, the sixth round of talks between farmers and the central leadership to end the deadlock remains uncertain. Shah met a group of 14 peasant leaders on Tuesday evening, however, the meeting failed to reach a breakthrough as the farmers refused to negotiate. Demanding just a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from the home minister, the farmers reiterated that their only demand is the scrapping of the legislations that liberalise farm trade.Follow latest updates on farmers’ protest here Shah said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a concrete proposal in Wednesday’s talks and propose key amendments in the contentious agricultural laws that have triggered protests, according to farmers’ leaders, who attended the meeting at the state-run Indian Council of Agriculture Research’s (ICAR) Pusa Complex. In Wednesday’s meeting, Shah said the government would propose amendments related to a fee structure in notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs), stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights, strengthening of notified markets, and a guarantee on minimum support prices (MSPs), according to Hanan Mollah of the Kisan Sabha.Also Read: Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet While there was no official word from the government on the status of Wednesday’s scheduled meeting, many farm union leaders said there is no question of attending it and that they will take a call on their next course of action after studying the government’s written proposal. “We have rejected the proposal. And we will now discuss amongst ourselves whether to go ahead with tomorrow’s (Wednesday’s) talks...what’s the point?” said Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union. Meanwhile, a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella platform under which various farm unions are spearheading the protests at Delhi’s borders, will hold a meeting at 10am Wednesday to decide their course of action, farmers’ leaders said.Also Read: Opposition may meet President Kovind over farm stir todayWednesday’s meeting, if it takes place, will be the sixth time the two sides will be holding talks over farmers’ demand of scrapping the three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their incomes and and leave them at the mercy of large corporations. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 against three farm laws- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020- enacted by the Centre during the monsoon session of Parliament. The protesting farmers on Tuesday enforced a national shutdown from 11am to 3pm, which remained largely peaceful. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-amit-shah-meet-with-farmers-makes-no-headway-today-s-talks-hang-in-balance/story-EmT9FbUjtmT9GpuiO9noiN.html
09-12-2020||India||Top court gives nod for Chennai-Salem highway||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that the Centre was within its power to acquire “any land” for developing national highway in any state under public purpose, upholding the decision of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to acquire land for the construction of the ambitious 277-kilometre eight-lane national highway connecting Chennai, Krishnagiri and Salem in Tamil Nadu.A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar, said, “The availability of a highway in any part of the state paves way for sustainable development and overall enhancement of human well-being.” The Madras high court had on April 8, 2019, set aside the acquisition of land by NHAI, faulting the government body for not obtaining prior environment clearance before proceeding with the acquisition. NHAI had issued the notification under the National Highways Act, 1956, declaring the stretch from Tambaram (Chennai) to Harur as NH-179B and the stretch from Harur to Salem as NH-179A.The project, which was part of the Bharatmala Pariyojana Phase-I and is expected to cost ₹10,000 crore, was envisaged to reduce the distance between Chennai and Salem by 40km and to diversify the traffic from the congested Chennai-Krishnagiri section of Golden Quadrilateral and Chennai-Ulundurpet section of the Chennai-Madurai Economic Corridor. The NHAI notification under Section 3A(1) of the 1956 Act led to filing of a public interest litigation (PIL) before the high court, which had set aside the order.The land owners, too, had moved the Supreme Court against the haste shown by the central government to mutate the title of land soon after the notification was issued.On Tuesday, the top court agreed that for construction of any development project, prior environment clearance under the notification issued by ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on September 14, 2006, is a must. However, this stage will only arrive before the start of actual construction. In the present case, the bench noted, the project was at the stage of “planning” and “finalisation”.In a 140-page judgment, the bench went to the extent to suggest, “On a thorough perusal, the judgment (of the high court) does not reveal any just circumstance for invoking the judicial review jurisdiction.The top court agreed with the HC that until acquisition process stood completed, it was wrong on the part of the executing agency to alter the mutation entry possessed by landowners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-gives-nod-for-chennai-salem-highway/story-1wxqDr8CBAN4ca1MlLFD1L.html
09-12-2020||India||India, Qatar to set up task force to facilitate investments into India||India and Qatar decided on Tuesday to set up a special task force to facilitate investments by the Qatar Investment Authority, part of India’s ongoing outreach to key West Asian states to overcome the economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was made when Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the telephone with the emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani. The two leaders also looked at potential Qatari investments in the entire energy value chain in India. The move came ahead of an expected visit to Qatar and Kuwait by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and a trip to Oman by minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. The leaders of India and Qatar discussed the “robust cooperation” in investment flows and energy security, and decided to “create a special task force to further facilitate investments by Qatar Investment Authority into India”, the ministry said. They also decided to explore Qatari investments in the energy value chain in India and reviewed developments in investment and energy sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-qatar-to-set-up-task-force-to-facilitate-investments-into-india/story-H5J4MVBP4IJxnEVNc16YAL.html
09-12-2020||India||Agencies to examine Christchurch shooter’s 3 month stay in India||Indian intelligence officials said on Tuesday that they will look into 2019 Christchurch mosque shooter Brenton Tarrant’s three-month visit to India to find out details of the places he visited and the people he met. According to a comprehensive 792-page New Zealand Royal Commission of Inquiry report released on Tuesday, the Australian-born attacker was in India between November 21, 2015 and February 18, 2016. HT has seen a copy of the report. The report added that Tarrant travelled extensively, always alone, between April 15, 2014 and August 17, 2017 to various countries before moving to New Zealand. In all, the inquiry report lists 57 countries spread over Asia, most of Europe and Africa, where he travelled during the three years. He came to India immediately after finishing a 23 day-trip to Nepal. In fact, his longest stay during those three years was in India. “The longest visit the individual (Tarrant) made to any one country was to India where he stayed between 21 November 2015 and 18 February 2016,” the report said. He visited several countries for about a month or more, including Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, South Korea, Myanmar, Russia, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia. A senior Indian counter-terrorism official said Indian agencies will enquire about the cities he visited, and the people he was in touch with or stayed with. “We will seek information from regional FRROs (Foreigners Regional Registration Offices) about his travel in India,” said this officer, who requested anonymity. He added, “There is no formal enquiry or investigation in India as of now. We will look into his travel on the basis of Royal Commission of Inquiry report. If required later, we may seek further inputs from New Zealand authorities”. The report says that “while extremist groups (including violent extremists) can be found in some of the countries the individual (Tarrant) visited, there is no evidence that he met with them”. “Likewise, there is no evidence that he engaged in training or investigated potential targets,” the report stated. Tarrant, 30, was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole in August after pleading guilty to 92 counts of terrorism, murder and attempted murder for killing 51 Muslim worshippers including five Indians at two mosques during Friday prayers in Christchurch on March 15, 2019. The report says Tarrant lived off the money that he received from his father and income from investments made with it. “With the money from his father, the individual travelled extensively. First, in 2013, he explored New Zealand and Australia and then between 2014 and 2017 he travelled extensively around the world,” it said. The Royal Commission has concluded that when Tarrant moved to New Zealand in August 2017, it was with a fully developed terrorist ideology based on his adoption of the Great Replacement Theory and his associated beliefs that immigration, particularly by Muslim migrants, into Western countries was an existential threat to Western society and that the appropriate response (at least for him) was violence. The Great Replacement Theory , popular among white supremacists and right-wing groups is that there is a conspiracy to replace white people with non-whites, largely through migration. The report adds the purpose of the travel was not to meet up with extreme right-wing people or groups or engage in training activities or reconnaissance of possible targets. “Put simply, he travelled widely because he could and had nothing better to do,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agencies-to-examine-christchurch-shooter-s-3-month-stay-in-india/story-hpHSyDLmknHlzg6Ulsao6O.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests enter day 14, deadlock persists despite Amit Shah-farm unions’ meet | 10 points||Farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered day 14 on Wednesday amid indications the impasse between the government and farm unions will not end anytime soon. As protesting farmers continue to sit on the outskirts of Delhi, occupying various highways leading to the national capital, sixth round of talks between the Centre and farm leaders is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, though its fate hangs in balance after “informal” talks between Union home minister Amit Shah and farmer leaders, which took place late Tuesday night, failed to break the deadlock.Here’s all you need to know about the farmers’ stir as it enters day 14:1. Farm union leaders will on Wednesday decide whether to proceed with sixth round of talks, scheduled to take place later in the day. Speaking to news agency ANI, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who attended the meeting with Shah, said the government will give a proposal to farmers which, he said, will be discussed.Also Read | No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollback2. 13 farm union leaders attended the meeting with Shah. While the meeting was originally scheduled to begin at 7pm, it got delayed as there was confusion over the venue. Some leaders arrived at Shah’s residence while others reached Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s (ICAR) guesthouse in Pusa, where the talks finally took place.3. At the meeting, leaders reiterated their demand for a complete rollback. Shah, however, said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a “concrete proposal” in Wednesday’s talks. The two sides have thus far held five rounds of talks, including three last week, on December 1, 3 and 5.4. A nationwide Bharat Bandh was organised on Tuesday against the three farm laws. The bandh, which was supported by almost all Opposition parties, was largely peaceful. There were, however, stray incidents of protesters blocking highways and railway tracks.5. On Tuesday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged party convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had been put under “house arrest” by the Delhi Police, which refuted the claims. After AAP workers, including deputy CM Manish Sisodia sat on a ‘dharna’ outside Kejriwal’s residence, the police gave them permission to go inside.6. Later, addressing AAP workers, Kejriwal claimed he was put under house arrest as the Centre was “angry” with him for rejecting Delhi Police’s request to turn nine stadiums into temporary prisons and for meeting protesting farmers at Singhu border on Monday. “I planned to go at the border today not as a CM but as common man but I think they came to know about my plan,” he said.Also Read | They did not let me go, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, counters police version on ‘house arrest’7. A delegation of Opposition leaders will call upon President Ram Nath Kovind at 5pm on Wednesday to discuss with him the ongoing agitation and urge him to repeal the laws. Congress’ Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet President Kovind.Also Read | Opposition leaders likely to meet President, seek repeal of farm laws8. Farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, have been protesting against what they call “black laws” since September, the month these legislations were passed. Initially they sat on railway tracks in Punjab but later announced ‘Dilli Chalo’ march for November 26.9. While on their way to Delhi, the protesting farmers faced stiff resistance from the Haryana Police but managed to reach the capital city. Most are protesting at various borders leading to Delhi while some are at the Nirankari grounds in Burari, the site allotted to them by the Delhi Police.10. Farmers have repeatedly said they only want a complete rollback and will not settle for anything less. They have also threatened to block all highways leading to Delhi and claim to have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-enter-day-14-uncertainty-around-today-s-sixth-round-of-talks-10-points/story-a7nuasVNT66XR3mnfsy5KK.html
09-12-2020||India||Detained ahead of Budgam visit, says Mehbooba Mufti||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that she was detained at her house ahead of a planned visit to Budgam district on Tuesday.Mufti posted a video message on her Twitter handle, claiming that she had been detained by the police.According to PDP leaders, she was scheduled to visit Budgam where families have been served eviction notices by the forest department. “Illegal detention has become GOIs {government of India’s} favourite go-to method for muzzling any form of opposition. I’ve been detained once again because I wanted to visit Budgam where hundreds of families were evicted from their homes,” Mufti tweeted.In the video shot near the entrance of her official residence at Fairview, on Srinagar’s Gupkar Road, she can be heard saying that she is not being allowed to move out.“GOI wants to continue inflicting oppression & zulm {cruelty} on the people of J&K without any questions asked,” she tweeted, posting another video in which the former chief minister, along with PDP spokesman Suhail Bukhari, can be seen arguing with security personnel deployed at her house.This is not the first time that the PDP president has not been allowed out of her house since her release in October after 14 months in detention. The police also didn’t allow her to travel to Pulwama to meet the family of PDP’s youth wing president Waheed Parra in November, a day after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency in New Delhi.Police had then cited security reasons. She visited Pulwama later and met relatives of Parra at Naira village. Mufti has also visited Pahalgam and met Gujjar families who were asked to vacate forest land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/detained-ahead-of-budgam-visit-says-mehbooba-mufti/story-hI6eJ4msxjIvXjLsKbdjDJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Tough reforms difficult in India, says Niti Aayog CEO||Tough reforms are difficult in India’s democratic set-up without political determination and strong administrative will, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Tuesday, adding that the current government has shown the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors.“Tough reforms are very difficult in the Indian context. We are too much of a democracy. For the first time, the government has had the courage and determination to carry out hard-headed reforms across sectors,” said Kant. “Mining, coal, agriculture, labour, these are very difficult reforms. The easier reforms were done away with. You needed a huge amount of political determination and administrative will to carry out these reforms that are being done,” he added.Kant said that many more reforms were needed – across logistics and power, for example. “But this government has at least demonstrated its political will to do hard-headed reforms and we need to see them through to become a manufacturing nation. It’s not easy to compete with China,” he said. “It requires a very hard-headed ground-level approach which is being attempted for the first time in India,” he said at the webinar titled “Strategic Enablers and Policy Ecosystem for Atmanirbhar Bharat” organised by Swarajya in association with Vedanta Resources Limited.Kant also spoke about the emphasis of the government’s new Production Linked Incentive scheme for manufacturing being focused on creating a few “champions” as he termed them in specific sectors rather than trying to do too much by looking at all kinds of companies across sectors. Kant said that the agriculture sector needed to be reformed, and argued that the mandis, or government controlled market yards, were not being done away with. “The mandis will be there and the MSP will be there. But the farmer will get alternative choices…I am a great believer that the farmer must get a choice,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tough-reforms-difficult-in-india-says-niti-aayog-ceo/story-SVOEBBRUROfs3sUtGpMiBK.html
09-12-2020||India||Saarc potential can be realised when terror ends: PM Modi||In a veiled reference to terror emanating from Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that the full potential of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terrorism and violence. Modi, however, underscored India’s commitment to work with other countries in the region for post-Covid-19 recovery in a message on the occasion of the 36th charter day of Saarc. The eight-nation grouping’s functioning and activities have virtually stalled because of the strained relations between India and Pakistan. Besides a virtual meeting in March on the Covid-19 situation, Saarc hasn’t had any significant engagements since India pulled out of the summit that was to be held in Pakistan in 2016 in the aftermath of the Uri terror attack. “The full potential of Saarc can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence. On this 36th Saarc Charter Day, let us re-commit ourselves to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism, and to work collectively towards a secure and prosperous South Asia,” the Prime Minister said. India, he added, “will continue to work with other countries in the region to ensure a robust recovery after the pandemic”. India is also committed to an “integrated, connected, secure and prosperous South Asia”, and will support the economic, technological, cultural and social development of the region. “The early coordination between Saarc countries for dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic is an example of the benefit that our region can derive from greater collaboration,” he said, referring to the meeting held in March and the creation of an emergency Covid-19 fund with an initial contribution of $10 million from India. Saarc leaders had participated in the virtual meeting at Modi’s initiative. However, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan skipped the meet and the country was represented by its de- facto health minister, who created a controversy by raising the Kashmir issue. The charter day marks the signing of the Saarc Charter in 1985 by the leaders of the member countries at the grouping’s first summit in Dhaka. The grouping now includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In a separate message on the occasion, Nepal Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said the Saarc Charter reflects the region’s “shared vision, collective resolve and mutual pursuit to promote peace, stability and prosperity in South Asia through eradication of poverty, accelerated economic growth and advancement in socio-cultural development”. He described the pandemic as an “unprecedented challenge affecting not only health and economy but also social life and livelihoods in the region and beyond” and said it had compounded existing challenges such as poverty, terrorism, transnational crime and climate change. “There is a need for greater regional cooperation today than ever before,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-potential-can-be-realised-when-terror-ends-pm-modi/story-nFb8L0u1sfciqn4aLkRK2N.html
09-12-2020||India||Opposition may meet Prez Kovind over farm stir today||Six opposition party leaders are likely to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday to discuss the farmers’ campaign against three newly enacted agricultural laws that have angered farmers, and seek the repeal of the legislation pushed through by the Centre in September.On Tuesday, the Congress said it was not against farm sector reforms, but the laws introduced by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government did not reflect reforms. The party also reiterated its demand for convening a special session of Parliament to scrap the three laws. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said opposition leaders will hold talks to forge a collective stand on the contentious farm laws before meeting the President at 5 pm. “Tomorrow 5-6 people from different political parties are going to sit, discuss and take a collective stand. We will present our collective stand before the President,” Pawar said.The recent reforms in the antiquated farm sector allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers.Also Read: Bharat Bandh largely peaceful in borders, crowd swells at protest sitesApart from the NCP, other opposition parties likely to attend the meeting include the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), the Communist Party of India (CPI), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC), a last-minute addition to the delegation. The opposition parties also supported Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh, or shutdown strike, called by the farmers’ unions against the three new agricultural laws. Farmers have massed at Delhi’s borders to protest against the laws. Besides Pawar, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and TKS Elangovan of the DMK will meet the President. The ongoing protests by farmers have triggered a war of words between the government and opposition parties. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday said Pawar, as the agriculture minister in the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, had asked states to amend the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act that governs the mandi system and had even warned them that the Centre will not provide them financial assistance in the absence of the three reforms. The ruling BJP also cited letters written by Pawar at that time to chief ministers. Pawar said the BJP was trying to divert public attention by creating a controversy over his letters asking chief ministers to amend the APMC Act. “I had said APMC act should continue but needed some reforms. There is no doubt that I had written the letter. But the new laws do not even mention APMC. The BJP is just trying to divert the attention. No need to give importance,” he told a press conference in Delhi. Meanwhile, former Haryana chief minister and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said agricultural reforms should be discussed afresh in Parliament and new laws enacted after consulting all stakeholders. He said a minimum support price mechanism had to be incorporated into the legislation to protect the interests of farmers. He alleged that the farm laws introduced by the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had been passed without any consultations with farmers, and noted that these were pushed through amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollback“We are not against reforms but current laws must be immediately repealed and a fresh reform process initiated after consultations with all stakeholders and discussion in Parliament,” Hooda told a press conference. The former chief minister also alleged that the BJP-led Haryana government had lost the trust of the people of the state and of the assembly because it had “mishandled” the farmers’ protests. “I have written to governor demanding immediate convening of the Haryana assembly as the state government has insulted farmers and lost the trust of the people,” he said. Hooda said the Congress would move a no-confidence motion against the Manohar Lal Khattar government of Haryana, citing support extended to the farmers by some legislators. He also said a 2019 Congress manifesto promising abolition of the APMC Act was being misrepresented by the BJP. “We had promised to create procurement centres and mandis in nearby areas for farmers. We did that in Haryana, some even in a village with a small population of 10,000,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-may-meet-prez-kovind-over-farm-stir-today/story-HdFJImEXYeY3oI9ttY68LN.html
09-12-2020||India||Army chief embarks on week-long visit to UAE, Saudi Arabia||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday embarked on a week-long visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, the first ever trip by an army chief to both West Asian states that is expected to significantly boost security ties. This is Naravane’s third foreign tour this year with diplomatic overtones, following his visits to Myanmar along with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in October, and to Nepal in November. “The visit is historic in the sense that it will be the first time an Indian Army chief is visiting the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” the Indian Army said in a statement. The army chief will be in the UAE during December 9-10, and is scheduled to meet senior military officials to discuss ways to enhance India-UAE defence relations, the statement said. He will travel to Saudi Arabia for the second leg of the tour during December 13-14 to take forward the “excellent defence cooperation” between the two countries through multiple meetings with senior functionaries of the security establishment, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-embarks-on-week-long-visit-to-uae-saudi-arabia/story-N3Fl9eDeDLXEr1gS5Vz4eJ.html
09-12-2020||India||After Covid recovery, SC judge urges people to strictly follow norms||About halfway through the day, a bench of three judges in the Supreme Court was reduced to a composition of two. For the third judge, who has recently recovered from Covid-19, was requested to rest by a colleague on the bench. On Tuesday, only after justice Rohinton F Nariman inquired about the health of fellow judge, justice Krishna Murari, those attending the proceedings came to know that the latter had been detected with the viral disease and that it was his first day in court after recovering.“Justice Murari has recovered from a terrible Covid attack. I advised him not to come today as well but he still wanted to sit for some time,” justice Nariman announced in the court. He then addressed justice Murari: “Brother, this matter will go on for long. We can hear it as a two-judge bench matter. You may please take rest. And take care of yourself.” Justice Murari, who looked exhausted after more than an hour of proceedings, accepted the advice and called it a day. This is the first confirmation of a Supreme Court judge having contracted Covid-19. Hindustan Times later spoke to the judge, who said people must not let their guard down since the pandemic is still not over. “I do not interact or meet with too many people. I still do not know how I contracted it. Therefore, I will urge people to never disregard the precautions. Everyone must wear mask, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing,” he said. Justice Murari tested positive on November 19, a day after he felt a sudden weakness while sitting in court. He had mild symptoms, and cough and fever during the illness. “The Supreme Court administration was quick to respond. They made all the arrangements of quarantine etc and provided all the support required. Fellow judges also kept checking on my health and lent their support,” said the judge. Justice Murari, 62, has now been advised to go slow before he undertakes his normal duties. “I feel fatigue and exhaustion when I sit in the court for a long time. I am taking all precautions and I hope to get back to my normal self very soon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-recovery-sc-judge-urges-people-to-strictly-follow-norms/story-BKj4sF38uaP1qcMF4rGD4I.html
09-12-2020||India||60 envoys to visit two Hyderabad vaccine facilities||At least 60 heads of foreign missions are set to visit two Hyderabad-based biotech companies working on Covid-19 vaccines on December 9 as part of India’s efforts to develop partnerships for the manufacturing and delivery of vaccines. The visit by diplomats to the facilities of Bharat Biotech and Biological E will be a follow-up to the November 6 briefing for the diplomatic corps in New Delhi on trials of vaccines underway in the country and efforts to manufacture and deliver the doses, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Tuesday. “More than 60 heads of missions are being taken to leading biotech companies in Hyderabad. This is the first such visit and it will be followed by trips to facilities in other cities,” said one of the people cited above. The people said India has been contributing significantly to global efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic and there is a lot of interest in India’s vaccine development and manufacturing efforts. “India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” the person cited above said. Bharat Biotech recently started phase-III trials for Covaxin, which is India’s first vaccine candidate. Covaxin seems to have been largely safe and significantly triggered the immune response needed to fight off the infection, according to officials. Covaxin was developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology using inactivated Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Biological E’s vaccine candidate is set to start early phases I and II trials. The November 6 briefing, led by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, was attended by envoys and senior members of the diplomatic corps. Niti Aayog member VK Paul, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and other senior officials were part of the briefing. Given India’s position as the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, many countries, especially developing nations, are looking to New Delhi for a helping hand with the doses. Amid the pandemic, India had rushed essential medicines and equipment to many countries in the neighbourhood and in Africa. India is also looking for partners to co-produce vaccines so that they can be manufactured faster and distributed on a larger scale. New Delhi could offer free supply or trial partnerships to South Asian, European, West Asian, African and Latin American countries for the vaccine to ensure they can ramp up their drive to protect their populations from Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-envoys-to-visit-two-hyderabad-vaccine-facilities/story-8ua9XtZlQ2jh36uYTivFGO.html
09-12-2020||India||Priority groups may get vaccine shots at same time, says Centre||The three groups in the government’s coronavirus vaccination priority list may get inoculations simultaneously if there are enough supplies, the Union government said on Tuesday, raising hopes that members of the public above the age of 50 or with significant comorbidities could get access sooner than previously thought.The priority list, which identifies people at most risk, has front line health workers, essential service workers like the police and army, and people above of 50 and those it who have significant comorbidities. “The immunisation process across the groups will not be sequential; it can also happen simultaneously depending upon the availability of vaccine,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, while adding that these were the recommendations from NEGVAC, or the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. The health ministry estimates there are around 10 million health care workers, 20 million frontline workers, and another 270 million people in the last group. Officials at the routine health briefing held on Tuesday also said that India’s apex drug regulator will likely consider the emergency use authorisation (EUA) applications of all three vaccines that have applied, despite the candidate of Bharat Biotech still undergoing large scale Phase 3 clinical trials and the data from the combined Phase 1/2 trials not being public. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe other vaccine candidates that have applied for EUA with the country’s apex drug regulator Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) include the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine by Serum Institute of India (SII) and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine was found to be 95% effective in international trial while the Oxford vaccine showed between 62-90% efficacy. “The Phase 1 and 2 data has been submitted to the regulator,” said the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research Dr Balram Bhargav, refusing to comment on when the data would be made public. Bharat Biotech had partnered with ICMR to develop India’s completely indigenous vaccine candidate Covaxin. According to Bharat Biotech’s filings with the Clinical Trials Registry of India, the first two phases are meant to judge safety and immune response, with Phase 3 being the point where they would check for efficacy – the vaccine’s ability to prevent infections.The Phase 3 trial of the vaccine started in mid-November and volunteers have so far received only one trial dose, with the other to be administered 28 days after the first. So far, 5,000 volunteers of the total 26,000 planned across 25 sites in India have been enrolled, as per the DG ICMR. Efficacy data is measured only 42 days after first shots, which means it will not be available till the end of this month. Bhargava suggested that assessments may be made with more preliminary data.“For temporary licensure, the regulator has to be satisfied with the risk-benefit ratio. In this emergency situation, if the benefit is more than the risk clearly then it may be considered for approval. From phase I and II trial, we get the safety and immunogenecity data, which is available for several months for certain studies. As for efficacy, the WHO says if it is more than 50% it can be used. The phase III data available for other vaccines is for a very small number of people,” said Bhargava.Also Read: Pfizer vaccine moves closer to getting the OK in USThere are currently nine vaccine candidates in advanced pre-clinical or human trials in India, Bhushan said. “India’s regulatory framework has a specific provision for EUA, without the particular phrase being used. The new drugs and clinical trial rules mentions that under specific special situations relaxation, abbreviation, omission, deferment of data including local clinical trial data may be considered for approval,” he said. Bhushan also gave details about vaccine logistics, saying the government has created a digital network called CoWIN, which will help register those eligible for a vaccine, tracking those vaccinated, creating a schedule, and monitoring the availability of resources on a real-time basis. The platform comes with an app that can be used by people for registering themselves for a Covid-19 vaccine. For the first phase of vaccination, states have already started collecting details of health care workers who will be the first to be administered the vaccine once it becomes available. A detailed list is being uploaded to CoWIN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priority-groups-may-get-vaccine-shots-at-same-time-says-centre/story-vGsNjqhQdjGzWEkQGHkvJN.html
09-12-2020||India||Mount Everest ‘grows’ as China, Nepal agree on new height||Mount Everest, the world’s tallest peak, is 8,848.86m (2,9031.69 ft) tall, China and Nepal jointly announced on Tuesday — 86cm higher than the measurement previously recognised by Nepal, and over four metres above China’s figure. Nepal until now had recognised the height of the mountain as 8,848m as measured by the Survey of India in 1954. Chinese President Xi Jinping and his Nepalese counterpart Bidya Devi Bhandari announced the new height of the tallest mountain in the world through an exchange of letters. It marked the end of a debate between Beijing and Kathmandu over a “three-metre” height difference they had on the mountain’s height.Also Read: Climate scientists turn Mount Everest into a lab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mount-everest-grows-as-china-nepal-agree-on-new-height/story-aNsadIymz0MR9NZSEbMa3J.html
09-12-2020||India||Shops, transport take a hit as Bharat Bandh impacts states||A nationwide shutdown strike called by 35 farmers’ groups against three contentious agricultural laws was largely peaceful on Tuesday even as shops and businesses were closed and transport was affected in some parts of the country where demonstrators put up road blockades and squatted on railway tracks.The maximum impact of Bharat Bandh was felt in Punjab and Haryana, the epicentre of the ongoing protests by cultivators who are demanding the repeal of the laws aimed at the liberalising farm trade. Western Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, too, felt the impact of the strike observed between 11am and 3pm.The impact was moderate in states such as Bihar, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, among others, and negligible in northeastern states — except Assam — and Goa.The Bharat Bandh was successful and the central government now knows it doesn’t have a way out, a farmers’ leader, Gurnam Singh Chadhuni, said at the Singhu border connecting Delhi and Haryana. It is one of the key entry points to the national capital and has been blocked since farmers reached the borders on November 27 to press their demands. Also Read: No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollbackThe shutdown was observed in around 10,000 places in 25 states, said Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav. “Fisher folk, railway workers, trade unions and artists are among many organisations who have supported us,” he added.The agricultural laws passed in September allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called mandi system controlled by the government, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs) and would leave them at the mercy of private buyers.Left leaders said the Opposition had taken a conscious decision to stay away from protest sites, even though most of them extended support to the bandh call. Farmers’ leaders, who are in talks with the Centre and say they demand nothing short of repeal of the legislation, had called for an apolitical protest.“It is a conscious decision on our part to stay away from the protest sites. The farmer groups themselves also told us that they would want it this way. So, we have no party banners at the protest sites.“However, our MPs are there, as parliamentarians, to show solidarity. We do not want to politicise the issue. It’s not just the Left parties, but all opposition has taken this call that except MPs, no leader will join the farmers,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury.Nevertheless, workers of political rivals of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) joined the protests in several states. The police detained protesting leaders in several states, including Gujarat Congress leader Paresh Dhanani and Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad.In Punjab and Haryana, farmers blocked national highways and other key roads at many places. Shops and commercial establishments remained closed at most places in Punjab and several places in Haryana as traders backed the agitating farmers.Also Read: Bharat Bandh largely peaceful in borders, crowd swells at protest sitesPublic and private transport services were shut in Punjab. In Haryana, inter-state and intra-state bus services were disrupted.Over 50,000 government employees took mass casual leave in support of farmers, said Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira.Agitators blocked several key roads, including Chandigarh-Delhi, Amritsar-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi and Bhiwani-Delhi national highways. They parked tractors, trucks and other vehicles in the middle of the carriageways.In West Bengal, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee has supported the farmers, local train services were impacted in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly districts due to the demonstrations.Supporters of the Congress and Left parties blocked railway tracks at several places and held demonstrations on roads to enforce the shutdown. The bandh partially affected the state with private vehicles remaining off the roads, while fewer public transport vehicles, including buses and taxis, were in service.Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel chased away Left workers at Howrah station when they blocked the entrance. Congress workers in Kolkata and other districts forced shops and petrol pumps to shut in some areas. In Jaipur, a clash broke out between National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) members and BJP Yuva Morcha workers outside a BJP office. Agriculture markets remained closed and public transport remained off the roads in Rajasthan on Tuesday, just like in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh.In Uttar Pradesh, the bandh called by farmer unions drew a mixed response with shops and offices remaining largely open, while the Samajwadi Party (SP) held protests in a number of districts and blocked a train in Allahabad.SP leaders sat on a silent protest near the statue of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh at the Vidhan Bhavan in Lucknow. SP members of the legislative council Rajpal Kashyap, Sunil Singh Sajan, Anand Bhadauria and Ashu Malik were part of it.Also Read: AAP says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal put under house arrest; BJP, police refute claimHowever, life in state capital remained mostly unaffected with district magistrate Abhishek Prakash saying that attendance in offices was absolutely normal.In Bihar’s Jehanabad, the movement of the Patna-Palamu Express was obstructed for a few minutes until the bandh supporters, squatting on the tracks, were chased away by the police.Train services were also affected in Odisha as activists of farmers’ organisations, trade unions and political parties held sit-ins on tracks in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Bhadrak and Balasore.Elsewhere in the state, ruled by the Biju Janata Dal, normal life was hit with markets and offices shut and Congress and Left supporters blocking major roads. Major cities in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh were deserted with most business establishments closed and public transport keeping away.In Maharashtra, where the ruling Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party-Congress combine extended its support, wholesale markets in major cities such as Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad were shut. Retail shops also downed shutters in many cities. Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) were closed in many parts of the state.In Assam, shops pulled down shutters, protesters blocked traffic and demonstrations were staged but most offices were functioning. Dozens of protesters were detained, officials said.The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and opposition parties, including the Congress and various unions, held protests across Telangana. In Tamil Nadu, the opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and its allies, including the Congress, held protests across the state but life was mostly unaffected. In the union territory of Puducherry, ruled by the Congress, however, the bandh call evoked a good response.The bandh evoked a mixed response in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh. In Gwalior district, police used water cannons to disperse agitators who were led by a Congress leader. Shops remained open in several cities even as Congress workers took out rallies appealing shop-keepers to down shutters.Normal life was affected in parts of Karnataka as farmers and workers hit the roads. Many organisations in the state came out in support of the bandh. In some states, including in Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh, life continued unimpeded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-transport-take-a-hit-as-bharat-bandh-impacts-states/story-HL8dkTQpfxjJ5czM2nnkzK.html
09-12-2020||India||No headway as farmers tell Amit Shah they want full rollback||Union home minister Amit Shah met a group of 14 leaders of the agricultural community in the Capital on Tuesday evening, but their informal negotiations a day ahead of crucial delegation-level talks between the government and farm unions to resolve the ongoing farmers’ agitation failed to reach a breakthrough. At the meeting at the state-run Indian Council of Agriculture Research’s (ICAR) Pusa Complex, Shah said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar would present a concrete proposal in Wednesday’s talks and propose key amendments in the contentious agricultural laws that have triggered protests, according to farmers’ leaders who reiterated that their only demand is the scrapping of the legislation that liberalise farm trade.“We have rejected the proposal. And we will now discuss amongst ourselves whether to go ahead with tomorrow’s (Wednesday’s) talks...what’s the point?” said Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, signalling the uncertainty surrounding the future of the dialogue process.Also Read: Protesting farmers forced to take shower at odd hours, women stand in long queues to use toiletsFarmers’ leaders said a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella platform under which various farm unions are spearheading the protests at Delhi’s borders, will hold a meeting at 10am Wednesday to decide their course of action.In Wednesday’s meeting, Shah said the government would propose amendments related to a fee structure in notified agriculture produce market committees (APMCs), stricter provisions to safeguard farmers’ land rights, strengthening of notified markets, and a guarantee on minimum support prices (MSPs), according to Hanan Mollah of the Kisan Sabha.There was no official word from the government on what transpired at the talks.Wednesday’s meeting, if it takes place, will be the sixth time the two sides will be holding talks over farmers’ demand of scrapping the three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their incomes and benefit large corporations. Farmers on Tuesday enforced a national shutdown from 11am to 3pm, which was peaceful. At least two farmers invited to talks with Shah said before the meeting they expected the government to offer concessions, such as amendments to the three laws, but said they would accept nothing short of a repeal of the laws.Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, a farmer union leader, said before heading into the huddle that farmers would repeat their demand to withdraw the laws.“The government is expected to suggest amendments. Our stand is that we want the laws withdrawn,” he said. “One of the issues we will raise before the home minister is the arrest of several farmers in and around Delhi, including Karol Bagh,” he added. Also Read: Farmers today are much better informed, says Congress leader Kamal NathTens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, are protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws by camping on Delhi’s borders. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months. The government pushed the three laws in September to deregulate farm markets and permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which officials say will spur investments in supply chains. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana depend heavily on decades-old tightly regulated markets to sell staples at assured prices to the government.Farmers say government-controlled notified markets will collapse due to competition from deregulated markets under the new laws, as trade in the latter will be free of any fees or service charges. Since free markets, which could even be a farmer’s doorstep or a warehouse under the new laws, don’t have any applicable fees for trading, farmers feel traders will abandon traditional markets. Large traders and intermediaries control these markets and exert influence over farmers. They buy their produce and often provide credit to farmers, creating dependencies. “The government is likely to present a plan spelling out specific measures to strengthen notified markets, such a fee structure so that both new free markets and notified markets can co-exist in a true competitive spirit,” an official said. Rakesh Tikait, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait faction, a farmers’ union, said: “Efforts to resolve the farmers’ protests are going on. Our bandh today has been successful and peaceful.” Although previous rounds of discussions led by agriculture minister Tomar have showed no signs of ending the impasse, the home minister has been informally talking to farmers’ representatives to facilitate a solution. The third round of talks was facilitated by several rounds of phone conversations between Shah and key farm union leaders, which took place on December 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-headway-as-farmers-tell-amit-shah-they-want-full-rollback/story-lloUKJonCsGpvRc2hqSanL.html
09-12-2020||India||GoM bats for Universal National Social Profile||India should create a Universal National Social Profile in order to have a more immediate and thorough record of people entitled to government benefits, a group of ministers (GoM) looking into e-governance and e-education has said, suggesting the information also include details about people’s families.The suggestions are part of a report by the GoM and details ways in which delivery of services and benefits through digital means can be overhauled, identifying 12 specific strategies such as creating a unified data system for all government offices, ensuring personal records are digital from when a person is born and improving digital literacy as well as infrastructure in order to ensure these reach to every corner of the country. The report, which also includes suggestions on improving e-education, was seen by HT. “A Universal National Social Profile capturing individual and family benefits may be created and updated on a real-time basis. This would help in minimizing inclusion /exclusion errors... This should enable a holistic assessment of the requirement for assistance from the government based on the family/individual’s real-time situation and have the feature of national portability of entitlements,” according to the report, which adds that such a measure would “improve the present arrangement where such information is available through SECC data collected once in 10 years”. The GoM is headed by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan with Arjun Ram Meghwal as coordinator and Rao Inderjit Singh and Sanjay Dhotre as the other members. Their report also suggested creation of a multidimensional, secure, real-time, geo-tagged, robust, and accessible unified data system for all interactions that a citizen makes with the different levels of governments.They pitched for simplification of government procedures so that they can get services from anywhere in the country or the world. This simplification can be done by creating a single sign-in facility, ensuring that any office can serve functions of any other government office location, setting up a proactive platform that will present citizens with options for services and benefits and unify certifications.“The number of available services and the number of services that need to be made available through e-governance may be first identified. Then action needs to be taken accordingly. National Digital Platforms may be developed in line with National Digital Health Mission for various domains,” the report said. The report also suggested strengthening information and providing affordable access to the Internet as a pre-requisite for going entirely towards digital services. The report notes that there are rural areas with connectivity issues and has suggested last mile connectivity through innovative technologies.“The privacy issue should be appropriately addressed even as every effort is made for transparent and efficient implementation of government schemes with fidelity. Citizens should have control over their data. They should be able to decide what they would like to share voluntarily. Suitable precautions should be taken so that both ends are achieved,” the panel has recommended. “Any model of e-governance should act as an enabler and facilitator in addressing public interest. With regard to issues concerning personal records and personal data it should align with the architecture as defined in various judicial pronouncements, particularly the SC judgement of Nov 2019, SC vs Subhash Agarwal, as also private data protection bill under consideration,” said former Union secretary Bimal Julka who also served as the chief information commissioner.Eminent expert Nilanjan Sircar said while e-governance improved services, it was important that the data is anonymised to prevent any misuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-bats-for-universal-national-social-profile/story-dFIzkG7Obc5XOuz00EoYbI.html
09-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Regular readers of this column are aware that my reading of scientific journals and papers increased significantly (actually went from 0 to 60 in under 10 seconds, to borrow a metaphor from the automobile business) during the coronavirus disease pandemic.With a handful of vaccines for Covid-19 clearing Phase 3 trials; the vaccination of the general population in the UK beginning on Tuesday; and an indigenously developed vaccine applying for emergency use authorisation (on the basis of Phase 1/2 data, but more on this shortly), I was reminded of a May article in the British Journal of Pharmacology that claimed that identifying a drug or drugs to treat the coronavirus disease would take less time than the 12-18 months it would take to develop a vaccine. It has been a year and 10 days between the first published account of the strange illness in Wuhan, China, and the administration of a vaccine that has cleared Phase 3 trials to a member of the general population, so the authors of that article got that right. But they got the drugs bit completely wrong.A clutch of antiretrovirals that initially showed promise do not work. Nor does hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). Remdesivir mostly does not work. Ditto with most autoimmune therapies. And plasma therapy, too, does not seem effective in most cases. Monoclonal antibodies may work, but the treatment is expensive. Indeed, the only drugs that have been conclusively proven to work in the treatment of Covid-19 are steroids such as dexamethasone. That does beg the question as to why hospitals are continuing to treat people with some of these (expensive) drugs and therapies, but I shall move on in the spirit of caveat emptor and all that...Still, it is surprising that we now have not one or two, but a bouquet of successful vaccines that can prevent Covid-19, but just one drug that can treat it.Also Read: Oxford University-AstraZeneca first to publish final-stage Covid-19 vaccine trial resultsThen there are the promising vaccine candidates, among them, Covaxin, Bharat Biotech’s Made in India one that applied for emergency use approval on Monday. I’m a little surprised by the application for regulatory approval. The company started its Phase 3 trials on November 11. According to available information, the trial involves injecting people with two doses of the vaccine or a placebo at a 28-day interval and then waiting for 14 days to test for efficacy. That would mean that even interim data from the Phase 3 trials will become available only in late December. It also suggests that the regulatory approval is being asked for on the basis of the unpublished (so far) Phase 1/2 data. If the company wanted to apply for emergency use approval on the basis of this, it could have done so at any time and it is not clear why it has waited till now.To be sure, the very fact that the company has moved from the combined Phase 1/2 to Phase 3 trials, and that these were approved by the drug regulator, suggests that the results of Phase 1/2 were successful, that the vaccine provoked an immune response in the small sample of people tested. But as much as I’d love to see a local vaccine become available soon — the benefits of this are huge — it is important that due process is followed. The developer, and its partner, the Indian Council of Medical Research, must release the Phase 1/2 data. And the drugs regulator may do well to wait for at least interim data from the Phase 3 trials before approving the vaccine.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMore a digression than a post script: My colleague and the person who has edited more of these columns than anyone else in the newsroom used to be one of the country’s top sports journalists. His usual feedback on my column is along two dimensions. One, on the quality of the column itself, and whether, in his opinion, it has covered fresh ground (getting tougher as the number keeps increasing, I can tell you). And two, on the cricketing significance of the number — he started doing this after Dispatch crossed the 100 mark. But even I know the significance of 221 (today’s number): it was Sunil Gavaskar’s epic double century in an unsuccessful fourth innings chase of 438 (needed in 445 minutes and 20 mandatory overs) at The Oval. The match was eventually drawn, with India falling nine runs short, and with two wickets in hand. Many consider it Gavaskar’s finest innings ever. Some believe the match saw India’s best chase ever. It also challenged the limits of possibility. Just as vaccine development has.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-Jy86m5rY4gOZ7ANzpBBdsL.html
09-12-2020||India||Deepak Kochhar tweaked firm’s books, says Enforcement Directorate||Soon after ICICI Bank Limited launched an internal investigation against its then managing director Chanda Kochhar in August 2016, her husband Deepak Kochhar tweaked his company’s books to show that Rs 64 crore received from Videocon Group was a genuine business transaction and that he intended to return the money, according to a charge sheet filed by Enforcement Directorate (ED).The charge sheet was filed on November 3 this year, but these details are just emerging. According to ED, on August 18, 2016, when the internal inquiry was initiated by ICICI Bank into allegations against Chanda Kochhar for improper grant of loans extended to companies affiliated with Videocon Industries Ltd (VIL) and its promoter Venugopal Dhoot in return for quid pro quo investments in Deepak Kochhar’s company NuPower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL), “accounting entries in the books of Supreme Energy Pvt Ltd (SEPL) were made to give an appearance of genuineness to the transaction”. SEPL is also controlled by Deepak Kochhar and was used for transfer of the money, believed by ED to be a kickback, in 2009 from Videocon to NRPL, according to ED. A provision of Rs 32 lakh against redemption premium was created in the balance sheet of FY2016-17, to project the proceeds of crime as genuine transaction and “to project that SEPL intended to return funds”. “…Had it been a genuine transaction between SEPL and VIL, the provisioning would have been done in 2009 itself. But the provisioning was created (that too of an amount of Rs 32 lakh only) first time in FY2016-17 by SEPL,” according to the ED charge sheet, which has been reviewed by HT. ED says that when ICICI Bank forwarded a press release to the Bombay Stock Exchange on March 28, 2018 ,putting its weight behind Chanda Kochhar, “being assured that ICICI has closed the matter and no enquiry or action is pending, the provisioning (of Rs 32 lakh) was reversed by SEPL in FY2017-18.” According to ED, there was never any intention (on the part of either NRPL or SEPL) to repay Rs 64 crore to Videocon but this change in the account books was part of a conspiracy of reviving a broken link for returning the funds. The post-enquiry irregularities didn’t stop there, according to the agency. The charge sheet says that Real Cleantech Private Ltd (RCPL), a company of the Videocon Group, through which Rs 64 crore came to NRPL, was allowed a slow death i.e. it was struck off by Registrar of Companies (RoC) in 2018 due to non-filing of records. However, a day after Justice (retd) B N Srikrishna interviewed Deepak Kochhar on January 2, 2019 for the enquiry entrusted to him by ICICI Bank, Dhoot filed an application in RoC Mumbai for revival of RCPL and subsequently Deepak Kochhar shared the application document with justice Srikrishna. ED said the revival of a company struck off by RoC can only be sought from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Only after a formal investigation was initiated both by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in January 2019 did Dhoot apply to the NCLT for revival of RCPL in February 2019. The company was ultimately revived in September that year. Kochhar’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “Only the label is different in the complaint filed by the prosecution before the special judge PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act). It is verbatim same as that filed before the adjudicating authority, wherein vide detailed 800 pages order, all their allegations have been held to be baseless. So, this old wine in new bottle is not fit for drinking.” Dhoot could not be reached for comment.In March 2018, the board of ICICI Bank gave a clean chit to Chanda Kochhar and said there was no question of favouritism, nepotism or conflict of interest on her part in granting loans to Videocon or any other company. In October the same year, she resigned from the bank, with which it had been associated for 34 years, Months later, the bank sacked her, deciding to treat her resignation as termination, after the Srikrishna panel found that she violated the bank’s policies and other rules and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deepak-kochhar-tweaked-firm-s-books-says-ed/story-fiyHvK4JqWXAkO1AlOi7XJ.html
09-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir: Talks between Amit Shah, farmer leaders fail to make breakthrough||Talks between Home Minister Amit Shah and a select group of farmers’ representatives failed to make any breakthrough on Tuesday night with the union leaders insisting on their demand for repeal of three new laws and rejecting the government’s proposal for amendments.Some leaders also threatened that they will boycott the scheduled sixth round of talks with the government on Wednesday at Vigyan Bhawan here, while others said their next course of action will depend on what amendments the government assures in writing, which they claimed was promised by Shah in today’s meeting.Another leader said, “There is no chance of tomorrow’s meeting. Whatever they have decided to give in writing we won’t accept those amendments as we want complete repeal of the laws. There is no question of meeting again.” However, a few leaders who attended the meeting with Shah appeared to be in favour of necessary amendments and assurances on the minimum support price (MSP) regime and the mandi system rather than a complete repeal of the laws enacted in September, indicating some kind of divisions among the unions.Also Read| Farmers’ protest: Confusion over meeting venue, Amit Shah meets farmers at ICARAfter the meeting which ended around midnight, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary and CPI(M) leader Hannan Mollah said, “The home minister has made it clear that the government will not repeal the laws. Shah-ji said the government will give tomorrow in writing the amendments which the government is keen to. We will decide about attending the meeting after discussing the written amendments with all 40 farmer unions.” At the same time, he also added, “We don’t want amendments, we want repeal of laws. There is no middle path. We will not attend tomorrow’s meeting.” Mollah said a final decision on attending the sixth round of talks will be taken at a meeting of union leaders Wednesday noon at Singhu border, where thousands of farmers have been camping for the last 12 days demanding the repeal of the laws.After the fifth round of talks on Saturday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the next meeting had been scheduled for 11 am on December 9.Tomar, Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash, who have been leading the government’s consultations with the agitating farmers, were present at the meeting Shah had with the 13 farmer leaders at National Agricultural Science Complex, Pusa.Also Read: ‘Bharat Bandh’ ends peacefully, life hit in some states as farmers take national centre stageFarmer leaders have claimed that the laws will benefit corporates and end the mandi system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime.The government has maintained that it is committed to the welfare of farmers and have presented these laws as major reforms for their benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-not-ready-to-repeal-farm-laws-say-farmer-leaders-after-meet-with-home-minister-amit-shah/story-NUcC0kRwvPA7xvu76Hs55J.html
09-12-2020||India||Neurotoxins suspected to have triggered mysterious disease in AP’s Eluru||The mysterious disease that claimed one life and led to the hospitalisation of more than 500 people with complaints of epilepsy, convulsions, seizures and giddiness in Andhra Pradesh’s coastal town of Eluru was a case of “neuro-toxicity” caused by heavy metals like lead and nickel, a preliminary study by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri has found.The AIIMS authorities submitted a preliminary report to the state medical and health department on Monday night. The authorities have called for some more tests to corroborate the report. “We have tentatively identified the primary cause of this strange phenomenon, but it is not yet clear what its source is and how and why it has happened. For instance, the chemicals were found in the bodies of the patients but not in either water or any other food substance,” state health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar, who has been monitoring the situation in Eluru, told Hindustan Times. A three-member expert team from the Centre led by AIIMS emergency health care head Dr Jamshed Nair, National Institute of Virology expert Dr Avinash Devashtawar and NDCC deputy director Dr Sanketh Kulakarni is expected to reach Eluru in the evening to assess the situation. “We are hoping to get a clear picture of the situation in a day or two as experts are probing all angles to find out the root cause of the disease,” Bhaskar said. He clarified that the mysterious disease was neither a bacterial or viral infection nor a contagious disease. “It is a sudden onset of symptoms of convulsions and epilepsy which could be treated symptomatically,” he said. Officials of sanitation wing, food safety division and drinking water supply department of Eluru municipality have been collecting samples from various localities like South Street, North Street, West Street, Arundhatipet and Ashok Nagar areas to find out whether they have any contamination. There is panic in these localities which lack basic sanitation facilities – the narrow lanes are stinking with open drains and garbage dumps but people are hardly bothered about the conditions. “Every house has a drinking water connection, but you can notice drinking water pipelines are passing through sewerage lines. There is no elected body for municipality and so, no official pays any attention to these problems,” said Chode Venkata Ratnam, former deputy mayor of Eluru municipal corporation. Sai Ram (18) from South Street, who had undergone treatment in the government hospital for two days, said he did not know what happened to him all of a sudden. “I was playing with my friends in my backyard when I suddenly collapsed and developed fits. I never had this problem before,” he said. A 20-year old woman Sai Laxmi, who was rushed to the government hospital on Tuesday morning from the same South Street, was also very healthy till she developed these strange symptoms. “This happened despite taking all precautions,” her mother Padma said. Another victim – Rama Krishna (25), a physically challenged man, returned home after treatment, but the symptoms continue to surface now and then. “He had an epilepsy problem in the past and it has recurred now,” his mother C V L Appayamma said. The teams of World Health Organisation and that of AIIMS, Mangalagiri, are also touring the affected areas to get firsthand information about the conditions of the patients. As on Tuesday afternoon, as many as 505 cases have been reported from different parts of the town. “Of them, 332 were discharged after treatment,” hospital authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neurotoxins-suspected-to-have-triggered-mysterious-disease-in-ap-s-eluru/story-VnNyfUwJVKKrTh3D0OpMgM.html
