10-12-2020||India||Centre asks civil defence, fire services, home guards to prepare list of personnel for Covid vaccination||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Thursday held a meeting with police chiefs of all the states and union territories, Civil Defence, home guards and fire services to discuss the preparation of database of personnel who would be in line to for Covid-19 vaccination after the prioritised groups, people familiar with the development said. The meeting, they said, was follow up of a meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba last week, in which he had asked states and union territories to prepare the database of priotorised groups such as health workers, the elderly and patients with comorbidities among others who will receive the Covid-19 vaccine during initial stages. It was decided in the meeting that the ministry of home affairs (MHA), in consultation with the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), health ministry and states/UTs will decide the definition of frontline workers. Police/security personnel are also engaged in various Covid-19 related duties and government is considering vaccinating them after health workers, patients with co-morbidities and the elderly. Senior officials in ministry of home affairs (MHA) said the home secretary has asked police forces, fire services, home guard and Civil Defence to prepare the list of personnel from their respective departments who are deployed in Covid-19 frontline duties. They said that the central paramilitary forces were asked for such a list in respective forces in a separate meeting recently. According to MHA officials cited above, Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) or central paramilitary forces – including Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indo-Tibet Police Force (ITBP), (Central Industrial Security Force), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) will play a key role in the vaccination. The series of meetings on vaccination drive have accelerated after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to three facilities in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of Covid-19 vaccines. Three vaccine candidates, including that of Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech, have applied for emergency use authorization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-civil-defence-fire-services-home-guards-to-prepare-list-of-personnel-for-covid-vaccination/story-B9zvE0iEj26Y2bENtegaAM.html
10-12-2020||India||Manipur CM Biren Singh inaugurates 100-bed Covid centre||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Thursday inaugurated a new 100-bedded Covid Block having 10 Intensive Care Units (ICU) at the state run Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) in Imphal East district.Speaking on the occasion, CM Biren, who is a Covid survivor, urged professionals in the medical field to work with dedication in curbing the pandemic. Stating that the government and the people do understand that medical professionals are working tirelessly in fighting the pandemic, the CM assured that their grievances and demands would be looked into. He however added that it is the time to concentrate on tackling the virus because the whole world is facing a situation similar to wartime.Later in a tweet, CM Biren said, “100-bedded Dedicated COVID Block at JNIMS inaugurated today and handed over to the people and the medical professionals who are leading from the front in the fight against #COVID19 pandemic.”Manipur has a total of 2,759 Covid beds.As of today, the cumulative number of positive cases is 26,685 while the numbers of active and recovered cases stands at 2,970 and 23,397, respectively, officials said. The cumulative number of deaths is 318 while the recovery rate is 87.67 percent.Advisor to chief minister (Health) Dr Sapam Ranjan, Chief Secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar, Principal Secretary (Health) V Vumlunmang, Director (Health Services) Dr K Rajo, Director (JNIMS) Dr Th Bhimo and Medical Superintendent (JNIMS) Prof Kh Lokeshore were also present at the day’s event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-biren-singh-inaugurates-100-bed-covid-centre/story-gb5juiolEGc85A6UItCRDI.html
10-12-2020||India||2 arrested for beating Dalit man to death for touching their food in MP||The Madhya Pradesh police have arrested two persons on Thursday for allegedly killing a Dalit man for touching their food earlier this week.The accused arrested include Santosh Pal, 25, and Lavkush Soni alias Bhura, 30, both residents of Kisunpur village in Chhatarpur district, 344 km north of Bhopal.Police also seized the lathis used in the crime and also a motorbike. Bhura Soni is already facing criminal charges regarding murder, possession of illegal arms, etc, as per FIRs lodged with Gaurihar police station, said police in the statement. As per the first information report (FIR) lodged with Gaurihar police station on Tuesday, the accused invited Devraj Anuragi, who belonged to Kisunpur village, for a party in a nearby field. After he returned home two hours later he told his family members that he was beaten up by the two as he had touched their food. Few minutes later he complained of chest pain and died. Brother of the deceased Ramnaresh said, “My brother was having food at home when the accused Santosh Pal came to our residence and took my brother with him. Later Bhura Soni, his cousin Rohit Soni and another person of the village joined Pal. They took my brother to the nearby jungle where they beat him up as was seen by some of our relatives. Santosh Pal talked to me over the phone and asked me to take my brother home and not to report anything to the police. I brought my brother home. He was alive for hardly 15 minutes.” As per the official release, “Devraj Anuragi died due to injuries sustained in the attack on him. An FIR against the two accused was lodged under sections 302 and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 3(2)V of The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of atrocities) Act. A team of police personnel arrested the accused from near Thakurra village.” (With input from Anupam Pateriya in Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-for-beating-dalit-man-to-death-for-touching-their-food-in-mp/story-SUDAsrpuu8gzBDJnSFndQI.html
10-12-2020||India||Following India protests closely, says UK after Boris Johnson gaffe||The UK Foreign Office is closely following the protests by farmers in India, a government spokesperson said on Thursday as it clarified that Prime Minister Boris Johnson had “clearly misheard” a question in Parliament when he responded with Britain’s stance on the India-Pakistan dispute instead. The gaffe occurred during the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions (PMQs) session in the House of Commons on Wednesday, when Johnson reiterated that any dispute between India and Pakistan was for the two countries to settle bilaterally in response to a question by Opposition Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi about conveying British Sikh “anxieties” over the ongoing protests against agricultural reforms in India. A UK government spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister clearly misheard the question in Parliament. The Foreign Office are following the issue of protests in India closely”. Dhesi, who has been very vocal on the protests by farmers against India’s agricultural reforms, had raised the issue of the footage of “water cannons, teargas and brute force” being used against the peaceful protesters. “So, will the Prime Minister (Johnson) convey to the Indian Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) our heartfelt anxieties, our hopes for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock and does he agree that everyone has a fundamental right to peaceful protest,” he questioned Johnson. The British Prime Minister, in his brief response, seemed to be addressing the Kashmir dispute instead. “Our view is that of course we have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan but these are pre-eminently matters for those two governments to settle and I know that he appreciates that point,” said Johnson. A perplexed Dhesi took to social media immediately to brand Johnson as “absolutely clueless” and was joined by scores of fellow Labour politicians and others in expressing shock at the gaffe. “The incompetence from this government continues. The foreign secretary Dominic Raab has failed to brief the PM on one of the largest protests the world has seen,” said fellow British Sikh Labour MP Preet Kaur Gill. “It would seem our Prime Minister (and former Foreign Secretary) doesn’t know the difference between Punjab and Kashmir. Why are we not surprised,” added Emily Thornberry, Labour MP and former shadow foreign secretary. The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) has refused to be drawn into British politicians’ representations seeking UK government intervention in the matter, stating that “the police handling of protests are a matter for the government of India”. Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the government but the logjam continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/following-india-protests-closely-says-uk-after-boris-johnson-gaffe/story-FgwMDRntRLOVcT6t8TLJKN.html
10-12-2020||India||Odisha job scam gets bigger, investigators suspect 100 youths were cheated||The Tata Motors job scam which led to the arrest of former BJD MLA Pradeep Panigrahy seems to be getting bigger with the Odisha CID estimating that at least 100 youths in Ganjam district were defrauded of anything between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh for a job at the company.Last week, the CID had arrested former BJD minister Pradeep Panigrahy on several criminal charges including defrauding jobless youths of lakhs of rupees by promising them with jobs at Tata Motors. A week before that, vigilance officials had got the wind of the massive job scam after they arrested Abhay Pathak, a 1987-batch Indian Forest Service officer and his son Akash Pathak, a 25-year-old mechanical engineering graduate from a private engineering college in Bhubaneswar on charges of amassing disproportionate assets. Further interrogations of the Pathak duo by the vigilance officials brought out the extent of the job scam that the junior Pathak had hatched allegedly with Panigrahy.CID sleuths who are investigating the Tata Motors job scam said the junior Pathak spun a web of lies from posing as managing director of Tata Motors ‘passenger division’ to handing out fake joining letters to the youths for the posts of graduate engineer trainees as well as management trainees in the Tata Motors to creating fake LinkedIn profile of himself.His name made it to the police files after Tata Motors lodged a complaint with state CID in May this year about Akash posing as the company’s MD. Tata Motors followed up with another complaint in September. However, there was little action on that till the disproportionate asset case of his father blew up last month.“He may have been a mediocre engineering graduate. But the kind of fraud he has perpetrated upon the youths is unbelievable. While we have seen people posing as IAS or IPS officers, this is the first time we have seen an engineering graduate posing as MD of a BSE-listed company like Tata Motors. From our preliminary assessment, we have found that at least 100 youths paid anything between Rs 5 and 10 lakh for a job in Tata Motors. He is nothing short of Mr Natwarlal,” said a senior CID officer who is probing the case.Officials said with the help of Panigrahy as well as his disgraced father, Akash Pathak started offices of “Tata Motors” in Mumbai, Pune as well as one from his father’s official quarters in Bhubaneswar. Apart from floating advertisements on job portals for recruitment in Tata Motors passengers division, he conducted interviews of candidates online. He even appointed a personal assistant to help him out in airline bookings and answering his mails. He had also hired bouncers from Mumbai.David Peter, who worked as his personal assistant from November 2019, revealed how a person in Ganjam used to coordinate the recruitment till Pathak himself took interviews through Zoom app during the Covid pandemic. “Before the pandemic, he used to make a list of job aspirants and call them up for a meeting at the office. The candidates who were selected for the post of management trainees were promised annual CTC of Rs 11 lakh while the graduate engineering trainees Rs 6 lakh. For a moment I never doubted that he was not MD of Tata Motors as he used to fly to Delhi, Mumbai and Pune and stay in the swankiest hotels of the country,” Peter told his CID during questioning.During the lockdown when regular commercial flights were not allowed, Pathak along with his father Abhay Pathak as well as his prospective father-in-law Panigrahy took 14 chartered flights to various cities in the country. He also stayed in star hotels at least 15 times this year with room rents going beyond Rs 2.3 lakh per day. Posing as Tata Motors MD, he even donated Rs 5 lakh to the Chief Minister’s relief fund.The Bhubaneswar police have lodged a case against the Pathak father-son duo for not paying Rs 65 lakh to a city-based travel agency that booked their chartered flights, five star hotels and air tickets. The agency had billed them Rs 2.78 crore, but has so far been paid Rs 2.13 crore. When the agency asked them for the rest of the money, they were threatened.Vigilance officials who investigated the disproportionate assets of Abhay Pathak, said around Rs 17 crore was transacted through his son’s account over the past year and at one instance cash of Rs 1 crore was deposited through ATM. Investigators who are still tying up the loose ends of the case say that Panigrahy’s money as well as the senior Pathak’s money was being deposited in Akash Pathak’s account.While his can of worms are spilling out, officials said Pathak is still adamant over his claim being Tata Motors MD. “He is still claiming that he is Tata Motors MD and can prove it. He was just an engineering graduate who could not have even managed to become a senior engineer in Tata Motors in 2 years time. We may have to do his psycho-analysis,” said an official. The father and son duo who were arrested on November 27, continue to be in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-job-scam-gets-bigger-investigators-suspect-100-youths-were-cheated/story-hPCesKiLIMaBiry3YCR2fL.html
10-12-2020||India||India, Qatar agree on institutionalising measures to promote, protect workers’ rights||India and Qatar have agreed on institutionalising measures to promote and protect the rights of workers, including settlement of labour issues and facilitate the movement of people between the two countries, in a safe and secure manner.This was agreed upon during the Sixth Meeting of India-Qatar Joint Committee on Labour and Manpower Development held virtually on Wednesday, according to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs.The Indian delegation was led by Abbagani Ramu, Joint Secretary (OIA-I), Ministry of External Affairs and the Qatari delegation was led by Mohammed Hassan Alobaidly, Assistant Undersecretary for Labour Affairs, Ministry of Administrative Development, Labor and Social Affairs, State of Qatar.The meeting provided an opportunity to discuss and review the entire gamut of labour and manpower cooperation related issues between the two countries, the MEA said.“They welcomed the recent labour reform measures adopted by Qatar. Both sides agreed on institutionalising measures to promote and protect the rights of the workers, including settlement of labour issues and facilitate movement of people between the two countries, in a safe and secure manner,” it added. The meeting took place a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Qatar’s Amir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani’s had a telephonic conversation.During the phone call on Tuesday, Prime Minister Modi and Amir Sheikh Tamim decided to create a special task force to further facilitate investments by the Qatar Investment Authority (QIA) into India.Prime Minister Modi had conveyed his felicitations to the Amir for the forthcoming National Day of Qatar, according to a statement by Prime Minister’s Office.While thanking Prime Minister for the greetings, the Amir had appreciated the enthusiasm with which the Indian community in Qatar participates in the National Day celebrations. He had also conveyed warm greetings to Prime Minister Modi for the recent Diwali festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-qatar-agree-on-institutionalising-measures-to-promote-protect-workers-rights/story-zN7kZcJUQTcXupDyeFKCbP.html
10-12-2020||India||Maharashtra orders probe after jailed activist Gautam Navlakha denied spectacles||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has ordered an inquiry over allegations that activist Gautam Navlakha, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, was denied spectacles sent by his family by jail authorities after his pair was “stolen”, adding that the situation should have been handled more “sensitively”. The move comes two days after the Bombay High Court criticised authorities at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail for refusing to hand over a pair of spectacles to the activist.“Bhima-Koregaon case accused Gautam Navlakha denied spectacles by jail authorities as they refused to accept a parcel sent by his family. I have ordered an inquiry in this matter. I believe this situation should have been handled humanely and such incidents need to be avoided in future,” Deshmukh said.“If the family has sent his spectacles, he should be given those. We need to handle these things more sensitively,” the minister added.The 70-year-old activist is facing charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has alleged that till August 2018, he was a member of the Communist Party of India (Maoist), a banned outfit. He is currently lodged at the Taloja jail.Navlakha’s partner Sahba Hussain had alleged that the activist’s spectacles were stolen inside jail and that prison authorities did not permit a new pair sent by his family.Taking cognisance of the matter, the bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on Tuesday said, “We gather from news reports that Navlakha has lost his spectacles in jail and when his family sent him a new pair, the jail authorities refused to accept them.”“Can this (spectacles) be denied,” the bench asked. “These are human considerations. Humanity is most important, everything else will follow subsequently,” the court said.The high court also emphasised on the need to sensitise the prison staff by holding workshops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-orders-probe-after-jailed-activist-gautam-navlakha-denied-spectacles/story-60j5c6s5mlxzF1wcgmn3FN.html
10-12-2020||India||Centre trying to thrust black laws like it imposed demonetization, GST: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday slammed the BJP-led Centre, accusing it of trying to thrust the “black laws” upon farmers the way it “imposed” demonetization and GST in the past. Badal also hit out at the central government for allegedly trying to project the protesting farmers as “anti-national” and demanded that the Centre repeal the new farm laws. “Farmers want these laws should be repealed. If farmers do not want these laws, why are you forcing upon them?” he asked. “This policy of forcing upon like earlier they (Centre) forced upon demonetization and GST (goods and services tax), and now they want whatever decision they make while sitting in offices should be implemented forcibly,” Badal told the media on Thursday evening. “This is a democratic country. If farmers do not want it (laws). You have seen all the farmers’ organizations have joined hands. Bharat Bandh was observed. Farmers do not want these laws and then why they are keeping it (laws). I do not understand it,” the SAD chief said. He alleged that it has become the attitude of the government to “confront and suppress” the voice. “You cannot suppress (voice) in a democracy. They are our countrymen,” he said. “It is bad that the Centre is trying to project farmers as anti-national. If you are saying they are anti-national then why did you hold meetings with them. Because now your meeting has failed, you termed them anti-national,” he alleged. “It has been an attempt of the central government that whosoever does not agree with it, be it a political party or a section of people, they try to project them as anti-national. These farmers are not anti-national,” he said. Badal condemned the union government for not acceding to farmers’ demand of repealing the new agri legislations. “The farmers do not want the black laws framed by Modi sahib (Prime Minister Narendra Modi). Democracy means that it is the duty of the government that it should not implement those things which the public do not want,” he said. Farmers were being shown as “extremists” and “Khalistanis”, said Badal, adding that they were also being shown having been associated with a particular religion. “Do not repeat Congress’ blunders of divide and rule. Do nothing that weakens national unity or disturbs peace and communal harmony for which Punjabis, specially the SAD, have made supreme sacrifices,” said a resolution of the party’s core committee that met here. Harcharan Bains, principal advisor to Badal, said the SAD will observe the centenary of the party as “Sangharsh Samarpan Divas”, with focus on farmers’ interests and justice for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-trying-to-thrust-black-laws-like-it-imposed-demonetization-gst-sukhbir-badal/story-ZAbIhDkhR0atAeffCg2jWN.html
10-12-2020||India||Nine newborns die in Kota hospital in 2 days, probe ordered||Nine newborn babies have died at the Rajasthan government’s JK Lon Hospital in Kota in two days – five on Wednesday night and four on Thursday – prompting the hospital to order a probe into the deaths. Rajasthan’s health minister Raghu Sharma has also sought a report from the Principal of the Medical College Kota (MCK) into the death of the babies.Sharma gave strict instructions to the hospital administration for proper care of the newborns and warned of strict action for negligence.JK Lon Hospital superintendent Dr SC Dulara said most of the deceased newborns, aged between 1 and 5 days, either had congenital disorders or ailments. “Out of the nine deceased newborns, two were referred from Kapren in Bundi district with septic shock and three were brought dead to the paediatric unit. Three newborns had congenital ailments -- one had oligohydramnios with renal anomaly, one had placenta praevia and the other had anencephaly. One newborn was suffering from intrauterine growth restrictions (IUGR) with refractory hypoglycemia,” he said. “The head of the pediatric department will conduct a probe into the deaths.” Dr Dulara said more than 30 deliveries take place every day at JK Lon Hospital and on an average there are 2 to 3 newborn deaths daily. “However, nine deaths of newborns in 24 hours cannot be termed normal,” he said. “Newborns are referred to JK Lon Hospital not only from four districts of Kota division but also from neighboring districts and even from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,700 newborns had died at JK Lon Hospital in 2019, which was the lowest in its previous five years. Current year’s data is being compiled,” he said.The parents of the deceased newborns alleged apathy and negligence by the medical staff of the hospital. “None of the paramedical staff or doctors saw my newborn son on Thursday morning and later when ECG was done, he was declared dead,” said a parent from Kota. “My nephew was born three days ago at the hospital but the staff did not look after the baby properly,” alleged Jitendra Kumar (30) from Kapren in Bundi. Dr Dulara said, “The committee of the paediatric department will probe negligence allegations and staff will also be sensitised about behaviour.” Officials said the hospital still faces a crunch of doctors. “There is only one professor and one associate professor. There should be three professors and four associate professors for 120 beds. The assistant professor strength is 7 which is considered sufficient,” an official said on condition of anonymity. There are 120 beds in the pediatric unit, of which 98 are now occupied. Kota South BJP MLA Sandeep Sharma and Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha district president Girriraj Gautam visited the hospital separately after receiving information about the deaths. “Once again newborn deaths at JK Lon Hospital have highlighted the negligence by the state government. Additional doctors were appointed last year after over 100 newborn deaths, but now they have been removed,” Sharma said. The hospital claimed that infrastructure and resources have improved. “The Rajasthan government is constructing a 150-bed pediatric hospital and indoor OPD unit on the campus of JK Lon Hospital for ₹30 crore under the smart city project. There is no dearth of nursing staff; we have 73 nurses against the requirement of 75,” Dr Dulara said. “Out of the 481 medical equipment in the paediatric unit, 383 are working and the rest are being repaired. Out of 71 body warmers, 60 are working; 41 pulse oximeters out of 43 and 15 ventilators out of 24 are also functional.” He said a new central oxygen supply line has been laid after 100 infants died last December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-newborns-die-in-kota-hospital-in-2-days-probe-ordered/story-TAc3RweqIlXuZ5trJzCkbK.html
10-12-2020||India||Attack on Nadda’s convoy: Centre seeks report from Bengal govt on ‘serious security lapses’||The Centre on Thursday sought a report from the West Bengal government over the alleged “serious security lapses” during the visit of BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda to the state. This comes after Nadda’s convoy was attacked when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata.Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee represents Diamond Harbour in the Lok Sabha. The action has been taken on a letter written by West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh to Shah, alleging serious security concerns. Ghosh’s vehicle was part of the convoy which was attacked.Union home minister Amit Shah called the attack on Nadda “sponsored violence”, and said on Twitter that West Bengal has “descended into an era of tyranny and anarchy” under the rule of Trinamool Congress. तृणमूल शासन में बंगाल अत्याचार, अराजकता और अंधकार के युग में जा चुका है। टीएमसी के राज में पश्चिम बंगाल के अंदर जिस तरह से राजनीतिक हिंसा को संस्थागत कर चरम सीमा पर पहुँचाया गया है, वो लोकतांत्रिक मूल्यों में विश्वास रखने वाले सभी लोगों के लिए दु:खद भी है और चिंताजनक भी।The Centre also sent a communication to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, seeking a detailed report on law and order situation and the steps being taken by the state government in maintaining peace and tranquility after Thursday’s incident, news agency PTI reported.Governor Dhankar had expressed concern. “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy & lawlessness.“Mamata Banerjee indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP president convoy & political police. WB Police in support...I share my shame with you as it’s on account of your acts of omission & commission,” Dhankar said on Twitter. Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP President Convoy and political police @WBPolice in support.This happening inspite of my alerts to CS & DGP early morning indicated collapse of law & orderChief minister and Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee said the attack was staged.“Every day they (BJP activists) are coming out (for rallies) with firearms. They are slapping themselves and blaming it on the Trinamool Congress. Just think of the situation. They are roaming around with the BSF, CRPF, Army, CISF....then why are you so scared,” Banerjee said in Kolkata.The vehicles of BJP leaders were stoned when they were going to attend an organisational meeting at Diamond Harbour. Apart from Dilip Ghosh, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was also part of the convoy.The assault was telecast live by several Bengali news channels. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged.Expressing serious security concerns, Ghosh in a letter to Shah alleged that “during his (Nadda’s) different engagements in Kolkata, it was observed that there was serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the state police department.” He also claimed that a “mob” of over 200 people with sticks and bamboos were demonstrating raising black flags in front of BJP’s state unit office in Kolkata.Nadda is currently on a two-day visit to West Bengal, where assembly election is due next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-on-nadda-s-convoy-centre-seeks-report-from-bengal-govt-on-serious-security-lapses/story-ZAdJXSup8QLBnFdMSDNU6O.html
10-12-2020||India||Modi, Hasina to virtually re-launch cross-border rail route after 55 years||The rail route between Haldibari in West Bengal and Chilahati in neighbouring Bangladesh is all set to reopen after a gap of 55 years on December 17 and prime ministers of the two countries will inaugurate the programme, an official of the Northeast Frontier Railway said on Thursday.The railway line from Haldibari in Cooch Behar to Chilahati in northern Bangladesh has been defunct after rail links between India and then East Pakistan had snapped in 1965.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina will inaugurate Haldibari-Chilahati rail route on December 17,” NFR Chief Public Relations Officer Subhanan Chanda said.A goods train will run from Chilahati to Haldibari, which is under the Katihar division of the NRF, to mark the opening of the route, Chanda said. The Ministry of External Affairs on Tuesday informed the authorities of the decision to reopen the rail route, said Katihar Divisional Railway Manager Ravinder Kumar Verma. The distance between Haldibari railway station till the international border is 4.5 kilometres while that from Chilahati in Bangladesh till the zero point is around 7.5 kilometres, sources in the NFR said.Both Haldibari and Chilahati stations were on the old broad gauge railway route between Siliguri and Kolkata that went through areas in present-day Bangladesh.When passenger train service begins on this route, people will be able to travel to Kolkata from Jalpaiguri, which is near Siliguri, in seven hours, five hours less than what it takes now, Verma said after visiting Haldibari station on Wednesday.Headquartered at Maligaon in Guwahati, the NEF zone covers the entire Northeastern region and parts of Bihar and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-hasina-to-virtually-re-launch-cross-border-rail-route-after-55-years/story-XcbK2wc4ZG64yxpIm7m64I.html
10-12-2020||India||Karnataka Deputy CM says government will not ask IT companies to open offices, remote working may continue||The Karnataka government on Thursday said it will not ask IT companies to open office spaces and that the work from home arrangement that is currently in place may continue for a few more months due to prevailing Covid-19 situation.Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also incharge for IT and BT department, made it clear that the government cannot mandate the companies to open their offices and ask employees to report to work there, instead of working from home or work from anywhere.He was responding to a question raised by an Independent MLA from Hoskote Sharath Bachegowda in the assembly.“Eventually, they (offices) will open. The companies will take a call when the time is right..,” he said adding that there was no thought before the government to ask the companies to make its employees to attend to work at offices, also the situation is still not appropriate for it.Bachegowda while pointing out that most of the IT workforce was still working from home, claimed that it has affected productivity, and asked the government to put pressure on the companies to open offices.He also pointed to its impact on other dependent work forces like transport.Udupi MLA K Raghupati Bhat too said that with IT companies yet to open, cabs, canteens and other dependent livelihoods are getting affected, and it was time for the government to ask companies to open offices.Responding to this Narayan said once offices open up, ancillary services will also get back on track, and maintained that work from home was still the safe option due to the prevailing situation.He pointed out that technology came to the rescue of several sectors during the pandemic as he acknowledged the efforts of the IT, startups and innovation sector.Several IT companies closed their offices in March and asked its employees to work remotely as Covid-19 infections started increasing in the state, especially Bengaluru.The union government has extended connectivity norms for work from home for IT and BPO companies till December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-deputy-cm-says-government-will-not-ask-it-companies-to-open-offices-remote-working-may-continue/story-rrqF0P0qf8IXTVbQ9Hd5LI.html
10-12-2020||India||Not without India: World’s pharmacy gears up for vaccine race||India, the world’s biggest vaccine maker, is getting set for the massive global blitz to contain the coronavirus pandemic with its pharmaceutical industry and partners freeing up capacity and accelerating investments even without firm purchase orders. India manufactures more than 60% of all vaccines sold across the globe, and while its $40 billion pharmaceutical sector is not yet involved in the production of the expensive Pfizer Inc and Moderna shots, the nation will play a pivotal role in immunizing much of the world.Indian companies are set to produce eight, more affordable vaccines designed to fight Covid-19, including AstraZeneca’s Covishield, called the “vaccine for the world by its developers.“There are many vaccines being produced in countries around the world but there’s only one nation that has the manufacturing capacity to produce sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of citizens in every country, and that’s India,” said Australia’s ambassador to India, Barry O’Farrell, after touring vaccine manufacturing sites in India with many other diplomats.Serum Institute of India (SII), the world’s biggest vaccine maker, has already stockpiled more than 50 million doses of the AstraZeneca shot, even as it awaits emergency-use approvals from both British and Indian authorities. SII plans to make a total of 400 million doses of Covishield by July and is setting up new production lines to roll out roughly one billion shots a year.Pharmaceutical packager Schott Kaisha, meanwhile, is stepping up production of vaccine vials and Deutsche Post’s DHL is working out how best to distribute the shots within the country and around the world.“Because of the large volumes coming out of India and of course the affordable vaccines, there is no other country that will contribute more towards ending the pandemic than India,” SII CEO Adar Poonawalla told Reuters at the company’s sprawling campus in the western city of Pune. Here, automated machines fill and seal thousands of vials with the AstraZeneca shot every hour before they are moved to a vast, high-ceiling cold room.But much of India’s vaccine production could be, at least initially, for domestic use.With nearly 10 million infections, the world’s second-highest after the United States, India’s government is likely to order a huge chunk of the vaccines for its 1.3 billion people.Calculated riskPrime Minister Narendra Modi has yet to specify how much India will require, but his government has said some vaccines may be approved in the next few weeks and that it was “committed to partnering with all interested countries in vaccine-related efforts”.Poonawalla said he expects to sell hundreds of millions of doses at home. Even as immediate local demand is met, nearly half of its production would go overseas, the company has said.India’s Bharat Biotech, which has also sought emergency approval for its government-backed vaccine candidate, is in discussions with more than 10 countries in South America, Asia and Eastern Europe to sell its product.Russia, meanwhile, has signed deals with Indian companies to make the country the production and export hub for its Sputnik V vaccine, starting with more than 100 million doses a year.Many companies in India’s vaccine supply chain are laying out investments without deals in hand.“We’ve taken a calculated risk,” said Rishad Dadachanji, a director at Schott Kaisha that is in supply talks with around 10 vaccine makers at home and abroad.It is increasing its annual manufacturing capacity by 300 million to 1.5 billion vials by November.Executives at rival firms SGD Pharma India and Piramal Glass said they were expanding their production base, or re-allocating manufacturing lines to focus on vials.SGD plans to add 100 million units to its current capacity of 350 million glass vials, while Piramal says it can double its specialised vial capacity at just a month’s notice “to meet any unforeseen demand.”Syringes and cold storageOthers that are likely to benefit from an expected surge in demand are: pharmaceutical firms Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Cadila Healthcare and Hetero; logistics company FedEx; cold chain storage specialist Snowman Logistics and Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices, among others.Hindustan Syringes says it will increase capacity by 42% to 1 billion units by the first half of next year. It has already shipped some 140 million syringes that disable themselves after one use for the global vaccine distribution program COVAX.But because the Indian government has not yet signed any contracts with vaccine suppliers, some ancillary companies have been left guessing what kind of products they should prepare for as specifications may vary from vaccine to vaccine.Vial maker SGD’s managing director, Sardar Akshay Singh, warned that a last-minute rush to secure vaccines for India could hit exports - similar to the way officials stalled shipments of masks and sanitizers early in the pandemic to meet local demand.“We have been feeding the government a lot of information but they’ve not come up with a plan so far,” said Sunil Nair, CEO of India’s biggest cold chain operator, Snowman.The company’s ongoing expansion will nevertheless double its vaccine handling capacity to 200 million doses by March.It operates some 500 trucks fitted with containers refrigerated by Carrier Global, has vendors on standby if more are required, and says it can deliver vaccines from production site to inoculation centres within hours thanks to its countrywide reach.SII, which also has Covid vaccine tie-ups with US biotech firm Codagenix, Novavax and Austria’s Themis, has scaled back production of shots for other diseases and is readying more cold rooms, buying more trucks and hiring more workers.For DHL, the world’s largest courier and logistics company, vaccine transportation work has already begun in India. It recently brought in Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine for trials and says it will play a crucial role in exporting vaccines, and distributing them within the country.“The next 12-24 months are going to be significantly exciting and there’s going to be a lot of capacity issues, but I think it’s a positive headache to have,” DHL Express India head R.S. Subramanian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-without-india-world-s-pharmacy-gears-up-for-vaccine-race/story-x60zI6hZvdIIH5hKfFzvrN.html
10-12-2020||India||Union home secretary discusses possible Covid-19 vaccines roll-out with states||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Thursday reviewed with top officials of state governments the arrangements for the roll-out of vaccines when these are available and asked them to prepare a database of frontline workers like police personnel who will be administered on priority, officials said.The meeting was attended by the Director Generals of Police and other senior officials of the state governments and Union Territory administrations. The union home secretary reviewed the arrangements for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out and asked the state and UTs to prepare a database of the frontline workers who will receive the vaccine during the initial stages, a home ministry official said. Bhalla told the state government officials to prepare the database of police, home guards, and civil defence and fire brigade personnel. The meeting came days after three vaccine manufacturers sought emergency approval for rolling out their vaccines. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 28 visited Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune to review the development and manufacturing process of coronavirus vaccines at facilities in these cities. The central government has been putting in place measures for quick and effective distribution of coronavirus vaccine when it becomes available. An estimated one crore frontline health workers will also receive the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine whenever it becomes available, with around 92 per cent of government hospitals and 55 per cent of private hospitals across all states and UTs providing data identifying the workers. Police’s role while enforcing the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown, help provided to the common people and facilitates given to the migrant workers in different parts of the country was praised by all across.  According to an estimate, about 80,000 police and paramilitary personnel were infected by the Covid-19 in the country and over 1,000 of them succumbed to the virus. Among the infected are about 35,000 paramilitary personnel and 25,000 policemen in Maharashtra, the worst hit state in India. The deaths included 100 paramilitary personnel and about 300 in Maharashtra Police, almost all of them while playing different roles during the pandemic. India’s Covid-19 caseload climbed to 97,67,371 with 31,521 fresh infections, while the total number of recoveries surged to 92.53 lakh, pushing the national recovery rate to 94.74 per cent, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll rose to 1,41,772 with 412 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 92,53,306.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-home-secretary-discusses-possible-covid-19-vaccines-roll-out-with-states/story-bRRNy8FvFM4vLa8DCRKfBI.html
10-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: IAF chief, Japanese counterpart discuss enhancing cooperation, interoperability and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. IAF chief, Japanese counterpart discuss enhancing cooperation, interoperabilityThe visiting Chief of Staff of Japan’s Air Self-Defense Force, Gen Izutsu Shunji, and the Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, on Thursday discussed ways to enhance cooperation and interoperability between the two sides. Read moreSarbananda Sonowal lays foundation stone for Assam Agitation martyrs’ memorialThirty five years after the signing of the Assam Accord that marked the end of a six-year agitation against Bangladeshi immigrants, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday laid the foundation stone of a memorial for 855 people who lost their lives in that stir. Read moreCM Uddhav Thackeray inspects tunnel work on Pune-Mumbai expresswayChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday reviewed the progress of the ‘Missing link’ project in the ghat section on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, which will help reduce the travel distance between the two cities by six kilometres and save 20 minutes of travelling time. Read moreParthiv Patel joins Mumbai Indians as Talent ScoutA day after announcing his retirement from all forms of cricket, former Indian wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel has joined Indian Premier League (IPL) franchise Mumbai Indians (MI) as a Talent Scout. The franchise confirmed the development through a statement on Thursday evening. Read moreAhead of Durgamati, Anushka Shetty wishes Bhumi Pednekar and the team: ‘Best wishes, looking forward’Actor Anushka Shetty has shared best wishes for the team of Durgamati ahead of the film’s premiere on Amazon Prime on Friday. Durgamati, starring Bhumi Pednekar in the lead role, is a remake of Telugu horror thriller Bhaagamathie that starred Anushka in the lead. It is helmed by the director of the original, Ashok. Read more Wife takes a bite out of husband’s lunch every day while packing it. Here’s whyThere are some incidents which despite appearing bizarre at first glance turn out to be heartwarming. They are the tales that may leave you with a huge smile on your face and a fuzzy feeling in your heart. Such is the story of Tracy Howell. She took to Facebook to share how she started taking a bite out of her husband’s lunch while packing it. The reason behind her seemingly strange act has now won people over. Read more Watch: Farmers’ protest: Govt ‘ready to discuss proposal’ reiterates MSP, APMC pointsThe government on Thursday asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the Acts to address their concerns and said it is open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want, but protesters remained defiant and threatened to block railway tracks too in addition to highways. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-iaf-chief-japanese-counterpart-discuss-enhancing-cooperation-interoperability/story-mGp3jtkncR0ZQyqvYsFbXI.html
10-12-2020||India||DRDO-designed sub-machine gun successfully undergoes defence ministry’s user trials||A 5.56x30 mm sub-machine gun designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has successfully undergone the defence ministry’s user trials, it was announced on Thursday.The successful completion of trials has paved the way for this gun’s induction into the armed forces, the defence ministry said in a statement.The DRDO-designed 5.56x30 mm joint protective venture carbine (JVPC) is a gas-operated semi automatic weapon and its rate of fire is more than 700 rounds per minute, it mentioned. The final phase of the user trials completed on Monday meeting all the general staff qualitative requirements (GSQR) set up the Indian Army, it said.“This was the last leg of trials in a series of user trials which have been carried out in extreme temperature conditions in summer and high altitudes in winter,” the statement mentioned.The effective range of the carbine is more than 100 m and weighs about three kg with key features like high reliability, low recoil, retractable butt, ergonomic design and single hand firing capability, it said.“JVPC has successfully met the stringent performance criteria of reliability and accuracy in addition to quality trials conducted by DGQA (Directorate General of Quality Assurance),” the statement noted. The DGQA works under the defence ministry.The weapon has already passed the trials by the home ministry and procurement action is initiated by central armed police forces and various state police organisations, the ministry’s statement noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-designed-sub-machine-gun-successfully-undergoes-defence-ministry-s-user-trials/story-RC6qL51BuI2vngmL4gY0DP.html
10-12-2020||India||IAF chief discusses cooperation, interoperability with Japanese counterpart||The visiting Chief of Staff of Japan’s Air Self-Defense Force, Gen Izutsu Shunji, and the Indian Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, on Thursday discussed ways to enhance cooperation and interoperability between the two sides.Gen. Shunji’s visit comes close on the heels of last month’s Malabar trilateral naval exercise involving India, Japan and the US, which was joined this year by Australia. It also comes in the wake of efforts by India, Australia and Japan to forge alternative and resilient supply chains. Both Japan and India are also grappling with China’s assertive actions. Japan has described China’s growing maritime activities in waters around the country as a threat, while India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Shunj, who is visiting India at the invitation of the IAF chief, also met defence minister Rajnath Singh, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, the navy chief and the vice chief of the army. On arrival at the Air Headquarters, Shunji was presented a guard of honour. “In subsequent discussions, the IAF chief and Shunji] recognised the progress made in defence ties between India and Japan and discussed avenues to further enhance cooperation and interoperability between the two air forces,” an official statement said. They discussed the scope for enhancing joint exercises and training between the two air forces. “A broader cooperation for strengthening collective response to humanitarian aid and disaster relief contingencies was also discussed,” the statement said.Shunji’s visit amid the unprecedented challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic “reaffirms the deep rooted commitment to maintain and strengthen the relationship between the air forces”, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-discusses-cooperation-interoperability-with-japanese-counterpart/story-hNb3CqeghulJFB5gQFqP9M.html
10-12-2020||India||Memorial for those killed in Assam Agitation, CM Sonowal lays foundation stone||Thirty five years after the signing of the Assam Accord that marked the end of a six-year agitation against Bangladeshi immigrants, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday laid the foundation stone of a memorial for 855 people who lost their lives in that stir. The Swahid Smarak and Swahid Udyan are being constructed in a 98 ‘bigha’ plot at Paschim Boragaon in Guwahati. In Assam, December 10 is marked as Swahid Diwas (Martyrs’ Day) to mark the death of Khargeswar Talukdar, the first person who was killed in the agitation in 1979 in Bhabanipur. Speaking on the occasion, CM Sonowal said the memorial and the park would preserve the legacy of those who sacrificed their lives for Assam and it will inspire future generations. “If we are to showcase our identity and heritage, we must preserve our history,” the chief minister said, underscoring that the state government’s initiative to build the memorial will highlight the valour and commitment of the people who laid down their lives to protect Assamese identity.Sonowal also took part in the state-level Swahid Diwas programme at Khanapara in the office premises of the Assam Accord implementation department and launched the first volume of a four-part Data Book on the Assam Agitation. Several senior ministers, MPs, MLAs, bureaucrats and police officials attended the functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sarbananda-sonowal-lays-foundation-stone-for-assam-agitation-martyrs-memorial/story-GgMi34PrLJibeT5VynbZuM.html
10-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers threaten to block railway tracks if demands not met||The farmers who have been agitating for the past two weeks against the new agri laws on Thursday announced that they will block railway tracks if their demands are not met by the government. The farmer unions, which held a meeting on Thursday, said they will soon announce a date for blocking tracks across the country. Addressing reporters at the Delhi’s Singhu border where they have been protesting for almost two weeks to demand a rollback of the agri laws, the farmer unions also reiterated that they will intensify their agitation and start blocking all highways leading to the national capital. Also Read | Govt ready for talks, urge farmer leaders to go through the proposal, says Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar“We will block railway tracks if our demands are not met. We will decide on the date and announce it soon. The blocking of tracks will not be limited to Haryana and Punjab but it will be done across the country,” farmer leader Boota Singh said at the press conference. The announcement by farmers came on the day Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said it was not proper to announce the next stage of agitation when talks were continuing and urged the unions to return to the discussion table.Tomar also urged farmer union leaders to consider proposals sent to them to break the deadlock over protests against the three new farm laws and said the government is ready for further discussions with them any time.“The Centre has admitted that laws have been made for traders. If agriculture is a state subject, the central government does not have right to make laws on it,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, another leader.  Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points for almost two weeks seeking a repeal of the new agri laws, which they claim were aimed at benefitting corporates by weakening the ‘mandi’ system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime for procurement of farm produce.  The government had on Wednesday proposed to give a “written assurance” that the existing MSP regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers’ unions rejected the proposal and said they would intensify their agitation until the government accepts their demand for a complete repeal of the three laws. The government has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the ‘mandi’ system.“Five rounds of talks have already been held with the government, but they remained inconclusive. So far, the government has not sent us any invitation for another round of talks. If government sends us proposal for a meeting, we will decide it in our meeting,” another farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka told PTI.Asked about solution to ongoing standoff with the government, Kakka said, “only God knows.” “We are facing a lot of difficulties due to cold weather and the Covid-19 pandemic, but despite this, we will continue our protest until our demands are met,” Kakka also added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-threaten-to-block-railway-tracks-if-demands-not-met-by-govt/story-NdiAEUKzFXPxVmohMifyYO.html
10-12-2020||India||Government proposes amendment in Rehabilitation Council of India Act 1992||The government has proposed an amendment in the Rehabilitation Council of India Act 1992, saying the need for it has arisen in view of developments in the rehabilitation and education sector.In a public notice, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MSJ&E) proposed that the amendment in the act will make the Rehabilitation Council of India (RCI) provide accessible, quality and affordable habilitation and rehabilitation education, regulate the conduct of such education, meet the demand of high quality professionals and personnel in all parts of the country.The RCI will encourage professionals to adopt latest research in their work and contribute to research, to maintain and enforce high ethical standards in services provided by professionals and personnel, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto in line with provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the notice said.“The need for amendment to the said Act has arisen in view of developments in the rehabilitation and the education sector in the intervening years from 1992 onwards,” it said.“Further, in view of introduction of the National Education Policy, several changes would be warranted in existing programme and course objectives, deliverables, curriculum, design, content, pedagogy, duration, evaluation criteria etc.” it added.A need has also arisen to benchmark all programmes and courses with those being conducted at the national and international levels to ensure quality in rehabilitation education and to bridge the gap in quality rehabilitation care human resource, it said.Keeping this in view, the government said the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities has prepared the draft amendment to RCI Act, 1992. The department has invited comments of all the stakeholders, including state governments/UT administrations, civil society/non-government organisations, academicians, public and private sector organizations, multilateral institutions and members of the public to submit their comments on proposed amendments within a period of 21 days. Stakeholders may submit their suggestions by mail at mailto:kvs.rao13@nic.in”kvs.rao13@nic.in latest by December 23, it said.Under the amendment, the notice said, the council should assess demand of professionals and personnel, and develop a roadmap for meeting such demand, map programmes and courses in habilitation and rehabilitation being conducted at the national and international levels and prescribe benchmark standards for the same.It should formulate programme and course objectives, deliverables, design, structure, content, pedagogy, duration, including number of term(s), evaluation criteria, including grading system and admission eligibility criteria, prescribe benchmark standards for granting permission to universities or institutions for conducting habilitation and rehabilitation programmes and courses.The council should admit, conduct examination and award certificate or diploma, regulate programmes and courses at universities or institutions granting recognised qualifications, as per benchmark standards prescribed by regulations, aid and advise universities and institutions on fixation of tuition and other fees and charges to be charged to students enrolled for acquiring recognised qualification. According to the notice, it should also prescribe fee for grant of permission to a university or institution for conducting programmes and courses, and for other purposes; to make the council financially self sustaining within a period of four years, to encourage research and development in habilitation and rehabilitation, including adoption of latest research by professional in their work and their contribution thereto, maintain separate registers for professional and personnel. It will also ensure updation of knowledge and skills of registered professionals and personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-proposes-amendment-in-rehabilitation-council-of-india-act-1992/story-Fa3pvBRhYAcup1M9UrAQCL.html
10-12-2020||India||HTLS 2020: Abhijit Banerjee on economic recovery, way out of pandemic and Covid-19 vaccine||Nobel laureate and Ford Foundation international professor of economics, MIT, Abhijit Banerjee, said that he feels that the pandemic is not over yet with Covid-19 vaccines still far away. “We don’t have the basis to assume that we’re out of the pandemic,” Banerjee told IDFC Institute’s Dr Niranjan Rajadhyaksha on day 7 of Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2020 on Thursday. Banerjee said that it will take at least two quarters for the government to get everybody vaccinated. On the state of the country’s economy, the Nobel laureate said that he doesn’t know “how quickly the recovery will be”.Also read: ‘India is important part of the Walmart story’ - CEO Doug McMillon at HTLS 2020 #HTLS2020 | "This is a wasted crisis; We could have done more on the fiscal side," says Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee Watch LIVE - https://t.co/Gp3xZcBPB7 #DefiningANewEra pic.twitter.com/awb0mseOEP“We need a demand bounce as there has been a massive demand shock. Investment has been slow because our domestic economy is not providing huge rewards, hence people are sitting on their money and not investing,” he said. Describing the Covid-19 pandemic as a “wasted crisis”, Banerjee said that the government “could have done more on the fiscal side”.“I have always taken the view that there should be more fiscal stimulus,” he added.Banerjee talked about federalism in India and said that the size of states in the country is way too big. “We need much more federalism, Indian states are way too big,” he said.On the budget for the upcoming fiscal year, Banerjee said the government should focus on “things which are visible”, such as infrastructure projects. “The government should show that it is focussed on development. People like the assurance that growth will be restored. The government has a commitment toward ensuring growth,” he said. On the ongoing farmers’ protest, Banerjee said that all negotiations will eventually have to go through some state government. “I think Haryana state government is well placed to do that,” the Nobel laureate stated. Besides Banerjee, day 7 of the HTLS 2020 witnessed enriching sessions with Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Punit Renjen, Global CEO, Deloitte, and Doug McMillon, CEO and president, Walmart Inc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-discuss-economic-recovery-way-out-of-pandemic-and-covid-19-vaccine/story-GwoGY08zAvPvjkTBDw0y0N.html
10-12-2020||India||‘India is important part of the Walmart story’: CEO Doug McMillon at HTLS 2020||On a day when Walmart Inc. announced a mega deal with India starting 2027, CEO and president Doug McMillon shared Walmart’s vision for business in India and much more. “India has a potential to become really special and we think it’s on its way to doing that,” McMillon said on Thursday while in conversation with HT’s editor-in-chief R. Sukumar. McMillon said that India has “a remarkably competitive environment“. The Walmart CEO said that although the company’s business is still in the early stages in India, he is confident of “growing together”. Watch: ‘Outstanding’: Walmart CEO on tripling exports from India to $10 bn #HTLS2020 “We are committed to supporting the economic growth of India and this includes providing a resource to local partners and taking ‘Made in India’ products global,” McMillon stated. Also read: Walmart CEO on journey from ‘chaos’ to ‘gaining clarity’ amid pandemic“We believe India is entering into a new era and there is a lot of potential for the growth of exports from India,” McMillon added. #HTLS2020 | "All the work we have done in India is important to us because we believe in your country’s people and potential for a long time now," says Walmart CEO Doug McMillon Watch LIVE - https://t.co/Gp3xZcTqsF#DefiningANewEra pic.twitter.com/PVM2v3H8ZqMcMillon described India as an important part of the Walmart story. “All the work we have done here is important to us because we believe in your country’s people and potential for a long time now,” he added. On Thursday, Walmart announced that it will triple its exports of goods from India to $10 billion annually by 2027. The move is likely to give a boost to PM Modi’s ‘Make in India’ pitch as well as to the MSME sector, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-potential-to-become-really-special-walmart-ceo-at-htls-2020/story-Kwdh8eonH1MSyaeqSUVCjJ.html
10-12-2020||India||MSP will not end, will not end, will not end: Shivraj Chouhan to farmers||Reaching out to protesting farmers stationed at the Singhu border near Delhi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan underlined that the minimum support price for crops will not be diluted and urged farmers to be flexible in their approach and keep up the dialogue with the government.“MSP will not end, will not end, will not end,” said the chief minister while speaking at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who took over as Madhya Pradesh chief minister for the fourth time in March, advised farmers to keep up the dialogue for a resolution. “The government is ready for dialogue, they [farmers] should not give up on dialogue, lachila rukh apnana chahiye (approach should be flexible),” said the CM.The farmers having rejected Centre’s amended proposal have now vowed to intensify their protests by blocking the capital’s highway to Agra and Jaipur by December 12 and hold a nationwide dharna two days later. They seek repeal of the new farm laws, which they say are aimed at benefitting corporates by weakening the mandi system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime for procurement of farm produce. “Jidd will not solve it, charcha will (Stubbornness will not help, dialogue will),” reiterated CM Chouhan. Earlier today, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged farmer union leaders to consider proposals sent to them to break the deadlock over protests and said the government is ready for further discussions with them any time.When asked whether the government would consider a new bill on the MSP system, the minister said the new laws do not impact the MSP system and that will continue.“The government is ready to consider with an open mind any provision in the new laws where farmers have any issues and we want to clarify all their apprehensions,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“We kept waiting for suggestions from farmers’ leaders to address their concerns, but they are stuck on the repeal of laws,” he said, while virtually ruling out conceding to the key demand with which thousands of farmers are protesting.The government fad on Wednesday proposed to give a “written assurance” that the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime for procurement will continue. However, the farmers’ unions rejected the proposal. The government has also proposed to make necessary amendments on at least seven issues, including one to allay fears about the weakening of the mandi system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-will-not-end-will-not-end-will-not-end-shivraj-chouhan-to-farmers/story-uuvLkNbBIcPn7YYs1y1KCL.html
10-12-2020||India||SpiceJet partners with Om Logistics for Covid-19 vaccine transportation||No-frills carrier SpiceJet on Thursday announced its partnership with Om Logistics for Covid-19 vaccine transportation.The strategic partnership aims to not only provide a speedy and seamless solution for Covid-19 vaccine movement and delivery, but also to create a sustainable cold chain network both domestically and internationally, SpiceJet said in a release.Recently, the Gurugram-based airline said its dedicated freighter division SpiceXpress has the capability to transport sensitive drugs and vaccines in controlled temperatures ranging from (-)40°c to (+)25°c.SpiceJet, in its endeavour to provide seamless end-to-end cold chain solutions for the Covid-19 vaccine delivery, has partnered with Om Logistics Ltd, the airline said in a release.Om Logistics’ international presence with its 1,200 offices worldwide and ability to cater to more than 19,000 pin codes in India will further boost SpiceJet’s strength, it said.As part of the association, Om Logistics will provide SpiceJet with the refrigerated trucks to cover the first mile and the last mile across length and breadth of the country, it said.SpiceJet will provide the necessary air support to carry Covid-19 vaccines pan-India and internationally in a temperature-controlled environment, it added.With a network spanning 54 domestic and 45 international destinations and a fleet of 17 cargo planes, SpiceXpress is capable of flying over 500 tonnes of cargo per day to both domestic and a wide list of international destinations, SpiceJet had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-partners-with-om-logistics-for-covid-19-vaccine-transportation/story-2yJO79EDu95a8bRbCjxWWI.html
10-12-2020||India||Deputy CM Sisodia’s residence attacked by BJP goons ‘in police presence,’ alleges AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday claimed that the house of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia was “attacked by BJP goons” with the help of Delhi police. Taking to Twitter to condemn the incident, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “The goons entered his house in police presence when he was away.” Why is BJP getting so desperate by the day in Delhi? he asked in the same tweet.Earlier in the day, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj addressed a conference during which he also accused the police of helping the BJP workers and alleged that police “did not stop the goons” from entering Sisodia’s residence. Bhardwaj also claimed that they even removed the barricades around the house. However, the police has denied the allegations. Reacting to the incident, AAP leader Atishi Marlena called it a “black day” in Delhi’s political history.“This is a black day in Delhi’s political history that the Union Home Minister is now using his party goons and Delhi Police to attack the family of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in his absence from his residence,” she said at the press conference.The police has already launched an investigation into the matter. “Based on a complaint by C Arvind, secretary to deputy Chief minister Manish Sisodia, a proper offence has been registered by Delhi Police under appropriate sections of law and investigation is going on,” news agency ANI quoted Delhi police as saying. The police has also arrested six people in relation to the case. Earlier in the day, BJP workers staged a protest near Sisodia’s residence over an alleged conspiracy to kill mayors and leaders of the party-ruled municipal corporations staging an indefinite dharna demanding payment of dues from the Kejriwal government.The Delhi BJP, however, refuted the allegations, saying their protest was peaceful as its vice president for the national capital, Ashok Goel Devraha claimed AAP leaders were trying to divert attention from the ‘conspiracy’ to kill BJP mayors and other corporation leaders.“We protested outside Sisodia’s residence to make it clear that the BJP workers are capable of answering any form of challenge,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deputy-cm-sisodia-s-residence-attacked-by-bjp-goons-in-police-presence-alleges-aap/story-PemYPERhExGhaoQr2HtyaL.html
10-12-2020||India||Over 200 prisoners released on bail to check Covid spread fail to come back||Over 200 prisoners - some released on parole and others on interim bail to check the spread of Covid-19 - have failed to return to Uttarakhand jail even after they have exhausted their time outside, said jail authorities.Thirty-six prisoners were released on parole and 184 undertrials were granted interim bail for six months in March and April from Haldwani jail.The jail administration has now sent letters to district police for the rearrest of such prisoners.Manoj Arya, senior superintendent, Haldwani jail, said, “These prisoners were released on the six months parole due to the Covid-19 pandemic following directions of the Supreme Court in a bid to fight the pandemic. We have sent letters for rearrest of such prisoners to police heads in their respective districts.”Arya said prisoners who were serving up to seven years’ imprisonment were released from the jail between March 31 and the first week of April in a bid to stop the spread of the pandemic in jail premises. Seventy-eight prisoners were released for six months’ parole, of which 32 such prisoners returned to jail when their parole period ended in October but 36 prisoners are yet to turn up till date, said Arya.Arya said that prisoners who failed to return to jail are 27 from US Nagar, 2 from Nainital, four from Moradabad, and one each from Bijnore, Rampur and Sambhal districts of Uttar Pradesh.“Likewise, 210 undertrials were granted interim bail by the court for six months from the jail for similar reasons. Out of them, 184 such prisoners have failed to return to jail. Interestingly, 26 of them are lodged in jail after they were arrested for committing crimes like theft or drug peddling during the interim bail period,” said Arya.“In case of undertrials, decisions of what is to be done against them will be taken by the court since they were granted interim bail from the court,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-prisoners-released-on-bail-to-check-covid-spread-fail-to-come-back/story-QpCWW7jJZIkYB2Ecc6FHAL.html
10-12-2020||India||Four killed, five injured as SUV ploughs into truck in Dhanbad||Four persons were killed and five others including two women were injured in a horrific accident when an SUV in which they were travelling slammed into the rear of a truck on National Highway 2 in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad district in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, police said.The SUV had started from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh for Pakur in Jharkhand and Birbhum in West Bengal. The driver and three others were killed on the spot. The police admitted five injured persons at the Patliputra Medical College Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad for treatment.Police official said incident occurred around 1.15 am of Thursday. The SUV was moving behind truck in high speed, ploughed into it when the truck slowed down because of a speed breaker near Chali Bangla village.“The SUV badly stuck under the truck. We had to bring a crane to extricate it and bring out the trapped persons after a 90-minute operation. We could not save four of them but five other injured persons were sent to Patliputra Medical college Hospital (PMCH) for treatment”, said Santosh Kumar, officer in-charge of Rajganj police station.Police official said nine people were in the SUV. The driver was form Varanasi while two others were from Pakur and one from Birbhum district of Bengal. “All were labourers returning to their native village from Varanasi”, police official said.Doctors at PMCH said the survivors had received multiple injuries in the accident. Diagnostic tests are being carried out. If needed, they could be referred to a super specialty hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-five-injured-as-suv-ploughs-into-truck-in-dhanbad/story-DQiykYzh1MGwY4qAFRPOGP.html
10-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Justin Trudeau govt didn’t want to cancel military drill with China, reveal secret papers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Justin Trudeau govt didn’t want to cancel military drill with China, reveal secret papersAn aide of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had opposed a move by the Canadian military last year to cancel training with China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) due to security concerns, according to a media report. Read more With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbersThe number of farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders is increasing with each passing day with more from across Punjab and Haryana making a beeline to join the protest in the national capital against the three farm laws that they deem to be detrimental to their livelihood. Read more ‘New Parliament building will be witness to Atmanirbhar Bharat’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament complex, saying it will serve India of 21st century. Read more Robot in Kerala polling booth tells voters to follow Covid-19 normsSivaraman Nair (68), a retired government servant was in for a surprise Thursday morning when he reached his polling booth in Ernakulam community hall to vote in the local body polls. Read more India vs England: BCCI announces schedule, Ahmedabad to host Day-Night TestThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Thursday announced the itinerary for England’s tour of India, which will begin with a four-match Test series from February 5th, 2021. Read more Niharika Konidela ties the knot with Chaitanya Jonnalagadda, see their pics with Chiranjeevi, Allu Arjun and Ram CharanIn what can be best described as a big fat royal wedding, actor Niharika Konidela tied the knot with Chaitanya Jonnalagadda in Udaipur’s Udaivilas on Wednesday night. Read more Amid dipping ratings, viewership and toxic workplace allegations, Ellen Degeneres buys a $49 million house next to Prince Harry and Meghan MarkleWhile the world is reeling with financial burdens on account of the coronavirus pandemic, Ellen Degeneres, formerly beloved talk show host of the Ellen show, also known for flipping multimillion dollar homes has bought a Dennis Miller’s palatial estate in an exclusive gated community in Montecito at an estimated $49 million. Read more New 2021 Harley-Davidson bikes coming in January, including Pan AmericaThe legendary American motorcycle making brand, Harley-Davidson on Thursday announced that it is going to preview the upcoming all-new Pan America adventure motorcycle on January 19, 2021. Read more Watch: Rajnath Singh calls on ASEAN Defence Ministers to combat bio-terrorism, pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-justin-trudeau-govt-didn-t-want-to-cancel-military-drill-with-china-reveal-secret-papers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-FK5OPTujowRzlOFpP8pRzJ.html
10-12-2020||India||Govt ready for talks, urge farmer leaders to go through the proposal, says Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the government is ready to hold discussions with farmers to end the impasse over farm laws. Addressing a press conference, he also reiterated that the new laws passed by Parliament in September will benefit the farmers. He also urged farmers to go through the proposal of amendments that government is planning to incorporate in the farm laws and set a date for discussion. “The government is ready for the discussion,” Tomar also said.“I urge unions to set a date for discussion; we are ready to listen,” Tomar said.Also Read | With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbersTomar assured farmers that the new laws will not affect the APMC Act or the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism. “We sent a proposal to farmers, but they wanted that laws be repealed. We are of the stand that government is ready for open-minded discussions on provisions they have an objection against. Laws don’t affect APMCs or MSP. We tried to explain this to farmers.”“MSP has got nothing to do with these laws. They do not affect MSP at all. PM had I have explained and assured the farmers that MSP will continue,” Tomar also said.Further reiterating Centre’s stand, Tomar said that laws were passed in an effort to free farmers form the Mandi system and allow them to sell their crops outside the marketplace.Also Read | Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protestThe minister also tried to allay fears of the farmers.“It is being projected that the land of farmers will be occupied by industrialists. Contract farming has been going on for long in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka but there has never been such experience,” said Tomar.Meanwhile, Union minister Piyush Goyal who was also present at the briefing, said, “Modi government was, is and will continue to be committed to the farmers of the country.”Goyal also said that there is no compulsion on the farmers, they are being given an option to sell their produce.The address comes a day after government sent a draft proposal of amendments to farmers as it sought to resolve the issue over the farm laws, enacted in the September this year. However, the farmers rejected the proposal and remained firm on the demand to repeal the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ready-for-talks-urge-farmer-leaders-to-go-through-the-proposal-says-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-hd7LkvBm0k8xhZElqL5yuL.html
10-12-2020||India||‘Deplorable’: Amit Shah, Piyush Goyal condemn attack on JP Nadda’s convoy||Union home minister Amit Shah condemned the attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda’s convoy, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata on Thursday.“Today, the National President of BJP in Bengal @JPNadda was attacked. The attack is condemnable. The central government is taking this attack very seriously. The Bengal government will have to answer to the peace loving people of the state for this sponsored violence,” he wrote on Twitter.Also Read: JP Nadda’s cavalcade stoned in Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency in BengalShah added that the state had gone into an era of tyranny under the Trinamool Congress’ rule and democratic values were being threatened in the state.“Bengal has gone into an era of tyranny, anarchy and darkness under the Trinamool rule. The manner in which political violence has been institutionalized and brought to the extreme within West Bengal under TMC rule is sad and worrying for all those who believe in democratic values,” he tweeted.Union minister Piyush Goyal also condemned the attack and called it “deplorable”, adding that it was carried out in an attempt to suffocate democracy.Also Read: BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy attacked in Bengal. He responds with 2021 prophecy“It was a deplorable incident. There were clear signals emanating from the establishment that they are uncomfortable with the growing popularity of the BJP. Attempt to muzzle democracy in West Bengal,” he said.“Strictest of action should be taken against goons who attacks the national president of the BJP. It is not only an attack on Nadda ji, but an attack on the democratic foundation of the country. We condemn the heinous incident of attack on JP Nadda ji,” he said.Stones were hurled on Nadda’s vehicle and BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also completely ransacked, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.“On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji’s vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deplorable-amit-shah-piyush-goyal-condemn-attack-on-jp-nadda-s-convoy/story-VxEnRMYkmvAngxhR9VUQdP.html
10-12-2020||India||Law-making process ‘unconstitutional’, BJP leader urges PM, home minister for reform||Calling the existing law-making process “undemocratic and unconstitutional”, senior Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay has urged the Prime Minister and home minister to put a new process in place. He said that the draft of any new legislation should be put in the public domain for two months so that people get adequate time to discuss it and give their feedback.Referring to the ongoing farmers’ protest in the Capital against the three farm laws, Upadhyay said that the law is not anti-farmer, but they are protesting due to misinformation. The protest has disrupted life in the National Capital Region (NCR), he said.Upadhyay said, “There is a need to change the law-making process, as the existing process is not only undemocratic, but unconstitutional also. I have urged the PM to amend the process. I’ll be writing to him today.”He tweeted a video on Thursday expressing concern about the process. In the 2.19-minute video, Upadhyay said, “The existing law-making process is faulty. The law is made in the name of people’s welfare, but their opinion is not taken.”Like the three farm laws, the Citizenship Amendment Act had led to large scale protests throughout the country last year. He said that the laws despite being citizen-friendly are being misunderstood by people due to lack of information.Speaking to HT, Upadhyay said, “The IAS officers who draft the laws don’t even have practical knowledge about the issues. There are no detailed discussions done before the law is enacted, as a result, we have seen protests and PILs against the laws in the recent past despite them being citizen-friendly laws. The CAA was not anti-Muslim and the three farm laws are not anti-farmer, but due to misinformation, it has resulted in protests by people.”He added, “The three farm laws are not anti-farmer, but anti-middlemen. But due to the misinformation campaign and lack of awareness among people, farmers are on the streets. The ongoing protest has disrupted life in the NCR and adversely impacted the economy.”He has requested the PM to amend the law-making process. “To avoid misinformation, it’s important that the draft of the law should be put on law ministry’s website two months (60 days) in advance. This will give time to people, politicians and elected members to discuss it at the grassroot level. The discussions on the draft law can be better if MPs have the draft of the proposed law in advance. This will not only bring a strong legislation, but also reduce the number of PILs filed in the court. The recent laws such as CAA have been challenged in the court,” said Upadhyay, a former Delhi BJP spokesperson. Upadhyay, an AAP rebel, had joined the BJP in 2014. Delhi BJP said it is Upadhyay’s personal opinion. “Delhi BJP doesn’t endorse Upadhyay’s views. It is his personal view and shouldn’t be seen as the party’s view. The PM and the government know the law-making process very well. They are well aware of the issues,” said Harish Khurana, Delhi BJP spokesperson and media relation in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-making-process-unconstitutional-bjp-leader-urges-pm-home-minister-for-reform/story-V08XtqWP76v0D9rrGuLcdP.html
10-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand HC seeks govt’s reply on mandatory online registration for Mahakumbh pilgrims||With Mahakumbh 2021 scheduled to start in January, Uttarakhand high court has directed the state government to file its reply by December 23 on the suggestion of making online registration mandatory for pilgrims attending the four-month mega religious congregation, said Shiv Bhatt, counsel of one of the petitioners. The court’s directions came while hearing a bunch of PILs on Wednesday. The PILs have been filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. The HC hears these PILs related to the Covid-19 situation in the state on every Wednesday. Mahakumbh will begin from January 1 and conclude on April 28. The first Shahi Snaan (royal bath) of Mahakumbh will be held on March 11(Shivratri), second on April 12 (Somwati Amawasya) and the third on April 14 (Baisakhi Mesh Poornima). The Mahakumbh is held once in 12 years.Before the pandemic, over 12 crore pilgrims were expected to participate in the mahakumbh. But now it is not clear yet how many pilgrims would actually turn up. Shiv Bhatt, counsel of Sachdanand Dabral said that he and the government counsel Rakesh Thapliyal had put forth many suggestions for checking Covid-19 spread during Mahakumbh like making online registration a must for pilgrims. “I also apprised the court that the state government had earlier stated that pilgrims would have to go for Covid test before attending Mahakumbh. The court directed the state government to file an affidavit on preparedness for checking Covid spread during mahakumbh by December 23”, he said. On November 24, the Uttarakhand government had stated that it was planning to allow pilgrims to attend Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while reviewing the Mahakumbh preparations had said “It is our responsibility to ensure that pilgrims are able to take holy bath safely amid this pandemic. For that, a mechanism should be made to allow only those pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test and test negative,” he had said. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 79,000 Covid-19 cases and a total of 1,320 people have died of the disease. Haridwar district, where the Kumbh is scheduled, has so far reported the second highest Covid-19 cases in the state (12,551 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-seeks-govt-s-reply-on-mandatory-online-registration-for-mahakumbh-pilgrims/story-3ApksPt7uIJF0dQuMIDeQP.html
10-12-2020||India||Activist Trupti Desai, on her way to Shirdi to remove temple notice, detained||Social activist Trupti Desai and some members of her outfit were detained at Ahmednagar in Maharashtra on Thursday while they were going to Shirdi to remove boards put up outside the Saibaba temple asking devotees to dress in a “civilised” manner.Workers of various political parties celebrated her detention by bursting crackers.The trust at Saibaba temple has put up boards appealing to devotees to be dressed in a “civilised” manner, or as per the “Indian culture”, when they come to the sacred place to offer prayers following complaints from locals and other devotees. Trust’s Chief Executive Officer Kanhuraj Bagate had clarified that it is only an appeal, and the trust has not imposed any dress code on devotees. On her way to Shirdi in a bus, Desai was stopped by police near Supe and later detained with her supporters. Earlier on Tuesday, sub-divisional magistrate Govind Shinde had served notice to Desai, asking her not to enter Shirdi in Ahmednagar district from December 8 midnight to December 11 midnight citing law and order. Desai defied the notice and headed to Shirdi with over 10 members of her outfit ‘Bhumata Brigade’ to remove the boards at the Saibaba temple there. Ahmednagar Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil said the police have detained around 15 people, including Desai. “The action against Desai has been taken under section 68 of the Bombay Police Act,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-trupti-desai-on-her-way-to-shirdi-to-remove-temple-notice-detained/story-uECr2lE6JzV4PIElGVr86H.html
10-12-2020||India||‘Will end protest only after govt repeals farm laws’, says farmer leader Tikait||The farmers protesting against the three new farm laws passed by Parliament have once again said that they are not going to end their stir till the legislations are repealed. The farmers’ stand was reiterated by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is spearheading the stir.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said that the government is interested only in ending the protest instead of resolving the issue.“They (central government) want amendment in them but we want these laws to be repealed. We don’t want changes. We will end our protest only when these laws are withdrawn,” Tikait was quoted as saying by new agency ANI. He further demanded that the government should bring a bill on the minimum support price (MSP) as it has no policy on the same. “Like the government brought the three bills, they should also bring a bill on the MSP,” he said, ANI reported.Also Read | With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbersThe comments come a day after the government sent a proposal of amendments which it plans to incorporate in the farm laws to the protesters at the Singhu border near Delhi. However, the agitating farmers rejected the proposal and demanded the complete withdrawal of the laws passed in September.On the prospect of future talks with the government, Tikait said they are still ready, even after several rounds of talks. “Whenever the government invites us, we will talk to them,” Tikat said, according to ANI.So far, five rounds of talks have taken place between government and farmers but no solution has been found to end the stir.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sellThe farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Meanwhile, the protesters on Wednesday announced that they will intensify their agitation by blocking highways to further increase the pressure on the government. On Wednesday, the union leaders said that there will be sit-ins near BJP offices on December 14. On December 12, they will block Delhi-Jaipur and Agra highways.They have also given a call to the farmers from other parts of the country to reach Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-end-protest-only-after-govt-repeals-farm-laws-says-farmer-leader-tikait/story-BNpEpvQIogoPWJUrQnwc4H.html
10-12-2020||India||No one can stop making of Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM Modi||India will not allow its “flood of opportunities” to go waste, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday, indicating the growing potential for India in a post-Covid world order. The PM also emphasised that no force can stop the making of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and that debates and discussions must continue in Indian democracy both inside and outside Parliament, as he laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building here. At the star-studded event, attended by senior ministers, foreign envoys, top industrialists and others, the Prime Minister spoke about 21st century being India’s century and added, “At times, it looks like there is a flood of opportunities for India. There’s no way we can let go of these opportunities. We can’t waste time. No one can stop making of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.” Observers feel that Modi hinted about utilising the growing opportunities for India as the world looks forward to a post-Covid scenario with the arrival of vaccines. Also read | HIGHLIGHTS: We will have to take the pledge of ‘India First’, says PM ModiModi also invoked Guru Nanak to say that you speak sometimes and you listen at other times, as long as life continues. “Debate and discussion must go on both inside and outside Parliament. Service to the nation must also continue,” he said. The PM also emphasised that the responsibility of his government is to uphold democracy while all its policies are aimed at “nation first”. Hailing the day as historic, Modi described the event as a moment of pride for 130 crore Indians. “The construction of a new Parliament building is the symbol of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. It is also a symbol of coexistence of old and new,” the PM said, adding that he can’t forget the moment when he entered Parliament as an MP in 2014 and he bowed before the building. “When India got Independence, there was a lot of apprehension whether democracy can survive in India, given its poverty, social condition, literary levels. Predictions were made that democracy would fail in India. Today, we can say with pride that those apprehensions have been proved wrong,” the PM said. He also cited evidence of democratic systems and writings in ancient India, much before Magna Carta, to say that “One day, the world will recognise India as the mother of democracy.” The new building, the PM said, would not only give more facilities to lawmakers and inspire them to work more, but will be a witness to Aatmanirbhar Bharat, fulfilling aspirations of a 21st century India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-force-can-stop-making-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-says-pm-as-he-lays-foundation-stone-of-new-parliament-building/story-fbfekSnHJeKAgK0w4CFsSK.html
10-12-2020||India||Robot in Kerala polling booth tells voters to follow Covid-19 norms||Sivaraman Nair (68), a retired government servant was in for a surprise Thursday morning when he reached his polling booth in Ernakulam community hall to vote in the local body polls.At the polling booth, there was a robot which greeted him, took his temperature, gave him sanitizer and instructed him in a sweet voice to keep the required distance at the venue amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Named Sayabot the robot completed its task in one minute. Nair had read about robots in Japan and China but this was the first time he came across one, that too in a crowded polling booth. Sayabot seems to have bowled over both voters and officials.When another voter came her temperature was slightly high and it immediately advised the voter to approach the polling officer and exercise her franchise separately so as to avoid possible infection to others. It went on to remind another voter who was wearing his mask casually, to cover his nose properly. “Perhaps, this is the first a robot is being deployed in a polling booth in the country. It is doing its job perfectly. It enforced discipline and distancing in style. This is on a pilot basis and after gauging its success we will deploy it in other places after consulting the election commissioner and others,” said Ernakulam district collector S Suhas. Sayabot was developed by a Kochi-based start-up firm Asimov Robotics. “We are making a multi-purpose humanoid service robot, called Sayabot. It is a versatile robot that can be customised to perform assigned tasks with precision and accuracy,” said CEO of Asimov Robotics T Jayakrishnan. He said the robot at the polling station was developed in two days after the district administration approached his firm. He said Sayabot robots were deployed in banks, education and hospitality sectors in the state and outside. Polling began Thursday morning in five districts - Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad - in the second phase of the local body elections. The hotly- contested poll is crucial for major parties in the state ahead of the assembly elections due in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/robot-in-kerala-polling-booth-tells-voters-to-follow-covid-19-norms/story-bCNqoXbTwPjWZtHFM6GcXO.html
10-12-2020||India||With no end to deadlock on 3 laws, farmers pile up pressure with numbers||The number of farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders is increasing with each passing day with more from across Punjab and Haryana making a beeline to join the protest in the national capital against the three farm laws that they deem to be detrimental to their livelihood.The agitation entered the 14th day on Wednesday with a constant flow of farmers carrying black flags on their actor-trailers, SUVs, cars, trucks and canters, marching forward on NH 44----- Delhi-Chandigarh national highway-- towards the national capital.With talks with Union government remaining inconclusive, the farmer leaders are requesting more and more followers to join the protests to increase the pressure on the government for the withdrawal of the three laws. Farmers in the villages along the highways and Gurdwaras are serving langar (community kitchen) for travelling farmers. Another reason behind the continuing surge in the numbers lies in the fact that sowing of wheat is over and the farmers are free for about a month till the first irrigation of the crop.Also Read: Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protest“We hired a bus and 45 farmers from my village left for Delhi on Wednesday morning as we should help our brothers and sisters, who are sitting there for the past two weeks,” said Rampal Sharma from Bhor Saidan village of Kurukshetra district.“We want to tell our chief minister that farmers from Haryana are also with their counterparts from Punjab and we will stay in Delhi until these anti-farmer laws are withdrawn,” said a young farmer, Vikas Kamboj, from Yamunanagar.He is on way to Delhi with his four friends in his black SUV.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sell Farmers, especially the youth, are expressing their solidarity with ongoing agitation using social media. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has also created a WhatsApp group to give live updates and video messages to his supporters from the Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-no-end-to-deadlock-on-3-laws-farmers-pile-up-pressure-with-numbers/story-cZHwZQR0nTRj04sSfGPkEL.html
10-12-2020||India||Jewar airport: Swiss developer selects four-company consortium to design passenger terminal||Swiss developer Zurich Airport International has selected a four-company consortium to design the passenger terminal for the greenfield Noida airport in Jewar, one of its top officials said on Thursday.“We conducted a design competition where we invited three international teams to make proposals on how they would design this airport, taking into account efficiency and net zero emissions, digital airport and other main traits that we want to see,” Daniel Bircher, Chairman and Managing Director, Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) told PTI.YIAPL is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Zurich Airport International and has been incorporated to develop the Noida airport in Jewar.“We have chosen the team comprising Nordic, Grimshaw, Haptic and STUP - a team of four companies from Norway, England and India,” Bircher said.Members of this team have designed the Hyderabad airport and the new Istanbul airport, he said, adding that Grimshaw was involved in designing one of the terminals at Zurich airport around 20 years ago.“They are already at work. We expect them to conclude the key design activities by next June or July so that we are in a position to contract our construction partner to build the airport,” Bircher said.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh government and Zurich Airport International signed a concession agreement on October 7 to begin the construction of the Noida airport, estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore.Bircher said six design parameters were given to the architect teams during the competition.“First one was simplicity and clarity, second was context and local culture, third element was operational efficiency, fourth element was comfort and convenience, fifth element was short walking distances and sixth element was flexibility and modularity,” he said.When it won the bid on November 29, 2019, to build and operate the Noida airport, the Swiss developer had said the airport will be able to handle 12 million passengers per year after the first phase of construction.Last week, it submitted the master plan for the first phase of construction to the UP government.Bircher said the company has also started interacting with people via social media platforms and started surveys about the Noida airport.The surveys will tell the company what passengers expect when they enter the terminal, which services are important for them, and how they view the different aspects of agility, he said.Zurich Airport International currently holds 100 per cent shareholding in the Noida airport project, which is around 70 km from the main Delhi region.Bircher said the company is looking to create a very specific digital product that can provide passengers a contactless and seamless passage inside the airport.“We are looking at a number of contactless solutions as well. We are looking very closely at the biometric solutions for the contactless travel through the airport along the lines of Digi Yatra standards in India. We are looking at a very specific digital product for our customers,” he said.The Indian government’s Digi Yatra initiative seeks to promote paperless and hassle-free air travel. It is a biometrics-based digital processing system for passenger entry and related requirements at the airport.“We have conducted about 30 conference calls with all the major players to understand what are the new models and we are firming our strategy on how we want to deploy it,” Bircher said.Zurich Airport International had outbid Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Adani Enterprises and Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Limited to win the 40-year concession for the Noida airport on November 29 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jewar-airport-swiss-developer-selects-four-company-consortium-to-design-passenger-terminal/story-IfTGLIPTouY9WCEzoj3gXM.html
10-12-2020||India||‘New Parliament building will be witness to Atmanirbhar Bharat’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament complex, saying it will serve India of 21st century. Calling it the beacon of democracy, the Prime Minister said that the previous Parliament house - which was constructed 100 years ago - fulfilled the needs of the country, and the building will fulfill the country’s aspirations and ambitions.“I can never forget the moment in my life when I had the opportunity to come to Parliament House for the first time in 2014 as an MP. Then before stepping into this temple of democracy, I had bowed my head and saluted this temple of democracy,” PM Modi said at an address after the groundbreaking ceremony in New Delhi.Foundation-laying ceremony of new Parliament building: Track live updates“This is a day of pride for over 130 crore Indians when we are witnessing this historic moment. The new Parliament building is an example of the co-existence of the new and the old. This is an effort to make changes within oneself in accordance with the time and needs,” he further said.He then talked about how the new Parliament complex will help the legislators as well as those who come to meet them. PM Modi said that there were space constraints in the old building, but that has been taken care of in the new complex. “The current Parliament building is nearly 100 years old; it was upgraded many times, but now it needs rest,” said PM Modi.“The old building fulfilled the needs of the country, the new Parliament building will fulfill the country’s aspirations. If the old Parliament House gave direction to post-Independence India, the new building would become a witness to the creation of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’,” he added.The Prime Minister then delved into democratic history of India, saying the texts available here are older than the Magna Carta, which is considered the foundation of democracy. “Magna Carta was written in 13th century, but philosopher Basavanna envisioned a public Parliament in 12th century in the form of Anubhav Mantapa,” said PM Modi.“If we go back further, some ancient inscriptions in Tamil Nadu from 10th century talk about categorising villages into groups - like modern day wards. They also talked about disqualifying a public representatives from contesting elections. The criteria was to declare the contestants and their relatives’ assets,” he added.The Prime Minister said it is ironic that other countries teach India about democracy. “When other countries talk about democracy, they only discuss elections and other administrative issues. But in India, democracy is a sacred, a way of life. The democratic system has been developed based on centuries long experiences. There were several changes, but the spirit remained as it is. Ironically, other countries teach is about democracy. I think that day will soon come when out countries will say ‘India is mother of democracy’,” said PM Modi.He then emphasised on the spirit of democracy and why it is important. The Prime Minister also said that there can be differences, but the ultimate goal should be to serve people.“We’ll have to take the pledge of ‘India First’. Our decisions should make nation stronger and be measured on the same scale - that nation’s welfare comes first. Our efforts in next 25-26 years should be towards how do we want to see India in 2047, in our 100 years of Independence,” said PM Modi.He also called upon the political leaders to breathe life in the new building by following the dynamic principles of democracy.Earlier on Thursday, PM Modi laid the foundation stone for the new building of Parliament. The ceremony was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, foreign envoys and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. The new Parliament building will cost Rs 971 crore and is estimated to be completed by 2022. The current Parliament building was constructed by the British and its foundation stone was laid on February 12, 1921.The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats, keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-building-will-be-witness-to-atmanirbhar-bharat-pm-modi/story-tKHqVKWR93smblUyRuizqK.html
10-12-2020||India||Apollo hospital chain ready to vaccinate 1 million daily||India’s largest hospital chain says it’s ready to administer one million coronavirus vaccine doses a day, but the government has not made clear how vaccines will be distributed and whether private health-care networks will be involved.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Apollo Hospitals Enterprise Ltd. has so far trained 6,000 staff to give out jabs across its network of 71 hospitals, hundreds of clinics and thousands of pharmacies, according to Managing Director Suneeta Reddy, who said the company’s talks with officials in New Delhi had yet to provide any firm guidance.“We need to know if the government wants to handle the whole thing or allow the private sector to do it,” Reddy said in an interview Tuesday. “The issue here is how can we double the amount of people that can be vaccinated,” she said from Chennai, adding that Apollo is ready to help in any capacity. The government “can do it, but it will take time.”How and if India decides to work with its large network of private hospitals on vaccine distribution could be crucial to any success in reining in the world’s second-worst outbreak, which has inflicted deep economic damage. India may start inoculation efforts within weeks as front-running developers apply for emergency authorization.There will be a “flood of Covid vaccines” in the next five to six months, Krishna Ella, the chairman of Bharat Biotech International Ltd. -- which is producing one of India’s leading indigenous candidates -- told a conference on Tuesday.Apollo has been telling clients via its digital app that a shot “should be available in 60-120 days” and customers will “be the first ones to know about the vaccines.”Capacity ConcernsCompanies vying to roll out those vaccines, along with public health experts, have raised concerns about India’s capacity to swiftly inoculate its population of about 1.3 billion people. There are also fears of unequal access, given the enormous wealth disparities across India’s cities and vast hinterlands.Apollo Hospitals has held talks with the Serum Institute of India Ltd., the world’s largest vaccine maker which has already produced millions of doses of AstraZeneca Plc’s shot. But Reddy said developers are waiting on direction from New Delhi “because all of them have committed capacity to the government first.”Rajesh Bhushan, secretary to the federal health ministry, told Bloomberg last month that India will rely on its national immunization network, which currently targets 26.7 million newborns and 29 million pregnant women every year. Experts believe that system will need to be significantly built up with help from private players to meet India’s needs.Private hospitals in India have been criticized for sitting on the sidelines of the coronavirus crisis. Though the private sector accounts for around 60% of India’s total hospital bed capacity, there were widely reported instances of some private hospitals and doctors refusing to treat Covid-19 patients as cases accelerated in India starting from June.Apollo has treated more than 30,000 Covid patients and provided about 400,000 tests, said Suneeta Reddy, one of four daughters of octogenarian founder Prathap C. Reddy, who established the company in 1983. India has nearly 10 million cases of the coronavirus, and is adding over 30,000 new infections daily.The company saw a “lost quarter” earlier this year, Reddy said. This followed the sudden decision by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to impose a draconian national lockdown in March with little notice. While Reddy said she supported the restrictions, Apollo suffered a loss of 2.08 billion rupees ($28 million) in the three months through June, though it’s seeing a better-than-expected recovery, posting net income of 602.7 million rupees in the latest quarter.Medical TourismWith about 12% of the firm’s revenue derived from international customers, Apollo has received a blow from the near total disappearance of thousands of overseas patients who visit India each year. Until October, India had closed its borders to medical tourism, a market that was expected to be worth $9 billion in 2020, according to the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry.A rise in local demand has compensated for that loss, Reddy said. Many wealthy Indian patients who used to go abroad for treatments are now Apollo’s customers. Occupancy rates across Apollo’s hospitals now runs at about 67%, close to pre-pandemic levels. Roughly 15%-20% of those are Covid patients in specially segregated facilities, she said.“I’ve always said the international thing was just icing on the cake, definitely not our bread and butter,” Reddy said. “It’s great if it comes, but without it we’ve learned to meaningfully fill our beds.”The company will raise up to 15 billion rupees through an equity issue in January, Reddy said. The proceeds will be used to acquire IHH Healthcare Bhd.’s remaining 50% stake in a Kolkata hospital, reduce Apollo’s debt, as well as fund upgrades of its digital app and any potential bolt-on acquisitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apollo-hospital-chain-ready-to-vaccinate-1-million-daily/story-zbawfZccnf3w8fHW3j5olK.html
10-12-2020||India||Swiggy to onboard nearly 30,000 street food vendors under PM SVANidhi scheme||Food delivery platform Swiggy on Thursday announced the expansion of its “Street Food Vendors” programme to 125 cities under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s Atmanibhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme.The expansion comes on the heels of a successful pilot launched by the delivery service in collaboration with the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs in the cities of Ahmedabad, Varanasi, Chennai, Delhi and Indore, where 300 street vendors were onboarded.PM SVANidhi or Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi scheme, was launched on June 1, 2020, by the ministry of housing and urban affairs to help street vendors, who were impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, resume their livelihood activities. The scheme aims to provide working capital loans up to Rs10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest. The interest subsidy on timely or early repayment of the loan is at 7% and street vendors will be allowed to repay the loan in monthly instalments in one year. With the collaboration, Swiggy becomes the first food delivery platform to partner with the government. In a press release, it said, “At the time of onboarding, all vendors are registered with FSSAI. Swiggy will then facilitate a Food Safety Training and Certification in partnership with FSSAI and their empanelled partners.” “By updating the app, customers in Ahmedabad, Chennai, Delhi, Indore and Varanasi can find ‘Street Vendor’ under the restaurant category. The app homepage also has banners that lead users directly to a range of street vendor listings,” it added.Swiggy COO Vivek Sunder said the company was working to ensure doorstep delivery of people’s favourite street food. “Even as we go through more stages of unlock, there has been a long-term change in consumer behaviour regarding continued social distancing and heightened demand for online services, like food delivery...We’re delighted to bring them their favourite street food which they have been missing for many months now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiggy-to-onboard-nearly-30-000-street-food-vendors-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/story-Fub8wGCozsA4WNa2NpvTgP.html
10-12-2020||India||JP Nadda’s cavalcade stoned in Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency in Bengal||The vehicles of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J P Nadda, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh and several other state and national leaders of the saffron party were stoned while they were going to attend an organizational meeting at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on Thursday afternoon. The assault was telecast live by several Bengali news channels. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged. Diamond Harbour is the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Over the last few weeks, the BJP has sharpened its attack on Abhishek Banerjee and the chief minister, calling them bhaipo (nephew in Bengali) and pishi (aunt) at almost every public meeting and in social media posts. The windows and windshields of several vehicles were smashed in the attack on Thursday. Vijayvargiya and BJP national secretary Anupam Hazra were hurt by pieces of stones. The BJP leadership alleged that the attack was planned to foil Nadda’s programme and there were no policemen along the highway connecting Kolkata to Diamond Harbour. “Bengal has become a state of lawlessness and a state of intolerance. It is because of the blessings of Maa Durga that I reached here. The hooligans of the Trinamool Congress left no stones unturned to stop us. I am safe because I have a bullet proof car,” Nadda said while addressing party workers at the meeting. “This mentality to crush democracy has to be crushed. We need your cooperation and blessings. This government needs to be ousted. Is this the culture Rabindranath Tagore and Rishi Aurobindo left for us?” said Nadda. “Eight BJP workers were killed last month. More than 130 of them have been killed in recent years. It is a shame on democracy. There is no administration. We could not have moved in the state if we did not have security cover. I can understand what our workers must be facing. Democracy has collapsed here. Prepare for elections. The lotus will bloom in Diamond Harbour,” said Nadda. No police officer commented on the incident till 1.45 pm. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar wrote a tweet on the incident and said the government took no precaution. “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy and lawlessness @MamataOfficial indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP President Convoy and political police @WBPolice in support. This happening inspite of my alerts to CS & DGP early morning indicated collapse of law & order,” tweeted the governor. Harmad is an almost a 200-year-old word people in Bengal’s coastal belt coined for Portuguese pirates but these days it is commonly used in reference to people involved in political violence.The chief secretary and the director general of police are supposed to meet the governor in the evening. It is a pre-scheduled meetingAlso Read: ‘Lotus will bloom in Bengal in 2021’: BJP chief JP Nadda after convoy attackedBengal panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged at a press conference that Nadda has been provoking people since Wednesday and the attack could have been carried out by BJP workers with an ulterior motive. “We have seen the BJP carrying out such attacks on their own people in other states. The government will conduct an inquiry. If it is found that our men were involved, then we will definitely take action. Action will also be taken if BJP workers were behind it,” said Mukherjee.“We have reports that the BJP has been circulating provocative videos when Nadda’s convoy was on the move. I urge our party supporters to stay away from BJP people,” said Mukherjee. Also Read: BJP Bengal unit informs Amit Shah about alleged lapses in party chief Nadda’s security coverState Urban development minister Firhad Hakim suggested that the state government was not asked for security cover for Nadda. “They did not even inform the state government who is coming and who is going. The Central government provides security cover to Nadda and other BJP leaders. If they had asked for security cover, we would have made arrangements,” Hakim said on the sidelines of a TMC programme. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh told the media that the attack was a proof of how security of opposition leaders is at stake. “This is a breach in security although the state government was informed about the programme. Abhishek Banerjee’s men attacked the cars and assaulted our local supporters as well. They were attached with stones and sticks,” said Ghosh. Bottles were thrown at an SUV in which Ghosh’s security personnel were travelling. Ghosh was travelling in Nadda’s car. On Wednesday, Nadda was shown black flags by a group of Hindi-speaking youths outside the new office of the party in south Kolkata shortly after he arrived in the city on a two-day visit. The demonstrators condemned the new farm laws and shouted “J P Nadda murdabad, BJP murdabad” (down with J P Nadda, down with the BJP). The agitators were not carrying flags of any political party. It was a snap demonstration that caught the police and BJP workers by surprise. The demonstrators climbed up on the cars parked outside the office and raised slogans. This was the first time any BJP leader in Bengal faced a demonstration on the farm laws issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-s-cavalcade-stoned-in-abhishek-banerjee-s-constituency-in-bengal/story-YRIoQ8Iy5PnoYwC0eqiOxI.html
10-12-2020||India||Mukesh Ambani becomes grandfather as Shloka, Akash Ambani welcome baby boy||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani on Thursday became a grandfather after a son was born to his eldest son. “Shloka and Akash Ambani became proud parents of a baby boy today in Mumbai,” a statement from the Ambani family spokesperson said. Akash married diamantaire Russell Mehta’s daughter Shloka in March 2019. Ambani, 63, and his wife Nita have three children - twins Akash and Isha, 29 years old, and Anant, 25. The Ambani family is said to have returned to Mumbai just before Diwali last month after spending considerable time abroad. “Nita and Mukesh Ambani are delighted to become grandparents for the first time as they welcomed the great-grandson of Dhirubhai and Kokilaben Ambani,” the statement said. “The new arrival has brought immense joy to the Mehta and Ambani families.” Both mother and son are doing well, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukesh-ambani-becomes-grandfather/story-5NDGcROafSiZgiWNKFsQEL.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy attacked in Bengal. He responds with 2021 prophecy||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Thursday said that party is going to win next year’s Assembly elections in West Bengal. Nadda also lashed out at the state government for alleged security lapses during his ongoing visit.“I can say with confidence that Bharatiya Janata Party will form the next government in West Bengal in 2021, lotus will bloom,” Nadda said while addressing the party workers at South 24 Paraganas.He further said that there is intolerance and lawlwssness in West Bengal.“There isn’t a car in our convoy which was not attacked. I am safe because I was travelling in a bulletproof car. This state of lawlessness and intolerance in West Bengal has to end,” said the BJP chief.“Mukul Roy and Kailash Vijayvargiya were injured in the attack today. It is a shame on democracy,” Nadda added.His remarks came shortly after vehicles of BJP leaders were stoned when they were going to attend an organisational meeting at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district.The assault was telecast live by several Bengali news channels. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged.West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar expressed concern. “Concerned at alarming reports of anarchy & lawlessness. “Mamata Banerjee indicating ruling party harmads on rampage at BJP president convoy & political police. WB Police in support...I share my shame with you as it’s on account of your acts of omission & commission,” Dhankar said on Twitter.“On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji’s vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told news agency PTI.Ghosh has also written to Union home minister Amit Shah alleging security lapses during party national president J P Nadda’s ongoing tour of the state.Ghosh, in his letter, claimed that the “police allowed a mob of around 200 people, carrying bamboo sticks, to raise slogans, demonstrate and show black flags to Nadda” during his programme on Wednesday in Hastings area of the city.He also said that people were not stopped from getting close to the vehicle of Nadda, who enjoys Z-category security cover.He had urged Shah to issue directives to the state home secretary to provide adequate security cover during Nadda’s visit to Diamond Harbour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lotus-will-bloom-in-bengal-in-2021-bjp-chief-jp-nadda-after-convoy-attacked/story-7bidN6K8BptRIMnQR1pkXO.html
10-12-2020||India||All-faith prayer marks foundation stone-laying ceremony of new Parliament building||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building at an event on Thursday that was attended by leaders from various political parties, Cabinet ministers and ambassadors of different countries, an all-faith religious prayer was held to mark the ceremony. The bhoomi pujan in which PM Modi also took part was performed by pujaris from the Sringeri Math Karnataka. #WATCH: 'Sarva Dharma Prarthana' being performed by various religious leaders at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building, in Delhi. https://t.co/6NDd8e8B3p pic.twitter.com/1DRGf37tJVTata Trusts’ chairman Ratan Tata, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh and various religious leaders were also present at the event.Follow live updates of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the new Parliament buildingAmong other leaders, Union Home minister Amit Shah, Defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, foreign envoys and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also attended the ceremony.Delivering the keynote address at the event, Hardeep Singh Puri said, “In the last six years, PM Modi laid the foundation of a modern, strong, prosperous and self-reliant India with the inclusion of our proud history. In this continuation, today is a very important day.”To be built on an area of 64,500 square metres, the new Parliament building will have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space.In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while the Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses.At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha 245.In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-faith-prayer-marks-foundation-stone-laying-ceremony-of-new-parliament-building/story-DJvjMdUX6OYg04pxYUd5SN.html
10-12-2020||India||India, Nepal decide to resume flight services under air bubble arrangement||India and Nepal have decided to resume flight services between the two countries under an air bubble arrangement, sources said on Thursday. Initially, the service will start with one flight daily from each side between Delhi and Kathmandu, they said. “We had proposed to Nepal some time back and Nepal has cleared it now,” said a source.The sources said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, during his recent visit to Nepal, had highlighted the importance of people-to-people connectivity in sync with the special relationship between the two countries.The sources said the service will be started with Indians and Nepalese nationals and all those having valid Indian visa except tourist visa. People having Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) cards will also be allowed to travel.From the Indian side, the flights will be operated by Air India which, in normal times, had a daily flight between Delhi and Kathmandu, the sources said.“Air bubble arrangement will follow medical protocols as is being done with other countries which includes RT PCR test report of 72 hours prior to travel,” the source said. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-decide-to-resume-flight-services-under-air-bubble-arrangement/story-3FUNKouAz7RTi2aj9rwL8I.html
10-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik joins ED’s probe into ‘money laundering’ by TOPSGRUP||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, on Thursday, joined Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) money laundering probe linked to security service giant TOPSGRUP, owned by Rahul Nanda. The central agency suspects that the Sena legislator was involved in alleged financial irregularities and received kickbacks from the security company that was providing services to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). However, Sarnaik has been refuting all the accusations alleging a political vendetta.Sarnaik, who has secured interim relief from the Supreme Court in the case, reached the ED office around 11.30am on Thursday for enquiry.ED officials aware of the developments in the probe said that the anti-money laundering agency wishes to grill Sarnaik in connection with the suspicious funds transfers linking MMRDA security service contracts and Nanda.Nanda, too, has denied all the allegations against him in the past and said that Sarniak was his old friend but his company had no business with Sarnaik or Shiv Sena.Earlier, the agency raided several premises linked to Sarnaik and others in Mumbai and Thane. Later, the ED arrested Sarnaik’s close associate Amit Chandole last month and also TOPSGrup’s managing director M Shashidharan in the case. “Topsgrup had obtained a contract for providing security guards for the MMRDA projects in collusion with Pratap Sarnaik through illegal means by a well-thought out strategy,” ED had claimed.The agency claimed that the aim of these allegedly ‘illegal’ manoeuvres was to get additional benefits by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed at the cost of MMRDA and to procure illegal cash gratification for Sarnaik for facilitating the alleged irregularities. For his ‘active’ role and ‘criminal conspiracy’, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract, and sometimes, the money used to be transferred to the account of a third person, said the ED officials. Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from Topsgrup for the MMRDA projects, ED claimed. Therefore, part of the amount received by Topsgrup from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime, said ED. Also Read: Sanjay Raut’s retort to claim of ‘Pak-China hand’ behind farmers’ stirPreviously Sarnaik had claimed that he was being targeted by the Central agency for taking a stance against actor Kangana Ranaut and Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami.He even claimed that the ED officials told his son that his father (Sarnaik) spoke a lot on Ranaut and Goswami.‘I will continue to speak wherever Mumbai, Maharashtra or its police are maligned. I have done nothing wrong in my business,” he said last week after ED raided his properties and questioned his son, Vihang, who has been summoned for the second round of questioning.The agency said that other people linked to Sarnaik’s businesses would soon be asked to join the probe.ED’s money laundering probe against Nanda and his family members is based on an FIR registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court. The case was transferred to the Mumbai police economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation. The complaint filed by Ramesh lyer, the former chairman of Topsgrup, alleged that Nanda and others diverted huge funds from the firm’s accounts to various accounts in India and overseas. He further alleged that these funds were utilised by Nanda and others for their personal purposes such as purchasing property. The security firm was thus defrauded of Rs175 crore. Also Read: DGHS surrenders 262 vacant UG medical, dental seats from all-India quota to MaharashtraIyer and Topsgrup’s former director of finance Amar Panghal, in their statements, said, that in 2014, a contract was signed by Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd with MMRDA, according to which, 350-500 guards had to be deployed at project sites on a monthly basis. While only 70% of the guards were actually deployed, the firm billed MMRDA for all the guards and charged the authority for their salaries and provident fund, ED stated before the court. The duo reportedly also informed ED that huge cash amounts were withdrawn from the bank accounts of Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd and given to a former top executive. In financial year 2017-18, an amount of around Rs 92 lakh was handed over to the said executive and there was an arrangement with two persons, one of whom was Chandole, who got a monthly share of profits earned on the MMRDA contracts. In addition, a fixed commission of Rs 50,000 per month and Rs 500 per guard deployed was being paid to Chandole and the other man by the top executive, said ED. As per the details provided by lyer, from May 2017 to June this year, the amount aggregating to Rs 2.36 crore has been shared as commission. Of the said amount, Rs 90 lakh was paid through bank transfers to Chandole and the other man. As per lyer, all these amounts are still being paid from Topsgrup’s bank accounts and a commission of around Rs 7 crore has been paid to the duo since 2014, when the contract with MMRDA was initiated. During the course of investigation, the top executive’s statements were recorded on November 24 and 25, in which he purportedly said that Nanda acquired a United Kingdom (UK)-based firm, Shield Guarding Company Limited, in 2014 for around Rs 200-250 crore. On the pretext of meeting the expenses of the overseas company, Nanda used to allegedly siphon-off money from the Indian company for his and his family’s personal expenses, including buying several immovable properties in Dubai and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mla-sarnaik-joins-ed-s-probe-into-money-laundering-by-topsgrup/story-QHnVKk9l41P8NQuKI3vepJ.html
10-12-2020||India||Bring agri reforms in BJP-ruled states first, others may follow suit if they like the outcome: Raut to Centre on farmers’ protest||As the deadlock in the farmers-government talks continues, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has asked if the Centre is even serious about resolving the issue. The Sena MP also said that if the Centre wanted to bring in reforms it should have tried it first in one of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states.“The real question is does the Centre want to find a solution. If they wanted to find a solution, they would have. It seems that they want to keep this issue hanging. If the Centre wants to bring in reforms in agriculture, then it should start with BJP-ruled states, experiment there. The other states will see the outcome and accept it,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.A day after Union minister of state Raosaheb Danve claimed that Pakistan and China are behind the ongoing protests by farmers, the Sena leader said, “If a Union minister has information that China and Pakistan have a hand behind farmers’ agitation, then, the defence minister should immediately conduct a surgical strike on China and Pakistan.”Speaking at the inauguration of a health centre in Maharashtra’s Jalna district, Danve, the minister of state for consumer affairs, had said, “The agitation that is going on is not that of farmers. China and Pakistan have a hand in it. Muslims in this country were incited first. What was said (to them)? That NRC is coming, CAA is coming and Muslims will have to leave this country in six months. Did a single Muslim leave?” He added. “Those efforts didn’t succeed and now farmers are being told that they will face losses. This is the conspiracy of other countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-agri-reforms-in-bjp-ruled-states-first-others-may-follow-suit-if-they-like-the-outcome-raut-to-centre-on-farmers-protest/story-rLweftozRVmeDQ0Nn1J50J.html
10-12-2020||India||Haj 2021: Last date of submission of forms extended till January 10||In a meeting on Thursday to discuss the preparations and registrations for Haj 2021 amid Covid-19 pandemic situation, it has been decided that the last date of submission of forms for Haj 2021 will be extended till January 10, 2021. “The entire Haj 2021 process has been done with significant changes in view of the Corona pandemic. These include accommodation, period of stay of pilgrims, transportation, health and other facilities both in India and Saudi Arabia,” minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said after Thursday’s meeting.The last date for application was December 10. But it has been extended in the view of the Covid-19 situation. Haj 2021 will begin on July 17 and end on July 22.In 2021, the expected expenditure of Haj is likely to go up. While in 2019, the expenditure ranged between Rs 2,36,000 and Rs 3,22,000, the expenditure in 2021 can range between Rs 3,70,000 and Rs 5,25,000.In 2020, Saudi cancelled Haj for international pilgrims because of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haj-2021-last-date-of-submission-of-forms-extended-till-january-10/story-dQCiG9lNQVqQlkAUdrOGbI.html
10-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid, IPL among top global trends in Google’s ‘Year in Search 2020’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Google ‘Year in Search 2020’: Coronavirus, IPL among top global trendsSearch engine giant Google has released ‘Year in Search 2020’ to detail the top trending searches in India and around the globe this year. From the global pandemic to the US elections, the Year in Search continues to recapitulate the top search trends. Read more Rajnath Singh’s message at Asean meet aims at China, advocates self-restraintIn a thinly veiled reference to China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called on members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and its dialogue partners to exercise self-restraint and avoid actions that complicate the situation. Read more Traffic restrictions continue on Delhi borders as farmers carry on with protestTraffic restrictions continued on Delhi’s borders on Thursday as farmers carried on with their protest. Traffic police said that commuters travelling to and from Haryana can use single carriageway in Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Read more ‘I was having a drink with Ravi’: Ian Chappell reveals Shastri told him about India’s third seamerThere has been some debate regarding the selection of India’s third seamer for the upcoming Test series against Australia due to Ishant Sharma’s injury before the Indian Premier League. Read more Netflix reveals what Indians watched the most this yearNetflix has revealed what Indians watched the most this year. The list includes films, TV shows, reality shows and kids shows. Netflix also highlighted that India has the highest viewing of films on Netflix globally. Read more Hyundai gets ready for electric era, previews Ioniq 5 slated for 2021 launchHyundai Motor Company has given a glimpse of its Ioniq 5 electric vehicle (EV) which, in many ways, promises to catapult the company well and truly into the age of electric mobility. Read more Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives: Neelam says she heard a rumour about her being gay, reveals her reactionNeelam Kothari Soni opened up about the most bizarre rumour that she heard about herself -- that she is secretly in the closet. She made the revelation during a promotional interview for Fabulous Lives of Bollywood Wives and also shared her response to it. Read more Christmas 2020: Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Masaba Gupta join Hollywood A-listers including Celine Dion, Sophie Turner for viral Elf on Shelf challenge2020 has been the year of one new trend after the other, starting from banana bread and Dalgona coffee making right in the beginning of the coronavirus lockdown to the most recent one, given the Christmas spirit all around: the Elf on The Shelf challenge, which has been sweeping social media all around. Read more Meet Rory van Ulft, a 7-year-old girl who can lift weights of 80 kgThe Internet is filled with all sorts of stories. Some may make you cry, some may make you giggle and some may make you say “But, how?” The story of 7-year-old Rory van Ulft belongs to the last category. Read more Watch: ‘Only India can satisfy world’s demand for Covid-19 vaccines’: Australian Envoy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-ipl-among-top-global-trends-in-google-s-year-in-search-2020-and-all-the-latest-news/story-B09vmGVDPctQzU5wTKq05I.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP Bengal unit informs Amit Shah about alleged lapses in party chief Nadda’s security cover||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit has sent a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, informing the latter about the alleged lapses in security cover in BJP’s national president JP Nadda during his tour of the state. The letter also requests Shah to direct the home secretary of West Bengal to provide adequate security to Nadda who was in the state on a two-day tour. “We request you to issue required directives to the state home secretary on the matter of extending and providing adequate security cover during tomorrow’s (December 10) programme of JP Nadda. This is especially important in view of today’s (December 9) serious security lapses in Kolkata during his programme,” the letter written by state president Dilip Ghosh said. On Wednesday, Nadda participated in a door-to-door campaign at Bhowanipore in south Kolkata, which is the home turf of Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee. On Thursday, he would be camping at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas, which is the constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. Also read | 10 years of Mamata regime: TMC to release report card today“At our party office at Hastings in Kolkata, there was a mob of over 200 armed with sticks, bamboos etc., raising black flags. Some of them climbed on the cars parked outside the office and raised slogans. Police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within close range of Nadda’s vehicle,” said the letter. It also alleged that the pilot car didn’t provide any smooth passage and the convoy was stopped at various traffic intersections, raising security concerns. Ghosh’s letter also alleged that the state government failed to ensure full security arrangements as per government protocol during the visit of the BJP chief who has a Z category security cover by CRPF. Senior police officials refused to comment, saying that the state home department would do so.The state government had not issued any statements till 12noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bengal-unit-informs-amit-shah-about-alleged-lapses-in-party-chief-nadda-s-security-cover/story-LpdFTG53j323YWtGc1IexI.html
10-12-2020||India||India, Nepal to start flights under air bubble arrangement||India and Nepal have decided to start flights under a bilateral air bubble arrangement, people familiar with developments said on Thursday, marking another step by the two sides to normalise ties hit by a border row earlier this year. “Initially, we are starting with one daily flight from each side between Delhi and Kathmandu. From the Indian side, it will be Air India which had a daily flight between the two capitals in the pre-Covid-19 period,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Flights between the two countries and cross-border movement of people through several checkpoints were suspended following the outbreak of Covid-19. The movement of essential supplies and cargo, however, had continued as Nepal is largely dependent on imports from India. The move follows a string of visits to Nepal by senior Indian officials to reset ties that were hit after Kathmandu issued a new political map in May that included Indian territories, including the strategic Kalapani region. Following visits by Research and Analysis Wing chief Samant Goel and Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla travelled to Kathmandu last month for wide-ranging talks with the Nepalese leadership to take forward bilateral ties, especially in connectivity and trade. The two sides also agreed to respect each other’s sensitivities and handle the border issue through existing mechanisms. The people cited above said the creation of a bilateral air bubble arrangement had been proposed to Nepal by the Indian side some time ago, and Kathmandu had cleared the move after Shringla, during his recent visit, highlighted the importance of people-to-people connectivity in the special relations between the two sides. “We are starting the air bubble arrangement with Indian and Nepalese nationals and holders of Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) cards of all nationalities, and all valid Indian visa holders, except tourist visas,” said the person cited above. The air bubble arrangement will follow all medical protocols as is done with other countries that have similar arrangements, and this includes reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test report of 72 hours prior to the travel, the people said. India currently has air bubble arrangements with 22 countries, including the US, the UK, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman, Tanzania, the Netherlands, the Maldives, Japan and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-to-start-flights-under-air-bubble-arrangement/story-7Rd5zSuqa99lguZIQlxDjO.html
10-12-2020||India||Stones hurled at J P Nadda’s convoy, Vijayvargiya’s vehicle ransacked: Report||Stones were hurled on Thursday at BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy, when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car was also completely ransacked in the melee, sources in the saffron party said.Vehicles of media personnel, too, were not spared, the sources said.“On our way to Diamond Harbour, TMC supporters blocked the road and pelted Naddaji’s vehicle and other cars in the convoy with stones. This only shows the true colour of the TMC,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told PTI.The police later intervened and ensured the passage of the convoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-hurled-at-j-p-nadda-s-convoy-vijayvargiya-s-vehicle-ransacked-report/story-sJjy0eTaXhxapzgsCJl1PI.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest is movement to restore India’s democratic value: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||Asserting that the farmers are agitating in and around Delhi for the restoration of the democratic value of the country, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said every citizen is emotionally joining the protest against the recently enacted farm laws.“The farmers’ protest is a movement to restore the democratic value of India. And the general public should participate in all the decisions of the government; should not let it impose its will. That is the reason every citizen of the country is also emotionally connecting with the farmers’ protest to save democracy in India,” the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh tweeted in Hindi. ‘किसान आंदोलन’ भारत के इस लोकतांत्रिक मूल्य की पुनर्स्थापना का भी आंदोलन है कि सरकार के सभी फैसलों में आम जनता की भागीदारी होनी चाहिए; सरकार की मनमानी नहीं. इसीलिए भारत में लोकतंत्र को बचाने के लिए देश का हर नागरिक भी आज ‘किसान आंदोलन’ के साथ भावात्मक रूप से जुड़ता जा रहा है. pic.twitter.com/tLc2SPIwP2The tweet comes after the SP chief was detained by Uttar Pradesh Police while staging a sit-in in Lucknow on Monday. Prior to that, Yadav and his party workers had also protested as their vehicles en route to Kannauj were stopped by the state police.The SP chief has demanded that the Centre repeals the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-is-movement-to-restore-india-s-democratic-value-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav/story-NWHPZ9A355iY46zW0MKhMN.html
10-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address International Bharati Festival tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the International Bharati Festival, 2020 on Friday, December 11, via video conferencing, the Prime Minister’s Office informed on Thursday.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the International Bharati Festival, 2020 on December 11, 2020, at 04:30 pm via video conferencing. This year the festival is being organised in virtual mode and will see the participation of several national and international poets and artists,” the PMO said.Notably, the festival is being organised by Vanavil Cultural Centre to celebrate the 138th birth anniversary of Tamil poet and writer Mahakavi Subramanya Bharati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-international-bharati-festival-tomorrow/story-jVZ37ZGBDuqtqc1OcPAIhJ.html
10-12-2020||India||Trend to bulldoze democracy, crush fundamental rights: Mamata on Human Rights Day||There is a big trend to crush fundamental rights and muzzle the voice of the people, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Thursday, Human Rights Day. Every year, December 10 is observed as the Human Rights Day. It was on this day that in 1948 the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. “Today is #HumanRightsDay. Nowadays, there is a big trend to bulldoze democracy, crush fundamental rights, and muzzle the voice of the people. Our government is committed to upholding #humanrights,” Banerjee tweeted. The chief minister has, on many occasions, lashed out at the BJP-led Centre, accusing it of allegedly violating the country’s federal structure, using central agencies to scare state governments and politicians, stifling the media and forcefully suppressing any kind of protest against it. On its part, the BJP has said that more than 100 party workers have been killed in West Bengal during Banerjee’s regime and around 1,500 party workers and supporters are languishing in jails after the TMC-led government in the state implicated them in false cases. Meanwhile, on Human Rights Day, Banerjee, went on to say, “The GoWB has set up 19 human rights courts in the last nine and half years. It was after repeated protests and movements by me that the West Bengal #HumanRights Commission was set up in 1995. My best wishes to all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trend-to-bulldoze-democracy-crush-fundamental-rights-mamata-banerjee-tweets-on-human-rights-day/story-hUPsmGqDZmLCADC0IXvjiL.html
10-12-2020||India||HIGHLIGHTS: We will have to take the pledge of ‘India First’, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the new building of Parliament on Thursday. The ceremony was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, foreign envoys and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. The ceremony was followed by a ‘sarva dharma prarthana’ (multi-faith prayer). The Prime Minister delivered his address at 2:15 pm.The new Parliament building will cost Rs 971 crore and is estimated to be completed by 2022. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said that the new building will be a prime example of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. The current Parliament building was constructed by the British and its foundation stone was laid on February 12, 1921.The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space. The Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats, keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses.Follow all live updates here: PM Modi: We will have to take the pledge of ‘India First’ The Prime Minister urged citizens to take decisions that would improve the welfare of the country and that their efforts must be towards how India stands in 2047, the centenary year of Independence. PM Modi: There can be differences, but disconnect should not be allowedThe PM said that differences in a democracy were normal but any type of disconnect was not and that democracy in India has always been about sorting out differences and contradictions. The PM also said that despite differences in policies and political ideologies, the ultimate goal should be to serve people. PM Modi: Day will soon come when out countries will say ‘India is mother of democracy’The Prime Minister praised India’s spirit of democracy, saying that it has been sacred and a way of life in the country that has been developed based on centuries of experience. He said that other countries discuss elections and other administrative issues when speaking about democracy and that a day would soon come when out countries will say ‘India is mother of democracy’. PM Modi: Future generations will feel proud of a Parliament building made in independent India The PM said that future generations would feel proud to see the new Parliament complex that is made in independent India, and that they need to understand why democracy is successful in India. PM Modi: New Parliament building will fulfill the country’s aspirations The Prime Minister said that the need was felt for a new Parliament building for years. 21st century India needs a new Parliament complex. The old building fulfilled the needs of the country, the new Parliament building will fulfill the country’s aspirations, he continued. PM Modi: New building to do away with space crunch, will have additional space for visitors People who come to meet public representatives in Parliament face many difficulties, there was space crunch. The new building will have additional space to allow people to meet the representatives. PM Modi: New Parliament building is an example of the co-existence of the new and the old The Prime Minister said that the new Parliament building is an example of the co-existence of the new and the old and that it was an effort to make changes within oneself in accordance with the time and needs. PM Modi: Ceremony important milestone in historyThe Prime Minister, in his address, called the foundation stone laying ceremony a historic event and an important milestone in India’s history. Union Minister HS Puri delivers welcome addressUnion Minister HS Puri delivered the welcome address in which he praised the PM for laying the foundation of a modern, strong, prosperous & self-reliant India with the inclusion of our proud history.  In the last 6 yrs PM Modi laid the foundation of a modern, strong, prosperous & self-reliant India with the inclusion of our proud history. In this continuation, today is a very important day: Union Minister HS Puri at foundation stone laying ceremony of new Parliament building pic.twitter.com/ITTwcbBjauMulti-faith prayer underwayPM Modi, foreign envoys and other ministers attend the ‘sarva dharma prarthana’ (multi-faith prayer) at the foundation stone laying ceremony.  Delhi: The various religious leaders at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building perform 'Sarva Dharma Prarthana'. pic.twitter.com/YsdS3n9JIDPM Modi unveils plaque to mark foundation stone laying ceremony of new Parliament buildingPrime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a plaque to mark the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveils a plaque to mark the foundation stone laying ceremony of New Parliament Building in Delhi pic.twitter.com/k7eYzd0ceyMinisters and foreign envoys present at ceremonyUnion Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, foreign Envoys and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also present at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building. Delhi: Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, foreign Envoys and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also present at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building. pic.twitter.com/DnkranVSuYPM Modi lays foundation stone of new Parliament building Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone for the new Parliament building in the Parliament House Complex. Tata Trusts’ Chairman Ratan Tata, Union Minister HS Puri, Dy Chairman of Rajya Sabha Harivansh & various religious leaders present at ceremony.  #WATCH Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays foundation stone of New Parliament Building in Delhi pic.twitter.com/gF3w7ivTDe PM Modi to lay foundation to new Parliament buildingPrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone to the new Parliament building at 1pm, followed by an inter faith prayer at 1:30pm and his address at 2:15pm. The new building will cost Rs 971 crores and is estimated to be completed by 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-on-new-parliament-building/story-lD1lXxIpYcUvNuD6FTzChM.html
10-12-2020||India||Given triple talaq by husband in US, Hyderabadi woman knocks on MEA doors||A 23-year old woman from Hyderabad on Wednesday appealed to Union minister of external affairs, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, to help her get an official divorce from her 40-year old husband, who pronounced triple talaq over phone from the US two months ago. In her letter to S Jaishankar, Saba Fatima, a resident of Chandrayangutta in the old city, requested that the external affairs ministry directs the Indian embassy in the US to speak to her husband, Abdi Wali Ahmed, a Somalia national, who is presently working as a driver in Boston, USA, and settle the divorce issue as soon as possible. “I request you to interfere in this matter and help me in getting justice. I cannot remarry without any authentic divorce papers,” Fatima said in her letter. She got married to Ahmed on January 25, 2015, when he was studying engineering in Hyderabad, while his family lived in Abu Dhabi. “A relative of ours brought the alliance stating that he was a good boy and I would have a bright future if I married him. Ours is a very poor family and I was a high school dropout. I thought my father would not have brought a better match for me and hence, I agreed for the marriage,” she told Hindustan Times.The Nikah was performed by a Qazi as per Islamic laws and registered with Telangana Wakf Board. “A week after the wedding reception, Ahmed left for his parents’ place. After that he used to come to Hyderabad every six months and we used to stay in a rented house in Tolichowki and Malakpet areas of Hyderabad,” she said. The last time Ahmed visited Fatima was in February 2020 and later, he visited his mother in Dubai as she was held up there because of the coronavirus lockdown. “Later, he went to Boston where he got a job as a driver. He used to be in touch with me even from the US. He told me he had got some other job there and was earning around Rs 4 lakh a month. He also sent me money for my daily needs,” she said. Also Read: Air India’s non-stop Hyderabad-Chicago flight from Jan 15On October 7, Ahmed called Fatima’s father, Mohd Fareed, stating that he was divorcing her. “He asked my father to switch-on the speaker of the mobile and pronounced triple talaq, without any reason. I called him up again and had an argument, but he did not reveal why he was divorcing me,” she lamented. Later, Ahmed blocked her and her family members’ mobile numbers and did not take any calls. Fatima tried to contact her mother-in-law in Dubai and sister-in-law who stayed in London. “Though they assured me of justice initially, they, too, blocked my number later and could not be reached,” she said. Also Read: 3 dead, 6 injured after car hits lorry in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna districtAfter making repeated efforts to contact them in the last two months, Fatima finally approached the ministry of external affairs seeking their help. It may be mentioned that Parliament had passed Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage), Bill, 2019, last year, which criminalised instant triple talaq among Muslims. The bill got the presidential assent in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/given-triple-talaq-by-husband-in-us-hyderabadi-woman-knocks-on-mea-doors/story-mY4KH5ZxJWwK4Q12u47ioI.html
10-12-2020||India||Parliament: From a circular building of Rs 83 lakh to a Rs 970-cr triangular edifice||Old timers recall how, in the initial years of Indian democracy, lawmakers could simply hop off a public bus (private cars were a luxury for nearly all MPs at that time) in front of the main gate of the Parliament building and walk inside. Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee once came in a bullock cart in 1973 along with other political leaders to protest against the increase in petrol and kerosene prices. Eleven years later, the assassination of then PM Indira Gandhi saw the introduction of deep layers of security that has only enhanced over the years as security risks went only northwards. But during Gandhi’s time, the Parliament complex saw its first expansion since Sir Edward Lutyens and Sir Herbert Baker built the iconic edifice. On October 24, 1975, a not-so-awe-inspiring Parliament House Annexe was added to the estate. The office building was useful as both the scope of work as well as the workforce of the two Houses have increased manifold and there was space constraint. The circular building of Indian Parliament, built originally to house Central Legislative Assembly and Council of State, has been privy to many historic events. The transfer of power from Britain to India took place within its precincts. Jawaharlal Nehru’s midnight speech was delivered from the Central Hall of Parliament. The Constituent Assembly adopted the Constitution of India in the same Central Hall, shaping lives and destiny of millions of Indians. Also read | New Parliament complex will cater to future needsThe current building took six years for construction at a cost of Rs83 lakh. The Central Legislative Assembly met for the first time in Parliament House on January 19, 1927, marking the beginning of representative rule in India. During Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure, the plan for another new building—to house Parliament library was conceptualised. On August 15, 1987, Rajiv laid the foundation stone of Parliament Library Building. But the new building, a few metres less in height than the Parliament building, took quite some time and only during 2002, when Vajpayee was the Prime Minister, the Library Building was inaugurated by the then President KR Narayanan. Seven years later, as Parliament’s work expanded further, an extension of the annexe was planned. On May 5 2009, the foundation stone of Extension of Parliament House Annexe was laid by vice-president Mohammad Hamid Ansari and Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee. The extension of the Parliament House Annexe was inaugurated by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 31. But on Thursday, India will see a giant leap in its parliamentary heritage as foundation stone would be laid by Modi for an altogether new Parliament building. The authorities expect the new building to be completed by 2022, when India will celebrate 75 years of its Independence. The new building, to be built at a cost of around Rs970 crore, will be triangular in shape with a constitution hall in the middle of the complex. The state emblem of India—an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka at Sarnath, is proposed to be placed atop the New Parliament complex. The triangular complex is also proposed to have six entrances for public use, MPs and for VIPs, including the speaker and the vice president. The new complex will provide offices for all key functionaries of the Parliament, offices for administrative staff attached to key functionaries, café and dining facilities, Committee Meeting Rooms, VIP lounges, common rooms and a separate ladies’ lounge. A central courtyard will provide an open meeting space for the members of both Houses along with an adjoining café. There will be museum grade galleries and exhibits which will be accessible to all. The complex is designed to include 120 offices along the periphery of the complex, similar to the current complex. On the third section of the new complex is an open courtyard surrounding the lounge, dining area and the new library. There is a plan to plant a huge banyan tree in the middle of the courtyard. In addition, a separate chamber for MPs offices is being planned opposite the Parliament complex where central government buildings, the Transport Bhawan and the Shram Shakti Bhawan, are situated. According to officials aware of the development, the two buildings will be razed to build an office complex for more than 700 MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-from-a-circular-building-of-rs83-lakh-to-a-rs970-crore-triangular-edifice/story-Zeu6tvV0kDJqGWnar5nvjL.html
10-12-2020||India||BSP slams UP govt over Jalaun gang rape, terms Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao slogan ‘farce’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has slammed the Uttar Pradesh government on the Jalaun gang rape case and said that the government’s slogan of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ is just a “farce”.Speaking to ANI, BSP National Spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s government has failed to provide protection, security and dignity to the women.“The government slogan of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ is just a farce. I think the Yogi government has failed to provide protection, security and dignity to the women and girl children of Uttar Pradesh,” he said.“The Uttar Pradesh government has failed to protect Dalits and poor and it is for this reason that there was a Hathras incident. There were many incidents subsequently in Uttar Pradesh before that also that have been gang rapes,” he said.Two juvenile boys allegedly raped a minor girl in Sandi Village of Jalaun district.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Awadhesh Singh said that the age of two accused is between 11-14 years.“A case has been registered after we received a complaint about the rape of a minor girl. The victim sent for a medical check-up. Her condition is stable. One of the accused is around 11-12 years and the other is around 13-14 years old. A team of police has been deployed in the village,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-slams-up-govt-over-jalaun-gang-rape-terms-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-slogan-farce/story-hML2nIKsKqIk0eLb6OCz7H.html
10-12-2020||India||Indian scientists identify new potential drug treatments for Covid-19||Indian scientists have identified drugs and possible cocktails that can target vital proteins of the novel coronavirus, and may potentially help treat Covid-19. Using a virtual screening of the DrugBank database, the research published in the journal Scientific Reports, identified a variety of as yet unexplored ways to attack SARS-CoV-2, even as it mutates. The Drugbank database is a chemical space of compounds approved by FDA and molecules under drug trials. The researchers from Alagappa University in Tamil Nadu and KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden propose a list of individual drugs and cocktails that deserve testing for the treatment of Covid-19. A key part of the study, the researchers said, is the identification of drugs that target or bind to multiple proteins that are essential for replication of the virus, and which are also involved in the initial stage of host-cell infection. According to Vaibhav Srivastava and Arul Murugan, the corresponding authors of the study, multi-targeting offers an effective route to deal with drug resistance, which would enable a drug to work around mutations of the virus. “The virus is mutating rapidly, which means that it is modifying its proteins. If we have a drug that can target several proteins, and if one becomes mutated, the drug will be effective on others,” Srivastava said. This attribute allowed the team to propose cocktails that have versatility. “It was possible for us to propose cocktails, or blends of drugs, in which each drug can bind to a specific target protein with high affinity,” he said. The study proposed one cocktail, baloxavir marboxil, natamycin and RU85053, which targets the three viral proteins respectively, 3CL Main protease, papain-like protease and RdRp. The researchers noted that such drug cocktails have proven effective in the treatment of other virally-transmitted diseases, such as HIV. Murugan says that the reliability of their approach was validated by the fact that the screening also identified drugs that are already in clinical trial. Such studies can provide valuable insights regarding why certain drugs were found to be ineffective, the researchers said. For example, the drug hydroxychloroquine was non-effective mainly due to its poor binding affinity towards viral proteins, they said. Other drugs that the study recommended for testing were tivantinib, olaparib, zoliflodacin, golvatinib, sonidegib, regorafenib and PCO-371. The research also provides a listing of multi-targeting drugs such as DB04016, phthalocyanine, tadalafil, which can also be effective in combating the rapidly-mutating coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-identify-new-potential-drug-treatments-for-covid-19/story-NCn6gp7NvbvIv6r9J4rdWL.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Why agri reforms are hard to sell||As the 1990s began, India found it difficult to pay interests on the $90 billion in foreign loans that had propped up a socialist system, triggering a balance-of-payments emergency. The country then turned to a burst of economic reforms to claw out of the crisis. The Big Bang reforms of 1991 led by then finance minister Manmohan Singh cut some of the world’s highest taxes and tariffs, ended a system of government permits known as licence raj and devalued the currency. The reforms however bypassed India’s agriculture, dominated by heavy subsidies. On Wednesday, a desperate Union government sent out a lengthy set of proposals to farm unions to mollify farmers protesting in thousands at Delhi’s borders against a set of sweeping farm-reform laws, the first attempt to open up the antiquated agriculture sector. Farm unions however have stuck to their demand of scrapping three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods, dealing a blow to the Union government’s reformist agenda. Farmers fear losing out to big corporations if private traders get a free-run in deregulated markets. The government says the changes will give farmers greater market access and spur investments. The agriculture sector employs half of all Indians, but adds only 16% to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), meaning far too many people are engaged in agriculture than is required to generate the same levels of farm incomes. Some scholars, such as Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University, say a distinction needs to be made between “mass politics and elite politics” in debates around the “politics of economic reforms”. “So, it is easier to do a stock-market reform or financial reforms because its scope is limited to a certain elite section of the population. But when it comes to hard reforms affecting masses, such as labour reforms or agriculture, these are areas where we will see big challenges,” said KK Kailash, who teaches political science in the University of Hyderabad. The new farm laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and set new rules for contract farming. The government says allowing traders to stock large quantities of food commodities will incentivise them to invest in supply chains and storage space, which is scarce. Lack of storage means farmers often dump produce such as tomatoes and potatoes during oversupply, when prices crash. Concessions offered by the government provide for more oversight of private markets proposed under the new laws. Farmers have come to trust decades-old regulated markets despite studies that show these markets are run by trader cartels who rig prices. These cartels also lend money to farmers, creating interlocked markets that limit farmers’ bargaining power. Catch LIVE Updates of farmers’ protest hereRecent studies show evidence of monopolistic practices in these regulated markets the government now wants to open up to private competition. In December 2010, when onion prices spiraled, a probe by India’s statutory anti-monopoly agency, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), revealed that one firm accounted for nearly one-fifth of the total trading that month in Lasalgaon, Asia’s largest onion market near Nashik in Maharashtra. A 2012 report by the National Council of Applied Economic Research identified collusion as a major hurdle in fair trade, with a handful of traders monopolising almost all big markets. India’s farm trade is commission-based. Licences for all intermediaries — from commission agent, wholesaler, transporter, storage chain owner and even the railway agent — are often held by the same business families, in effect producing oligopolies. Yet, these markets also offer farmers assured minimum prices for staples, shielding them from risks and providing a sense of security because of government control. The new reforms allow corporations to operate with minimal regulations. “The core concerns (are) about removing regulation on traders and companies and thereby removing all protections to farmers offered by the regulation system,” said Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farm activist opposing the reforms. Despite evidence that the current system of farm trade is highly inefficient, farmers say the very objective of the new reforms is to favour big corporations. “The crux of the matter is that the government’s laws are centered around large corporations which are against the interest of farmers and consumers. Why can’t markets be farmer-led?” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, a farm activist who took part in the recent talks with the government. Economists attribute India’s impressive economic growth over the years to reforms in industry, currency markets and manufacturing. According to official data, farm sub-sectors, such as horticulture, milk and fishery – where government intervention is low – have grown on average 4-10% annually, compared to a flat growth rate of 1.1% in cereals where government intervention is high. “This clearly indicates that in recent times,liberalised markets are more favourable to agricultural growth,” states a paper authored by researchers at Niti Aayog, the government’s think tank. But some economists argue that reforms that give a big walkover to the private sector will not work in an impoverished agriculture sector. “Agriculture broadly needs a combination of reforms, investments, support prices and subsidies. Emphasis on one over the other will not help,” said K. Mani, a former economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-why-agri-reforms-are-hard-to-sell-to-farmers/story-TttH29JU5SjVwoABKAlYBI.html
10-12-2020||India||Will increase turnover of village industry to Rs 5 lakh cr in 2 yrs: Gadkari||Union minister for MSME Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday vowed to increase the turnover of village industry from Rs 80,000 crores to Rs 5 lakh crores in two years.Addressing the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Global MSME Business Summit, the Union Minister said, “Presently, the turnover of our village industry is Rs 80,000 crores. My mission is to make it Rs 5 lakh crores in 2 years.”While speaking on the theme, “Reboot to rebound: Stimulating demand and supply side,” Gadkari said that the Central government’s target is to create five crore more jobs in the next five years. “Presently, the MSME sector employs 11 crore people. Our target is to create 5 crore more jobs in the next 5 years.”Further speaking during the event, the Union Minister Gadkari said, “For making Atmanirbhar Bharat, the most important target for the ministries is to make Indian economy strong and for that reason, we need to increase more export at the same time we need to decrease the import.”Last month, Gadkari at Virtual Horasis Asia Meeting had said that Centre is planning to take the MSME contribution to the economic growth from 30 per cent to 40 per cent.“Our target is to take the MSME contribution to the economic growth from 30 per cent to 40 per cent and also increase the MSME export from 48 per cent to 60 per cent. The government is also planning to create 5 crore more jobs from MSME sectors only,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-increase-turnover-of-village-industry-to-rs-5-lakh-cr-in-2-yrs-gadkari/story-fJMJ4CmJXOGsHjtAT5sruK.html
10-12-2020||India||Rajnath Singh’s message at Asean meet aims at China, advocates self-restraint||In a thinly veiled reference to China, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called on members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and its dialogue partners to exercise self-restraint and avoid actions that complicate the situation. Singh’s remarks, made during a virtual gathering of the Asean Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (ADMM Plus) that was joined by his Chinese counterpart Wei Fenghe, came against the backdrop of the India-China standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “As we enhance mutual trust and confidence, exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region,” Singh said in his address. Singh also took a swipe at Pakistan, without naming the country, for allowing its soil to be used for terrorism directed against India. Describing terrorism as a major scourge for the region and the world, he said “structures that support and sustain terrorism continue to exist, including in India’s neighbourhood” and called for strengthening international mechanisms to jointly fight terror. He emphasised India’s call for an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific based on respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolutions of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international laws. He reiterated India’s support to freedom of navigation and over-flight for all in international waters in line with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). India has accused China of unilaterally attempting to change the status quo along the LAC since April. Following a clash in June that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused unspecified Chinese casualties, both countries have mobilised tens of thousands of troops that have dug in along the LAC for the harsh winter. Singh met Wei on the margins of a meeting of defence ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation in Moscow in September and there have also been meetings and contacts between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi, senior military commanders and diplomats, but the two sides haven’t been able to agree on disengagement on the LAC. ADMM Plus, which includes the 10 members of Asean and its eight dialogue partners Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, Russia and the US, was formed in 2010 to strengthen security and defence cooperation for peace and development in the region. This annual meeting was chaired this year by Vietnam. Singh appreciated the central role of Asean-led forums, including ADMM Plus, in promoting dialogue for a pluralistic and cooperative security order in Asia amid the “current regional environment with visible strains”. Pointing to the 10th anniversary of ADMM Plus, Singh said field training and table-top exercises help members of the grouping understand each other and maintain peace. “Our ability to collectively respond to challenges in the region based on the fundamentals of freedom, inclusivity and openness will define our future,” he said. “Threats to the rules-based order, maritime security, cyber-related crimes and terrorism...remain the challenges that we need to address as a forum,” he added. ADMM Plus has become a “fulcrum of peace, stability and rules-based order in this region” and India’s concepts of “vasudhaive kutumbakam” or “the whole world is one family” and “sarve bhavantu sukhinah” or “all be at peace” emphasise inclusivity, equality and openness, Singh said. The Asean outlook on the Indo-Pacific underscores the “impetus to cultivate strategic trust and continuously promote Asean centrality in the regional architecture”, and also has much in common with India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI), he added. Members of ADMM Plus are major stakeholders in the regional security dynamic and exercises in maritime security, humanitarian aid and disaster relief, counter-terrorism and peacekeeping operations have helped build confidence, he said. “Cyber-security and military medicine are at the forefront of our challenges today. Another notable step has been the adoption of the concept paper on expanding Asean Direct Communication Infrastructure to the Plus countries,” Singh said. ADMM Plus needs to continue its efforts to address threats such as bioterrorism, transnational trafficking and pandemic diseases and members of the grouping should build capacity to address shared security challenges that are increasingly trans-boundary in nature, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-actions-that-complicate-situation-rajnath-tells-asean-defence-ministers-meet/story-tQeAJrNbDxe26uWnv13e8K.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP leader Dilip Ghosh alleges security lapse during party chief JP Nadda’s visit to Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dilip Ghosh on Thursday alleged security lapse during party president JP Nadda’s visit to West Bengal. He said he has written to Union home minister Amit Shah and the state administration over the same. Ghosh alleged serious security lapses surrounding Nadda’s programmes on Wednesday. “Today during his different engagement in Kolkata, it was observed that there was serious lapses on security arrangements, purportedly due to negligence and/or casual approach of the State Police Department. At our party office at Hestings, Kolkata, there was a mob of 200 plus with sticks, bamboos etc. demonstrating raising black flags. Some of them climbed on the cars parked outside the office and raised slogans. Police did not intervene to stop them and casually allowed them to come within a close perimeter of Nadda Ji’s vehicle,” Ghosh wrote in a letter.Ghosh alleged that during the whole day’s program, the pilot car provided by the state police did not create a smooth and safe passage for Nadda for travelling from one place to other, adding that his convoy was stopped at many traffic lights, causing serious concern for potential security hazards.“This has also been noticed that there exists complete violation on the part of West Bengal Government to ensure full security arrangements as per Government Protocol which are immediately concerned with the visit of Sri JP Nadda, a Z category of security covered by CRPF,” Ghosh said.On Thursday, there will be a day-long programme at Diamond Harbour. “Our party karyakartas have informed us that tomorrow (Thursday) also the goons of TMC are planning to do big protest in multiple places on the way towards Diamond Harbour from New Town. We have already informed the West Bengal Home Secretary and the SP of the Soth 24 Parganas district to arrange adequate security cover for our National President. Unfortunately the State Police Department is non-committal about this serious aspect,” Ghosh said.Ghosh has requested Shah and the Bengal administration to issue required directives to the state home secretary on the matter of extending and providing adequate security cover during today’s programmes. Nadda is on a two-day tour of West Bengal to participate in various programmes targeted at strengthening the party’s cadre as well as its presence at the booth level.He is expected to camp in Diamond Harbour, another TMC stronghold, adjacent to Kolkata in south Bengal. Diamond Harbour is Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency, who is TMC MP and nephew of the chief minister. The BJP president will address a press conference and also party cadres and will interact with members of the fishermen community.Nadda’s tour is part of his 120-day national tour that is aimed at strengthening the party’s presence across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-dilip-ghosh-alleges-security-lapse-during-party-chief-jp-nadda-s-visit-to-bengal/story-hCwdUqWt4v8Ye3SXYGXUuI.html
10-12-2020||India||‘Surgical strike’: Sanjay Raut’s retort to claim of ‘Pak-China hand’ behind farmers’ stir||Amid Union minister Raosaheb Danve said on Wednesday that China and Pakistan were behind the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Thursday retorted saying defence minister Rajnath Singh should immediately carry out a surgical strike on both countries, adding that the government should deal with this issue seriously.While addressing reporters, Raut said, “If a Union minister has information that China and Pakistan have a hand behind farmers’ agitation, then the defence minister should immediately conduct a surgical strike on China and Pak. The President, PM, HM and Chiefs of the Armed Forces should discuss this issue seriously.”Watch | ‘Surgical strike’: Sanjay Raut on claim of Pak-China link to farmers’ stir  If a Union minister has information that China & Pakistan have a hand behind farmers agitation, then, the Defence Minister should immediately conduct a surgical strike on China & Pak. The President, PM, HM & Chiefs of the Armed Forces should discuss this issue seriously: S Raut https://t.co/1GagzoaTHA pic.twitter.com/ImIVdNiJVYUnion minister Danve on Wednesday said that China and Pakistan were behind the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s agricultural reforms but he did not explain as to how these two countries were involved.Also Read: Farmers’ protest enters 15th day, ‘No rift among our unions,’ say protestersSpeaking at the inauguration of a health centre at in Maharashtra’s Jalna district, the minister alleged Muslims across the country were earlier misled on Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), but as those efforts did not succeed, farmers were being told that they would face losses due to the new laws. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the prime minister of farmers and none of his decisions would be against farmers.Meanwhile, the protests have entered the fifteenth day as leaders of farmer groups rejected Centre’s proposal to amend the new reforms. More farmers are expected to join the agitation. Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways would be blocked on December 12 and there would be a nationwide protest on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-strike-sanjay-raut-s-retort-to-claim-of-pak-china-hand-behind-farmers-stir/story-3rFg6zgPYH1xfEbzht0D4O.html
10-12-2020||India||NCB to produce drug kingpin Azam Sheikh in court today in its probe related to Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Narcotics Control Bureau will produce Azam Sheikh Jumman in a court on Thursday and seek his remand. The agency has said this is the biggest breakthrough in their probe into the drug case related to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Jumman is known as the “biggest drug dealer” in Mumbai, an NCB official has told ANI.On Wednesday, the agency raided several locations at Milat Nagar in Lokhandwala based on the information given by Rigel Mahakala, who was arrested late on Tuesday night. Rigel Mahakala was linked to Anuj Keshwani who in turn was linked to Kaizan Ibrahi. All three of them are in jail now. In its biggest seizure so far, the NCB on Wednesday recovered five kilograms of malana cream valued around Rs 2.5 crore, ecstasy tablets, a certain amount of opium and Rs 14 lakh in cash. Sheikh is the main supplier of drugs linked to this case, the NCB has said. He apparently sourced malana cream, the most desirable Charas in the world, from Himachal Pradesh. An NCB officials told PTI malana cream grows only in Malana region of Himachal Pradesh and its cost ranges from Rs 40-50 lakh per kg in the international market.Apart from the recovery, the agency has said that it has also found a list of Jumman’s Mumbai clients. Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik were arrested in this case. Both of them are now out on bail. A special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) court has also said that the charges of illicit drugs financing does not apply to Showik.A number of Bollywood personalities, including Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Arjun Rampal have been interrogated by the NCB. Comedian Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiyaa were arrested in NCB’s drug probe and were later granted bail. The NCB started its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty’s mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncb-to-produce-drug-kingpin-azam-sheikh-in-court-today-in-its-probe-related-to-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-spdPmxvpz82j22KYt92oKM.html
10-12-2020||India||Maharashtra Cabinet clears draft bill for proposed ‘Shakti Act’||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday approved the introduction of two draft bills pertaining to the prevention of incidents of violence and atrocities against women and children in the state. The bills, to be introduced in the assembly session, that is scheduled to begin here on December 14, was approved by a State Cabinet meeting presided by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The “Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Bill, 2020” has been drafted along the lines of the Andhra Pradesh Disha Act Criminal Law (AP Amendment) Act, 2019. Once passed by the state legislature it will be called the “Shakti Act”.The second draft bill, which is meant for the implementation of the Shakti legislation, has been named as Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Criminal Law, 2020.“Today the Cabinet discussed the Shati Act, and cleared the draft bill to amend sections of Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The two draft bills will be tabled in the State Legislature during the winter session next week. Once the State Legislature approves the two drafts, we will send it to the Centre for Presidential assent,” Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said.“This draft talks about death punishment for offenders of heinous crimes against Women and Children,” he said.Yashomati Thakur, Women and Child Development Minister said:” It’s historic decision. This law will help us protect women and children of our State.”Meanwhile, other decisions were taken in the Cabinet meeting.Under the General Administration-Service Department, the Cabinet approved to table an annual report of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission of 2018-2019 in the upcoming session. In combination with the MGNREGA scheme, the Maharashtra government will also implement the “Sharad Pawar Gram Samrudhi Yojana” as a state scheme for National Rural Employment Guarantee.The bill related to the establishment of the ‘International Sports University Maharashtra, 2020’ was also passed and a nod was given for the making of a self-supporting university, by the name of ‘DY Patil Agriculture and Technical University’ in Kolhapur.Earlier last week, the Cabinet had cleared a proposal to rename all residential colonies having caste-based names.Cabinet Minister Aslam Sheikh said that these caste-based colonies were established during British rule, to divide people and it has been now decided to rename them on people who undertook social service for the country.Meanwhile, the government has decided that the winter session of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly will be held in Nagpur instead of Mumbai this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cabinet-clears-draft-bill-for-proposed-shakti-act/story-5y0IB8WFGl1SjL3OkdsjxM.html
10-12-2020||India||Human Rights Day 2020: ‘Recover better - stand up for human rights’||Human Rights Day is observed each year on December 10 since the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10 December 1948, the first global document which outlined human rights. The Declaration established a set of common basic values both with regard to the view of human beings and to the relationship between the state and the individual. It also set standards for human rights, which take precedence over political, economic, cultural and religious differences. Human rights are rights that states, through international agreements, must guarantee individual people. These rights serve to limit the state’s power over the individual. The theme of Human Rights Day 2020 is to “Recover Better - Stand Up for Human Rights”. This chosen theme is in sync with the Covid pandemic. It focuses on creating equal opportunities for everyone and addressing the failures and disappointments we all were exposed to due to Covid -19. The agenda is to use the day as an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of human rights so as to be able to rebuild the world that we seek, for achieving global solidarity, thus advocating shared humanity across communities. The UN website lists the measures that should be kept in mind while bridging the gaps in human right protection which have been exposed and further fuelled by the Covid-19 pandemic. These include: ending discrimination of any kind, addressing inequalities, encouraging participation and solidarity and promoting sustainable developmentThe aim of this day is to engage the public and the partners of Human Rights as well as the UN family to take transformative action and showcase inspirational practical examples that could contribute in making resilient societies that can recover in a better way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-rights-day-2020-recover-better-stand-up-for-human-rights/story-hEX2ZTQfEHBXAqM4uIdTsN.html
10-12-2020||India||SC allows other courts to deal with BCCI, cricketing associations||The Supreme Court on Wednesday lifted its year-long stay and allowed other courts in the country to also adjudicate issues relating to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), state cricket associations and clubs.In March 2019, the top court had appointed senior advocate PS Narasimha as the amicus curiae and sought his assistance in resolving disputes of the cricketing bodies through meetings and mediation. At that time, the court had restrained all other tribunals and courts from entertaining or proceeding with any matter pertaining to BCCI or any state cricket association till reports on resolution of disputes are submitted by Narasimha.On Wednesday, an SC bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, took note of the relevant reports submitted by the amicus, and said that the restraining order can now be lifted to enable other tribunals and courts to decide the issues within their jurisdiction.The bench thus modified the 2019 order, recording that the amicus has submitted that the process of mediation with various cricketing bodies are over now.In terms of this order, the court also wrapped up more than two dozen applications filed by several bodies, including cricket associations of Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana and Bihar. The bench asked all these applicants to approach the suitable forum for adjudication of their contentions now that the interim order of restraint has been lifted.While dealing with a clutch of other applications, it declined to entertain requests for either reviewing the terms of mediation or setting it aside. The order stated that the court has to repel all attempts at wriggling out of the mediation, undertaken by Narasimha with various bodies.“Mr Narasimha had meetings with representatives of associations, clubs and the committee of administrators (CoA), BCCI. After a series of meetings, disputes between parties in these series of interlocutory applications have been resolved and signed minutes of meetings are also submitted,” pointed the court while refusing to admit pleas for modifications of the terms of settlements.It also noted that the majority of state associations have complied with the Lodha Committee reforms, as accepted by the Supreme Court in 2018, following which elections have also been conducted. The bench said that taking note of these developments, the majority of the pending applications can be disposed of.About other matters which required a hearing in view of possible contests by the opposite side, the bench said it would hear them in the third week of January.The Supreme Court, in a string of orders since 2014, have revamped the BCCI and compelled all recognised cricketing associations in the country to adopt and implement the reforms recommended by Justice Lodha Committee.Its orders had led to ouster of N Srinivasan as BCCI chairperson over conflict of interest following a probe into IPL betting and spot fixing scandal, besides dispensing with the inclusion of ministers and civil servants over 70 years of age as BCCI members.The court also made it mandatory for all state associations to adopt the recommendations by the Lodha Committee to be able to continue as recognised associations with a right to vote in the BCCI polls apart from keep receiving funds from the apex cricketing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-other-courts-to-deal-with-bcci-cricketing-association/story-BeSDubQ721241VyPLzXn2J.html
10-12-2020||India||Over 50 medical camps set up for farmers at Singhu border||Over 50 free round-the-clock medical camps have come up at Singhu, one of the multiple Delhi borders, where farmers have been agitating against the three recently enacted farm laws, braving the winters, for the last 15 days. Free medicines and ambulance services are also being provided to the agitating farmers. Dr Kanwar Pal Singh, a volunteer associated with United Sikhs NGO, which has set up many such camps, told ANI people mostly complained of fever and sore throat here. “Protesters, however, are taking all precautions here amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said on Thursday.Doctors and volunteers said that many already have existing health problems, for which they need regular medicines and health check-ups. “Our volunteers are available here round the clock. Ambulance service and even surgeons are available here. Two hospitals, within a distance of 1 km, are providing free treatment for minor problems to the protesters,” said a volunteer associated with the NGO. Protesters said the camps were of great help, keeping them healthy even in this stressful environment.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, are protesting the three farm laws that were passed in Parliament in September by voice vote, despite objection by opposition parties.They are the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmer (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-medical-camps-set-up-for-farmers-at-singhu-border/story-D7sLP7dU2ez4shS2EjfAuJ.html
10-12-2020||India||India records 31,521 fresh infections in last 24 hours, number of active cases at record low||Continuing the trend of a steady decline in the number of active cases, India on Thursday reported 3,72,293 active cases — a record low. In the last 24 hours, 31,521 fresh Covid-19 cases have been recorded which is slightly lower that Wednesday’s figure of 32,080. Over 37,000 people have been discharged and 412 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 97,67,371.For the fourth consecutive day, India’s active caseload remained below 4 lakh. The number of active cases comprise 3.81 per cent of the total caseload. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7, three million on August 23 and four million on September 5. It went past five million-mark on September 16, six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, eight million lakh on October 29, and nine on November 20.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,07,59,726 samples had been tested up to December 9 with 9,22,959 samples being tested on Wednesday.Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat are reporting 75 per cent of the new cases, according to the inistry’s Wednesday data.The maximum number of deaths are being reported from Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-31-521-fresh-infections-in-last-24-hours-number-of-active-cases-at-record-low/story-89RMLAIEQTmYW9HLIsC1MO.html
10-12-2020||India||EOW arrests Cox and Kings CFO Anil Khandelwal in cheating case||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai police arrested Anil Khandelwal, chief finance officer of global tour and travel company Cox and Kings for questioning in connection with massive financial irregularities. The EOW is investigating five FIRs against Cox and Kings group for alleged frauds involving over Rs1,950 crore. Out of these five, complainants in four are private sector banks. Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials are probing the irregularities in the company with respect to the money laundering aspect while EOW is looking into the criminal part. An EOW officer part of the probe confirmed that on Wednesday evening, Khandelwal’s custody was taken from Taloja jail and he was placed under arrest. He would be produced in court on Thursday.“Khandelwal is key accused in the case and was at the helm of the affairs,” said an officer. Officials at the Banking (fraud) unit-2 of EOW are investigating the cases registered against Cox and Kings Group, its promotor Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, Urshila Kerkar, other directors, senior executives, auditors and others.Khandelwal and the other accused are facing charges under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code.Also read | CBI files fresh case against Unitech’s Sanjay ChandraEOW officials said that the company, its promotors, directors, auditors and other accused conspired and fraudulently availed loan from various banks. “Forged documents were submitted to banks by Cox and Kings group with an intention to fraudulently obtain loans,” said an officer.FIRs against Cox and Kings were made by Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd bank, HDFC Bank and a private investment firm. Another officer said that the EOW may also take the custoday of Peter Kerkar, who was also arrested by ED last month and is in jail.Peter Kerker too has filed two counter FIRs against some complainant banks and senior executives of his company for conspiring and cheating the company, said EOW officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eow-arrests-cox-and-kings-cfo-in-cheating-case/story-tKvgwdF5PveQ0YfgAGUMGM.html
10-12-2020||India||India’s greenhouse emissions dip with switch to renewables, economic slowdown||India is projected to meet its pre-2020 climate pledge, also called the Cancun pledge, made in 2010. It is also likely to meet and possibly overachieve its nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement, the Emissions Gap Report 2020 has said on Wednesday.India, which emits 7.1% of global emissions and has per capita emissions that are 60 % lower than the global average, recorded a fall in emissions growth in 2019. India’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions grew by 1.4% in 2019, lower than the average of 3.3% per year over the last decade according to the report.This slower than expected growth is primarily due to increased hydropower from a record monsoon and weaker economic growth, along with India’s continued growth in renewables, the report said. In comparison, China’s CO2 emissions grew by 3.1% in 2019 to reach a record high compared to growth of 2.4% in GHG emissions on average for the past decade.Also read | Low carbon recovery from Covid-19 slowdown can solve climate crisis: ReportSeveral countries, including Canada, Indonesia, Mexico, the Republic of Korea and the United States of America, are projected to miss their Cancun pledges and Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Republic of Korea and the United States of America are set to fall short of their NDCs under the Paris Agreement.India had pledged in 2010 to reduce its emissions intensity of GDP (excluding the agriculture sector) by 20–25% below 2005 levels by 2020 which it has achieved. Further, under NDCs, India has committed to reducing the emission intensity of GDP by 33 to 35% by 2030 over 2005 levels.Overall, despite the global slowdown and reduction in emissions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the world is not on track to meet global warming goals and 2020 is on track to be one of the warmest years on record.Due to the pandemic, global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are expected to fall by 7% this year compared to 2019 but the world will still be heading for a temperature rise of over 3 degrees C this century, the report said. A green recovery from the pandemic, however, with investments in sectors that will help curb CO2 emissions can take the world to a 2 degree C rise pathway as defined in the Paris Agreement goals, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) report said.For Covid-19 recovery from slowdown, governments are spending at an unprecedented scale the report has found, currently amounting to roughly US$12 trillion globally, or 12% of global gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020. Most governments have focused on funding rescue measures to reboot businesses and jobs in their immediate economic response to Covid-19, with only a few including conditions that encourage businesses to decarbonize.India has allocated about 10.1% of 2019 GDP for Covid-19 rescue and recovery measures, according to the report based on data from Oxford Recovery Project which has an overview of total fiscal rescue and recovery measures of G20 members. But most of India’s recovery measures have high carbon effects shows data.“India’s Covid-19-relief package was nearly 10% of its annual GDP, but had no substantial investments impacting the climate. Additional stimulus must focus on recovery and rebuilding, accelerating an energy transition in the power sector, transport, and urban planning. Without this, the likely drop in emissions from the lockdown will rise again without a green recovery. A long-term strategy may be the most convincing and coherent way of articulating to the international community about India’s ongoing development needs (which are unlikely to be exhausted by 2050). It is imperative that the focus remains on not only a ‘green recovery’ but a resilient one that is beneficial over the long-term,” said Abhishek Kaushik, Associate Fellow and Area Convenor, Centre for Global Environment Research at The Energy and Resources Institute.There are large disparities in post-Covid-19 fiscal spending around the world. Fiscal spending of some G20 members is as high as 40% for some members and as low as 1.7% for some. France, Germany, South Korea and the UK have among the highest investments with low carbon effects.The reduction in GHG emissions in 2020 due to Covid-19 is likely to be significantly larger than the 1.2% reduction during the global financial crisis in the late 2000s. But, 2020 is currently on track to be one of the warmest on record, with wildfires, droughts, storms and glacier melt only intensifying. A fall of 7% in CO2 emissions this year means only a 0.01 degree C reduction of global warming by 2050.On the brighter side, the report says there is scope for course correction now. Investing in zero emission technologies and infrastructure, reducing fossil fuel subsidies, not building any more coal plants, promoting nature-based solutions like large-scale landscape restoration and reforestation could put emissions in 2030 at 44 GtCO2e which would mean a 66% chance of keeping global temperature rise to below 2 degree C compared to pre-industrial levels.In addition, the ambition of various nationally determined contributions (NDCs) will have to be tripled to meet the 2 degree C target and increased by at least 5 times to meet the 1.5 degree C goal (threshold that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) said will mark a menacing milestone in the warming of the planet). The current pledges under the Paris Agreement are inadequate and could only limit global temperature rise to 3.2 degree C, the report has warned.The report has estimated that following the initial dip in CO2 emissions, there could be a rebound effect in many countries in order to bounce back from the Covid-19 induced slowdown. Some countries could rollback climate policies as part of covid 19 responses, then the decrease in global emissions by 2030 could be significantly smaller at around 1.5 GtCO2e or may actually increase by around 1 GtCO2e compared with the pre-covid 19 current policies scenario.“The year 2020 is on course to be one of the warmest on record, while wildfires, storms and droughts continue to wreak havoc,” said Inger Andersen, UNEP’s Executive Director. “However, UNEP’s Emissions Gap report shows that a green pandemic recovery can take a huge slice out of greenhouse gas emissions and help slow climate change. I urge governments to back a green recovery in the next stage of Covid 19 fiscal interventions and raise significantly their climate ambitions in 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-greenhouse-emissions-dip-with-switch-to-renewables-economic-slowdown/story-Xd8f8Fb1Z6jBRLqTZ62pFL.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest enters 15th day, ‘No rift among our unions,’ say protesters||The ongoing farmers’ protests which laid a siege to the national Capital entered its 15th day on Thursday, a day after the farmers rejected Centre’s final proposal of amendments to the three farm laws and announced a bigger movement. The stalemate is likely to continue as there is no further meeting scheduled between farmers and the Centre. More protesters will be joining the agitating farmers from today onwards and, according to their plan, the Delhi-Jaipur highway will be blocked by December 12. On December 14, there will be a nationwide protest.With the protest now facing a dead end, with no communication from the Centre after the farmers rejected its proposal, there are speculations of a rift among farmer unions which they have dismissed. Over 30 unions of farmers are spearheading the protest and the rumours of a division started doing the rounds on the day the union leaders were called for a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. It was decided that the meeting would take place at Shah’s residence and accordingly a few leaders reached his residence at the given time. But later the meeting was shifted to Indian Council of Agriculture Research. Two leaders reportedly had walked out of the meeting over the confusion but later joined. “We take decisions unanimously. It is about consensus and not majority...it cannot be that some people are agreeing to it and others are not. If all unions say the laws should be scrapped, that’s our decision...There is no question of having a personal opinion,” Shiv Kumar said dismissing speculations of a rift.“In all five meetings with the farmer unions, the government held marathon discussions on the same points (that figured in the proposal). Finally, we asked them (government) to answer in ‘yes or no’…whether they want to repeal the three new laws and guarantee MSP or not?” Kakka said.Where does the protest stand now?Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Jagmohan Singh said farmer leaders are open to continuing the dialogue. “We will come for the meeting if the government invites, but our demand should be met. It has become a mass movement. We cannot return to our villages with empty hands,” he said. The farmers may send a rejoinder to the Centre.Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar is likely to make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitation and work with the government, ANI said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-15th-day-no-difference-among-our-unions-say-protesters/story-ALTAghLu1F1QZVfNP1DNcN.html
10-12-2020||India||Bengal cops deny shooting BJP worker amid conflicting claims over killer shotgun||The West Bengal Police have charged top national and state leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) under different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the violence at the rally in north Bengal’s Siliguri town on Monday. At least two FIRs have been filed. A BJP worker, Ulen Roy, was killed with a shotgun during a pitched battle between BJP workers and policemen who stopped two processions from moving towards Uttar Kanya, the secretariat in north Bengal. The state police said in a statement on Tuesday that Roy was killed with a shotgun that the police do not use and alleged that people in the rally were carrying firearms to incite violence. On Wednesday, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and head of the party’s national information and technology cell, Amita Malviya, posted videos showing a policeman carrying a shotgun and said it nullified the state’s claim. However, the location of the recording of the video was not clear. The policeman was also not seen firing the weapon. None of the senior police officers in Siliguri or Jalpaiguri talked to the media on the FIRs. Officers of the New Jalpaiguri police station, where the FIRs were lodged, were not ready to mention the sections of the IPC under which charges were filed. They only said that BJP leaders named in the FIRs include Vijayvargiya, state president Dilip Ghosh, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) national president Tejasvi Surya the BJYM state president Saumitra Khan. Also Read: Nadda slams CM, vows to oust TMCThe FIRs also mentions thousands of BJP workers as accused but does not name them or specify any number, an officer said on condition of anonymity. All seven BJP Lok Sabha members from north Bengal districts also figure in the FIRs. Praveen Agarwal, BJP Siliguri district president, said, “Many leaders, whose names figure in the FIRs, were not even present at the two rallies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cops-deny-shooting-bjp-worker-amid-conflicting-claims-over-killer-shotgun/story-cHITsyb0tS0mkOJqwPHKEM.html
10-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi, neighbouring areas likely to receive rains in next two days, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi AQI in very poor category; may improve with rainfall in next two days, says IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that Delhi and the neighbouring towns are likely to receive rainfall on December 11 and December 12. This is also likely to improve the air quality of the city which was 317 at 7am on Thursday, in the very poor category. Read moreEducation minister Pokhriyal holds bilateral cooperation talks with UAE counterpartUnion minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank held a virtual meeting with his UAE counterpart Hussain bin Ibrahim Al Hammadi on Wednesday to discuss bilateral cooperation in education sector. Read moreSnowfall expected over Western Himalayas todayA Western Disturbance and moisture incursion from Arabian Sea over Western Himalayas will bring scattered rain or snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next 24 hours. Read moreSenate falls short of halting Trump’s 23 billion dollar arms sales to UAEThe Senate fell short in trying to halt the Trump administration’s proposed $23 billion arms sales to the United Arab Emirates, despite bipartisan objections to the package of F-35 fighter jets and drones stemming from a broader Middle East peace agreement. Read more‘Found his captaincy fabulous’: Ian Chappell heaps praise on Ajinkya Rahane ahead of first India-Australia TestThere has been a lot of talk around Virat Kohli’s absence for three Tests against Australia with almost every former cricketer and expert agreeing that it would leave a deep void in the Indian batting line-up in the four-match Test series starting on December 17. Read moreDeepika Padukone enjoys some sun and snacks with Siddhant Chaturvedi, Shakun Batra during the making of their nextA team that eats together, stays together. Deepika Padukone, who is currently shooting for her next with Shakun Batra, joined him and co-star Siddhant Chaturvedi at the dining table. Siddhant has shared a few glimpses of Deepika, Shakun and himself enjoying a sumptuous spread at a cafe in between breaks. Read moreSpace music: NASA shares sonification video of the Crab Nebula. It’s amazingHave you seen the sonification videos by NASA which translate data from outer space into sound? If yes, then this new addition to the list will win you over. Even if you haven’t, let this video be your first. In any scenario, this is a clip that will leave you mesmerised – and even wanting for more. Read moreNow, a nursing college to come up at SRN HospitalIn a bid to provide well-qualified and trained nurses and thereby strengthen paramedical services in the state, a nursing college would soon come up at Moti Lal Nehru Medical College’s associated SRN Hospital. At this college, a new BSc (nursing) course would be offered, said officials. Read moreWatch| Farmer protest: UK PM Boris confuses issue with India-Pakistan tension||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-neighbouring-areas-likely-to-receive-rains-in-next-two-days-says-imd-and-all-the-latest-news/story-x8HgwRzGpXxSogscx9aa0O.html
10-12-2020||India||Assam: Voting for 2nd phase of Bodoland Territorial Council election starts||Voting for the second and final phase of election to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam started on Thursday morning. A total of 111 candidates are in fray in the 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts. Voting took place in 21 BTC constituencies in Baksa and Udalguri districts in the first phase of polling held on Monday. Voting started at 7:30 am and will continue till 4:30 pm. Long queues of voters were seen outside most polling stations since early morning prior to the start of voting. A total of 10.23 lakh voters will exercise their vote on Thursday. “Security arrangements are in place to ensure smooth polling and we expect voting to take place without any hiccups,” Bhaskar Phukan, deputy commissioner of Kokrajhar, said. “As per Covid-19 protocols, face masks and sanitisers have been given to poll personnel and also for distribution among voters, if needed. Social distancing will also be maintained during polling,” he added. Polling for the first phase on Monday had passed peacefully with over 77% voting reported in Baksa and Udalguri districts. This is the first election being held in Assam since Covid-19 pandemic started. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under the BTC were placed under governor’s rule. Assembly polls in Assam are due in March-April next year and the BTC polls are being viewed as a semi-final contest among the parties. Also Read: 4,800 ineligible people in updated NRC, HC informedSince its formation in 2003, BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between the BJP and BPF started souring after BTC was placed under governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 seats and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from BJP and BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting a total of 20 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-voting-for-2nd-phase-of-bodoland-territorial-council-election-starts/story-IZgYaNTsCrUwe0G3Pjhy6H.html
10-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine: Data India seeks from Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech; Canada’s approval to Pfizer vaccine shot | 10 points||Marking the formal beginning of the assessment process of Covid-19 vaccine candidates that have applied for emergency authorisation in India, the Central Drugs Standard Organisation decided to seek additional safety and efficacy data from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech before giving the nod. Pfizer’s application was not taken up for deliberation on Wednesday as the company sought more time.Here are the latest updates:1. The Centre will start sending additional cold storage equipment to states and union territories from tomorrow, as its preparation for vaccination drive has already begun.2. Serum Institute of India now will have to submit an updated safety data of phases 2 and 3 clinical trials in the country. The expert committee has also sought the immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK along with the UK regulator’s assessment before the grant of the authorisation.3. Bharat Biotech will have to submit the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial in the country.4. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given conditional approval for Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials of India’s first mRNA Covid-19 vaccine candidate -- HGCO19 -- being developed by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals.5. Pfizer has said it will have differential pricing on its COVID-19 vaccine for different countries, as the company aims to make the vaccine available across the world.6. Britain’s medicine regulator has advised that people with a history of significant allergic reactions do not get Pfizer-BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine after two people reported adverse effects on the first day of roll-out.7. However, it’s not yet a cause for worry, scientists have said. Many people can be sensitive to components in the shot, like gelatin or egg protein, or to the vaccine itself. People with egg allergies are sometimes advised not to get the flu shot, since that vaccine is mostly grown in chicken eggs, experts said.8. Pentagon will begin Covid-19 vaccinations on small scale at 16 defence sites in the United States and abroad.9. Israel will start vaccinating its people from December 27. It has received the first shipment of Pfizer vaccine doses.10. Canada’s health regulator on Wednesday approved Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. It will receive up to 249,000 doses this month and 4 million doses of the vaccine by March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-data-india-seeks-from-serum-institute-bharat-biotech-canada-s-approval-to-pfizer-10-points/story-cXqiVKhG8XcHSmMcCCswtI.html
10-12-2020||India||Snowfall expected over Western Himalayas today||A Western Disturbance and moisture incursion from Arabian Sea over Western Himalayas will bring scattered rain or snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next 24 hours.A fresh Western Disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation at the back of the present one is likely to cause widespread and moderate snowfall over J&K, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on Friday and Saturday as well.Scattered rainfall is also very likely over Haryana and Punjab during the same period. Due to high moisture feeding from Arabian Sea to northwest India, there may be heavy snowfall spells over J&K, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on Friday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin.Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and hail is likely at some places over Jammu, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab on Friday; over Uttarakhand on Saturday and over Madhya Maharashtra on Friday and Saturday. Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is likely at some places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on Friday and Saturday.Also read | For first time this season, Delhi min temp falls below 10°CMost cities and towns over northwest India recorded poor to very poor category air on Thursday morning which included Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Hisar and Lucknow. Kanpur and Bulandshahr recorded severe air quality. Delhi’s air quality index is 317 in very poor category.Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea, a low-pressure area has formed over Southeast Arabian Sea, IMD’s Wednesday night bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-expected-over-western-himalayas-today/story-nlK4pLHurgBUfv9DtQElnM.html
10-12-2020||India||Need to continue efforts to address threats of bio-terrorism, pandemic diseases: Rajnath Singh at ADMM-PLUS||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh during his address at the ASEAN defence ministers’ meeting plus (ADMM-PLUS) on Thursday said we need to continue our efforts to address the threats of bio-terrorism and pandemic diseases. “Threats to the rules-based order, maritime security, cyber related crimes and terrorism, just to name a few, remain the challenges that we need to address as a forum,” the defence minister said on the occasion of the meeting’s 10th anniversary. The ADMM-PLUS is a platform for ASEAN and its eight dialogue partners Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Republic of Korea, Russia and the United States (collectively referred to as plus countries), to strengthen security and defence cooperation for peace, stability, and development in the region.  As we enhance mutual trust and confidence, exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh https://t.co/nshwTkVYurSingh during his address further pointed out that the collective achievement in the past decade has been remarkable in advancing multilateral cooperation through strategic dialogue and practical security cooperation. “ADMM has grown in the last decade to become the fulcrum of peace, stability and rules-based order in this region,” he said adding that exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoiding actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region. In 2019, Singh had attended the meeting in Bangkok and the opening ceremony of Defence and Security 2019 Exhibition. Since 2017, the ADMM-PLUS has been meeting annually to allow enhanced dialogue and cooperation among ASEAN and the PLUS nations amid an increasingly challenging regional security environment. Also Read| Armed Forces Flag Day reminds us of duty towards army personnel: Rajnath SinghThe meet focuses on promoting mutual trust and confidence between defence establishments through greater dialogue and transparency, enhancing regional peace and stability through cooperation in defence and security, benefit ASEAN member states in building capacity to address shared security challenges among many other objectives. (With agency inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-need-to-continue-our-efforts-to-address-threats-of-bio-terrorism-and-pandemic-diseases-rajnath-singh-at-asean-defence-minister-s-meeting/story-jPGz5Hu4todTtYPopj9y1L.html
10-12-2020||India||No Covid-19 posters outside homes: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed all states and Union territories (UTs) not to put up home isolation posters outside houses of Covid-19 patients unless authorities under the disaster management law issue specific directions on a case-by-case basis. In what may put an end to the practice across states, the top court issued its order after underscoring that the central government never obligated or recommended that states and UTs paste such posters or other signage outside the residences of those who tested positive for Covid-19. The top court bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, reproduced the Centre’s November 19 letter to states and UTs, which mandated them to strictly comply with the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) for Covi d-19-positive patients under home isolation. This letter emphasised on the absence of there being any requirement of pasting of posters, and called for “scrupulous” adherence to the norms. Taking on record this letter, the bench said in its order: “We only observe that no state or Union territory is required to paste posters outside the residence of Covid-19 positive persons, as of now.” The bench, which also included justices RS Reddy and MR Shah, added that such measures can be taken only after the authorities empowered under the Disaster Management Act, 2015, prescribe this in certain specific instances. The court order fortifies the central government’s recent communication to the states and UTs about various concerns over affixing home isolation and Covid-19 positive posters. While the November 19 letter just talked about the absence of any obligation to put up such posters, the court order is expected to go a longer way in mitigating apprehensions of those who might be reluctant to come forward and get tested fearing social stigma due to the pictorial warnings. Citing the decision by the governments in Delhi and Punjab to stop this practice, the bench had last month said the central government should come up with guidelines dealing with the matter for the entire country. Subsequently, the letter dated November 19 was sent to all states and UTs, stating: “MoHFW Guidelines do not contain any instructions or guidance regarding affixing of posters or other signage outside the residences of those found Covid-positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-covid-19-posters-outside-homes-supreme-court/story-SnhZDoAmHmT8Ind4IPwdPN.html
10-12-2020||India||5th phase of DDC polls for 37 seats begin amid cash distribution allegations||Fifth phase of polling for Jammu and Kashmir’s 37 district development council (DDC) seats has begun on Thursday along with voting for 58 vacant Sarpanch and 218 vacant Panch seats in Kashmir.Two-time former minister and senior Congress leader Taj Mohiuddin is contesting from Paranpilla DDC seat of Uri in Baramulla. Mohiuddin was once tipped to be the chief minister candidate during PDP-Congress coalition government in J&K. He is facing a tough contest from the PAGD (People’s alliance for Gupkar declaration) candidate, Shaukat Ali Khan, who is from Sajjad Lone’s Peoples’ Conference.On Tuesday night, police had stopped and questioned a close relative of Mohiudin near LoC following allegations that he was distributing money among the voters at Kamalkote.Sajjad Lone accused the administration of trying to hush up a case of money distribution.“Attempts to hush up a case involving distribution of money in Parenpeela, URI, DDC constituency. The constituency goes to polls tomorrow. The L-G has a moral duty to ascertain who all r(are) behind attempts to hush up the case,” Sajjad Lone tweeted late on Tuesday night.Police, however, denied the allegations.“A news is making the rounds in the media about the arrest of a close relative of a DDC candidate in Uri along with some government employees. However, routine nakas viz a viz security beef up and for checking of violation of model code of conduct were established at many places along the length and breadth of Paranpilla DDC constituency. During the search at one such naka in Kamalkote, a close relative of one DDC candidate was stopped and questioned along with his escort personnel. He and his escort personnel were frisked and his vehicle was thoroughly checked but nothing was found,” police said in a statement.Out of the 37 DDC constituencies going to polls today, 17 are in the Kashmir division and 20 are in the Jammu division. 155 candidates including 30 females are in the fray for the 17 DDC seats in Kashmir division, said state election commissioner KK Sharma.“In the Jammu division, there are 144 candidates in the fray for the 20 DDC constituencies in this phase, including 40 females,” he added in a media briefing on Tuesday evening.Also Read: Roshni land scam: Ex-MLA Pathania’s late father, grandfather on list of beneficiaries The electoral officer said out of 125 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 5th phase, 30 have been elected unopposed.“There shall be a contest in 58 constituencies and 175 candidates, including 51 females are in the fray. Out of the total 1,412 Panch vacancies notified in this phase, 218 constituencies will go for elections with 527 candidates including 137 female candidates.”In this phase, Sharma said that 827,519 electors are eligible to cast their votes including 433,285 males and 394,234 females.“Among these 439,529 are from Jammu division and 387,990 are from Kashmir division. And 2,104 polling stations have been set up across the UT for this phase, of which, 914 are in Jammu division and 1,190 are in Kashmir division.Of 2,104 polling stations, 1,193 are hyper sensitive, 472 are sensitive and 439 have been categorized as normal,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5th-phase-of-ddc-polls-for-37-seats-begin-amid-cash-distribution-allegations/story-gjvA82tYSGWKqMLcoq4ElJ.html
10-12-2020||India||Youth Congress scraps internal polls for president selection||The youth wing of the Congress has scrapped the internal elections that were started in 2008 by former president Rahul Gandhi in an effort to bring internal democracy into the organisation, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. The Youth Congress has abolished the electoral-college and secret ballot methods and devised a new format that is based on membership enrolment to elect its state unit chiefs, one of the functionaries said. According to the new selection method launched in Himachal Pradesh recently, a person who enrols maximum numbers of members will be eligible to become a Youth Congress president for the state. The top three candidates with maximum enrolment will be called for an interview and the final selection will be based on ideology and previous organisational work, according to the Youth Congress website. The other posts will be allocated in the sequence of members enrolled, it added. In Himachal Pradesh, three candidates – Nigam Bhandari, Yadopati Thakur and Amit Pathania – were shortlisted for the final selection. Bhandari, who had enrolled 39,796 members, was appointed the president of the Himachal chapter, while Thakur, with the enrolment of 37,665 members, bagged the post of working president. With 5,968 enrolments, Pathania was named the state vice-president. The posts of general secretaries in open and reserved categories were filled accordingly. The same model will be adopted in the upcoming selection process in Gujarat, Telangana and Mumbai, the functionary quoted above said on the condition of anonymity. However, elections to the posts in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh will be held as per the old format given that the process in these states had started some months ago, the functionary added.The new changes came into being following a series of complaints to Rahul Gandhi by senior Congress functionaries and other leaders regarding the anomalies in the internal election process in the Youth Congress. Some of these leaders had also repeatedly raised the matter with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. A second Congress functionary, who did not want to be named, said the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party, will review this model in January-February next year and take a final call on the selection process to be adopted in the youth wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-congress-scraps-internal-polls-for-president-selection/story-KTBrUlaG5nsf6gG7TzfBTN.html
10-12-2020||India||Evidence ignored to appease vote bank, claims new book||A trail of evidence available months before the May 1991 assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was not seriously investigated by the local administration to mollify a section of the Tamil vote bank that sympathised with the Liberation of Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), a book by the lead investigator in the case has claimed.The book, Khaki In Dust Storm, is written by former Indian Police Services (IPS) officer Amod Kanth. He served as the then deputy inspector general of police of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which investigated the assassination of 46-year-old Gandhi in Tamil Nadu’s Sriperumbudur town in May 21, 1991 by LTTE extremists. Four of Gandhi’s assassins are on death row. In the book, Kanth said that a year before Gandhi’s assassination, another similar murder of a political leader held many crucial clues. Kandasami Padmanabha, a Sri Lankan Tamil leader who was a rival of LTTE chief V Prabhakaran, were murdered, along with 12 associates, on June 15, 1990. The type of explosives used and modus operandi was almost the same in the two killings, the book claimed. An eyewitness who saw the killer -- a man known as one-eyed Sivarasan -- informed the police but nothing happened.“It was believed at that time that the party in power did not pursue the Padmanabha case and other terror attacks in right earnest to protect Tamil vote bank before 1991 Lok Sabha elections,” Kanth said. At the time of Padmanabha’s killing, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam was in power in Tamil Nadu but the government was dismissed in January 1991 and President’s Rule was imposed in the state. DMK MP and spokesperson TKS Elangovan rejected the claims in Kanth’s book. “We put pressure on the Rajiv Gandhi government to implement the 13th Amendment. When (Indian) peacekeeping forces were sent to Sri Lanka and they killed Tamils, our leader (Karunanidhi) did not receive them when they came back because of the atrocities against Tamils,” he said. The 13th Amendment to the constitution of Sri Lanka is an outcome of the Indo-Lanka Accord of July 1987 between Rajiv Gandhi and then Lankan president JR Jayawardene during the civil war. The legislation provides for devolution of powers to the Tamil community by creating provincial councils in the island nation. For decades, the Tamil struggle in Sri Lanka has been an emotive and electorally important issue in Tamil Nadu, which goes to the polls early next year. In 1987, the Indian government sent peacekeeping forces to Sri Lanka, which was in the middle of a civil war between the Tamil-controlled northern provinces, headquartered at Jaffna, and the Sri Lankan government. They were withdrawn in 1989-1990. After murdering Padmanabha, Sivarasan escaped to Sri Lanka on a fishing boat and returned in April 1991 with nine accomplices -- including Gandhi’s assassin Dhanu -- the book said. Kanth said the eyewitness Thomas immediately identified Sivarasan when he was shown pictures taken by Haribabu, hired by Sivarasan to capture Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, thereby linking the two killings, 11 months apart. “Surprisingly, even a series of terrorist crimes that seriously disturbed the peace and law and order of Tamil Nadu failed to awaken the investigators of the state police from their stupor and make them take up the openly known cases like Padmanabha’s assassination. And, sadly enough, between the investigative wings of Tamil Nadu police and Intelligence agencies, everyone knew that the series of bomb blasts were orchestrated by LTTE. They also knew about the identities and movement of certain perpetrators, who got exposed as being closely concerned to Rajiv Gandhi assassination,” the book read. “The LTTE feared that Rajiv Gandhi will become the prime minister again and he may back the Sinhalese Sri Lankan government, and therefore, decided to kill him. All was on basis of presumption,” added Kanth in the book. Sivarasan, who allegedly planned Gandhi’s assassination, died by suicide on August 19, 1991 near Bengaluru before the CBI’s investigating team could catch him.  The book also talks about the Delhi Police’s handling of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots after killing of then prime minister Indira Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evidence-ignored-to-appease-vote-bank-claims-new-book/story-0VDh2TMQ07Vf0Ajzk5yE3N.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest to intensify ahead of Dec 14; Stalemate continues as talks fail||Farmers have been protesting against the Central government’s three agricultural reforms for the last 15 days. Several rounds of talks have been held between leaders of farmer groups and union ministers, but they have failed to reach a logical conclusion. The sixth round of talks which was supposed to be held on Wednesday got cancelled but the two sides maintained they were open for dialogue. The leaders further rejected the Centre’s proposal to amend the new reforms and added they would intensify their protest by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra expressways by Saturday, and further escalating it to a countrywide protest on December 14.Here are the latest updates on the ongoing farm stir:1. Union agricultural minister Narendra Singh Tomar met home minister Amit Shah to discuss the next course of action after representatives of farmer groups rejected the Centre’s proposal to amend the new farm reforms, according to news agency PTI. The Centre offered to amend 7-8 issues, including providing a written assurance for the minimum support price (MSP) policy.2. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) asked the Narendra Modi-led government’s ‘stop playing games’ with farmers and withdraw the laws ‘immediately and unconditionally’. A former ally of the BJP, the SAD added that Centre’s proposals to amend the three laws were nothing but delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers.3. Leaders of opposition parties met President Ramnath Kovind on Wednesday and sought removal of the farm laws. The five-member delegation comprised NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPI general secretary D Raja, CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and TKS Elangovan of the DMK. Rahul Gandhi after the meet said that the laws were passed without any discussion or conversation with the opposition parties or with farmers adding that farmers would not relent and continue their protests until the laws are taken back.4. Union minister of state for food and public distribution Raosaheb Danve claimed the ongoing agitation against the reforms was backed by China and Pakistan. “The farmers’ agitation that is taking place in Delhi is not that of farmers. The Central government is ready to spend for the benefit of our farmers. Countries like China and Pakistan have a hand behind these protests,” Danve said while addressing a gathering.5. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Singh Chautala met protesting farmers at Tikri border on Wednesday and said the entire country stands with them against the Centre’s new reforms. Selja, who was a former Union minister alleged the BJP govt neither heard the opposition’s nor the farmers’ voice and ‘imposed these black laws on the peasants’.6. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said the government was sensitive towards the concerns for farmers and expressed hopes that ongoing deliberations with them, which he termed a ‘work in progress’, would yield results soon. He added that several rounds of talks were held with the farmers regarding the reforms and the Centre was keen to resolve their issues.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-to-intensify-ahead-of-dec-14-stalemate-continues-as-talks-fail/story-NM4eBECRg0WeSAnavtdb5K.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP steps in to resolve infighting in Tripura||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) central leadership has stepped in to iron out differences between Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb and a section of party functionaries, and asked him not to hold a public meeting next week to seek the “people’s mandate” on whether he should continue as CM. A person aware of the developments said the party is concerned that the ongoing hostility between Deb and senior state leaders, including BJP legislator and former Congress leader Sudip Roy Barman, could adversely impact the party’s performance in the 2023 assembly elections and weaken its hold on the erstwhile Left bastion. The schism in the BJP’s state unit was evident earlier this week, when a section of party leaders raised slogans against the CM during the visit of Vinod Sonkar, the new state in charge. Though the CM’s team blames the Left cadre, Deb later said he would seek the people’s mandate on continuing in his post. “I’ll go to Vivekananda Maidan on December 13 and ask people of Tripura to tell me whether I should stay as CM. If people don’t support me, I’ll inform the party high command,” Deb told reporters after slogans of “Biplab Hatao, BJP Bachao” (remove Biplab, save the BJP) were raised during Sonkar’s visit. Sonkar, meanwhile, said he and Deb spoke to BJP chief JP Nadda, and the CM should continue to serve the people. Amid speculation that the CM could be replaced, a second functionary said the central leadership “will not take a hurried decision”. Differences in the unit have been exacerbated by disagreements between Deb and Barman, who claims to have support of 20 MLAs (in the 60-member assembly) in seeking a change in leadership due to Deb’s “administrative and governance deficiencies”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-steps-in-to-resolve-infighting-in-tripura/story-KfIWtsZz2Mdyia2zR76SJM.html
10-12-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of new Parliament building: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of a new Parliament building on Thursday at an event which will be attended by leaders from various political parties, cabinet ministers and ambassadors of different countries.PM Modi will also perform the ground-breaking ceremony for the building, which is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore.The event will begin at 12:55pm and the foundation stone will be laid at 1 pm, officials said, adding that a ‘sarva dharma prarthana’ (inter-faith prayer) will be held at 1.30pm. The prime minister will deliver his address on the occasion at 2.15pm, they said. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had earlier said, “The existing temple of democracy is completing 100 years... It is a matter of pride for our countrymen that the new one will be built by our own people as a prime example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.” “The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of Independence (2022), Parliament session will be held in the new building,” he said. The existing Parliament building will be conserved as it is an archaeological asset of the country, Birla said.All you need to know about the new Parliament building: 1. The existing building is a British-era structure, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi, according to a press release. 2. The foundation stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. The new building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. 3. The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space, the release added.4. In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for members. The Lok Sabha chamber will have an option to increase its sitting capacity to 1,224 members during joint sessions. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses.5. In September this year, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new Parliament building. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project. 6. The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building.7. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has twelve gates.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-new-parliament-building-all-you-need-to-know/story-vd8gpA7SBK5HUZKRYiAgMO.html
10-12-2020||India||IAF raises objections to Netflix trailer||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday objected to a trailer of an upcoming film starring veteran actor Anil Kapoor and director Anurag Kashyap, asking for certain scenes to be deleted. The trailer of the film AK vs AK that streaming platform Netflix calls its “first mockumentary drama’’ shows Kapoor wearing an Indian Air Force uniform using expletives in an apparent parody of Kashyap’s style of edgy films such as Gangs of Wasseypur.While the trailer of the film directed by Vikramaditya Motwane was released on Monday, the Indian Air Force’s Twitter handle tweeted on Wednesday: “The IAF uniform in this video is inaccurately donned & the language used is inappropriate. This does not conform to the behavioural norms of those in the Armed Forces of India. The related scenes need to be withdrawn.’’ The film is due for release on Christmas eve.When contacted, an official of the IAF told Hindustan Times that they came across the clip as part of their routine work of scanning social media for any references to the force. “You can do satire but you cannot do that while wearing an Indian Air Force uniform,’’ said the official who did not wish to be named in this report.This is the second time in recent months that the IAF has expressed displeasure over Netflix content. Its objections over the Janhvi Kapoor film Gunjan Saxena which depicted gender discrimination that a woman pilot had to experience is already being contested in court. The IAF official did not rule out taking legal action against AK vs AK as well.Hours later, Anil Kapoor, 63, tweeted an apology in a video statement. “It has come to my attention that my trailer has offended some people,’’ said the Slumdog Millionaire actor. “I want to sincerely offer my humble apologies for unintentionally hurting anyone’s sentiments.”While a Netflix spokesperson refused to comment, the platform clarified its position on Twitter. “AK vs AK is a film in which Anil Kapoor and his co-stars are playing themselves as actors. At no point does the film represent the Indian Air Force or our Armed Forces. We have nothing but the highest respect for the brave people protecting our nation,’’ said the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-raises-objections-to-netflix-trailer/story-UY2mQC3uCz4T8mydDUw8zM.html
10-12-2020||India||Kerala local body elections: 8,116 wards, 451 local bodies, 5 districts in 2nd phase polling||The polling for 8,116 wards in 451 local bodies across Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts will be held in the second phase of local body polls in Kerala on Thursday. Voting will begin at 7am and close at 6pm. As many as 12,643 polling booths have been set up and webcasting has also been introduced in 473 problematic polling booths. A total of 63,187 personnel have been deployed for election duty. The Ernakulam district, which includes the Kochi corporation, has 2,045 wards in 111 local bodies. 3,132 polling booths have been set up in the district for 25,900,200 voters. There are 272 problematic booths. 15,660 personnel have been deployed for election duty in the district.7,255 candidates will be competing in the Ernakulam district, including 400 in Kochi. Besides the corporation, the polls will be held at 82 grama panchayats, 14 block panchayats, 13 municipalities and one district panchayat in Ernakulam.The first of the three-phase election in the state witnessed a voter turnout of 72.67 per cent, with 98,57,208 voters participants, including 51,28,361 females, 47,28,489 males, 93 transgenders and 265 NRIs. The final phase will be held on December 14. Votes will be counted on December 16.Of the five districts that went to polls on Tuesday in the first phase, Thiruvananthapuram recorded 69.76 per cent polling, Kollam saw 73.41 per cent, Pathanamthitta 69.70 per cent, Alappuzha 77.23 per cent and Idukki witnessed 74.56 per cent.The turnout in Kollam corporation was 59.73 per cent while in Thiruvananthapuram corporation 66.06 per cent of voters cast their votes.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-elections-8-116-wards-451-local-bodies-5-districts-in-1st-phase-polling/story-JknNssnpXfi14iPrvDVRRI.html
10-12-2020||India||Centre attempting to sabotage farmers’ protest, alleges Punjab minister Charanjit Channi||Punjab cabinet minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday hit out at the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, alleging that it was trying to sabotage the farmers’ protest, and instead of resolving the issues of the farmers, it was trying to intimidate the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In a statement, Channi urged the BJP government to refrain from such acts as the people of the state, the Congress party, and the state government was standing with the chief minister.“The BJP government should refrain from filing ED and CBI cases. The people of the state, the Congress party, and the state government stand with the chief minister,” the statement quoted Channi. He further said that the Punjab Government, led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already passed four bills in the assembly to nullify the centre’s laws and the BJP government in the centre was not able to digest the historic bills.“History reveals that Capt Amarinder Singh always stands rock solid with the people of Punjab and even resigned from Lok Sabha for the state’s interest or termination of water agreement bills,” he added. This comes amid the mass agitation taking place in and around the national capital. Farmers from across the country, mostly from Punjab and other northern states, are protesting three of the Centre’s farm laws that were passed in Parliament on September by voice vote, despite objection by opposition parties.The farmers are protesting against the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce(Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmer (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-attempting-to-sabotage-farmers-protest-alleges-punjab-minister-charanjit-channi/story-PbrUrtzkVCQ1jgHu8dicRL.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ Protest Live Updates: ‘Our protests will continue peacefully,’ says farmers’ union||Protesting farmer leaders have rejected a government offer of amendments in the new agricultual laws and a “written assurance” on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, saying there was nothing new in it, and vowed to intensify their agitation by blocking key highways linking Delhi and a nationwide protest on December 14.The sixth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions slated for Wednesday was cancelled, but the two sides maintained they were open to dialogue.A five-member delegation of the opposition that included Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, seeking repeal of the farm laws against which thousands of farmers have been protesting on the borders of the national capital for the last 15 days.Follow live updates here:Our protests will continue peacefully: Bharatiya Kisan Union“If Centre was agreeing to 12 of our demands out of 15, that means the bills are not right, then why not destroy them. We had demanded one law on MSP but they brought three bills through the ordinance...Our protests will continue peacefully,” says Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farmers give ultimatum to govt till December 10 on farm laws“We’d given an ultimatum till Dec 10 that if PM doesn’t listen to us and doesn’t repeal laws, we’ll block railway tracks. It was decided in today’s meeting that all the people of India will take to the tracks. Sanyukt Kisan Manch will fix a date and announce,” says farmer leader Boota Singh.Any law cannot be entirely defective: Tomar on withdrawal of farm laws“Any law cannot be entirely defective. Government is ready to discuss the provisions that may adversely affect the farmers,” said Tomar on being asked if farm laws will be repealed.No compulsion on farmers: Piyush GoyalNo compulsion on farmers, they are being given an option to sell their produce: Union minister Piyush Goyal clarifies on farm lawsNew farm laws will not affect APMC or MSP: Tomar“We sent a proposal to farmers. Thet wanted that laws be repealed. We are of the stand that government is ready for open-minded discussions on provisions they have an objection against. Laws don’t affect APMCs or MSP. We tried to explain this to farmers,” Tomar said today.Narendra Singh Tomar addresses on farm lawsThrough recent farm laws, the effort was to make the farmer free from the mandi system, to sell his crop on desired price, says Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar as he address media over farm laws.Modi govt sensitive about farmers’ demands: NaqviUnion minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday said the Modi government was “sensitive” about the demands made by farmers and has addressed their main concerns in a “transparent” manner. He also said that most of the farmers were “satisfied” with the steps taken by the central government, and added that their interests were “safe and secure” in its hands.“The government is completely sensitive about the demands of farmers. That is why it has addressed their main concerns effectively and in a transparent manner. Most of the farmers are satisfied,” news agency PTI quoted Naqvi.Will end protests only after withdrawal of farm laws, says BKU“The proposal has no mention of the withdrawal of the laws. They (central government) wants amendment in them but we want these laws to be repealed. We don’t want changes. We will end our protest only when these laws are withdrawn,” news agency ANI quoted BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait as saying. The government is interested only in ending the protest, he also said.Narendra Singh Tomar will make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitationUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar will make an appeal to the farmers to end their agitation and work with the government, today. He will also brief the media: Sources, reports news agency ANI.We appeal to the people of Delhi to support us: Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Manjeet SinghBharatiya Kisan Union’s Manjeet Singh says, “The govt intends to weaken the farmers’ movement but many more farmers are coming to Delhi to join the movement. We appeal to the people of Delhi to support us.”Over 50 medical camps set up for farmers at Singhu borderOver 50 free round-the-clock medical camps have come up at Singhu, one of the multiple Delhi borders, where farmers have been agitating against the three recently enacted farm laws, braving the winters, for the last 15 days. Free medicines and ambulance services are also being provided to the agitating farmers. Farmers’ protest against Centre’s farm laws enters 15th dayFarmers protest at Tikri border against Centre’s farm laws.Farmers reject Centre’s offer, vows to intensify agitationThe farmers have announced a series of plans to escalate their protest. The plans involve closure of the Delhi-Jaipur Highway, boycott of Reliance malls and capture of toll plazas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-d8i7YRFfRPGrU4JRmV7T6O.html
10-12-2020||India||China, Pakistan behind farmers’ protest: Union minister Danve||Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Wednesday claimed that China and Pakistan were behind the ongoing protests by farmers, who are seeking repeal of three new farm laws.He also alleged that Muslims were earlier misled over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), but as those efforts did not succeed, now farmers were being told that they will face losses due to the new laws.Danve was speaking at the inauguration of a health centre at Kolte Takli in Badnapur taluka of Maharashtra’s Jalna district.“The agitation that is going on is not that of farmers. China and Pakistan have a hand behind this. Muslims in this country were incited first. What was said (to them)? That NRC is coming, CAA is coming and Muslims will have to leave this country in six months. Did a single Muslim leave? “Those efforts didn’t succeed and now farmers are being told that they will face losses. This is the conspiracy of other countries,” Danve said.The minister, however, did not elaborate on what basis he claimed that the two neighbouring countries are behind the farmers’ protests.“The government is buying wheat at Rs 24 and rice at Rs 34 per kg and giving it to people at Rs 2 and Rs 3 per kg respectively. The government is spending Rs 1.75 lakh crore on the subsidy for this. The government is spending money for the welfare of farmers,” the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs said.“These initiatives by the central government show that it is ready to spend money for farmers, but others don’t like it,” the BJP leader claimed.Danve said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the prime minister of farmers and none of his decisions would be against farmers.The Shiv Sena slammed Danve for dragging China and Pakistan in the farmers’ stir, saying the BJPleaders are out of their senses.Sena spokesperson and former Union minister Arvind Sawant told PTI that the BJP leaders are out of their senses because they lost power in Maharashtra.“They don’t know what they are speaking,” the Sena leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-pakistan-behind-farmers-protest-union-minister-danve/story-tOJWJn9H1SBNvPolwSW9yM.html
10-12-2020||India||4,800 ineligible people in updated NRC, HC informed||Nearly 4,800 ineligible persons got included in the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) for Assam, says an affidavit filed in the Gauhati high court, according to court documents.The affidavit was filed this week by the office of the Assam state coordinator for NRC in the court of justices Manojit Bhuyan and Soumitra Saikia in connection with a petition. According to the affidavit, the NRC office detected 4,795 ineligible persons whose names got included in the list while verifying details of 10,199 persons after the updated list was released in August last year. These persons included doubtful (D) voters, declared foreigners, persons against whom cases are pending in foreigners’ tribunals and their family members — all categories which were to be excluded from the updated NRC. Similarly, among the 10,199 persons whose details were verified, it was found that names of 5,404 persons which should have got included in the NRC didn’t find themselves in the list. In October this year, the high court had asked the NRC state coordinator to file a comprehensive affidavit on how some ineligible persons managed to get included in the final list. The court was hearing a petition by Rahima Begam, a resident of Mukalmua in Nalbari district, who had challenged a 2019 order of a foreigners’ tribunal that had declared her a foreigner. But despite the tribunal’s order, Begam’s name was in the NRC list, which aimed to weed out illegal foreigners. The court noted that the present case was of “great importance” and was not a “solitary instance” and stressed that insertions of names of ineligible persons in the NRC list was “against the law”. The updated NRC released in August last year had excluded over 1.9 million of the 33 million people who had applied to be included in the list that sought to identify genuine Indian citizens in Assam and weed out illegal immigrants. The exercise, which involved updation of a similar list in 1951, was done following a Supreme Court order and was conducted under its supervision. Soon after its release, almost all political parties and organisations in the state denounced the list, saying it included names of ineligible persons and left out many genuine citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-800-ineligible-people-in-updated-nrc-hc-informed/story-ADRighYPvxH7Y8sfxmelUM.html
10-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Govt offers broad concessions, farmers adamant||The Union government offered broad concessions to farmers, proposing to amend two farm-reform laws and a bill pending in Parliament in a bid to end weeks of protests, but farm unions stuck to their demand of scrapping the three pro-market legislations they say will hurt their livelihoods. With negotiations locked in an impasse, a long battle looms. Farm unions on Wednesday vowed to scale up protests by December 14 by blocking all highways into New Delhi and occupying toll plazas in large numbers. The government has deregulated farm markets, giving more space to private traders, to spur investments in a farm sector dependent on subsidies. Farmers have opposed the new changes, saying they will be swallowed up by big corporations. On Wednesday, the government appeared to address most of the farmers’ concerns. It offered in writing concessions it was willing to make. It proposed giving states greater role in so-called free markets, and a written assurance to continue the system of minimum support prices (MSP), which offers farmers state-set assured prices for staples. Another key offer is to bring additional legal safeguards for farmers’ rights engaging in contract farming “if needed”, including a bar on any confiscation of farm land to recover dues, and possible immunity to farmers from penalties for crop-residue burning, which causes pollution.In the letter signed by Vivek Aggarwal, joint secretary in the agriculture ministry, the government said it would make a clutch of amendments to the laws to make farmers more confident of facing the markets. But the farmer unions — which cancelled Wednesday’s scheduled talks after an informal meeting with home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday could not break the deadlock — remained adamant.“These proposals do not address most of our concerns.Despite rejecting the government’s offer of amendments, it has rehashed the same proposals. It is only trying to wear farmers out,” said Kirankumar Vissa of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farmer representative. Together, the laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new contract-farming rules. The government’s first proposal is to amend The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 to bring parity between so-called free markets and notified markets controlled by state governments. “Amendments will be brought to allow states to introduce a system of registration in private markets and also allow states to levy cess and service charges equivalent to those applicable in notified markets,” the first proposal states. Farm unions contend that government-controlled regulated markets, which levy trade fees, will collapse due to competition from new deregulated free markets, which have no fees or charges. Farmers have overwhelming back the existing network of regulated markets because they give them assured prices for staples. Many economists say middlemen often rig prices in these oligopolistic markets to their advantage. A related proposed also said states could make their own rules on mandatory documents that traders need to operate in free markets, doing with the provision for minimal documents. The new laws make local magistrates the final authority to settle disputes between traders and farmers. Farm unions have opposed this provision. The government’s proposal on this said “amendments will be made to allow farmers to approach civil courts of their choice”. The government also said it would amend The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 to bring additional safeguards to secure farmers’ right over his land “if needed”. “The contract-farming law already prohibits transfer, sale, lease, mortgage of a farmer’s land. Agribusinesses (sponsors) cannot confiscate farmers’ land due to any reason arising out of contractual farming. If needed, a fresh clarification on this will be issued,” the government stated. A written assurance on continuation of the existing MSP system is another proposal. Farmers have opposed penalties on pollution-causing crop-stubble burning, invoked through an ordinance in October. “The government will come up with a solution to this issue,” the proposal stated, with elaborating. Lastly, the government said it would keep farmers out of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Farmers have opposed a key provision of the bill, which provides for a direct-cash-transfer mechanism for transferring power subsidy to eligible consumers, including farmers, a major recipient of subsidised power. Farm unions say they are prepared to dig in for months in what has become a politically challenging spiral of farmers’ protests in decades. “The issue is not about any one clause but the direction in which the government is pushing farming in India, one that is presaged on large corporations, against the interests of farmers and consumers. If the government is ready for so many amendments, why can’t it just repeal the laws and end the matter,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, the lone woman negotiator representing farmers at the recent rounds of talks with the government. Experts called for a need to work out a solution.“Agriculture broadly needs a combination of reforms, investments, support prices, and subsidies. Emphasis on one form of solution over others will not help. Both sides should work out a solution which ensures all these go hand in hand,” said economist K Mani, a retired professor at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. “This is the first time the Narendra Modi government is facing sustained opposition at the ground level. It is difficult to say how exactly it will impact it politically. The question is whether farmers are a homogenous class. Voting is India is not known to be class-based. A farmer doesn’t vote as a farmer. Rather, other identities take over,” said KK Kailash, who teaches political science at the University of Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blinks-farmers-adamant/story-epssxhj6jFhcnFNTHTuEqO.html
10-12-2020||India||New Parliament complex will cater to future needs||Every nation has a message to deliver, a mission to fulfil, a destiny to reach. The mission of India has been to “guide humanity”, Shri Swami Vivekananda rightly said. India is striving hard to achieve the objective of social welfare through its parliamentary democracy. Today is a historic day when the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji would be laying the foundation stone of the ultra-modern triangular Parliament building having seating capacity of 1,224 MPs sitting together, a symbol of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” and “temple of democracy” for supplementing the infrastructure of the existing iconic circular Parliament House designed by architects Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker in 1912-13, based on the Chausath Yogini temple, Morena, Madya Pradesh, one of the oldest heritage sites in India, inaugurated in the year 1927. It is expected that this new building will be completed before Winter Session 2022, with its full grandeur as “har Bhartiya ka swabhiman” epitomising “Ek bharat shreshtha Bharat”.Since long, there has been a need for addressing severe structural constraints of the existing Parliament House building, more vividly realised during the last Monsoon Session of Parliament held in the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic. Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and Central Hall have seating capacities of 552, 245 and 436 respectively, with no facility of desk space before most of the seats. The proposed new Parliament building is being designed to cater to the present as well as future needs of digitisation, providing for adequate seating space in both Houses, and for joint sittings. Further, for meeting the future demand of possible expansion of strengths of the Houses of Parliament with delimitation in 2026, the new building would provide seating capacities of 888 and 384 members for Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha respectively, befitting the largest democracy of the world of 1.3 billion people. We all know that the Constitution is a living and dynamic organism which is supreme. The Constitution is what it is, and not what the Supreme Court says or Parliament wishes it to be. The judiciary, executive and legislature are all creatures of the Constitution; their powers and functions are defined and delimited by the Constitution. At this historic occasion, I would like to remind all legislators and the public at large through them about certain ideas recently floated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on November 26 before the 80th Conference of Presiding Officers of all Legislatures in India to have serious thought and action thereon in public interest. 1. We all know that the language of our laws, rules and regulations is quite difficult to be understood by people of common prudence. Complaints about complexity are as old as the law itself, and technical language is often blamed for baffling and excluding the lay person. In many parts of the world, plain English movement is catching up. In Britain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United States – and many other countries – the language of the law is being simplified. In India we are yet to begin. In public interest, there is the need for taking concerted steps for introducing drafting of laws/rules regulations, etc in a simple and lucid language which can be easily understood.2. The central government is moving to repeal archaic laws that bloat up statute books, occasionally conflict with other laws, and may hinder governance and growth. Lawmaking is the routine business of legislatures, and review for possible repeal should also happen routinely. If a review system were in place, our statute books would be slimmer. To achieve this objective, more than 1,486 Acts/statutes at the Union level have so far been repealed by Parliament so as to make statute book slim. These steps are required to be taken in all states so that number of laws on the statue book are brought to the bare minimum. 3. Recently, at the central level, sunset clause has been introduced in amending laws [The Mineral Laws (Amendment) Act,2020] and it is also being considered for inclusion in Appropriation Acts and other laws in appropriate manner. Sunset clauses should invariably be incorporated in all amending laws because as per section 6A of the General Clauses Act,1897, the amending law merges with the parent law on enactment and repeal of such amending law does not affect continuance of its provisions. I would also like to suggest the incorporation of sunset clause in amending laws, expiring laws and Appropriation Acts in all states so that no procedural requirement of their formal repealing from statute book is required.4. The PM also put emphasis on digitisation of all legislatures in India including two Houses of Parliament by adopting a single platform with central and individual dashboards: National e-Vidhan Application under the Digital India Programme. It is a great opportunity for Parliament to fully switch to the digital platform before Winter Session 2022 when their new chambers would be ready for use. The government has already dedicated two mission mode projects in the name of “e-Vidhan” for state legislatures and “e-Sansad” for two Houses of Parliament under the Digital India Programme.There is also a need for a considered debate on the idea of having provisions for a constructive no-confidence motion so as to avoid superfluously moving of no-confidence motions in Indian legislatures. An appropriate provision in the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of legislatures may be incorporated so as to ensure stability and good governance by providing for constructive confidence/no-confidence motions like that of Germany. In Germany, as per Article 67 of the Constitution under constructive no-confidence, alternative arrangement is required to be suggested. Under this mechanism if majority of a government comes under a test, besides no confidence in the existing government, confidence in the alternative government is sought in the elected House.Let us again commit ourselves to the service of the last man in the row through our cherished democratic values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-complex-will-cater-to-future-needs/story-YTB10CNWugXRVS9123hfLI.html
10-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India’s drugs regulator met on Wednesday to consider applications by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for approval of the Covid-19 vaccines developed by them — the first on the basis of trial data of Phase 3 trials conducted outside India, and the second on Phase 1/2 trials conducted in India.The vaccine developed by AstraZeneca/Oxford and made locally by SII will likely be India’s first line of defence against a disease that, till Tuesday night, had infected 9.7 million people and killed 141,415 in the country. On Tuesday, The Lancet published a peer reviewed paper detailing the findings of trials showing the vaccine’s efficacy and safety. Given this vaccine’s importance to India, it makes sense to take a close look at this. Neither Moderna, nor Pfizer/BioNTech has published a peer-reviewed paper on the findings of the Phase 3 trials of their vaccines. The UK approved the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine last week and started its vaccination drive on Tuesday. The UK will also likely approve the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine shortly. The US FDA indicated on Tuesday that it would likely approve the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine soon. As for the AstraZeneca/Oxford one, confusion surrounding the results of its own Phase 3 trials will probably mean that the US FDA awaits the results of an ongoing Phase 3 trial in the US before signing off on it. The paper published in The Lancet combines the results of four trials — a Phase1/2 one in the UK; a Phase 2/3 one also in the UK; a Phase 3 one in Brazil; and a Phase 1/2 one in South Africa — to show the vaccine’s safety. Of the around 23,700 people covered in these studies, three developed adverse effects, including one who developed transverse myelitis, a neurological disorder that involves the inflammation of the spinal cord. The trials were halted because of this, but later allowed to resume. So far, so good. The efficacy bit is more complex. This is based on two of the four trials listed above — the Phase 2/3 one in the UK and the Phase 3 one in Brazil. Together, these involved around 11,600 people. It is irregular to combine two trials for the purpose of analysis of efficacy, but it can be done. It is also irregular to combine two trials with different protocols — the placebo used in one was saline and in another a meningitis vaccine. And finally, one of the studies, the UK one, involved a subset of people who were given a smaller first dose (by mistake), and then a very late booster second dose (almost three months later in most cases). This mistake was then written into the revised trial protocol; all the participants in this subset were 18-55 years old. It is in this (much smaller) subset that the vaccine was 90% effective.There were two other subsets in the UK leg of the study — 18- to 55-year-olds who were given two standard doses; and people between the ages of 56 and 69, who were given two standard doses. The results of these were combined with those of the Brazil study, covering health workers and those with a high risk of being exposed to the infection, and all older than 18. These people were given two standard doses, 12 weeks apart. It is the combined reading of these two subsets of the UK study and the Brazilian study that showed that the vaccine is 62% effective in preventing infections. Since the trials are still ongoing, these results are interim, but it is on their basis that the UK, and India, will grant the vaccine approval. SII is conducting its own Phase 3 trials of the vaccine, but that data hasn’t been released yet. A 62% efficacy level exceeds the 50% floor set by the US FDA and would have likely been cheered in any other context other than the one in which the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine trial results were announced — in the wake of announcements by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna that showed a 95% effectiveness of their own vaccine candidates. But what the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine lacks in effectiveness it makes up for in terms of cost and ease of storage and transportation (it doesn’t require the sub-zero temperatures of the other two).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-2rPumMppWaQdbDlCXmhkgM.html
10-12-2020||India||India may wait for UK nod before Oxford vaccine call||India may need to wait till authorities in the United Kingdom clear the coronavirus vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca as experts from India’s drug regulators sought this data before proceeding with an assessment of their own, according to details of discussions at the first meeting to review options for the country.The vaccine candidate, being manufactured and tested in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII), is among three that have applied for an emergency approval. The others include Pfizer-BioNTech’s mRNA vaccine that last week became the first to be approved following late-stage trials anywhere in the world, and an indigenously developed shot called Covaxin by Hyderabad’s Bharat Biotech.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should submit the following data/information for further review: 1. Updated safety data of the Phase II/III clinical trial in the country; 2. Immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in UK and India; (and) 3. The outcome of the assessment of UK-MHRA for grant of EUA (emergency use authorisation)”, according to recommendations by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)’s Subject Expert Committee (SEC). HT has seen the document. The SEC’s assessments will be sent as recommendations to the CDSCO, which will take the final call.The committee also asked Bharat Biotech, which presented Phase I/2 data, to present data from its Phase 3 trials. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should present the safety and efficacy data from the ongoing Phase III clinical trial in the country for further consideration,” the committee recommended.Wednesday’s meeting marks the formal beginning of assessments of Covid-19 vaccine candidates that may have derived enough data to judge its safety and efficacy. This data is usually available only in Phase 3 studies and once enough infections are recorded to reach a particular checkpoint.At present, Bharat Biotech’s trial is far from this milestone – its enrolment began on November 11 and protective antibodies develop only 42 days from the date of the first shot.The third manufacturer, Pfizer, sought more time to appear before the committee. Pfizer’s vaccine candidate, developed in partnership with Germany’s BioNTech, was approved by UK’s MHRA last week. But on Wednesday, health authorities in the UK advised caution after two people given the dose developed non-serious allergic reactions. “Pfizer sought and was granted some more time before it could make a presentation before the committee. The other two manufacturers explained the data gathered so far and were asked to provide some additional information, which they have promised to submit,” said an official from the health ministry. A second official in the government, who asked not to be named, said Pfizer has been told they can approach whenever they are ready. The next SEC meeting is likely to be scheduled once the two manufacturers submit their data. The second official quoted above, who asked not to be named, said the committee has already received “thousands of pages of data” and a decision is likely “very soon” once the information sought is provided.“The panel, comprising of domain experts who are not government officials, sought additional clarifications from both manufacturers which are technical and scientific in nature. Both SII and Bharat Biotech have promised to come back with the additional clarifications. The next meeting is expected to happen as soon as they are ready with the information,” this person said, asking not to be named. Oxford University’s Sarah Gilbert and UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) chief executive June Raine told ITV that it was still not clear when the Oxford-AstraZeneca shot can be cleared. Raine said MHRA was still receiving data, and no timeline could be given on when a decision was expected, ITV reported on Wednesday. Both of the Indian government officials cited above said the approval process is likely to involve thorough reviews and the process could take at least a couple of weeks.“A decision cannot be taken on whether a vaccine is to be approved or not within two hours. This is a routine procedure. If you take for example Pfizer, it had applied for an emergency use authorisation with the US FDA on November 24 and they have had only two meetings of their committee so far. They had applied to the UK authorities on November 20 and it has just been approved. It will take time for the committee to go over the data,” said the health ministry official the cited above. Both SII and Bharat Biotech declined to comment. Pfizer’s vaccine is the furthest along, having completed clinical trials in entirety and showing 95% efficacy. However, there has been no trial in India for the vaccine. The Oxford-AstraZeneca, to be manufactured and marketed by the Serum Institute of India, is currently conducting a phase III trial in India with 1,600 participants across 15 sites. The vaccine has shown an efficacy of 62% when volunteers were given two full doses of the vaccine. A half dose followed by full dose regimen — which was initially given by accident during UK testing of the vaccine — was found to be 90 effective. Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin in collaboration with the government’s Indian Council of Medical Research, has just completed phase I and II trials, the data for which hasn’t been made public yet. The phase III trials that started in mid-November has so far only enrolled about 5,000 of the total 26,000 sample needed. Most volunteers have only received the first dose of the vaccine, with the second to be administered 28-days later. (With inputs from Saubhadra Chatterji)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-wait-for-uk-nod-before-oxford-vaccine-call/story-yYDIse8Hz9MSUBjX1aSAUN.html
10-12-2020||India||Why are farmers sticking to stand?||Farm unions have stuck to their demand of scrapping three pro-market agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods, dealing a blow to the Union government’s offer to bring changes to the laws to end weeks of agitation by farmers. On Wednesday, the farm ministry sent out a lengthy set of proposal to farm unions protesting at Delhi’s borders to address their concerns. Farmers fear losing out to big corporations if private traders get a free in deregulated markets. The government says the changes will give farmers greater market access and spur investments. The agriculture sector employs half of all Indians, but adds only 16% to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP), meaning far too many people are engaged in agriculture than is required to generate the same levels of farm incomes. The new laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and set new rules for contract farming. Concessions offered by the government provide for more oversight of private markets. Farmers, however, say they want nothing short of a full repeal of the laws. Farmers have come to trust decades-old regulated markets despite studies that show these markets are run by trader cartels who rig prices and lend money to farmers, limiting their bargaining power. Yet, these markets also offer farmers assured minimum prices for staples, providing a sense of security. The new reforms allow corporations to operate with minimal regulations. “The core concerns [are] about removing regulation on traders and companies and thereby removing all protections to farmers offered by the regulation system,” said Kirankumar Vissa of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farm activist. The government on Wednesday said its concessions will protect farmers’ bargaining power. Farmers say the very objective of the laws is wrong. “The crux of the matter is that the government’s laws are centered around large corporations which are against the interest of farmers and consumers. Why can’t markets be farmer-led?” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, a farm activist who took part in the recent talks with the government. Economists attribute India’s impressive economic growth over the years to reforms in industry, currency markets and manufacturing. The burst of reforms initiated in 1991 sidestepped the farm sector altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-farmers-sticking-to-stand/story-IO08zYk3pAFOWAYmAJGGsO.html
10-12-2020||India||Hearing in Bombay High Court today for quashing of FIR in Anvay Naik case||The Bombay High Court on December 10 will hear the pleas filed by Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and other accused seeking to quash the FIR filed against them in interior designer Anvay Naik suicide case.The journalist and other accused had sought a direction from the high court for staying the investigation into the case and quashing of the FIR against them. The accused trio has been charged under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 109 (punishment for abetment) and 34 (common intention).In May this year, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that he had ordered a fresh probe in the case -- closed by the police earlier -- following a complaint by Adnya Naik, Anvay Naik’s daughter.Goswami and the two others were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra’s Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused. However, they got bail from the Supreme Court on November 11.The police on December 4 filed the charge sheet before a court in Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district, where the case for alleged abetment of suicide of Naik and his mother has been registered. The charge sheet claims that the accused did not heed interior designer Anvay Naik’s threat to end his life if his dues were not paid. Later, Goswami moved the Bombay High Court seeking a direction to the Alibaug court not to take cognizance of the charge sheet.Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had questioned the Shiv-Sena-NCP-Congress government’s decision to file a charge sheet despite the Supreme Court’s observations while granting bail to Goswami and others.“Isn’t this a mockery of Supreme Court’s judgment? Are they again trying to suppress personal liberty?” Fadnavis had asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hearing-in-bombay-high-court-today-for-quashing-of-fir-in-the-anvay-naik-case/story-0s6fQSstA0x0GjfXaBjV3K.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP supporter found hanging in Bengal, party charges TMC with murder||A 36-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporter was found hanging inside the premises of a girls’ school at Tufanganj in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district on Wednesday morning, a day after he went missing, police said. The family of Swapan Das, the deceased, and local BJP leaders alleged that he was murdered by workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). BJP national president J P Nadda, who is in Bengal on a two-day visit, also mentioned the death in his first address to party workers in Kolkata. The body of Das, a goldsmith, was found hanging outside the canteen at Andaran-Fulbari Girls’ High School, said the police. A resident of Subhas Palli in the Andaran-Fulbari gram panchayat area, Das went missing on Tuesday morning but his family did not report it to the police. Das is survived by his wife and two minor daughters. There were bloodstains on his feet, alleged Chumki Das, the BJP worker’s wife. Malati Rava Roy, the BJP district president, said, “His feet were on the ground, this cannot be a case of suicide.” “My husband was murdered by TMC-backed goons. He did not hang himself,” said Chumki Das, who named two TMC workers in her police complaint. The TMC denied the allegation. Rabindra Nath Ghosh, north Bengal development minister, said, “BJP supporters are killing their own people and putting the blame on other parties. The TMC has nothing to do with this death.” K Kannan, superintendent of police, Cooch Behar, said, “We have registered a case of unnatural death and an investigation is on.” Agitated BJP workers staged a demonstration with the body outside Tufanganj police station. Sibapada Paul, TMC’s district spokesperson, claimed that Das died by suicide because of a family feud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-supporter-found-hanging-in-bengal-party-charges-tmc-with-murder/story-S0Xf4MbF0ZBLVHrnY77GZM.html
10-12-2020||India||PM-WANI: Cabinet gives nod for setting up of public WiFi networks||The Union cabinet approved on Wednesday a new policy to allow businesses to offer wireless internet hotspot services by setting up calling office-like facilities, paving the way for the expansion of high-speed internet into remote areas and regions with patchy 4G mobile network coverage.The project, among three major telecom-related initiatives approved by the Prime Minister-led Cabinet, will not entail a licence fee and is aimed at improving internet penetration that will ultimately help enhance the ease of doing business, employment opportunities and incomes, the government said in a press release. “It is a decision that will unleash a massive wave of WiFi connectivity in the country,” minister of communications Ravi Shankar Prasad said during the Cabinet briefing separately. Public WiFi in India: Govt approves scheme, grocery shops can be WiFi pointsThe project -- Public Wi-Fi Access Network Interface or PM-WANI -- will have several components with public data offices (PDOs) being the point where wireless internet will be offered. Additionally, businesses can set up aggregators to create a network of such PDOs, and develop and operate applications that will allow people to find and use services at such PDOs. “A public data office can be a small shop; anyone can register as a PDO. They can get the internet bandwidth from a service provider. Aggregators will compile and keep information about the PDOs. Apps can be downloaded from the store or from the website. This way, you can directly get WiFi from any PDO,” Prasad said.According to the government, no license fee will be charged, which until now was 8% of the adjusted gross revenue, and those applying to run services as a PDO will not require to register with the Department of Telecom – the other two, however, will need to register themselves with the government. “There are about 5 lakhs public WiFis at present,” said an official of the department of telecom, asking not to be named. “The number will increase by 10 times over the next two years. It will help extend the services across the country. Bharatnet will also be used to provide public WiFi,” this person added.The official added that the scheme will create employment, with kirana shops, paan shops, etc becoming public WiFi hotspots. “It will be additional service. People will be happy to use it if they provide good bandwidth.” It was not immediately clear what sort of tariffs or charges end users will need to pay.Former telecom secretary Shyamal Ghosh told Hindustan Times that in principle, the move is a good step. “It will give access to more and more people through WiFi. It will help connectivity and make it easier to download data. The service provider that gives the access may charge for the data downloaded, but it depends on the modalities of the scheme.” The cabinet also approved the setting up of a submarine optical fibre cable between Kochi and Lakshadweep. The project is estimated to cost Rs 1,072 crore and will be funded by the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF). The government, in terms of policy decisions, spearheads the USOF, however, contributors to the fund include private players such as DoT licensees Airtel, Vodafone, Reliance and Tata Telecom. All of them contribute a mandatory 5% of their license fee AGR to the fund and will now be able to lease the fibre to provide connections in the islands. Earlier this year, the government had approved its first 2,300-km submarine fibre optic cable in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The project had cost Rs 1,224 crore.By 2022, the government also aims to provide mobile coverage to 2,374 villages (1683 in Arunachal Pradesh and 691 in two districts of Assam) using the USOF scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-wani-cabinet-gives-nod-for-setting-up-of-public-wifi-networks/story-wLBykYJTgOXjVucz1EvZXK.html
10-12-2020||India||BJP wins over 5500 seats unopposed in Arunachal panchayat and municipal polls||Panchayat and municipal polls in Arunachal Pradesh are due on December 22. But the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the state has already won over 5,500 seats unopposed. The party has won 96 of the total 240 zila parishad member posts, 5410 of the 8291 gram panchayat member posts and 5 out of the 20 seats for corporators to the Itanagar Municipal Corporation. “An impressive start for BJP in the state’s panchayat and municipal polls. Congratulations to all the candidates from BJP who have won unopposed. Also thanks to people of Arunachal for their unwavering trust in BJP and PM Narendra Modi’s leadership,” Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted on Tuesday. BJP MP from Arunachal and Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs Kiren Rijiju also took to Twitter to congratulate the winners and thanked the party leadership in Centre and the state for the guidance. “In Arunachal, the results show faith of the people in BJP. Results in favour of BJP is despite corona, the resultant economic situation, migrant labourers’ problem and opposition parties to instigate farmers. This is also a verdict of India in favour of the farm reform bills,” union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted on Wednesday after a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-over-5500-seats-unopposed-in-arunachal-panchayat-and-municipal-polls/story-EnCw9MEuK3cSLvwjsvQh6J.html
10-12-2020||India||Mother of five allegedly gang raped by 17 men in Jharkhand’s Dumka||A mother of five children was allegedly gang raped by 17 men who held her husband hostage in Jharkhand’s Dumka district, around 300 km northeast of the capital Ranchi, according to the complaint lodged by the woman on Wednesday, police said.The police registered an FIR against 17 people including a person known to the survivor. Based on the statement to the police, deputy inspector general (DIG) of Santhal region, Sudarshan Mandal and Dumka superintendent of police (SP) Ambar Lakra visited the village of the victim to investigate the matter.The crime allegedly took place under Mufassil police station on Tuesday night when the woman was returning from a weekly village market with her husband.“As per the statement of the woman, she was returning with her husband from a village market on Tuesday night when 17 people intercepted her and took her husband hostage before committing the crime,” the DIG said.Mandal said the medical test of the woman, who would be around 35-year-old, had been conducted on Wednesday and they were waiting for the report.“The woman said she could identify only one person. We have detained the accused for interrogation. If his involvement was found in the crime, he would be sent to jail,” Mandal said.The DIG, who was speaking over phone from the victim’s village, said, “We are interrogating the villagers regarding the crime. We are investigating the matter meticulously, as the woman is changing her statement. When I was interrogating her in her village, she said there were five persons involved in the crime.” The husband of the woman said that she had gone to her mother’s house to help in paddy harvesting a month ago.On an average five rape cases have been registered till July this year in the state, according to Jharkhand police website.An analysis of the figures available in the website shows that as many as 1,033 cases of rape have been filed till July end this year, higher than the figure of 2019. A total of 1,416 cases of rape have been registered in 2019, which means on an average four cases daily, as per the records of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The number of cases remained around 1,000 annually from 2015 to 2018. As many as 1,090 cases were registered in 2018, 914 cases in 2017, 1,032 in 2016 and 1,053 in 2015, according to NCRB.The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed the JMM-led government for rising rape cases in the state. Former social welfare minister and senior BJP leader Louis Marandi said, “Law and order situation has deteriorated in the state. The rape cases have become frequent in tribal districts. Tribals are not safe under this government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mother-of-five-allegedly-gang-raped-by-17-men-in-jharkhand-s-dumka/story-uiTxie7eFeMWCgWcplGCiK.html
10-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: Four-acre mangrove patch destroyed near proposed eco park in Uran||A group of environmentalists has unearthed a four-acre patch of dried up and destroyed mangroves at a site less than 200 metres from the proposed mangrove park by Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) in Belpada, Uran.The group, Shri Ekvira Aai Pratisthan (SEAP), said at least approximately 1,500 mangrove trees were destroyed after tidal water was blocked off by locals for captive fish breeding or aqua culture activities. The patch had turned dark brown while trees located at the site of the proposed park remained lush green.“Local vested interests have been involved in these illegal activities. Strict corrective action must be taken against the culprits otherwise these kind of practices may be repeated everywhere. Local residents need to be made aware about the importance of this ecosystem,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head, SEAP, who filed a complaint with various state authorities requesting a first information report in the matter and an investigation by the revenue or forest department. Last week, Pawar also filed complaints about alleged debris dumping at other locations Belpada, Sawarkhar, and Sonari areas of Uran.Also read | Maharashtra scraps jetty project to protect turtle nesting beach in RatnagiriIn November, JNPT announced that it planned to build a 200-hectare (ha) mangrove (eco) park to protect dense mangrove patches and house visiting galleries, mangrove walkthroughs (boardwalks), a nature interpretation centre, and a nursery with rare mangrove species, at Belpada in Uran at a cost of Rs5 crore for the first phase.The proposed site is covered with healthy mangroves, said Dilip Koli from the Paramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti, a local fishing community. “It is a rich fishing area especially for fish, shellfish, crabs etc. We are dependent upon these stretches for our livelihood but it would be lost due to this park,” said Koli.During the last meeting of the Bombay high court (HC)-directed state mangrove and wetland grievance redressal committee on November 2, the Konkan commissioner, chairman panel, said JNPT could go ahead with the project. “A mangrove park will lead to awareness for locals in Uran but we will convey our final decision during the next HC panel meet scheduled this month,” said Annasaheb Misal, Konkan commissioner.Based on the panel decision, NatConnect Foundation wrote to the committee on Tuesday, expressing apprehensions over the destruction of mangroves and debris at Belpada.“The local fishing community is worried over the loss of their source of livelihood and this must be addressed. On one hand, mangroves are being destroyed but an ecological park is being planned right next to it. I have appealed to the HC committee to keep the park project on hold and clear the free flow of tidal waters to mangroves, restore the wetland, and then commence their plans,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.The Belpada area has been officially identified as a wetland under the National Wetland Inventory Atlas, Maharashtra. However, Koli and other fishers alleged that 450 hectares of natural areas were buried and landfilled in 2018-19 without any clearance permission from the HC or the state’s coastal authority. “JNPT had responded to our right to information query stating that they had not destroyed anything at Belpada,” said Koli.Natural areas lost in Uran, alleges traditional fishing community In a fresh complaint to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the traditional fishing forum has alleged reclamation by state agencies such as JNPT, City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd., and Special Economic Zone across Uran areas in 2019-20 --like Sheva island where 100 ha has been allotted for a tank farm, 600 ha for truck parking, 90 ha for road widening, 118 ha for expansion of a police station at Jaskhar, 100 ha near Belpada through debris dumping, and 300 hectare across the proposed JNPT SEZ. “Also, obstructions have been created in the creek estuaries of Sheva, Jaskhar, Sonari, Belpada etc.,” Koli’s complaint to CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-four-acre-mangrove-patch-destroyed-near-proposed-eco-park-in-uran/story-EcSZOjvDRHgkY8kPIxqP6H.html
