11-12-2020||India||Man in Kochi arrested for tying dog to car, dragging it around||A person has been arrested in Kochi after he tied his dog to a car and dragged the creature for more than 600 metres on Friday, said police.The video of the incident had gone viral on social media, triggering outrage from animal lovers.The accused has been identified as AP Yousef. The police said the man was angry over constant complaints by the family about the pet.The dog, undergoing treatment at a city vet care centre, is said to be critical. The state motor vehicles department said the man’s driving licence will be cancelled and his vehicle will be impounded.According to the police, the incident was first noticed by a student who was riding a two-wheeler and tried to stop the car. The student shot a video and alerted an animal care home nearby and others. The incident took place on the Paravoor-Nedumbassery road near Athani, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-kochi-arrested-for-tying-dog-to-car-dragging-it-around/story-zilH3h9QyNlYy0j2239A3J.html
11-12-2020||India||India produced 60mn PPEs, 150mn N-95 masks till Oct from zero in March: Smriti Irani||Union textiles minister Smriti Irani on Friday said India produced over 60 million personal protection equipment (PPEs) and around 150 million N-95 masks till October, from zero in March. The country has so far exported over 20 million PPE and over 40 million N-95 masks, she said while speaking at the virtual launch of a study by the Institute for Competitiveness. The study chronicles India’s success in going from being import-dependent for high-quality PPE kits to becoming self-sufficient. She said Prime Minister Narendra Modi backed the industry and government officials who were “adamant” on not diluting international technical standards despite “huge pressure” on the government. “The direction that we took was that if we are to dilute international standards, we expose health workers to tragedies,” Irani said. She also said that in the state of lockdown, 5 lakh sustainable direct jobs have been ensured as part of the PPE and testing swab revolution. According to the study, in 60 days, India developed an indigenous network of PPE fabric and garment manufacturers and by July, it was able to export PPE kits to other countries. It said the government’s ‘Go Local’ initiative turned the crisis of acute shortage into an opportunity to develop an indigenous supply chain for manufacturing Class-3 PPEs and testing swabs. The capacity building stage was dividing into five sets of activities, with each set assigned to a group of officers from the textiles ministry, according to the study. The Institute for Competitiveness is part of the Microeconomics of Competitiveness, affiliate network of Harvard Business School. On January 30 this year, when the first coronavirus case was reported in India, PPE kits including full body coveralls suits for Covid-19 (classified as Class-3 protection level under ISO 16603 Standard) were not manufactured in India. While countries began to limit their export of PPE kits, India was estimated to require more than 20 million PPE kits and 40 million N-95 class masks by July 2020. “Beating all odds, India developed an indigenous network of PPE fabric and garment manufacturers in just 60 days. By mid-May, India had the capacity to manufacture 4.5 lakhs pieces of body coveralls and 2.5 lakhs N-95 masks per day,” it said. So, India also began exporting PPEs to the US, the UK, Senegal, Slovenia, and UAE, it added. The study said the scale of masks manufacturing has increased at such an exponential rate that by October, 60 million PPEs were produced, of which, 20 million were exported. Over 150 million N-95 masks were also produced, of which 40 million were exported. Currently, 200 domestic manufacturers produce 32 lakh N-95 masks per day, making India the largest exporter of masks to the world, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-produces-60-million-ppes-150-million-n-95-masks-till-october-from-zero-in-march-irani/story-dv9NrJZDfwMW0KsX6uxweP.html
11-12-2020||India||India’s first mRNA vaccine candidate gets nod for human clinical trials||India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidate, the mRNA one being developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, has received approval from drug regulators to initiate combined Phase 1/2 trials human clinical trial, the government said on Friday. The nod was given on the basis of data from animal studies but the company will have to submit interim results from the first part of the trial before starting the next.The novel mRNA vaccine candidate, HGCO19, has been developed by Gennova and supported with a seed grant under the Ind-CEPI mission of the department of biotechnology of the Union ministry of science and technology. Gennova has worked in collaboration with US’ HDT Biotech Corporation to develop the mRNA vaccine candidate. HGCO19, which is stable at 2-8 degrees Celcius for two months, has already demonstrated safety, immunogenicity, neutralisation antibody activity in animals. Also read | Moderna vaccine confers at least 3 months immunity, study claimsA release from the ministry of science and technology said the mRNA vaccines do not use the conventional model to produce an immune response. “Instead, mRNA vaccine carries the molecular instructions to make the protein in the body through a synthetic RNA of the virus. The host body uses this to produce the viral protein that is recognized and thereby making the body mount an immune response against the disease. The mRNA-based vaccines are scientifically the ideal choice to address a pandemic because of their rapid developmental timeline,” the release said.It also said the mRNA vaccine is considered safe as is non-infectious, non-integrating in nature, and degraded by standard cellular mechanisms. They are expected to be highly efficacious because of their inherent capability of being translatable into the protein structure inside the cell cytoplasm. mRNA vaccines are fully synthetic and do not require a host for growth, for example, eggs or bacteria. They can, therefore, be quickly manufactured in an inexpensive manner under cGMP conditions to ensure their “availability” and “accessibility” for mass vaccination on a sustainable basis.Also read | Where are we in the Covid-19 vaccine race?“The neutralizing antibody response of the vaccine in mice and non-human primates was comparable with the sera from the convalescent patients of COVID-19. Gennova’s vaccine candidate uses the most prominent mutant of spike protein (D614G) and also uses the self-amplifying mRNA platform, which gives the advantage of a low dosing regimen compared with the non-replicating mRNA or traditional vaccines,” the release added. “HGCO19 uses the adsorption chemistry so that the mRNA is attached on the surface of the nano-lipid carrier to enhance the release kinetics of the mRNA within the cells compared to the encapsulation chemistry.”Also read | What to expect when the vaccine rolls outGennova has completed all preliminary work and should be initiating the Phase 1/2 human clinical trial soon since the approval from the DCGI office has been received. The vaccines developed by Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc, which are said to have over 90% efficacy, use the mRNA model.Five vaccine candidates are under different phases of clinical trials in India. Serum Institute of India is conducting Phase 3 trial of the Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Oxford University-Astrazeneca. The indigenously-developed vaccine by Bharat Biotech International Limited in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already started the Phase 3 clinical trial.Another indigenously-developed vaccine by Zydus Cadila has also completed Phase 2 clinical trials in the country. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have also announced the start of adaptive Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials for Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India. Biological E Ltd has also started early Phase 1 and Phase 2 human trials of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-mrna-vaccine-candidate-gets-nod-for-human-clinical-trials/story-1JCyW1HkKF3pRMEsz7GgTN.html
11-12-2020||India||On Saturday, Goa to vote in elections that will test CM Sawant’s popularity||Goa will belatedly go to the polls to elect a total of 50 candidates for the zilla (district) parishad constituencies in what is proving to be a challenge for political parties to inspire voters to come out and vote during the pandemic.The ruling BJP, the opposition Congress, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party as well as the Aam Aadmi Party have fielded candidates in the polls that have suffered from a huge gap between the campaigning and the actual polling. Nonetheless, the election will be closely watched by political observers to gauge the mood of the state ahead of the state assembly elections in early 2022. The Goa Forward Party has not fielded any candidates in the polls.More than a poll to elect the district panchayats, the polls are seen as a massive test of Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ongoing protests against coal, the failure to restart mining, among other related issues.The polls were set to be held on March 22 with all preparations in place and campaigning having concluded until the Prime Minister announced the day-long ‘Janta curfew’ which forced the Goa government to postpone polls. Initially, the polls were stalled for two days before getting postponed indefinitely.Also read: Situation at border over last 6 months result of China’s actions - IndiaThe nine-month gap has left political parties and their candidates worried that people will not even remember who they were with campaigning having concluded back in March.While the BJP has fielded 43 candidates in the 48 seats which go to poll on Saturday, the Congress has fielded 38, while the Aam Aadmi Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party have fielded 17 candidates each. There are 79 independent candidates in the fray.The BJP and the Congress have expressed confidence that the voters will vote for their respective parties“We are confident of winning these elections. There is tangible support for the BJP because of the development projects undertaken by our government,” state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said.The opposition Congress, on the other hand, said that the people were fed up of the incompetence of the ruling BJP and would use the elections to teach the ruling dispensation a lesson.“Goa is going through a troublesome stage and our economic condition is poor. You can see the number of protests in Goa against the decisions of the government. This will reflect in the election results,” Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat said.Goa has 50 seats up for the polls but one candidate was declared elected unopposed while another polling was countermanded after one of the contesting candidates passed away before the elections could be held.State Election Commissioner Choka Ram Garg has said that the authority has left no stone unturned to ensure a smooth and peaceful conduct of elections including facilities for Covid-19 patients or people under home quarantine to vote.Political analysts have however said that the elections are nothing more than a weather vane for the ruling dispensation ahead of the state assembly elections next year.“For the ruling party, it will send important signals whether the ongoing protests against coal, the protests against the projects in the Mollem sanctuaries and protests for the restarting of mining have really changed the mood of the state or have not had any bearing,” Kishor Naik Gaonkar, editor of a local Marathi daily Goan Varta, said.“The elections have no significance beyond giving political parties important signals for the elections to be held in a year’s time,” he added.The BJP has been trying to prove its mettle on resuming mining as well as making commitments towards reducing the coal handling at the Mormugao Port in a bid to ensure that the protests do not make too much of a dent on the public psyche.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-saturday-goa-to-vote-in-elections-that-will-test-cm-sawant-s-popularity/story-DGt6O3sQrpz1MwkOgvLBoL.html
11-12-2020||India||I-T case against Karti Chidambaram, wife over sale of property premature: Court||The Madras High Court on Friday said the income tax reassessment proceedings against Congress MP Karti Chidambaram and his wife Srinidhi Chidambaram for non-disclosure of income of Rs 7 crore - following a sale of immovable property in 2015 near Muttukadu village in the outskirts of Chennai - was “premature”.Allowing a review petition filed by the Chidambaram couple, Justice N Sathish Kumar ordered that the complaint filed by the deputy director of Income Tax is “premature at this stage” and “launched by an incompetent person”. “The basis for lodging the complaint,” the court said, “is only a formation of the opinion by the deputy director of the Income Tax department”.Two complaints were filed for offences under sections 276C(1) and 277 of the Income Tax Act 1961 against Karti and another complaint against both husband and wife under Sections 276C(1), 277 and 278 of the Act. According to I-T officials, the Chidambarams received the property sale amount through a cash transaction but failed to disclose it in their income tax returns in the assessment year 2014-2015. The court further added that “there must be findings that the statement given by the assessee during the assessment proceeding is false” and it has to be recorded by the concerned officer in the reassessment proceedings. “Without findings recorded, this court is of the view that the prosecution cannot be launched by merely on the basis of some statements said to have been recorded from third parties,” the judge said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal among a host of other lawyers appeared for Srinidhi and Karti, the son of former union finance minister P Chidambaram.However, the court ruled that reassessment proceedings could be initiated if the concerned authority such as the assessing officer “comes to the conclusion in a proceeding under Section 153 of the Income Tax Act, it is open to the department to initiate penal action as per law”. Earlier, the case was transferred to a special court for offences by MPs and MLAs from the economic offences court. The special court had rejected discharge applications and Karti and Srinidhi Chidambaram challenged it at the high court for its review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-t-case-against-karti-chidambaram-wife-premature-rules-court/story-nOele1ZgUN7BEMYZxz6g5M.html
11-12-2020||India||Giant iceberg expected to collide with South Georgia this month||Scientists are expecting a massive A-68A iceberg to strike land this month inflicting havoc near South Georgia Island.According to the findings, the iceberg has been travelling thousands of kilometers from the Larsen C ice shelf, in Antarctica, since 2017 and now is around at a distance of 120 km from South Georgia.“If it remains on its current path, the iceberg could ground in the shallow waters offshore, threatening wildlife, including penguins and seals,” researchers told.Scientists have been keeping an eye on the activities of the berg on its journey for the past three years through satellite missions. One of the missions, the Copernicus Sentinel-1 radar mission, has proven to be significant in mapping the polar regions in winter, with its ability to see through clouds and the dark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/giant-iceberg-expected-to-collide-with-south-georgia-this-month/story-TYyOKUAoZ7Lm0KD7xhR87N.html
11-12-2020||India||Punjab gears up with cold chain points for Covid-19 vaccine||As Punjab gears up for the mega exercise with a total of 729 cold chain points, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the Health Department to incorporate the results of the second sero survey in the strategy for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out so that the high-risk population is covered first.In a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation in the state, the Chief Minister noted the state’s readiness for the vaccine rollout in terms of database of priority lists; infrastructure for cold chain management; identification and training of vaccinators, etc.Apart from vaccine safety and vaccination site safety, correct and timely information communication was critical to the successful rollout of the vaccination, which is expected to be available soon in India, Captain Amarinder said.Besides one state-level vaccine store, 22 district vaccine stores and 127 block level vaccine stories are being prepared for the roll-out of the vaccine in Punjab, which will also have 570 cold chain points. Besides one walk-in freezer at Ferozepur, the Government of India has decided to provide one more at Chandigarh. In addition, the state will have one walk-in cooler each at Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur, with more to be received from the Centre. In addition, the state has 1165 Ice Lined Refrigerators and 1079 Deep Freezers.In line with the central government’s guidelines, data of about 1.25 lakh Health Care workers (Government and Private) has been compiled by the state government for the first phase vaccination.Other steps being taken as part of the vaccine roll-out preparedness in the state include mapping of vaccinators, digital platform training in districts, trained manpower for vaccine inventory management and coordination at various levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-gears-up-with-cold-chain-points-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-xjuvbaEeOvSpdmw8XdVdyO.html
11-12-2020||India||‘One in every three Indian planning to travel during Christmas, New Year season’: Survey||One in every three Indian is planning to travel and holiday during the upcoming Christmas and New Year season, revealed a survey conducted by a leading online travel organisation. Among the surveyed, more than 70 per cent are hoping to relax and celebrate this winter holiday season with their family, spouse or partner while the rest are looking to end the year travelling with friends and long-not-met colleagues. The findings showed that 60 per cent respondents who are willing to travel during the winter holiday season are planning to spend the year in the hills or on the beaches. According to the survey, only 20 per cent respondents are looking to wrap the year at bars or parties.The survey was conducted among more than 2,000 respondents between November 15 and December 5.The survey revealed that 70 per cent respondents want to spend time outdoors doing adventure activities like rafting, hiking, water sport or sightseeing. As travellers are equally wanting to be safe during their trips, the respondents were seen giving the highest preference to sanitization, hygiene and safety certification while choosing their stay option.Also read: Situation at border over last 6 months result of China’s actions - IndiaCommenting on the travel trends, Rajesh Magow, co-founder and group CEO, MakeMyTrip Limited, goibibo, said, “Over the past few months, we have worked closely and creatively with the entire travel and hospitality value chain to raise safety standards and help customers make the journey from being homebound to being travellers again. Bookings for the winter festive holiday season on goibibo indicate an increase in travel to domestic leisure destinations including Goa, Lonavala, Mahabaleshwar, Pondicherry, Coorg, Shimla, Manali and Darjeeling. As we step into 2021, we are confident of a continued upward travel trend that will find more force as the mass vaccine rollout plan materializes.”The survey also suggested that the winter holiday season will witness nearly 60 per cent leisure travellers booking a trip for two or more days and long-distance leisure travel will make a strong comeback.“Fifty per cent travellers across all demographics and cohorts are willing to opt for air travel for the upcoming winter holiday season signalling a strong boost in passenger confidence and trust in hopping on to a flight for a holiday post-pandemic. With flight holidays in equal consideration as drive-through holidays, the preference to air travel can also be attributed to the mini-road trips undertaken by people since Unlock was announced in July,” said the goibibo spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-in-every-three-indian-planning-to-travel-during-christmas-new-year-season-survey/story-HIfHg7wxrdPLZ6ScSMIMLP.html
11-12-2020||India||Ayodhya, upcoming Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s tableau for Republic Day||Uttar Pradesh’s tableau at the Republic Day parade in Delhi will showcase the grandeur of the upcoming Ram temple in Ayodhya, the temple town’s culture, and Ayodhya as a symbol of social-religious harmony, said a senior state information department officer. “The theme has been approved and UP’s proposed tableau has already been shortlisted at a meeting held in Delhi regarding the tableaux. However, minor changes have been suggested, which we will incorporate,” said the officer. The tableau will also showcase Ayodhya as a major religious tourism destination in India. The tableau will feature a grand model of the temple, scenes from Ramayan and the new tradition of annual Deepotsav in Ayodhya, the officer added. The information department prepares Republic Day tableaux and the exact title of the 2021’s theme is ‘Uttar Pradesh ki sanskritik dharohar: Ayodhya (Ayodhya: Cultural heritage of Uttar Pradesh)’. “How Lord Ram had embraced Nishadraj, how he ate bers (Indian jujube) that Shabri bit before offering them to him, and how all this presents a culture of non-discrimination among castes and sets an example against untouchability, women emancipation and empowerment. All this will be depicted on the tableau,” he said. It will also display the anvarat (continuous) Ramleela, according to details in the presentation document of the state. The officer said the tableau will showcase Ayodhya’s religious harmony. It will display how five Jain Tirthankars were born in the city, how it is connected to Lord Buddha, who had spent six monsoons there and also how Guru Nanak and nine other Sikh gurus visited Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-upcoming-ram-temple-in-uttar-pradesh-s-tableau-for-republic-day/story-7yFWUpSIKwTh7I2yzEUoQM.html
11-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers’ agitation likely to get prolonged and intense, says NCP chief Pawar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ agitation likely to get prolonged and intense, says NCP chief PawarNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said that the ongoing farmers’ protest is likely to get prolonged and intense if the Centre doesn’t take a decision at the earliest. Read moreAmit Shah skeds Bengal visit next week to amp up offensive over Nadda attackConcerned about the law and order situation in the state following Thursday’s stone attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy at Diamond Harbour, home minister Amit Shah is set to visit the state for a two-day visit from December 19, said BJP leaders aware of developments. Read moreWhat to expect when the vaccine rolls outWith Pfizer/BioNtech becoming the first company to get its vaccine approved for public use in the United Kingdom (UK), the wait for a post-Covid world seems to have got shorter. Read moreTorbaaz movie review: Sanjay Dutt’s dry spell continues with Netflix’s uninspired offeringDespite its pertinent subject and a group of cute kids, this Sanjay Dutt film fails to hold your attention. Torbaaz released on Netflix on Friday. Read moreYay or Nay? Priyanka Chopra Jonas’ high fashion look with embellished Crocs is blurring lines between fashion and comfortPriyanka Chopra Jonas can look good in absolutely anything, yes, even Crocs that usually make us scream, “WHAT ARE THOSE?!” The Sky Is Pink actor, who is also the global brand ambassador for Crocs, presented the brand at the 2020 FN Achievement Awards for Brand of the Year. Read moreHave you seen Sachin Tendulkar’s latest post? It’s the ultimate dad jokeWhether you love them or you hate them, there’s no denying that dad jokes are a form of humour that you can’t ignore. Read moreWhy Priyanka Chopra thought she won’t have a career after turning 30 #HTLS2020Priyanka Chopra Jonas, who has made a name for herself in both Bollywood and Hollywood, revealed why she took up the mantle of being a producer as well. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-agitation-likely-to-get-prolonged-and-intense-says-ncp-chief-pawar-and-all-the-latest-news/story-7mDkQqThGqlhXWuhyj80JL.html
11-12-2020||India||Situation at border over last 6 months result of China’s actions: India||India on Friday squarely blamed China’s unilateral actions to change the status along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for bilateral tensions, and called on the Chinese side to deliver on pledges about abiding by border agreements and resolving the boundary issue through talks. Pushing back against China’s assertion on Thursday that responsibility for the nearly eight-month border standoff lay “totally” with the Indian side, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the actions of Chinese troops had consistently violated bilateral agreements on maintaining peace and tranquillity on the LAC. The two sides haven’t made headway on disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, including eight rounds between senior army commanders, and tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the winter in Ladakh sector. On Wednesday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said China has offered “five differing explanations” for deploying thousands of soldiers on the LAC and pushing bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever. A day later, China’s foreign ministry said responsibility for the situation “totally lies with the Indian side”. Asked about China’s accusation at the weekly news briefing, Srivastava replied: “The situation that we have seen since the last six months has been a result of the actions of the Chinese side, which has sought to effect a unilateral change in status along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. These actions are in violation of bilateral agreements and protocols on ensuring peace and tranquillity along the LAC.” Pointing to the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement that it observes “strictly the agreements between the two sides and is committed to resolving the border issue through dialogue and safeguarding peace and tranquillity”, Srivastava added: “We expect that the Chinese side will match its words with actions.” The “core issues”, Srivastava said, include both sides strictly following bilateral agreements on the border issue “in their entirety, including the 1993 and 1996 agreements on maintenance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC”. These agreements require that both sides shouldn’t amass troops on the LAC, should strictly abide by and respect the LAC, and not take any unilateral action to alter the LAC. India and China have maintained communications through diplomatic and military channels, and New Delhi expects “further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible”, Srivastava said. Asked about China’s contention that the joint launch of a stamp marking the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties was cancelled because of lack of feedback from India, Srivastava said the launch of overall celebrations hadn’t been held and there was no question of going ahead with other activities. The joint release of commemorative stamps was one of the activities agreed on with the Chinese side last year to mark the anniversary of diplomatic ties, but there had been no discussion on any launch date with Chinese authorities, he said. The Chinese embassy spokesperson’s tweet suggesting the event was cancelled on account of lack of feedback from the Indian side “is factually incorrect”, Srivastava said. “It may be noted that the launch of the 70th anniversary celebrations itself has not taken place yet, and therefore, the issue of going ahead with joint activities under its ambit does not arise,” he added. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the accusations between India and China regarding the situation on the LAC reflected the lack of progress in talks to push forward disengagement and de-escalation. “The foremost objective for the Indian side now is that the situation on the ground shouldn’t deteriorate. We don’t expect a serious clash because of the harsh weather during winter and the hope is that the two sides can work towards a resolution after the passing of winter,” he said. “The situation is complicated and both sides aren’t budging. With no possibility of a resolution any time soon, probably only the top leadership of the two sides can break the ice and take things forward,” Patil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-at-border-over-last-6-months-result-of-china-s-actions-india/story-PoNtzRXy9p0qLlNc3p3O3J.html
11-12-2020||India||Why doctors are holding nationwide strike?||Around a million doctors in the country went on a day-long strike on Friday against the Union home ministry’s decision to allow post-graduate practitioners of Ayurveda to perform surgical procedures. However, the protest did not have much impact on the functioning of hospitals as emergency services were exempted.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), an umbrella organisation for all conventional doctors and surgeons, criticising the legislation said it is a “mixopathy” and said that it “trivialises the medical profession,” as it gave a call for a nationwide strike.“The government’s decision to bring in a rule that allows practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform surgical procedures trivialises the medical profession,” Reuters quoted Rajan Sharma, the head of IMA, as saying.Last month, the Centre introduced a rule that allowed post-graduate practitioners of Ayurveda, an ancient science of medicine in India, to perform certain surgeries. As per the notification, the post-graduates of Ayurveda can perform 39 general surgery procedures and around 19 procedures involving the eye, ear, nose and throat.What is the notification?In November this year, the Central Council of Indian Medicine, the regulatory body for the study and practice of Ayurveda in India, amended the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, as it allowed Ayurveda doctors to be trained and legally perform minor surgical procedures including ENT, ophthalmology, orthopaedic and dental procedures.What IMA says?The practitioners of modern medicine have criticised the government’s notification as they see it as “another step to advancing and legitimising mixopathy.” Demanding withdrawal of CCIM order, IMA says that it does not allow its own members to teach disciplines of modern medicine to students of other systems. “Let every system grow on its own strength and purity,” the doctors’ body said in a statement earlier.In a statement last month, IMA said, “The purity and identity of Ayurveda stand equally challenged. That the council prescribed modern medicine textbooks and Ayurveda institutions practised surgery with the assistance of modern medical doctors cannot be reason enough to legitimise encroachment into the jurisdiction and competencies of modern medicine.”What do Ayurveda practitioners say?The traditional medicine practitioners have described the criticism as “misconception” and say that there is no risk of “crosspathy”. “It is a misconception that Ayurvedic doctors cannot perform surgeries. Apart from performing caesarean sections and hernia surgeries, Ayurveda surgeons have pioneered certain procedures for piles and fissure where modern medicine isn’t of much help,” Dr VN Mishra, medical superintendent at BHU’s Sir Sunderlal Hospital, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-doctors-are-holding-nationwide-strike/story-tdiixriDAakL1X9454vWnN.html
11-12-2020||India||Doctors on strike in Bihar over Centre’s Ayurveda surgery move, services hit||The outpatient department (OPD) services in both government and private hospitals in Bihar on Friday were badly hit following a strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to protest against the decision of the Centre to allow Ayurvedic medical practitioners to perform surgery. Reports from the districts said though the patients arrived at the hospitals, but the doctors did not attend to them. At Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) the registration of patients began in the morning, however, the striking doctors forced closure of the registration counter and patients were left high and dry. At IGIMS also the OPD service was closed after 12 noon. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar claimed the health services, including planned surgeries, were badly affected following the strike called by the IMA. “The next course of action will be decided after a meeting of national level office-bearers in New Delhi on Friday. Our action will depend on the assurance given by the government. The government by taking a unilateral decision to allow Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgery is playing with the health of common people, as they were not properly trained for the job,” he said. Dr Kumar said in the state capital no OPD service besides planned surgeries were performed in the hospitals, including NMCH, PMCH, IGIMS and AIIMS-Patna. “However, the emergency and Covid-19 services remained unaffected in the state,” he said. He requested the doctors to not cooperate in the bridge course being run by the government to train doctors of other streams. Bhojpur district IMA secretary Dr Madhukar Prakash said, “The patients who were in serious condition were attended by the doctors both in government and private hospitals. However, the OPD service at Ara sadar hospital was totally closed.” At Bettiah, headquarters of West Champaran district, the health services were paralysed as the doctors were not present in the OPD of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). However, emergency services remained unaffected. The health services in primary health centres and other health institutions were also badly hit. Dr Gulzar Ahmed, child specialist, called the Centre’s step as “retrograde”. “We respect the individuality of Ayurveda and Unani medicine. The government’s move to integrate all systems of medicines will only lead to mixopathy,” he said. Another doctor of Bettiah Dr Amitabh Choudhary, said integration of all systems of medicine was “unpractical, unviable and unfeasible”. At Darbhanga, IMA office-bearers claimed that all private and government health facilities, excluding Covid-19 treatment and emergency services, were shut from dawn to dusk in protest against the Centre’s move. The OPD service at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital was completely paralysed even as patients from far-flung areas found themselves at the receiving end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-on-strike-in-bihar-over-centre-s-ayurveda-surgery-move-services-hit/story-9hCdsWe7JwG1Qk8FI2fPYL.html
11-12-2020||India||Will resign if unable to ensure MSP for farmers, says Dushyant Chautala||Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said he will resign from his post in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government if he is unable to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for the procurement of farmers’ crops.“Our party’s national president already made it clear that MSP must be ensured to farmers. The written proposals given by the Central government to the protesting farmers include a provision for MSPs. I’ll work to secure MSP for farmers as long as I am in power. I will resign from my post the day I am unable to fulfil the promise,” said Chautala while addressing the media.He expressed hope that the deadlock between the farmers and the Central government will end soon and said he is constantly in touch with the Union Ministers regarding the issue.“Chaudhary Devi Lal used to say the government only listens to farmers till the time when farmers have a partnership in the government. Today, I and my party are constantly putting the farmers’ views in front of the Centre. I am in touch with Union Minister though telephone and putting my views about the possible solutions of farmers’ problem,” the Deputy Chief Minister stated.He further said the Haryana government has procured a record high amount of millet and other crops except rice this year on MSP and assured that in coming years also the state government will procure all grains and seed on MSP from farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-resign-if-unable-to-ensure-msp-for-farmers-says-dushyant-chautala/story-VfvddPgGtr09wWJ9A3wuSP.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Extraordinary uncertainties’: Harvard prof on Covid-19, impact on mental health||There is a need for “unconditional income support” for those who have borne the brunt of Covid-19 crisis, professor of global health, Harvard medical school, Vikram Patel said during the last leg of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Friday. Patel talked about the worsening mental health in society, especially exacerbated by the pandemic. He said that “these extremely extraordinary uncertainties are affecting everyone’s mental health”. Also read: Biden administration will be open to advancing ties with India - Mark Warner#HTLS2020 | "These extremely extraordinary uncertainties are affecting everyone’s mental health"- Vikram Patel (in conversation with @sanchx) Watch LIVE - https://t.co/KNi8Kvfv0X pic.twitter.com/p73ls5skPR“For those groups of the population whose employment prospects have been extinguished altogether, I think the impact (on mental health) is going to be far more serious,” Patel added. Dr Patel said there is the need to normalize conversations around mental health. “There is never been a better time to seek help (for mental health),” he told HT’s health editor Sanchita Sharma. He said if someone senses something unusual happening regarding mental health, the best thing would be to talk to someone. Patel added that in India, he recently noticed a huge change when it comes to reporting mental health issues in media. “With carefully designed training programs, frontline workers can deliver very effective psychological and social interventions,” Patel said. “Health is not just a biomedical issue, not just a technical issue but it is a citizen’s movement to demand and expect quality care,” he stated.  The Harvard professor said people should learn ways to mitigate stress. “Stress is not bad but what is bad is when it becomes toxic,” Patel said. Patel co-leads the GlobalMentalHealth@Harvard initiative. His work focuses on the burden of mental health problems, their association with social disadvantage, and the use of community resources for their prevention and treatment. He was among the esteemed guests who were invited for a dialogue on the last day of the HTLS 2020 on Friday, besides US senator Mark Warner, international popstar Nick Jonas, and actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2020-extraordinary-uncertainties-harvard-prof-vikram-patel-on-covid-19-and-impact-on-mental-health/story-cnM9W5wVCSrYZq6au2IIFO.html
11-12-2020||India||Doctors in MP protest in solidarity with the IMA||Protesting against the Union government’s decision to allow post-graduate practitioners of Ayurveda to be trained in surgical procedures, nearly 8,000 doctors, mostly from the private sector, struck work in Madhya Pradesh on Friday.The protest did not have much impact on the functioning of big hospitals in the state.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had given a nation-wide call for protest against what it termed as “mixopathy”.“Nearly 8,000 doctors across the state went on a strike. Most of them are from the private sector,” IMA state unit vice-president Sanjay Londhe said. “We are not against Ayurveda, but giving permission to them to perform general surgeries would lead to wrong practices which will directly affect common patients,” he said.Dentists and junior doctors also supported the IMA call, but doctors providing emergency services did not take part in the strike in view of the coronavirus situation, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-in-mp-protest-in-solidarity-with-the-ima/story-ra31BldA3auyffq2eTUCdL.html
11-12-2020||India||‘My script has transformed into a meaningful piece of cinema’||Hailing from Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh, writer-actor Anand Raaj is in happy space as his first project as a producer-actor has shaped up well and is set for a next year release. “I’m thrilled that the story I wrote has eventually transformed into a meaningful piece of cinema. The film has been shot in and around Lucknow and that makes it dearer to me. Whatever I’m today is because of Lucknow, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj,” said the ‘Kumkum: Ek Pyara Sa Bandhan’ actor.Not seeing much of success in his first stint as an actor in Mumbai, he went back to Delhi and started a business. Telling more about his journey, Anand said, “Success is all about destiny and hard work. If either of the two is a miss one cannot be successful in any profession! After much struggle, I decided to quit and got into business but my love for acting brought me back to Mumbai. I started working on certain ideas and wrote a couple of scripts out of which one was liked and locked by ‘Khaali Peeli’ filmmaker Himanshu Mehra. But, due to lockdown, the shoot has been pushed for next year.” It was during the pandemic phase he took a masterclass in film making. “So, to try my newly learnt skills and work on my new script, I decided to make my own film. I discussed it with one of my friends and this way Smita Singh joined me as a director.” Talking about the new project, he said, “Titled ‘Andaman’ the story of is based on a quarantine centre and I am sharing screen space with none other than Sanjay Mishra. Also, known actor Sanjay Tailang plays an important role.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-script-has-transformed-into-a-meaningful-piece-of-cinema/story-tqfSvc9HaXDj0BhyevHPbL.html
11-12-2020||India||‘My work has heart of Uttar Pradesh’||Scriptwriter and lyricist AM Turaz, who penned songs like ‘Binte Dil…’, ‘Guzarish…’ and ‘Ghoomar’, says all his work has ‘khushboo’ of Uttar Pradesh, his home state. “I find excuses to come back to UP as I want, ‘meri mitti ki khushboo barkarar aur taazi rahe. Wahi mera khajana hai aur sarmaya (wealth) hai. Usi ko mila kar main sab parosta hu’ — be it in my songs, scripts and dialogues. That is my identity,” said the award-winning lyricist during his recent visit to Lucknow. Giving an account of his connection Turaz tells, “I come from Sambalkheda village in Janset tehsil in Muzaffarnagar. I studied there and then completed my intermediate from Meerut but couldn’t complete my graduation. I was fond of poetry and while listening to it I started writing.” Talking about his earlier days, he shared, “A lot was happening in the society and on the personal front I had no medium to express my views. Then I started writing ‘shayari’ and discovered that this was the best language to convey my thoughts, while, the ‘unwaan’ (medium) I chose was ‘mohabbat ki zubaan’ (language of love).” In 2003 Turaz came to Mumbai. “To survive I started writing TV shows and even did ghostwriting. It was in 2005, I wrote songs for ‘Kudiyon Ka Hai Zamana’ starring Rekha and then films started. I was set to write for Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Saawaria’ but it didn’t happen due to some reasons. Eventually, I went on to write lyrics for ‘Guzaarish’ which gave me big success and many awards, since, then have done all SLB films except ‘Ram Leela’.” In 2013, Turaz started taking part in ‘mushairas’ and got to travel across the world with his work. “I’m glad that my writing is reaching to right people. I have done 42 films including ‘Padmaavat’, ‘Bajirao Mastani’, ‘Guzaarish’, Wazir and ‘Badla’. This year I penned Zubin Nautiyal’s single ‘Dil chahte ho’ and two songs with Amit Trivedi.” He has also written script of ‘Baraat Company’ and ‘Direct Ishq’ both shot in UP and is currently writing OTT-series ‘Mughals’. “I’m writing my own script which I plan to direct and that again is set in UP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-work-has-heart-of-uttar-pradesh/story-jE4kKDjt2DpWVyq7x6k6SN.html
11-12-2020||India||School leaders should make efforts for implementing NEP: Education Minister||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Friday urged school leaders to make rigorous efforts for effective implementation of the new National Education Policy (NEP).He was addressing the 26th edition of CBSE annual Sahodaya Conference.“I urge school leaders to make rigorous efforts for the effective implementation of New Education Policy, 2020 which has been prepared taking into consideration the views of largest number of stakeholders for the first time ever,” Pokhriyal said.“It is the collective responsibility of every citizen towards making India a self-reliant country and evolving into a new India with limitless possibilities. School leaders and teachers should work collaboratively to make it a reality,” he said.The 26th national Annual Conference of Sahodaya School Complexes organised by CBSE and hosted by the Bangalore Sahodaya Schools Complex Association began on Friday in virtual mode.The education minister also released CBSE Manuals on Inclusive Education, Joyful Learning and Physical Education for classes 11 and 12 and the Conference Souvenir titled SAMARTHAN which is a compilation of the best teaching practices in the country.School Education Secretary Anita Karwal addressed the gathering on various aspects of the future of education in the country. She also voiced the need for every teacher to take up the challenges and convert them into opportunities to bring about the realisation of holistic education.The virtual conference is being attended by more than 4000 person’s from schools across India and overseas.CBSE Sahodaya School Complexes are a cluster of affiliated neighbourhood schools which voluntarily come together to share best practices and innovative strategies for school education and collaborate for curriculum design, evaluation, pedagogy and regular capacity building of teachers.At present, there are more than 200 active CBSE Sahodaya School Clusters across the country.While the main theme of the conference is “building competencies in challenging times”, the sub-themes will focus on technology as the substructure of all blended learning environments, building on students’‘ strengths and synergising weaknesses as opportunities for improvement, authentic and meaningful learning through integration of arts and being mindfully inclusive-a step towards building bridges.The other sub-themes of the conference include honing appropriate skills that build competencies for future readiness, productive management of mind and heart with the head and research and inquiry as a powerful teacher driven tool to enact change in classrooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-leaders-should-make-efforts-for-implementing-nep-education-minister/story-D4A3iJ22XEm5QVpTVt5fGO.html
11-12-2020||India||Nadda convoy attack: TMC slams Centre over summon to West Bengal chief secretary, police chief||The Trinamool Congress on Friday hit out at the Centre for summoning West Bengal chief secretary and police chief over Thursday’s attack on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s convoy. TMC lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee pointed out that the state government is accountable to answer to the assembly. “No other person can call for any explanation in respect of law-and-order situation, especially the central government,” news agency ANI quoted Banerjee as saying.Also Read | Are home minister, PM of India outsiders?: Minister hits out at Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee “This is a violation of the Constitution. This is a colourable exercise of power,” he also said while accusing the BJP of violating the Constitution, ANI reported. “Behind the entire thing, there is malice on the part of the central government and there is malafide attitude on the part of central government officials by sending a letter. This is deplorable. No one can violate the Constitution,” Kalyan said.On Thursday, Nadda’s convoy was attacked when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata. The BJP has alleged that the attackers were workers of the TMC. Television news footage showed stones raining on the convoy and shattering windshields. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged. Several BJP leaders, including general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, were injured in the attack, a PTI report said.Following the attack, the Union home ministry summoned West Bengal’s chief secretary and police chief on December 14 for an explanation on the law-and-order situation in the state. The Centre has also sought a report from the state government over the alleged security lapses during Nadda’s visit.The attack also drew quick condemnation from the BJP’s leaders. Hitting out at the state chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Nadda said that “anarchy is at its peak in West Bengal” and people of the state will respond to the lawlessness in the upcoming elections. “The central government is taking this attack very seriously. The Bengal government will have to answer to the peace-loving people of the state for this sponsored violence,” Union home minister Amit Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-convoy-attack-tmc-slams-centre-over-summon-to-west-bengal-chief-secretary-police-chief/story-70KQIhqWbpbMpHeiLE7CmN.html
11-12-2020||India||Non-emergency services suspended to protest move allowing Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries||Non-emergency services in most hospitals did not function on Friday as the Indian Medical Association (IMA) had given a call for a day-long strike to protest against the Centre’s decision to allow post-graduates from Ayurveda to perform general surgeries in select streams, leading to patients being turned away from hospitals in several parts of the country, according to doctor associations and hospital authorities. On November 20, the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), a statutory body under the AYUSH ministry, issued a notification to regulate Indian systems of medicines and listed 39 general and 19 other surgery procedures involving eye, ear, nose and throat by amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016.Also read: Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stirThe Indian Medical Association (IMA), the largest body of modern medicine doctors, condemned the move, describing it as poaching the disciplines of modern medicine through backdoor means and a retrograde step of mixing the system. Several other bodies supported the IMA and demanded to withdraw the order asking the CCIM to develop their own surgical disciplines from their ancient texts and not claim the surgical disciplines of modern medicine as their own.In a clarification, AYUSH Ministry Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha said it does not amount to any policy deviation or any new decision. “This notification is more of the nature of a clarification. It streamlines the existing regulation relating to postgraduate education in Ayurveda with respect to the specified procedures,” he had said in a clarification issued by Press Information Bureau on November 22. The government has maintained that these surgeries were allowed earlier also but now the council has clarified them through a notification.The IMA on Wednesday gave a call for a strike to protest against the government mixing the two systems of medicine and “unscientific” ways of treating people through backdoor. The IMA had said that only Covid or other essential medical interventions such as casualty, labour rooms and emergency surgeries, will be attended by the doctors. Other services were suspended for 12 hours.Impact of the strike could be seen in several states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Jharkhand, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, where the non-emergency services remained suspended since Friday morning. The doctors also held protests at several places against the decision.IMA Punjab general secretary Dr Paramjit Singh Mann described the notification as “a step to legitimise mixopathy”. He said allopathic doctors are fighting to “save the honour of the noble profession”.“We have nearly 9,000 doctors as IMA members who have announced to suspend work in protest. Ayurvedic practitioners are not educated to perform modern medicine then how can they be allowed to work in that way. We want the Union government to withdraw the amendment,” said Dr Mann.Dr Satyajit Borah, president of Assam unit of IMA, said, “Doctors across government and private hospitals have supported our call. Ayurvedic doctors performing surgeries could lead to serious complications in patients. We hope the public becomes aware of this and the government doesn’t implement the move.” IMA secretary for Rajasthan, Dr Kewal Krishna Dung, said the government should not allow Ayurveda doctors to conduct surgeries without knowledge of the allopathic protocol for conducting surgeries.Also read: New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed - Farmers’ union moves SCIn Kerala, where no out-patient services were provided, patients could be seen engaged in wordy duels with medical workers. Many were caught unaware of the strike. “We are doing it for the larger interest of patients and the profession. We have no intention to trouble patients. But if we keep quiet, they will be in trouble tomorrow,” said Indian Medical Association Kerala chapter secretary Dr O Gopakumar.At several places, the Ayurveda doctors performed surgeries for 12 hours instead of normal eight to support the government decision. Dr Nityanand, Rajasthan secretary of Vishwa Ayurved Parishad, said that nearly 6,000 Ayurved doctors worked overtime today to support government decision of allowing Ayurveda doctors for surgeries in the state. “Allopathy arrived in India in last 50 years but Ayurveda has ancient roots in which surgery existed from time immemorial. Ayurveda doctors welcome government decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-emergency-services-suspended-to-protest-move-allowing-ayurveda-doctors-to-perform-surgeries/story-UdfgwO5RU51ELgz0Rr8djN.html
11-12-2020||India||Condemn it, but it’s been going on in Uttar Pradesh: Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on attack on Nadda’s convoy||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday condemned the attack on the convoy of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda in West Bengal and took a subtle dig at the law-and-order situation in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of the country.“It is a declaration of the broken-down situation of law and order in West Bengal. We condemn it. But it is going on in Uttar Pradesh and other parts of India as well,” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On the matter of President’s rule in West Bengal, the Congress leader said it was up to the government to decide. “I think that declaring President’s rule in West Bengal is a matter which is to be decided by Government of India,” he said.Several vehicles in the BJP chief’s convoy were damaged as Nadda was travelling to Diamond Harbour to address a public meeting and some of the party’s leaders and workers were injured by stone-throwing protesters carrying the ruling Trinamool Congress’ (TMC’s) flags at Sirakol.Earlier on Friday, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) sent a summons to West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and director general of police (DGP) Virendra to appear on December 14. The home ministry is likely to seek an explanation from the two regarding the law-and-order situation in the state and the preventions taken so far against political violence and other crimes, according to a report in PTI.The ruling TMC expressed strong disapproval against the summons, accusing the BJP of trying to create tension in West Bengal so the Centre can interfere in the matters related to the state. “What is the central government is doing by sending a letter (seeking report) from the state government is unconstitutional. The MHA summoning the chief secretary and DGP is unacceptable. The BJP and the central government are trying to create a situation where they can interfere with the federal structure,” TMC’s Kalyan Banerjee said at a press conference.On the other hand, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has sent a report to the Centre, stating that the state is covered in a dangerous game of insider and outsider. “Finding the situation alarming, as my constitutional duty, I have sent a report to the central government about the extremely disturbing developments that do not augur well for democratic values, that are antithetical to rule of law, that sound death knell of constitutional parameters,” he told a press conference at the Raj Bhawan. He also cautioned chief minister Mamata Banerjee not to “play with fire”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condemn-it-but-it-s-been-going-on-in-uttar-pradesh-congress-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-on-attack-on-nadda-s-convoy/story-chL4393nx9QsZzYy2QjH1L.html
11-12-2020||India||16 arms, over 1000 bullets seized from house of Odisha’s infamous gangster brothers||Odisha police have seized over 1000 rounds of bullets and 16 automatic arms from the house of notorious gangster brothers, who are behind bars for over 4 years.Brothers Sushant and Sushil Dhal Samant are lodged in different prisons since January 2016 when they were arrested over a litany of cases including extortion, murder, running of arms racket and tender fixing. In 2018, the two brothers were sentenced to 5 years imprisonment in two different cases for illegal possession and use of firearms.Commissioner of Police of Bhubaneswar-Cuttack, Sudhansu Sarangi, said after arms peddler Prakash Behera was arrested on Thursday, the house of the gangster brothers was raided by a special team of Commissionerate Police.On Thursday, police in the Choudwar area of Cuttack had nabbed Behera and seized two firearms from his possession. During interrogation, Prakash revealed to have supplied firearms to one Saroj Sethi who then confessed to having smuggled a lot of arms to the gangster duo before their arrest in 2016.“As part of our campaign, we came to know about extortion activity following which a special team raided the residence of the two gangsters on Thursday. A thorough search of the house led to the discovery of 16 automatic arms including an assault rifle. The arms were kept in wooden frames and looked like wall paintings while bullets were hidden in cans. Searches in other parts of the house led to discovery of knives and swords that were kept in jars. There could be more arms and ammunition hidden inside the house,” said the police commissioner. Eight persons have been arrested in this connection.Sarangi said the arms were mostly procured from Munger in Bihar and kept hidden since 2016.He said the seizure of arms indicated that the Dhal Samanta brothers were in touch with their gang members even though they are behind bars since January 2016. “We would take the brothers on police remand to get more details about the gun running.Police got a clue of the extortion racket run by the two gangsters after Kuna Swain, an associate, was arrested in August, while allegedly involved in an extortion bid for Rs 5 lakh.Also Read: Odisha job scam gets bigger, investigators suspect 100 youths were cheated In January 2016, the gangster brothers were arrested from their house in the Bidanasi area of Cuttack following a directive from a court. The police had then seized around Rs 2.35 crore in cash, two Audi and three Mercedes cars apart from a huge cache of arms and ammunition stashed in hidden locations of the house.In a separate search of their house in Bhubaneswar, the cops had seized Rs 11 lakh in cash, three revolvers, 100 bullets, two double-barrel guns and 27 rounds of double-barrel gun bullets.In 2017, the Enforcement Directorate had attached immovable properties of the brothers worth Rs 16 crore. Before their arrest, the Dhal Samant brothers were on the run after being accused in several murder cases and used several pseudonyms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-arms-over-1000-bullets-seized-from-house-of-odisha-s-infamous-gangster-brothers/story-xTSN7unQ8lv0PPOSBLTWyO.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers’ agitation likely to get prolonged and intense, says NCP chief Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said that the ongoing farmers’ protest is likely to get prolonged and intense if the Centre doesn’t take a decision at the earliest. He said the protest that is currently on at Delhi’s borders may spread to other parts of the country. “According to my information, a large number of farmers from different areas have joined the protest today with 700 tractors. Since the stand of the Central government is still unclear, the agitation is likely to get prolonged and become intense in the coming days. Further, it is also likely to spread in other parts as currently it is limited to the Delhi border. I request the Centre not to wait for the farmers to lose their patience and take a decision at the earliest,” the NCP chief said.Also read | Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stirPawar was talking to reporters at YB Chavan Centre, Nariman Point, in Mumbai.Holding the Centre responsible for the situation, he said, “The Opposition parties had told the government not to clear the bills in haste as farmers would act against the same. But the government chose to pass each of them within 15-20 minutes without holding proper discussion.” Pawar, along with other leaders from United Progressive Alliance (UPA) including Rahul Gandhi, had, on Wednesday, met President Ram Nath Kovind with a demand to repeal the farm laws to end the farmers’ protest.Earlier, he had also observed a one-day fast in solidarity with the eight Rajya Sabha members from the Opposition parties, who were fasting at the Parliament premises against their suspension from the Upper House in September. The Rajya Sabha MPs were opposing the farm bills.Maharashtra BJP unit said that with his stand towards the farmers’ protest, the NCP chief’s stood exposed as he was the one who had been advocating to bring these reforms as the Union agriculture minister. “His (Sharad Pawar) double face was exposed before the people when we shared the copy of his letters as Union agriculture minister to the chief ministers. The Centre has brought the same set of reforms Pawar was advocating since 2005. He is doing politics of protest. Farmers and the people know it very well,” said state BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari.He also said that some of the reforms have been implemented in Maharashtra in the past few years and farmers have been reaping their benefits as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-agitation-likely-to-get-prolonged-and-intense-says-ncp-chief-pawar/story-Le9L1T0RCmnEPrDv27Ww9N.html
11-12-2020||India||Night curfew in Punjab extended till Jan 1, CM directs police to ensure strict compliance||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered extension of night curfew in all cities and towns with restriction of 100 on indoor and 250 on outdoor gatherings in the state till January 1, 2021.Singh also directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce the restrictions at marriage halls and other places, with fine to be imposed on the hosts in case of deviance.Taking cognisance of the rising Covid-19 fatality rate in the state, the chief minister also extended curfew restrictions from 10 pm. to 5 am till January 1. The night curfew was earlier imposed from December 1 to December 15.Chairing a high-level Covid review meeting, the CM also ordered an end to home quarantine for those above the age of 70 with co-morbidities, unless adequate medical facilities can be made available at home. Health secretary Hussan Lal pointed out during the virtual meeting that a large number of Covid-19 deaths were also being reported from home isolation cases.Captain Amarinder Singh also ordered a thorough inspection of all private hospitals to ensure that only those with adequate Level 3 infrastructure and manpower be allowed to admit coronavirus patients. Hospitals lacking such facilities should refer patients to other hospitals, he said.Though the declining positivity trend in Punjab over the past 3 weeks was welcome, the fatality rate remained a matter of concern, Amarinder pointed out, directing the DGP to ensure strict compliance to Covid safety protocols in the state, including wearing of masks and social distancing. He also asked the health department to maintain the 30000/day RT-PCR sampling/testing limit, with more smart and targeted sampling to include potential super spreaders. “Districts must be encouraged to make full use of the ITIHAAS portal to identify possible hotspots and concentrate their sampling there,” he said, stressing the need to step up testing in containment and micro-containment zones and ensure 100 per cent sampling. The chief minister also asked the health department to monitor the health of the farmers who are returning from Delhi in wake of the virus situation in national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-punjab-extended-till-january-1-cm-directs-police-to-ensure-strict-compliance/story-MlfxC6VpRTjjHXiwGIk4QL.html
11-12-2020||India||PM SVANidhi scheme gets a boost, govt launches socio-economic profiling program||The Centre on Friday launched a programme for socio-economic profiling of the beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) and their families. Based on the socio-economic profiling of PM SVANidhi beneficiaries and their families, various other central schemes will be extended to them according to their eligibility. States and Union territories can also make use of the profiles to facilitate better access to their respective schemes.Quality Council of India (QCI) has been appointed as the implementing partner for the programme. Before the programme is rolled out in all 125 cities a test program will be conducted in six select cities of Gaya, Indore, Kakching, Nizamabad, Rajkot and Varanasi.“The launch has been in the context of the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister that PM SVANidhi scheme should not be seen merely from the perspective of extending loans to street vendors but should also be seen as an instrument for outreach to street vendors and their families for their holistic development and socio-economic upliftment,” the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs said in a press release.The PM SVANidhi scheme was promulgated on June 1, 2020, to empower street vendors who were reeling under losses incurred during the coronavirus pandemic. The ministry in a press release has said that the scheme seeks “to empower street vendors by not only extending loans to them but also for their holistic development and economic upliftment”. It intends to facilitate collateral-free working capital loans of up to Rs 10,000 for one year to approximately 50 lakh street vendors.The PM SVANidhi scheme offers loans at a subsidised rate of interest of 7%, which is applicable only when the borrower repays the loan either early or on a timely basis. The loans can be repaid as monthly instalments over a period of one year.Food delivery app Swiggy has partnered with the housing and urban affairs ministry to on-board street vendors in the cities of Ahmedabad, Varanasi, Chennai, Delhi and Indore with some 300 vendors. On Thursday, Swiggy extended the partnership to 125 cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-svanidhi-scheme-gets-a-boost-govt-launches-socio-economic-profiling-program/story-XSa80phCpe1wWQe92nx02L.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Illegal sand mining back with vengeance’: Court raps Goa for ignoring orders||Noting that illegal sand mining has “returned with a vengeance”, the Bombay High Court has issued contempt notices to Goa chief secretary and other authorities for allegedly violating its orders on curbing illegal sand mining in the state.Hearing a petition filed by the Goa River Sand Protectors Network, a collective of activists and environmentalists who have been campaigning against illegal sand extractions from the river beds in Goa, the court noted that there was evidence that its orders were not being followed and issued notices to the state chief secretary Parimal Rai, the Director Mines and Geology and the Director General of Police asking why action should not be initiated against them for contempt of court. “At least, prima facie, we find that our orders in relation to sand mining are not being complied with. The material placed on record, at least, prima facie, indicates that illegal sand mining has returned with vengeance and the authorities, who, in the past had done commendable work in preventing it, appear to have let down the guard,” the high court noted.“We are constrained to issue notice to the respondents to show cause as to why action under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against them. Though the personal presence of the authorities is dispensed with, for the present, the respondents file their responses on or before January 11, without seeking any extension of time. For any reason, if the responses cannot be filed by January 11 by any of the authorities, then they will personally remain present to submit their say in the matter,” the high court bench of Justice MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said.In December last year the high court, in a detailed judgment, issued a series of directions to the Goa government to undertake regular patrolling through flying squads at all stretches of rivers.While sand mining stopped for a while, the activists have alleged that it has since resumed and the authorities have again begun to ignore the issue.Sand mining in Goa is banned by the National Green Tribunal which has directed that proper environmental licences be issued to the operators before the extraction can be renewed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-sand-mining-back-with-vengeance-court-raps-goa-for-ignoring-orders/story-89DBhkGPAxQ4rQKzLPT6EO.html
11-12-2020||India||Rajasthan rural polls- BJP, Congress join hands to keep regional parties out||The ruling Congress and the party in opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Rajasthan joined hands to keep at bay the candidates of regional parties in election of heads of the rural local bodies-- Panchayat Samities and Zila Parishads.The Congress, which had the backing of two MLAs of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) during the recent political crisis in the party and during the Rajya Sabha polls, on Thursday, went on to support a BJP member, who filed her nomination as an independent for the post of head of Dungarpur district council (Zila Parishad), to keep the BTP nominee out.Of the total 27 seats in Dungarpur Zila Parishad, 13 seats were won by the BTP supported independent candidates, while BJP and Congress got 8 and 6 seats respectively. Both the Congress and the BJP then decided to back Surya Ahari, who was elected as the Zila Pramukh on Thursday. Similarly, at Khinvsar Panchayat Samiti in Nagaur district, Congress and BJP came together to defeat Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of BJP, and got an independent elected as district council head. RLP had won 15 of the 31 seats, Congress 8, BJP 5 and independents 3. Independent candidate Seema Choudhary won as she got 16 votes. Miffed with the ‘betrayal’ in elections, BTP president Chhotubhai Vasava announced that the party will withdraw its support to the Congress. “BJP-Congress is one – BTP will withdraw its support,” he tweeted. In another tweet he congratulated workers of Congress and BJP, stating their relation was hidden so far, but has now come out in the front. RLP chief and MP from Nagaur, Hanuman Beniwal, announced that his party was reconsidering its tie with the BJP after the “unholy” alliance between the Congress and the BJP defeated his party nominee. “Fearing RLP, both parties came together in support of an independent candidate. Our party candidates won in nine Zila Parishads. We never made any compromises but to defeat us Congress and BJP came together. We will reconsider our alliance with BJP – RLP stands with farmers and youth,” said Hanuman Beniwal, RLP chief. The BTP, which debuted in the 2018 state elections in Rajasthan and created a buzz by winning two of the eight assembly seats of Banswara and finishing second in two others assembly constituencies. The unprecedented tribal upsurge in the largely bipolar politics of the state has alarmed both the parties. “We spoke to Congress leaders including state party chief Govind Singh, district chief and at the CM’s office – all assured of support, but in the end, they betrayed. We went against BJP and supported Congress, today they are supporting their opposition,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA. He added that his party will withdraw support from the Congress government. Also Read: BJP retains grip by winning 12 Zila Pramukh posts in Rajasthan Panchayati Raj pollsPolitical analyst Rajan Mahan said the developments reflected that ideology and ethics now seem to have little role in state politics. “It’s shocking that both the national parties came together to keep a tribal party out. This is politics of the most vulgar kind, where ideological differences do not matter to keep an emerging party out, which is raising tribal voice,” he said. Another senior political expert called it a strategic move but added that it is ‘rare’ in politics for two big rivals to come together.“The Congress move speaks for itself, they traditionally had support of tribals but with the BTP’s emergence they feel a threat to their vote bank. The state politics is largely based on a two-party system and none of the two parties want to welcome a strong third player,” he said. Also Read: Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau traps own officer taking bribeOn BTP charges, Congress spokesperson RC Choudhary said BTP is an ally of the BJP in Gujarat and the RLP is part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and they needed to decide till when their association will continue on the farmers’ issue with the BJP. “The Congress at both places has supported independent candidates, who expressed faith in Congress,” he said. BJP spokesperson and MLA Ram Lal Sharma said the decision was taken at local level in consensus with the candidates. “The decision was not of the BJP, but the candidates,” he said.BJP won 12 of the 20 Zila pramukh posts in Rajasthan, Congress managed five and three independent’s got elected. Congress and BJP faced cross voting in Barmer and Jailasmer. There was a close contest for the election of Pradhans, with the BJP winning 98 posts, Congress 97 and others 26. Three independent members were also elected as Zila Pramukh in Ajmer, Bundi and Dungarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-rural-polls-bjp-congress-join-hands-to-keep-regional-parties-out/story-jEiTdw0VVQzzMvZ0pxwAwI.html
11-12-2020||India||French, German, EU envoys to visit Kochi to mark 5th anniversary of Paris Agreement||The envoys of France, Germany and the European Union (EU) will mark the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement by visiting Kochi, which has benefited from several Indo-European partnership projects to tackle challenges arising from climate change. Projects backed by Europe in Kochi, a port city considered the economic capital of Kerala, are supporting low carbon urban development policies that help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Paris Agreement. Several of these projects will be visited by French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain, German ambassador Walter Lindner and EU ambassador Ugo Astuto on December 12. These projects include the water metro, financed by German investment bank KfW, and Vytilla, an intermodal transport hub that connects the water metro, bus services and Kochi Metro, which was financed by the French Development Agency (AFD) with a technical assistance grant from EU. The envoys will also visit Cochin Shipyard, where a 100-seat boat is being built, said a joint statement from the embassies of France, Germany and EU. As part of efforts to highlight the importance of the Paris Agreement, the envoys will use green transport during the visit. For instance, they will take e-buses to reach Vytilla, the transport hub. On the last leg of the visit, the envoys will go to Muttom Depot and use e-rickshaws, which provide first and last mile connectivity services in Kochi’s public transport network. They will also be briefed by Kochi Metro Rail officials on gender and social inclusion initiatives, flood mitigation measures, rainwater harvesting and solar power integration. Kochi Metro, partially inaugurated in 2017, is the first building block of an integrated mobility policy being implemented by state and local authorities. This policy, which has benefited from technical and financial support from France, Germany and EU, has resulted in significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. The envoys will also witness an example of Kochi’s comprehensive urban mobility planning at Edapally station, where pedestrian and bicycle traffic is prioritised. This will provide an opportunity to showcase results of the Mobilise Your City (MYC) programme, jointly launched at COP21 by the French and German governments and aimed at reducing urban transport-related emissions. Kochi is among Indian cities pioneering the MYC initiative, with support from AFD and funding worth 3.5 million euros from EU. The envoys will also hold talks with mobility and urban development stakeholders, including Cochin Smart City Development Limited. Kochi is one of 12 cities benefiting from technical and financial support under the Indian government’s City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain (CITIIS) programme, supported by AFD and EU. Ahead of the visit, Lenain said the close ties between France and Kochi are more than two decades old, and cooperation with the French Development Bank started in 2014, with two loans totalling more than 207 million euros. “Achieving COP21’s agenda of solutions relies on broad partnerships like the one built in Kochi. It is an inspiring example of what we can achieve together with India, illustrating the way to concrete actions that help meet the Paris Agreement’s goals,” he said. Astuto said even as the world grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic, countries mustn’t forget that the fight against climate change is an “existential issue for all of us”. He added, “Tackling the impacts of this global crisis must go hand in hand with fighting climate change and combating biodiversity loss to build a greener future. Post-Covid, we need to build back better and invest in an economic model fit for the 21st century – green, digital and resilient.” Lindner described the Paris Agreement as an important milestone on the way to a greener future. “Covid has shown us that cleaner air and a cleaner environment indeed is possible. What we need now is a greener restart to our economies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-german-eu-envoys-to-visit-kochi-to-mark-5th-anniversary-of-paris-agreement/story-9rpE9N4CSgFNmuaXb37yYJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Isro to launch communication satellite on December 17, maiden SSLV launch to follow||Just over a month after the first launch mission of the year, the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) is gearing up to launch a communication satellite aboard India’s workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) on December 17. The launch will take place at about 3.41pm.The mission, which was to take place on December 14, was postponed by a few days owing to adverse weather conditions.This will be the 42nd communications satellite to be launched by the space agency and will provide coverage over the entire country for disaster management and satellite internet connection.The satellite, named CMS-01, will be the first in a new series of communication satellites by India after the INSAT and the GSAT series. The previous satellite launched by Isro also had an altered nomenclature; it was called EOS (Earth Observation Satellite) 01. Previous earth observation satellites were thematically named by the space agency depending on their task or the kind of instrumentation carried. EOS-01 had previously been named RISAT-2BR2, short for Radar Imaging Satellite (RISAT).Also Read: Government proposes easy access of satellite-based remote sensing dataThe new satellite will replace the current GSAT-12 in orbit, which was launched in 2011.The next much anticipated mission of the space agency is the maiden flight of the newly developed Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV), with the capacity to launch a light 500kg satellite in the lower Earth orbit.The new rocket will cost about Rs30 crore, compared to the Rs120 crore it costs to manufacture the currently used PSLV. It can also be assembled by a team of six within seven days, in comparison to a team of 600 people and a few months it takes to assemble a PSLV.The SSLV has been developed by Isro mainly for commercial launches.Before the pandemic, India was only able to complete one satellite mission—GSAT-30—this year, launched by the international launcher Arianespace from Kourou, French Guiana, in January.The space agency had nearly 20 satellite and launch missions planned for the year, including the big-ticket Aditya L1, India’s first mission to the sun. The purely scientific mission would have seen Isro sending a satellite 1.5 million km away from the Earth to the L1 point. The L1, or Lagrangian point, between the Earth and the Sun, is where the gravitational pull of both the bodies on the satellite is equal to the centripetal force needed to keep the satellite in orbit.The first unmanned flight under the Gaganyaan mission was also scheduled for December 2020.A third Chandrayaan mission with just a lander and rover was to take place either in late 2020 or early 2021. All the missions were delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-communication-satellite-on-december-17-maiden-sslv-launch-to-follow/story-rmDeMrQpf7YxAMLppIzcYI.html
11-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Third wave of Covid waning, Delhi still testing over 70,000 a day, says Satyendar Jain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Third wave of Covid waning, Delhi still testing over 70,000 a day, says Satyendar JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that the third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was waning in the state, with the positivity rate remaining below 5% for ten days in a row. Read moreFarmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stirWith the talks between the government and farmers remaining inconclusive, Haryana farmer leaders have made it clear that they will continue with the protests till the three contentious farm laws are revoked and a law to guarantee MSP for the 26 crops named by the farmers.Read morePM Modi lauds Tamil poet Subramania Bharati’s work as ‘fearless’ at International Bharati festivalPrime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Tamil poet and writer Subramania Bharati on his 138th birth anniversary as he addressed the International Bharati festival on Friday. Lauding his work as “fearless”, PM Modi said that today’s youth can learn so much from Bharati’s work, “especially being courageous.” Read more‘Who is going to be our Pujara from last time?’ Rahul Dravid explains what India need to do to beat AustraliaIf India are to beat Australia in the four-Test series, they will need one batsman to score over 500 runs, something what Cheteshwar Pujara did in the 2018-19 series, reckons Rahul Dravid. Read moreDurgamati movie review: Bhumi Pednekar deserves better, and this film deserves to be burned at the stakeStarring Bhumi Pednekar and Arshad Warsi, it’s the sort of film in which the scary sequences are hilarious, and the attempts at humour are positively terrifying. Read moreHealthy delicacies for your winter cravingsCome winter and we all want to bask in the warmth of balmy afternoons while bingeing on some lip-smacking food. But at the same time, we all do get conscious of gaining calories at this time of year. Well, fret not! Here are some healthy and easy recipes to try out at home for your winter cravings. Read moreHere’s a reason to cheer: Deer tangled in holiday lights gets rescuedOne wildlife official in Colorado, US encountered a buck in a rather unfortunate state. The deer was tangled in holiday lights which hung off of its antlers, were in its mouth and also around its neck. Fortunately, the team of Wildlife officials rescued the animal. Here’s a rescue story about a deer which is bound to make you cheer. Read moreWatch | ‘India and Uzbekistan standing firmly against terrorism’: PM Modi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-third-wave-of-covid-waning-delhi-still-testing-over-70-000-a-day-says-satyendar-jain-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8zc8JbDn76FE6BbXJVxgdK.html
11-12-2020||India||SC issues notice on plea for e-payment of minimum wages in Kerala||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider an appeal filed by the Kerala government insisting on payment of minimum wages directly into the bank account of the employees.By a decision in July 2015, the state had replaced cash payment of minimum wages with a Wage Payment System to streamline payment of minimum wages to employees. Under this system, all employers had to directly deposit the wages into the bank account of the employees. They also had to maintain a digital record of employees and wages paid with the state department.This system was challenged in the Kerala high court . On January 23 this year, the Kerala high court upheld the maintenance of digital records but held that the state cannot insist on employers to transfer wages through the Wage Payment System. The court was of the view that the state did not have power to make such a rule, particularly when the Kerala Minimum Wages Act specifically provided in Section 11 that the payment should be in cash.Also read | SC to not hear plea to ascertain feasibility of confiscating black moneyThe apex court noticed that along with the appeal by the state, even Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) had approached the court in appeal, challenging the high court direction to maintain digital records. TCS claimed that uploading such information would infringe privacy of employees.Finding both sides aggrieved, the bench of justices SK Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said, “If both sides are unhappy, justice seems to have been done (by high court).” The HC had claimed that maintenance of digital records by companies is mandated under the Information Technology Act and there was no fault if the state insisted on the same. As regards infringement of privacy, the high court had noted that the data could always be protected or encrypted with password.More than 270 companies in the state had adopted the Wage Payment System. The high court did not disturb this arrangement and left it open for companies to voluntarily follow the new system. Interestingly, a similar provision was introduced by the Centre in February 2017 by amending the Minimum Wages Act. By this, minimum wage was to be credited directly into the beneficiary’s bank account or paid by way of cheque. The high court observed that Kerala government could have amended the Act rather than changing the rules accompanying the Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-plea-for-e-payment-of-minimum-wages-in-kerala/story-vsvNvWOXyb2pOaIGRDxT6O.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Inspired by Bharathiyar’s vision of empowered women,’ says PM Modi at International Bharati festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Tamil poet and writer Subramania Bharati on his 138th birth anniversary as he addressed the International Bharati festival on Friday. Lauding his work as “fearless”, PM Modi said that today’s youth can learn so much from Bharati’s work, “especially being courageous.”“He (Subramania Bharati) can’t be linked to a single profession or dimension. He was a poet, writer, editor, journalist, social reformer, freedom fighter, humanist and much more. One can only marvel at his work, poems, philosophy and his life,” said PM Modi.He also said, “Mahakavi Bharathiyar’s definition of progression had a central role for women. One of the most important vision was that of independent and empowered women. He wrote that women should walk with their head held high while looking people in the eye.” “We are inspired by this vision Bharathiyar’s vision of independent and empowered women and we are working to ensure women-led empowerment,” PM Modi added.“Today, over 15 crore entrepreneurs are funded by schemes like Mudra Yojana. They’re telling they’re self-reliant. Women are becoming part of our armed forces with permanent commissioning. They are telling us the country is in safe hands,” PM Modi also said. “This is an era of Nari Shakti. They’re breaking barriers and making an impact.,” PM Modi said, adding “this is new India’s tribute to Bharati.”The event, held via video conferencing due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year, was organised as part of the 138th birth anniversary celebration of Subramania Bharati. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was also present during the event.The Bharati Award was instituted in 1994 by Vanavil Cultural Centre. Every year, it is being conferred on eminent persons who have done laudable service in any field of social relevance and thus worked towards the fulfilment of Bharati’s dreams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-tamil-poet-subramania-bharati/story-FbPqQ7fvNavN3l7Dl7YVJN.html
11-12-2020||India||Permitting Ayurveda doctors to conduct surgery a compromise with health: IMA||Indian Medical Association (IMA) observed a nationwide no-demonstration strike on Friday to oppose the central government’s move to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgery.Demanding withdrawal of the notification allowing Ayurveda postgraduates to perform modern medicine surgery, the IMA called for the withdrawal of all non-essential non-COVID services between 6 am and 6 pm today.Dr Rajan Sharma, national president of IMA, said that allowing Ayurveda postgraduates to perform surgery is a “blatant attempt” to “corrupt” the healthcare system of the country.“It takes years and years to become a doctor. With mixopaths what are we heading for? It’s a failure when nations compromise with health,” said Dr Sharma.He stated that the IMA is not against “any sort of pathy”, but the mixing up of disciplines.“We are not against any sort of pathy be it Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy. We are proud of our national heritage and richness but let it coexist with modern medicine. All we demand is not to mix the disciplines. It will also mean the end of pure Ayurveda,” he added.The IMA reiterated that it has taken 200 years of medical research to reach modern medical capabilities, where medicines are controlled and double controlled and are research-oriented.Doctors across the country are observing the strike by wearing a black ribbon as a mark of protest while on duty.The protesting doctors said that surgery is teamwork where preoperative assessment, intra-op, anaesthetist, post-operative care, and complications are vital aspects.The IMA said the agitation is likely to intensify in the coming weeks if the government doesn’t take back the notification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permitting-ayurveda-doctors-to-conduct-surgery-a-compromise-with-health-ima/story-Xcjk3xd7Jiqf9WTRuJT0bJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers insist on guaranteed MSP for 26 crops, call for intensifying stir||With the talks between the government and farmers remaining inconclusive, Haryana farmer leaders have made it clear that they will continue with the protests till the three contentious farm laws are revoked and a law to guarantee MSP for the 26 crops named by the farmers.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has also urged the farmers of Haryana to increase their strength at Delhi borders and to also port their mobile phone sim cards from Jio to other networks. He said that now there is no further meeting scheduled with the government and the farmers were waiting for the government to accept the demands raised by them in meetings.“All the farmer union leaders have rejected government’s offer for amendments in the laws and we now want the government to withdraw these laws and also enact a law to ensure the guarantee of procurement for all 26 crops on minimum support price,” Haryana BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni told Hindustan Times.Charuni is the only farmer leader from Haryana to be among farmer leaders who held talks with the government on farmers’ behalf. Also Read: No reply from farmers’ unions on govt’s proposal: Agriculture minister TomarHe said that during the meetings with the Union government, they have already made it clear that the agitation will continue till the government withdraws the “anti-farmer” laws.“We have now decided that all farmers will port their (Jio) mobile phone numbers to other service providers and on December 12, all toll plazas will be made free for passage for one day, and on December 14, the agitation will be intensified by holding protests at all district headquarters,” he added.Meanwhile, the number of farmers at Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders is likely to increase in days to come as more farmers are leaving for Delhi to join the protests.Also Read: New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed: Farmers’ union moves SCFarmers’ march to Delhi gathered pace on Wednesday after it was known that the farmer leaders have rejected the government’s offer of amendments in the agriculture laws.“Now the message has reached every farmer and they are angry over the government’s behaviour,” said, Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni). He added that the call given to farmers to march to Delhi to join the protests has got a good response.He said that the strength of farmers is likely to increase in the next two-three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-insist-on-guaranteed-msp-for-26-crops-call-for-intensifying-stir/story-TUyJZTncYL4di67qudoSWN.html
11-12-2020||India||Opposition must come together, strengthen UPA, says Sena’s Raut||Amid the buzz that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar could become the chairperson or convenor of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), Shiv Sena on Friday suggested formation of a new front of all Opposition parties, like Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi in the state. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut also rooted for Pawar to head the UPA or be its convenor to get more Opposition parties on board. The Shiv Sena, after snapping ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) but has not formally joined UPA yet.“Considering the current political situation, the country’s Opposition must come together and take some decisions. Congress is a huge party, but it is also a fact that they could not get the Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha. In this scenario, we all must come together and strengthen the UPA. Can there be a front like there is Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra, and who can lead it? All this can be discussed,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.The Sena parliamentarian is expected to leave for New Delhi during the weekend where the discussions on the new political dynamics could take place.Pawar, meanwhile, had denied that there is a proposal to make him the UPA chairperson, the position currently held by Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Raut said that Pawar is a “tall” leader of the country. In the past few weeks, the Sena chief spokesperson has also said that the Maratha strongman has the capabilities to unite the scattered Opposition parties in the country against the BJP.“If Pawar saheb becomes the UPA chairperson, we will be happy. However, we are not seeing any such development happening. Yesterday, Pawar saheb has denied this as well. Sharad Pawar is a tall leader of the country and Maharashtra. We are all working under his guidance, but so far there is no formal proposal to elect him as the UPA chairperson. If there is such a proposal, we will support it,” he added.Meanwhile, Congress leader and former MP Sanjay Nirupam called the political development to “wipe out” the Congress party. “The campaign against Rahul Gandhi from Delhi to Mumbai is a part of the campaign to make Sharad Pawar the UPA’s chairman. The 23-signature-letter was written under the same campaign. The ‘lack of consistency’ of Rahulji’s leadership was a part of the same campaign. This is a big plan to wipe out the Congress,” Nirupam tweeted.Nirupam was referring to the letter written by 23 Congress leaders seeking sweeping changing in the party even as ‘lack of consistency’ referred to a comment made by Pawar about Rahul Gandhi during an interview last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-must-come-together-strengthen-upa-says-sena-s-raut/story-9rjpZzrF8TUHTEO2wppcDP.html
11-12-2020||India||TTD files case against fake website promising home delivery of laddu prasadam||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), an independent trust that manages the Tirumala Venkateswara Temple in Andhra Pradesh, has filed a first information report (FIR) against a website that promised to deliver Srivari laddu prasadam anywhere in the world.The police of East police station in Tirupati have launched an investigation into the matter as it registered a complaint about hurting the sentiments of the devotees. Meanwhile, the website was taken down now by the IT cell of TTD, a day after it was launched on December 6.Meanwhile, the trust’s chairman YV Subba Reddy launched the second phase of ‘Gudiko-Gomata’ programme at Sri Venkateswara Temple, Jubilee Hills on Thursday. The programme is part of a campaign for the preservation of Indian cows. During the programme, Reddy urged people to donate Indian breeds of cows and calf to the trust.TTD manages operations and finances of India’s richest temple Tirumala in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. The temple is also among the most visited religious centre in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ttd-files-case-against-fake-website-promising-home-delivery-of-laddu-prasadam/story-pbewdLJGSVpg6uPayFxOJK.html
11-12-2020||India||Parliament building: Here’s what Duke of Connaught said nearly 100 years ago||It has been nearly a century since the foundation stone laying ceremony of the old Parliament house, which then housed the Imperial Legislative Council, was conducted on February 12, 1921 by the visiting Duke of Connaught, Prince Arthur. The Duke had then said, “A great Englishman has truly said — Architecture has its political use; public buildings being the ornament of a country; it establishes a nation; and makes a people love their native country, which passion is the original of all great actions in a Commonwealth.”The Duke was also accompanied by then Viceroy of India, Lord Irwin, who later, on January 18, 1927, performed the opening ceremony of the House of Parliament as it was originally called by its architects Sir Edwin Lutyens and Sir Herbert Baker.According to the archived account of all speeches made by the Duke and the Viceroy published by the Superintendent Government Printing, Calcutta, in 1921,the Viceroy had said, “...here under one roof and within one circle will be gathered not only the representatives of British India but of India in the wider sense.”Almost 100 years later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament House on Thursday, describing the event as a milestone in India’s democratic history and asserting that the building will become the symbol of a 21st century nation and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India.At an event in central Delhi attended by senior ministers, foreign envoys and top industrialists, Modi performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the two-storeyed building amid vedic chants by 12 priests and an interfaith prayer, 93 years after the iconic circular Parliament House was completed.In 1921, the Viceroy and the Duke of Connaught laid the foundation stone of an edifice comprising within one circle the three separate buildings in which the Chamber of Princes, the Council of State and the Legislative Assembly were to be housed.“The building is one which makes a special appeal to the imagination of those who forecast the future of our new reformed councils. It is within the walls which will spring up here that the destinies of British India will someday be moulded and that the representative institutions, which have now come into being and are making essay of their first steps, will arrive at their full maturity and strength,” the Viceroy had said.During his inaugural speech, the Duke noted, “All great rulers, every great people, every great civilisation have left their own record in stone and bronze and marble, as well as in the pages of history.” He cited the examples of the Acropolis of Athens, the capital of Rome, the granite pillars on which Emperor Asoka engraved his imperishable edicts, and the splendid palaces of the Mughal emperors. “Every age has left behind it some monument commensurate with its own achievements,” he said.“Is it not a worthy ideal that equally noble buildings shall consecrate India’s great achievements in the 20th century; her solemn entry upon the path of responsible Government, which Great Britain and the Self-governing Dominions of the Empire have trod before her? Is there any building in Great Britain, around which cluster so many and such great memories as the stately home of the Mother of Parliaments on the banks of the River Thames ? Have not each of the Self-governing Dominions in the Empire wisely sought to enshrine their new nationhood in a new Capital of which its own Parliament is always the proudest monument?” he added. “Surely India and her representatives in the new assemblies which it has already been my privilege to inaugurate, will wish that these great institutions should be liberally and enduringly housed.” Thus ended the last public function during the visit of His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught to Delhi in 1921.On Thursday, December 10, 2020 addressing a gathering afterwards, PM Modi hoped India would soon be recognised as the “mother democracy” and asserted that Indian democratic traditions predate the Magna Carta, a 13th century English royal charter often considered the forerunner of modern constitutions.“It is a very historic day. Today is a milestone in India’s democratic history... We, the people of India, will together build this new building of Parliament,” Modi said, adding that the building will be an inspiration when India celebrates 75 years of independence in 2022, the proposed date of completion of construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-building-here-s-what-duke-of-connaught-said-nearly-100-years-ago/story-FlkKyQwiefI7lZeZz9upxO.html
11-12-2020||India||No reply from farmers’ unions on govt’s proposal: Agriculture minister Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday the Centre hasn’t yet received any reply from farmers’ unions on the proposals to consider in place of their demand for a repeal of the three farm laws and that he got to know about their rejection of the suggestions through media. The government had on Wednesday sent a draft proposal of amendments to farmers in order to resolve the dispute over the three agriculture laws. However, the farmers union had rejected the proposal, sticking to their demand to repeal the laws.“Our proposal is with them (farmers). They discussed it but we have not received any reply from them. We came to know through media that they have rejected the proposal. Yesterday, I had said that if they want to, we can definitely talk about the proposal,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Tomar’s comment comes as hundreds of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting in and around different borders of Delhi against the new farm laws that were passed by the Centre in September.Requesting the farmers to end their agitation, Tomar stressed on the trouble being faced by the people of Delhi due to the protests. “Agitation causes problems for the common people too. People of Delhi are facing troubles. So, they (farmers) should end their agitation in the interest of the common people and try to solve issues with the help of talks,” he said.The agriculture minister again assured the farmers that the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for them and help them live a better life. “Laws made by the government have been formed after a lot of deliberation - to bring a change in the lives of farmers, to remove the injustice that was being done to them for years. It was done to ensure that farmers could live better lives and indulge in beneficial agriculture,” Tomar said.The minister expressed hope of finding a mutual ground, saying that the Centre was ready to make changes in the farm laws after discussion. “We agree that we are not the over-ruling power and Unions might also have something in their mind. So, the government is ready to make reforms in the laws after talks,” Tomar said. “I think we will find a solution. I am hopeful. I would like to urge the farmers’ unions that they should break the deadlock. The government has sent them a proposal. If there is an objection over the provisions of an act, the discussion will be held over it,” he added.Clearing the confusion over the minimum support price system, Tomar referred to his remarks given in Parliament on the matter, saying that no document can be more powerful to assure that MSP will continue. “PM Modi had spoken about this and I had assured on the floors of both the Houses. If it’s being said in Parliament, it is a recorded document. It expresses the intention of the government. There can be no document more powerful than that. MSP will continue. No one should doubt it,” he further said.Since November 26, thousands of farmers have been protesting the three farm laws - the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-reply-from-farmers-unions-on-govt-s-proposal-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-kdtDlEe3bE0CbSBR9anqnJ.html
11-12-2020||India||New laws will make us vulnerable to corporate greed: Farmers’ union moves SC||The Bhartiya Kisan Union on Friday approached the Supreme Court against the three agriculture laws enacted by the government earlier this year, alleging the legislation will make them vulnerable to corporate greed, according to news agency ANI.The move comes two days after farmers’ unions rejected the Centre’s proposal by saying there was nothing new and that they were going to continue their protest against the agricultural laws that liberalise farm trade. The farmers agitating near the national capital have called for a nationwide protest on December 14 and said that they will block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway by December 12.To end the impasse over the contentious laws, the government had agreed to give a written assurance on continuing the Minimum Support Price (MSP), one of the main concerns raised by the protesters. It also tried to allay their fears over mandis (marketplace) and taking over of farmlands by big corporates. The farmers, however, have refused to budge and are demanding a complete rollback of the laws.Earlier in the day, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre hasn’t yet received any communication from farmers’ unions regarding the proposal and added that he got to know about them rejecting it through the media. “Our proposal is with them (farmers). They discussed it but we have not received any reply from them. We came to know through media that they have rejected the proposal. Yesterday, I had said that if they want to, we can definitely talk about the proposal,” he told ANI.Tomar added that he was hopeful of finding a solution and urged farmers to break the deadlock. “The government has sent them a proposal. If there is an objection over the provisions of an Act, the discussion is held over it,” he said, according to ANI.The minister also highlighted the troubles that the people in and around Delhi are facing due to the thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting along the borders of the national capital since November 26. “Agitation causes problems for the common people too. People of Delhi are facing troubles. So, they (farmers) should end their agitation in the interest of the common people and try to solve issues with the help of talks,” Tomar said.The agriculture minister again assured the farmers that the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for them and help them live a better life. “Laws made by the government have been formed after a lot of deliberation - to bring a change in the lives of farmers, to remove the injustice that was being done to them for years. It was done to ensure that farmers could live better lives and indulge in beneficial agriculture,” Tomar said.While the Centre maintains the new farm laws will prove to be beneficial for the farmers and help them live a better life, the farmers hold that the legislation will hurt their incomes and leave them at the mercy of large corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-union-moves-supreme-court-says-new-laws-will-make-them-vulnerable-to-corporate-greed/story-3GoAxKtQsGglYalodJIuXI.html
11-12-2020||India||Over 30,000 doctors in Gujarat join IMA call for protest||Over 30,000 doctors from Gujarat joined the nationwide protest called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Friday against the Centres decision to allow post-graduate Ayurvedic physicians to perform certain types of surgeries after training.However, emergency medical services will remain unaffected as they have been exempted from the purview of the agitation.The IMA has called for withdrawal of all non-essential and non-Covid-19 services between 6 am and 6 pm on Friday across the country against the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) decision to allow Ayurvedic doctors to conduct certain surgical procedures after the completion of their 3- year PG course, said IMA office-bearers here.The IMA is the apex body of allopathy doctors in the country.“However, emergency services, including casualty, labour rooms, emergency surgeries, ICU and critical care service will continue.“Over 30,000 of our member-doctors from Gujarat, including 9,000 from Ahmedabad, have joined the protest today,” said Dr Kamlesh Saini, secretary, IMA (Gujarat branch).“We demand withdrawal of the CCIM Act notification and the NITI Aayog committee for integration (of all medicine systems).“We urge the government to take into account the grievances of doctors against this mixopathy. The IMA will continue its agitation till our demands are met,” said Saini.Mona Desai, a senior doctor from the city, said the government must not play with the health of people by allowing Ayurvedic doctors to do surgeries after a three-year course as principles of Ayurveda and modern medicines are different.“The CCIM order says that post-graduate Ayurvedic students will be given some training about modern medicine during their 3-year course after which they can perform 58 different types of surgeries.“Modern medicine doctors spend 8 to 10 years learning the same. So if that can be achieved in just three years, why are we spending so many years learning them?” asked Desai, immediate past president of the Ahmedabad Medical Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-000-doctors-in-gujarat-join-ima-call-for-protest/story-dqNrzL8J15rdwOsh1qnkGO.html
11-12-2020||India||P Chidambaram takes a dig at NITI Aayog CEO, says ‘there is too much bureaucracy’||Taking a veiled dig at NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant’s reported comments on the issue of democracy, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said there is too much “bureaucracy” in the country.“There is too much democracy, laments a senior bureaucrat. There is too much bureaucracy, says an anguished democrat,” said Chidambaram in a tweet.In a series of tweets, he slammed the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government for making a law on ‘love jihad’ and asserted that the foundation of a new Parliament building was laid on the ‘ruins of a liberal democracy’.“The foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy,” said tweeted lead by tweet demanding ‘Nobel Prizes’ for UP government in the field of Literature (fiction) and Peace.“UP’s creativity deserves two Nobel Prizes -- for Literature (fiction) and Peace,” he tweeted.“UP is the most creative state in law-making and in the application of the law. Who else could have invented a crime called ‘love jihad’?” the Congress leader asked in another tweet.Chidambaram alleged that Yogi Adityanath-led state government is misusing the new law.“UP is more creative in the application of the law. Look at three examples: a) an FIR is filed without any complaint; b) an FIR is immediately followed by a non-bailable warrant and a threat to seize the property; and c) an arrest is made without an FIR,” said the senior politician.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/p-chidambaram-takes-a-dig-at-niti-aayog-ceo-says-there-is-too-much-bureaucracy/story-6MnvNKvuKtKHcN35VW8NQO.html
11-12-2020||India||Manipur CM speaks in support of farm laws, opposes any rollback||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh said that the Central farm laws are in larger interest of the farmers of our country and the State government is strongly in support of the bills.Emphatically stating BJP-led coalition government’s stance on the farm laws through a Facebook post on Thursday, Biren said, “The BJP led government has always stood with the farmers and the bill would transform the agriculture sector, doubling the farmers’ income by 2022. It will also fetch farmers a better price for their produce.”Three farm laws, namely the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, were passed in the Parliament in September this year.Several farmer bodies, especially from Punjab and Haryana claim the laws will negatively impact their livelihoods and are opposing them tooth and nail through protests. The talks with the protesting farmer bodies have not yielded any positive result for the Centre yet.Claiming that the BJP-led government in the state was trying to remove middlemen from farmers’ transactions, Biren uploaded a video on his official FB page, which also said, “Now there will be no agent. There will be no commission, no middle men, directly the farmers can order and directly the farmers can purchase.”Also Read: Centre trying to thrust black laws like it imposed demonetization, GST: Sukhbir BadalOn the raging controversy over the status of minimum support price (MSP) regime, Biren said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had categorically and repeatedly given the assurance that there will be no change in the MSP.Apart from this, Union home minister Amit Shah has also committed that MSP will not be changed or touched, he said, before adding,” Fortunately, farmers of Manipur are in support of the Farm Bills.”He opined that any rollback in reforms and development by the government would turn out to be support for vested interests, which, in future, would hinder other reforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-speaks-in-support-of-farm-laws-opposes-any-rollback/story-PKc2YvyuHEdC6UydIsDHWN.html
11-12-2020||India||Delhi HC dismisses plea to transfer Tablighi leader case from police to NIA||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea seeking direction to transfer from Delhi Police to the NIA, the investigation of a case lodged against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad for holding a congregation in March in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19.A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh dismissed the petition after the petitioner sought to withdraw it with liberty to approach the Supreme Court.“Advocate Yash Chaturvedi for the petitioner seeks liberty to withdraw the petition with liberty to further prosecute the petition seeking similar relief instituted by him herein before the Supreme Court. Leave and liberty granted The petition is dismissed a withdrawn,” the bench said while dictating the order.The bench said once the petition has already been filed in the Supreme Court with similar prayers, it cannot keep it pending here.The petition filed by Mumbai-based lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay has also sought direction to the NIA to investigate the matter in a time bound manner and the probe be monitored by the high court, alleging that the Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite lapse of considerable time.It had claimed that the crime branch of Delhi Police has miserably failed in tracing out/ apprehending/ arresting Maulana Saad, despite lapse of considerable time and his photograph being published in electronic media.“It is virtually impossible for Maulana Saad to hide himself for such a long time and that too in the capital of the country. Performance of Delhi Police has been pathetic from the very inception and outset. Failure of the Delhi police is explicit from the fact that despite there being lockdown and curfew like situation, Maulana Saad was able to arrange gathering of thousands of people belonging to Tabiligi Jamaat in the capital of India,” the plea claimed.The plea alleged, that “from media reports and evidence so far collected by Delhi Police Crime Branch, it is now axiomatic that Maulana Saad and his henchmen conspired to spread and transmit coronavirus in different parts of the country, with oblique and ulterior motive of causing massive deaths all over the country and thereby to derail the Government of India in preventing the deadly disease.” The Delhi Police’s crime branch had on March 31 lodged an FIR against seven persons, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station here for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus.The Enforcement Directorate has also filed a money laundering case against Saad, trusts links to the Jamaat and others.The plea alleged that the acts of omission and commission of Saad and his associates / Tabligi Jamaat constitute “terrorist acts/activities” as defined under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and claimed that the Delhi Police has failed to arrest the leader despite lapse of considerable time.It said people of Tablighi Jamaat have been spreading the deadly virus all over the country not only by defying the national lockdown, also by assaulting corona warriors who have been treating the patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-to-transfer-tablighi-leader-case-from-police-to-nia/story-VG5HsSHiDDi7tPwp1fJFwJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Race for strategic places, bases in Indian Ocean region: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat||The presence of more than 120 foreign warships in the Indian Ocean and a race for strategic bases that will gain momentum in future reflects the growing global interest in the region, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, said on Friday. Rawat’s remarks, made at a virtual conference, came against the backdrop of key European powers such as Germany and France unveiling strategies for the Indo-Pacific and China’s assertive actions across the region that have triggered concerns around the world. India, he said, will have to build on existing bilateral and multilateral mechanisms, including more training engagements with partner nations, to cope with such challenges while retaining strategic autonomy in decision-making. The country will have to achieve its aspiration of becoming a major global power while living in a “tough neighbourhood” and an “increasingly contested” region, he added. Delivering the keynote address at the Global Dialogue Security Forum, Rawat said, “At present, there are over 120 warships of extra-regional forces deployed in the Indian Ocean region in support of various missions. Till now the region, by and large, has remained peaceful albeit under contestation.” He added, “Of late, along with geo-strategic competition in the Indo-Pacific, we are also witnessing a race for strategic places and bases in the Indian Ocean region, which is only going to gain momentum in times to come.” Based on the challenges India faces as a rising regional power, the country requires structured long-term planning for capacity building and capability development of its defence forces, Rawat told the inaugural session of the event with the theme “Contesting the Indo-Pacific for global domination”. “In our quest to build a stronger India, we need a peaceful and stable security environment. We need to maintain strategic autonomy and cooperative relations with extra-regional powers, underscored by strong regional linkages that would provide us with a greater degree of strategic leverage,” he added. Many countries in the region are seeking to gain economic dividends from enhanced connectivity and infrastructure projects and powers within and outside the Indian Ocean region are investing in infrastructure development to “maintain and increase geo-political influence”, Rawat said. “In recent years, China’s economic and political rise, coupled with competition to increase influence in the region, has attracted a great deal of interest,” he pointed out against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff. Governance and security too are under threat of being undermined by non-state actors and there is growing naval competition among states, he said, adding, “To protect peace, prosperity and sovereignty, it is important for us to keep sea lines of communication secure at all times with a strong hold on the security dimension of this region.” Rawat called for building on existing mechanisms such as JAI (Japan-Australia-India) and Asean-India to have the “right balance in our strategic autonomy”, and said, “The economic centre of gravity is shifting and will continue to shift in this century, and with the major global supply chains passing through our region, the Indo-Pacific in general and the Indian Ocean region in particular will remain vital for transit and world trade.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-gen-rawat-addresses-global-dialogue-security-forum/story-9tSKSd9lmQLOiBQRWhHKzN.html
11-12-2020||India||President Kovind pays floral tributes to Pranab Mukherjee on his birth anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday paid floral tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee on his birth anniversary.“President Kovind paid floral tributes to Shri Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India, on his birth anniversary at Rashtrapati Bhavan,” the President tweeted.Mukherjee was born in the village of Mirati in Birbhum District of West Bengal to freedom fighters Kamada Kinkar Mukherjee and Rajlakshmi on December 11, 1935. His father, also a Congress leader, went to jail several times for his role in India’s struggle for independence.On August 31 this year, Mukherjee passed away at the Delhi’s Army Hospital (Research and Referral) Hospital where he was admitted after undergoing surgery for removal of a clot in his brain. He was conferred Bharat Ratna in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-pays-floral-tributes-to-pranab-mukherjee-on-his-birth-anniversary/story-3L3PfykDQwS22Oi8O5RzJO.html
11-12-2020||India||Don’t think people of Bengal will forgive Mamata Banerjee: BJP’s Kailash Vijayvargiya||The big election in 2021 is in West Bengal where chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule is being challenged by the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP made significant inroads during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning for the first time, 18 of the 42 seats and reducing the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to 22 seats. The Left, for the first time, won no seats at all. On Thursday, BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked which has led to a major crisis between the Centre and the state. HT’s Sunetra Choudhury spoke to the BJP leader in charge of the state, Kailash Vijayvargiya:Can you tell us exactly what happened with you and Mr Nadda (BJP president JP Nadda) on Thursday?The BJP national president had a two-day programme and we wanted to start the peoples’ contact programme at Bhowanipur. This is Mamata Banerjee’s constituency and there itself, TMC workers tried to show us black flags. Our workers were there in large numbers so they retreated. The next day at Diamond Harbour, we had our next programme where a large fishing community had been affected during the cyclone. Those people had been sent relief by the Prime Minister but they had not received that assistance. We had a programme to interact with the them there but were told that we weren’t allowed to go to Diamond Harbour. It’s in Abhishek Banerjee’s constituency who is Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. His two aides, Shaukat Mullah and Jehangir, had organised a dinner for 10,000 people in the area. We got word that they would stop us on the way. So we emailed the West Bengal home secretary at night, spoke to the SP, emailed the Chief Secretary and informed the Governor. We also told the Centre that there is a possibility of something but we thought that since we had informed all, it would be fine. It is unfortunate that despite all this, a life-threatening attack was carried out. Since Nadda ji’s car was bullet-proof, nothing happened to him but my car was behind him, they broke its windows. They broke Rahul (Sinha’s), Mukul da (Mukul Roy’s) , all our cars. Our drivers, our security, they are all injured. We saw this for the first time in our life, and felt that we weren’t in our own country. The way goondas were standing with the police and doing this, it was something new for us to see. To welcome the head of any party in this manner, it’s not Bengal’s culture. It’s brought a bad name to the state in the entire country. I don’t think the people of Bengal will forgive Mamata Banerjee for this.Are you saying that the CM or Abhishek Banerjee are directly involved?100%! The ‘goondas’ were throwing stones in front of the police. We do any protest, they throw tear gas at us, or use pellet guns. But when TMC people do this kind of ‘goondai’, they just stand and watch. It means that it’s all happening with their consent.Amit Shah has asked for a report. What did he say?We have informed him about all that’s happened. He has officially asked for a report from the government. From his tweets, it is evident that the Governor isn’t satisfied with what he’s seen.You have been handling Bengal for some time now. What’s the strategy ahead of elections now?We have a straightforward strategy. To go to the polling booths and speak to voters directly. We have the strength to counter violence but in a democracy, we don’t believe in that. That’s why we hope people of Bengal respond to this violent politics. We will just tell the people the way the state government is workingYou have mentioned a few days ago that CAA will be implemented in Bengal soon. Your critics say that BJP polarises the elections by saying this.CAA is a promise that we made to the people in the 2019 elections. I think the act presented by the PM and the home minister is clear that we have to grant citizenship, so the rules for this are being made. It will be made by the end of January by the ministry of home affairs. This isn’t just an election ploy. Those in our neighbouring countries are persecuted due to their religion, it’s our duty to protect them.The BJP has gained from Left cadres and Mamata’s tallest leader, Mukul Roy, is now with you. Are there going to be more exits from their camp to yours?The way a dynasty is being run in TMC and the way Mamata Banerjee is promoting her nephew, to make him a superpower, many TMC leaders are very upset. They are now feeling cheated. That feeling is there within the ranks of the Trinamool.But you can’t use corruption against Mamata Banerjee who has a clean image? What will you attack them with?It’s not about attacking. As I said, when the cyclone hit Bengal, Rs2,200 crore was sent to the state, but those who were impacted got no relief. People have seen that and that’s made them angry. They also can see how the coal mafia and the gold mafia in the state has got protection. The nephew is the chief of the mafia, the absolute chief. And the people of Bengal can see that.Will BJP also push its pet legislation around cow protection and ‘love jihad’ in Bengal?These issues haven’t come to Bengal so far but it is true that we will bring these laws wherever they are needed. When BJP feels that Bengal needs it, we will not hesitate to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-think-people-of-bengal-will-forgive-mamata-banerjee-bjp-s-kailash-vijayvargiya/story-V3liL0PZUiKLEhlnrSociP.html
11-12-2020||India||Court stays order to disclose PM’s flight details but disagrees with IAF on 1 point||The Delhi high court on Friday stayed an order of the Central Information Commission directing the Indian Air Force to provide information regarding Special Flight Returns (SRF)-II after the IAF had contended that it can’t share the details relating to the Prime Minister’s security apparatus.Justice Navin Chawla also issued notice to RTI applicant Commodore (retd.) Lokesh K Batra on the plea and asked him to file his reply within four weeks. The court also sought to know from the IAF as to how disclosing the number of passengers on the flight would affect the security.“What is the problem in giving the number of passengers? You may not give the names. But how does it affect the sovereignty of the country if the number is given?,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by the IAF, filed through central government counsel Rahul Sharma, against the CIC’s July 8 direction to the IAF to provide certified copies of available and relevant Special Flight Returns-II to RTI applicant Commodore (retd) Lokesh K Batra.Batra had sought certified copies of SRF-I and SRF-II with regard to each foreign visit made by former PM Manmohan Singh as also Prime Minister Narendera Modi from April 2013 onwards.IAF, in its plea, has claimed that the CIC has “failed to appreciate and consider that the information sought by the respondent (Batra) from the petitioner (Air Force) cannot be disclosed and the application of the respondent for seeking the same ought not to have been allowed as the information sought is extremely sensitive in nature...”During the hearing, Centre’s counsel told the court that IAF has already given the details of the flights. However, they cannot give the second part of the information sought which is the details on the passengers. He said that if such information is given then it would expose how many people are travelling with the PM in his security apparatus.Also Read: Afghanistan peace process must preserve gains of past 20 years, says PM ModiHe said that the information is highly confidential and it would not benefit the petitioner (Batra) in any form.However, the court said that the petitioner has sought the information with regards to the passengers which may also include various ministry officials, journalists etc. It said that the number of passengers can always be given.Appearing for Batra, his counsel Prasanna S told the court that CIC had passed the order in July and directed that the information be given within 15 days. However, the same has not been done and he was informed only on Sep 7 that the order was being challenged. He contended that the IAF had undertaken to supply this information only after which the CIC had passed the order.Also Read: PM Modi to address Climate Ambition Summit on Saturday to mark 5 years of Paris AgreementDuring the proceedings, the court said that it was the job of the CIC to specify the information which has to be disclosed. It also said that at best the numbers of passengers could be given without any other details.The matter would now be heard on April 12.The petition has contended that the SRF copies sought by Batra relate to “official records of functioning and working of the security apparatus of the Prime Minister of India, which cannot be brought in public domain for safety and security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-stays-order-to-disclose-pm-s-flight-details-but-disagrees-with-iaf-on-1-point/story-B1rBcrC2yHiFpkk2bj6LuN.html
11-12-2020||India||Gen. Naravane holds talks with UAE Commander on defence cooperation||Chief of Army Staff Gen. MM Naravane has met Commander of the UAE’s Land Forces and Staff Major General Saleh Mohammed Saleh Al Ameri and discussed key issues of mutual interest and defence cooperation, the Indian Army said on Friday.Gen. Naravane is currently on a six-day tour of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia, in a first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to the two strategically important Gulf countries.According to the Indian Army, Gen. Naravane on Wednesday received a Guard of Honour at the headquarters of the UAE’s Land Forces and laid a wreath at the Martyr’s Point.“#COAS also interacted with Major General Saleh Mohammed Saleh Al Ameri, Commander #LandForces & Staff and discussed issues of mutual interest & defence cooperation,” the Indian Army’s Additional Directorate General of Public Information said in a tweet on Friday.It said that Gen. Naravane also visited the Land Forces Institute, Infantry School and Armour School on Thursday.The Army chief’s visit to the UAE aims to further strengthen bilateral defence cooperation, it added.His visit is seen as a reflection of India’s growing strategic ties with the two countries and is expected to further open up new avenues for cooperation in the defence and security sphere.Gen. Naravane’s visit comes in the midst of fast-paced developments in the Gulf region including normalisation of Israel’s relations with several Arab countries as well as situation arising out of the assassination of Iran’s top nuclear weapons scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh.Ahead of his visit to the UAE and Saudi Arabia, the Army said in a statement in New Delhi that “During the visit, he will be meeting his counterparts and senior military leadership of these countries. The visit is historic in the sense that it will be the first time an Indian Army chief is visiting the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia”.According to the official schedule, the Army chief will visit Saudi Arabia from December 13 to 14.Gen. Naravane’s visit to the Gulf region comes days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s trips to Bahrain and the UAE.In the last few years, India’s ties with Saudi Arabia and the UAE have witnessed a major upswing.Last month, the Army chief travelled to Nepal on a three-day visit that had significant diplomatic overtone.In October, Gen. Naravane travelled to Myanmar along with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on a very crucial visit during which India decided to supply an attack submarine to the Myanmar Navy besides agreeing to further deepen military and defence ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-naravane-holds-talks-with-uae-commander-on-defence-cooperation/story-ZEtYfUm5y7AdsPWXuQfQiL.html
11-12-2020||India||Fodder scam: No relief for Lalu this year as bail hearing deferred for six weeks||The Jharkhand high court on Friday deferred hearing on RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav’s bail plea in connection with one of the fodder scam cases for six weeks after the leader’s lawyer sought time for filing a reply to the CBI contentions.The former Bihar chief minister was convicted in three fodder scam cases in quick succession. While he secured bail in two cases, he sought bail in the Dumka treasury case on the ground that he had completed half (42 months & 28 days) of the seven-year sentence awarded to him in the case.Also read | Storm over bribe phone calls ends Lalu Prasad’s VIP bungalow stayBut, in its reply, the CBI said that Yadav had only completed 34 months and some days in custody in this case, which is still short of about eight months to complete half the sentence.Yadav’s lawyer Prabhat Kumar sought six weeks to furnish a detailed computation of the period served by his client in custody, with certified copies of court’s order sheets.Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh then posted the matter for further hearing after six weeks.This particular fodder scam case against Yadav relates to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs3.76 crore from Dumka treasury during December 1995 and January 1996.The leader has been undergoing treatment in custody at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for over two years.His lawyer said, “According to our calculation, he has completed 42 months and 28 days in prison. On the next date, we will furnish certified copies of court order sheets in support of our claim. From these order sheets, it can be easily computed how many days he has spent in jail in different periods in this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fodder-scam-no-relief-for-lalu-this-year-as-bail-hearing-deferred-for-six-weeks/story-FXjBS7kpFRnbEDm8sU7AqL.html
11-12-2020||India||SC to not hear plea to ascertain feasibility of confiscating black money||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea seeking directions to the Central government to ascertain the feasibility of confiscating black money, benami properties and disproportionate assets.A bench headed by Justice SK Kaul said it can’t issue a mandamus for Parliament to create a law. As the apex court refused to hear the plea, the petitioner withdrew the same.The petition, filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, also sought life imprisonment for offences such as bribery, black money, benami property, tax evasion, money laundering, profiteering, grain hoarding, food adulteration, human and drug trafficking, black marketing and cheating.Upadhyay said he filed the plea in view of corruption watchdog ‘Transparency International’ placing India at 80 in the Corruption Perception Index earlier this year.“Due to weak and ineffective anti-corruption laws, India has never been ranked even among top the 50 in the Corruption Perception Index but the Centre has not strengthened the laws to weed-out the menace of corruption, which brazenly offends rule of law as well as the right to life, liberty and dignity guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21,” the plea said.It further said that due to the weak and ineffective anti-corruption laws, none of the welfare schemes and government departments are free from corruption.“Corruption has devastating effects on the right to life, liberty, dignity, and it badly affects social and economic justice, fraternity, the dignity of individual, unity and national integration, thus offends fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21,” the plea said.The plea contended that the corruption hurts economically weaker sections or below poverty line families disproportionately by diverting the funds intended for development, undermines government’s ability to provide basic services, seeds inequality and injustice, and discourages foreign aids and investment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-not-hear-plea-to-ascertain-feasibility-of-confiscating-black-money/story-1WH8RLy9k96yMMcoL27tGP.html
11-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address Climate Ambition Summit on Saturday to mark 5 years of Paris Agreement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak at the Climate Ambition Summit on Saturday which is being hosted by the United Nations and United Kingdom to mark the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Paris Agreement.The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate change which was adopted by 196 parties at 21st Conference of Parties in Paris, on December 12, 2015, and was enforced on November 4, 2016. The important virtual summit being co-hosted by France in partnership with Chile and Italy will give an opportunity to governments to present their commitment and compliance with the Paris Agreement.Ahead of the conference, India underlined that it has been responsible to the commitments under the Paris Agreement but most of the developed world which is responsible for historical emissions hasn’t shown much progress. Financial commitment by developed countries to the tune of 11 trillion dollars to help the world mitigate and adapt to climate change hasn’t come through yet, Prakash Javadekar, Union environment minister said on Friday.Also read | India forms high-level committee to implement Paris Agreement targets“Climate change hasn’t happened in a day. It is the result of historical emissions over one hundred years. US has 25% of historical emission; EU has 22% of historical emissions; China has 13% and India has only 3%. We haven’t caused this problem but as a responsible nation, we will be a part of the solution,” said Javadekar. Presently, India is contributing only 6.8% of global emissions and its per capita emissions are only 1.9 tonnes (per capita) compared to, say, 15.5 tonnes per capita of US or 8.12 tonnes per capita of China.Javadekar added that India’s nationally determined contribution (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement are 2 degree compliant. “India is among a handful of countries whose commitments are 2 degree C compliant compared to large parts of the world whose commitments will lead to 4 degree C global temperature rise over pre-industrial levels by the end of the century. This has been confirmed by independent reports also,” he added.The national schemes that will help achieve India’s NDCs include National Plan on Climate Change; National Clean Air Programme; Swachch Bharat Mission; Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana; Namami Gange policy etc.Javadekar announced that the installed capacity of renewable energy had increased by 226% in the past five years to over 89 GW now and India has a target of increasing installed renewable energy capacity to 450 GW by 2030.India is projected to meet its pre-2020 climate pledge, also called the Cancun pledge, made in 2010. It is also likely to meet and possibly overachieve its nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement, the Emissions Gap Report 2020 had said on Wednesday.India, which emits 7.1% of global emissions (according to the Emissions Gap Report) and has per capita emissions that are 60 % lower than the global average, recorded a fall in emissions growth in 2019. India’s greenhouse gas emissions grew by only 1.4% in 2019, lower than the average of 3.3% per year over the last decade according to the report.This slower-than-expected growth is primarily due to increased hydropower from a record monsoon and weaker economic growth, along with India’s continued growth in renewables, the report said. In comparison, China’s CO2 emissions grew by 3.1% in 2019 to reach a record high compared to growth of 2.4% in GHG emissions on average for the past decade.Several countries including Canada, Indonesia, Mexico, the Republic of Korea and the United States of America are projected to miss their Cancun pledges and Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Republic of Korea and the United States of America are set to fall short of their NDCs under the Paris Agreement.India had pledged in 2010 to reduce its emissions intensity of GDP (excluding the agriculture sector) by 20–25% below 2005 levels by 2020 which it has achieved. Further, under NDCs, India has committed to reducing the emission intensity of GDP by 33 to 35% by 2030 over 2005 levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-climate-ambition-summit-on-saturday-to-mark-5-years-of-paris-agreement/story-tTBwJGhWwyzOc2TAJ6RtxI.html
11-12-2020||India||Over 120 warships deployed in Indian Ocean Region: CDS Bipin Rawat||Highlighting the importance of the India-Pacific region, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Friday said there are over 120 warships of extra-regional forces deployed in the Indian Ocean Region in support of various missions. “Most of the countries in the region are seeking to reap the economic dividends through improved connectivity and harnessing blue economy for which infrastructure is a pre-requisite. Residents’ powers and extra-regional power have shown a renewed interest in investing in infrastructure development in these countries to maintain and increase geopolitical influence,” General Rawat said while delivering a keynote address at the Global Dialogue Security Summit.Speaking on the theme of “Contesting the Indo Pacific for Global Domination”, CDS Rawat said that presently there are over 120 warships of extra-regional forces deployed in the Indian Ocean Region in support of various missions. “In recent years, China’s economy and military rise coupled with competition to increase the influence in the region has attracted a great deal of interest. At present, there are over 120 warships of extra-regional forces deployed in the Indian Ocean Region in support of various missions. Till now, the region, by and large, has remained peaceful albeit under contestation,” CDS Rawat said.“In the military field, technology must be a means of deterrence not a source of destruction. Our approach to security hence needs to shift from unilateral to the multilateral mode which mandates increasing training engagements with partner nations in order to fortify future,” he said.He further said governance and security are under constant threat of being undermined by non-state actors and also naval competition among the states. “Governance and security are under constant threat of being undermined by non-state actors and also naval competition among the states. To protect peace, prosperity and sovereignty it is important for us to keep a sea line of communication secure at all times with a stronghold on the security dimension of this region,” General Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-120-warships-deployed-in-indian-ocean-region-cds-bipin-rawat/story-xHcDsHJo4OeXVAoWpEiBAO.html
11-12-2020||India||West Bengal Governor submits report on law and order to Amit Shah, says recent developments extremely disturbing||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday said the law and order situation of the state has been continuously worsening, adding chief minister Mamata Banerjee has to follow the Constitution. Dhankhar was referring to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda’s attack in West Bengal’s South 24-Parganas district that took place on Thursday.“The Chief Minister has to follow the Constitution. She cannot depart for its paths. The law and order situation in the state has been continuously worsening for long. The events that happened yesterday are most unfortunate. They are a slur on our democratic fabric,” Dhankhar said.Dhankhar said he has sent a report to the Central government about the “extremely disturbing developments that do not augur well for democratic values.” He alleged that violators of law in the state have protection of police and administration.The BJP has said some of its frontline leaders as well as workers sustained injuries after being assaulted by the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress at Shirakol in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. TV news footage showed stones raining on the convoy and shattering windshields. Vehicles of some media houses were damaged.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, its national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were hit by stones and shards of glass from shattered windows and windshields of their cars, according to the party. Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh condemned the incident.Nadda, who visited Diamond Harbour as part of his two-day trip to the state, said West Bengal had plunged into a state of lawlessness, and appealed to BJP workers to ensure the party’s win in the upcoming assembly elections.The incident took place in the afternoon, when he was on his way to his destination a day after meeting voters in Bhawanipore, the chief minister’s assembly constituency in south Kolkata. “These two constituencies are the fountains of corruption and intolerance,” Nadda said.The BJP leadership alleged that the attack was planned to foil Nadda’s programme and there were no policemen along the highway connecting Kolkata to Diamond Harbour, a distance of 52 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-governor-submits-report-on-law-and-order-to-amit-shah-says-recent-developments-extremely-disturbing/story-D701kGEpAdGhvD3LukITsO.html
11-12-2020||India||India, Uzbekistan committed to destroying terror safe havens||India and Uzbekistan on Friday called for settling the conflict in Afghanistan through an Afghan-controlled process even as they committed themselves to fighting terror by destroying terrorist safe havens, infrastructure and funding channels. The peace process in Afghanistan must preserve the achievements of the past two decades, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while participating in a virtual summit with Uzbekistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev. “We agree that the restoration of peace in Afghanistan requires a process that is led, owned and controlled by Afghanistan itself,” he said, speaking in Hindi. India and Uzbekistan have “similar concerns about extremism, fundamentalism and separatism” and both sides stand together against terrorism, he added in his opening remarks. The two sides signed nine agreements and memorandums of understanding (MoUs) during the summit, including on a dollar credit line between the Export-Import Bank of India and the Uzbek government and another on digital technologies. A joint statement issued after the summit said the two leaders believe peace and stability in Afghanistan is of “great importance to the security and stability of the entire region”. The two sides called for settling the Afghan conflict through an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process”, and expressed unanimous support for a “united, sovereign and democratic” Afghanistan. Modi and Mirziyoyev strongly condemned all forms of terror and “reaffirmed the determination of their countries to combat this menace by destroying terrorist safe-havens, networks, infrastructure and funding channels”, the joint statement said. In an apparent reference to terrorism emanating from Pakistan, the joint statement added: “They also underlined the need for every country to ensure that its territory is not used to launch terrorist attacks against other countries.” The two sides also agreed to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies and special services, including through the joint working group on counter-terrorism. Modi said the bilateral security partnership is becoming a strong pillar of the relations and the first joint military exercise was held last year, while joint efforts are also increasing in space and atomic energy. “It is also a matter of satisfaction that during this difficult time of the Covid-19 pandemic, both countries fully supported each other, whether it was supplying medicines or returning each other’s citizens home safely,” he said. The joint statement added that both leaders emphasised the need for bilateral and global cooperation to continue fighting Covid-19, including development and distribution of vaccines and other medicines. Pointing to the target of $1 billion for bilateral trade, the leaders instructed officials to fast track a joint feasibility study to pave the way for negotiations on a preferential trade agreement. They also agreed to work towards the early conclusion of a bilateral investment treaty. The Indian side confirmed approval of lines of credit worth $448 million for four developmental projects in Uzbekistan in road construction, sewage treatment and information technology. India sees Central Asia as part of “extended neighbourhood” and forged a strategic partnership with Uzbekistan in 2011. Shortly after beginning his first term as prime minister, Modi made back-to-back visits to all five Central Asian states in 2015. Bilateral ties now encompass political and strategic issues, defence and security, trade and investment, energy, science and technology and people-to-people contacts. Indian officials, however, say bilateral trade worth $247 million a year is well below the potential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-peace-process-must-preserve-gains-of-past-20-years-says-pm-modi/story-bYir8CzA1DdRuCiksk4r1H.html
11-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: India, Uzbekistan stand together against terrorism, says PM Modi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesGains of last two decades must be preserved: PM Modi on Afghanistan peace processIndia and Uzbekistan stand together against terrorism, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, speaking at the virtual summit held between PM Modi and Uzbekistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev. Read MoreMHA summons Bengal DGP, chief secy over law and order situation in state after attack on JP Nadda’s convoyThe Union home ministry has summoned West Bengal DGP and chief secretary on December 14 regarding the law and order situation in the state. This comes a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked. Read More‘Shame,’ Mahua Moitra’s take on ‘two-bit’ leaders visiting West Bengal, after Nadda’s convoy was attackedTrinamool MP Mahua Moitra, who recently drew flak for her “two paisa media’ comment, slammed the BJP in connection with Thursday’s incident in which BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked, saying that the attack was ‘staged’ by the BJP. Read MoreFarmer groups from Punjab begin journey to Delhi, police on alertSeveral farmers’ groups which did not join the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest that began from November 26 began their journey towards Delhi on Friday ahead of the farmers’ announced programme of blocking highways by December 12 and a massive nationwide protest on December 14. Read MoreBJP to organise nationwide press conferences, chaupals on new farm billsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise press conferences and ‘chaupals’ in all the districts of the country on the new farm bills from Friday. 700 press conferences and 700 ‘chaupals’ will be organised in the coming days, according to news agency ANI. Read More‘He’s got as good a bouncer as any I’ve seen’: Gavaskar warns concussion-victim Will Pucovski about Indian bowlersThere were big hopes from young Australian opener Will Pucovski ahead of the all-important Test series against India. Former Australian greats like Michael Clarke and Ian Chappell believed the 22-year-old was ready to shine at the international stage. Read MoreCelebs show us how to dress up for a weddingIt’s that time of the year when we see a lot of nuptials happening around us. And those marriage invitations might leave us puzzled especially when we are in a fix about what to wear for the wedding. Read More‘Tremendous opportunity in India’: Canadian Minister on first virtual trade missionVictor Fedeli, minister of economic development and trade of the Canadian province of Ontario, joins WorldView to talk about the first virtual mission he’s leading to India during December. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-india-uzbekistan-stand-together-against-terrorism-says-pm-modi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LS1qtN3PvS3kE3X9fb1qgJ.html
11-12-2020||India||India not historically responsible for climate change: Javadekar||India is not historically responsible for climate change, but India is taking steps to reduce emission as a responsible country, environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on the eve of the fifth year of Paris Climate agreement.“Climate change isn’t an overnight phenomenon. It has taken the last 100 years. Historically the USA has 25% of all emissions, Europe has 22% whereas China has 13% and India, only 3%. We are in no way responsible for this climate change,” Javadekar said.Paris Climate Agreement was adopted on December 12, 2015, by 196 parties. It became effective from November 4, 2016.At present, India is contributing only 6.8 per cent of global emissions and per capita emission is only 1.9 tonnes per capita. In comparison, the emission of the United States os 13.5 per cent of the global emissions and per capita is 15.52 tonnes. China contributes 30 per cent to global emissions while the European Union including the UK contributes 8.7 per cent, the ministry said in its presentation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-not-historically-responsible-for-climate-change-javadekar/story-1QASN1TQGtbCFOvVOwbOlJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Delhi HC stays CIC order directing IAF to provide information about PM’s foreign visits||The Delhi High Court Friday stayed the Central Information Commission (CIC) order directing the Indian Air Force (IAF) to provide information regarding Special Flight Returns (SRF)-II, which contains details of the Prime Minister's entourage on his foreign trips.Justice Navin Chawla said the information sought by the RTI applicant with regard to details of the ministry or department officials who accompanied the PM on a trip cannot be disclosed, but there was no harm in providing details of the number of passengers on flights.The court also issued a notice to the RTI applicant Commodore (retd) Lokesh K Batra and sought his stand on the IAF's appeal against the CIC's July 8 direction.The court listed the matter for further hearing on April 12, 2021, and stayed the operation of the CIC direction till then.It observed that the CIC ought to have been more clear as to what information can be provided and what is exempted under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.IAF, represented by central government senior panel counsel Rahul Sharma and advocate CK Bhatt, contended there was a "dichotomy" in the CIC order as it said the information sought was exempted under the RTI, but then directed that information sought be provided after severing the sensitive details which included names and ranks of the security officials accompanying the PM.CIC had directed IAF to provide certified copies of available and relevant SRF-I and ll to RTI applicant Batra.Batra had sought certified copies of SRF-I and SRF-II with regard to each foreign visit of former PM Manmohan Singh as also Prime Minister Narendera Modi from April 2013 onwards.   IAF told the court that it has provided SRF-I information which contains details of number of crew and others on the PM's flight, but details of SRF-II cannot be provided as it contains names, ranks and organisation of security and other officials on the flight.It said even providing the number of passengers on the flight was detrimental to security of the PM as it would indicate how many people accompanied him on a particular trip and anti-state elements can use it to strategise or plan some action.The court, however, said no harm can be caused to the security of the state if only the number of passengers was provided as certain private individuals, like journalists, would have also accompanied the PM.It made it clear that information regarding names or designation of ministry or security officials on the flight cannot be provided.It also said that CIC had left it to IAF to decide what information from SRF-II can be provided.The IAF, in its plea, has claimed that the "information so sought includes details related to the entire entourage, names of Special Protection Group (SPG) personnel accompanying the Prime Minister of India on foreign tours for his personal safety, and the same, if disclosed, can potentially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State".It has claimed that the CIC has "failed to appreciate and consider that the information sought by the respondent (Batra) from the petitioner (Air Force) cannot be disclosed and the application of the respondent for seeking the same ought not to have been allowed as the information sought is extremely sensitive in nature." It has contended that the SRF-II copies sought relate to "official records of functioning and working of the security apparatus of the Prime Minister of India which cannot be brought in public domain for safety and security reasons."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-stays-cic-order-directing-iaf-to-provide-information-about-pm-s-foreign-visits/story-FvZ49SJ9fhpblnVn1pwQZO.html
11-12-2020||India||Centre left with mere 10% NREGA funds as scheme sees 243% jump in Corona times||In the time of Covid pandemic, the Central government has made a record payment to MG-NREGA workers, the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme, in the financial year 2020-21, resulting in the rural development ministry being left with 10% of the total funds to be spent on the scheme in the remaining four months of the current fiscal year, shows government data. The rural development ministry, which administers Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MG-NREGA) scheme, was provided with Rs 84,900 crore for the current financial year by the finance ministry in two instalments. Of this amount, the ministry data shows, Rs 76, 800 crore has already been spent. In comparison, till November 2019, the ministry had spent about Rs 50,000 crore on the scheme. In fact, the ministry has spent 12 percentage points more than the allocation in the budget and has the highest expenditure rate among all Central government ministries, shows the Controller General of Accounts website. A finance ministry official privy to the matter, said there would be no shortage of funds for MG-NREGA and additional money will be provided as and when needed. A MG-NREGA tracker released on Thursday said the huge expenditure on the scheme was on account of 10 million more households getting work under the MG-NREGA this year (till November), 243% increase in person days (work) generated and higher wage paid to workers as compared to previous years. “The total active job cards this year was 90.2 million and of them, 83.09% sought work,” the tracker prepared by People Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG), a network of NGOs, said. The higher demand for MG-NREGA work was because of close to 20 million workers returning to their villages from cities after the Central government announced nation-wide lockdown on March 24. Although the demand peaked in the month of May, it slowed down in subsequent months as workers from poorer states such as Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand started returning to cities for work.The report said the average work provided to individual households was less than the previous years. Till November end, an average household got 41.59 days of work as compared to 48.4 in 2019-20 and 50.88 in 2018-19 financial years. Only 1.9 million households got work for 100 days as mandated under the NREGA law as compared to 4.06 million last year. Of them, 21,000 were in Rajasthan and 350,000 in Andhra Pradesh, which had to spend money from the state kitty to ensure NREGA workers got money on time. The number of households getting 100 days of work was lowest in Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu among all Indian states. Also Read: Jharkhand man chased for Rs 3.5cr GST fraud turns out to be a daily wage workerThe report also said that around 13% of the 75 million households, who demand work, got no work. “The data shows that there was a surge for NREGA work demand due to the pandemic and the government failed to meet the demand,” the report said. Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand were the two states, where one-fourth of households demanding work, were not engaged even for a single day, the data showed. Rajasthan and West Bengal did well by keeping the unmet demand lower than the national average. Jharkhand rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik said they were one of the best performing states in creating man days under NREGA. “We have been stagnating around 70 million man days for the past three years. But, we have already achieved 77.7 million man days against the target of 80 million,” she said. A UP government official said that they have provided 87% more employment under NREGA then last year. Also Read: Realty, hospitality sectors in Maharashtra yet to feel full force of migrant workersRajasthan MG-NREGA commissioner, PC Kishan said the scheme implementation in the state is completely demand-driven and right-based, hence unmet demand is less and employment provided is higher than previous years. “People are quite aware about their rights and entitlements and seek unemployment allowance if they do not get work within 15 days,” he said. Nikhil Dey, a former member of MG-NREGA council, said the data clearly showed that the scheme provided a balm to poor and marginalized people during Covid but the governments did not do enough to ensure that all get sufficient work under the scheme.“We would have been happy if more people would have got at least 100 days of work as compared to previous year. That did not happen and it proves government inefficiency,” he said. (with inputs from Sanjoy Dey in Ranchi and Sachin Saini in Jaipur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/center-left-with-mere-10-nrega-funds-as-scheme-sees-243-jump-in-corona-times/story-vyKbeho4tgGUCsJBf6XFaK.html
11-12-2020||India||MHA summons Bengal DGP, chief secy over law and order situation in state after attack on JP Nadda’s convoy||On Friday, the Union home ministry summoned West Bengal’s DGP and chief secretary on December 14 regarding the law and order situation in the state. This comes a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked. On Thursday, Nadda along with BJP leaders Dilip Ghosh and Kailash Vijayvargiya was on his way to the Diamond Harbour to attend the party’s organisational meeting when the convoy in which he was seated was attacked. The video of the assault that went viral on social media showed windshields of the convoy shattered as stones were thrown at it. Union home minister Amit Shah condemned the attack and said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC)-ruled government will be answerable to the peace-loving people of West Bengal. “The attack on BJP president JP Nadda is condemnable. No matter how much we condemn, it will not be enough. The Centre is taking this very seriously. The West Bengal government will be answerable to the peace-loving people of the state for this,” Shah’s tweet roughly translated from Hindi read. Also Read| ‘Shame,’ Mahua Moitra’s take on ‘two-bit’ leaders visiting West Bengal, after Nadda’s convoy was attackedThe Centre on Thursday had sent a communication to Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and sought a detailed report on the law and order situation in the state and the steps taken by the government to ensure peace. Dhankar further said that chief minister Mamata Banerjee has to follow the Constitution adding that the law and order situation has been continuously worsening for long. Meanwhile, TMC MP Mahua Moitra hit out at the BJP by saying that Thursday’s attack was staged by the BJP and that is why their security could not foil the attack. Also Read: Bengal BJP chief warns of revenge after attack on JP Nadda’s convoy“Had heard of college BYOB parties. BJP having a BYOS (Bring Your Own Security) party every day in Bengal - CRPF, CISF and every central force imaginable accompanies each two-bit leader who visits. Shame they can’t protect you from staged ‘attacks’,” Moitra tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-summons-bengal-dgp-chief-secy-over-law-and-order-situation-after-attack-on-nadda-s-convoy/story-xTm12k7APZU4AjfsNIh3oM.html
11-12-2020||India||Maoists abduct 3 in Chhattisgarh’s Balrampur, rescue operation underway||A probe is underway here in the Samri Path area to find the three mineworkers who were allegedly abducted by Maoists about ten ago in the Balrampur district.The police have said that a probe is underway to locate the mineworkers despite no formal complaint.“We have received information regarding the kidnapping of three workers. Police and CRPF patrolling parties are looking for them. They will be rescued soon,” said Prashant Katlam, Additional Superintendent of police, Balrampur.“Whether or not the family has reported the cases. Now that we have received this information, we will follow up,” he added.One of the relatives of the missing person said they were threatened not to disclose the information regarding the kidnapping.“They came around midnight and tried to open our door. Then they entered through the window and thrashed my husband and took him away. We pleaded with them but they did not listen to us. They also warned us not to contact the police,” said the wife of one of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-abduct-3-in-chhattisgarh-s-balrampur-rescue-operation-underway/story-XY92zCbRMwosz5VlVynYTK.html
11-12-2020||India||Gains of last two decades must be preserved: PM Modi on Afghanistan peace process||India and Uzbekistan stand together against terrorism, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, speaking at the virtual summit held between PM Modi and Uzbekistan President Shavkat Mirziyoyev. Congratulating the president on the occasion of the fifth year anniversary of his rule which will be on December 14, PM Modi said he was keen to visit the country this year, but could not do so because of the pandemic situation. “The relationship between India and Uzbekistan goes back to a long time. We have similar threats and opportunities. Our approach towards these are also similar,” PM Modi said. Referring to Uzbekistan President’s visits to India in 2018 and 2019, PM Modi said, “Those visits opened a new horizon for bilateral relationship.”“India and Uzbekistan have same stance against radicalism, separatism, fundamentalism. Our opinions are same on regional security as well. We agree that Afghanistan needs a peace process led and controlled by Afghanistan. Additionally, the gains of the last two decades must also be preserved,” PM Modi said. India has ability in infrastructure, IT, education, health, training, capacity building which may come to Uzbekistan’s help, PM Modi said talking further about India-Uzbekistan ties. “There are remarkable reforms in Uzbekistan under your rule. We would cement our ties more in the post-covid times,” PM Modi said concluding his opening remark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-not-visit-uzbekistan-this-year-because-of-covid-19-says-pm-modi/story-BtfjDH1rev6k5T36pKcWOP.html
11-12-2020||India||BJP to organise nationwide press conferences, chaupals on new farm bills||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise press conferences and ‘chaupals’ in all the districts of the country on the new farm bills from Friday. 700 press conferences and 700 ‘chaupals’ will be organised in the coming days, according to news agency ANI.With thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new agriculture laws staying put at Delhi borders, several routes in the national capital remained off bounds for commuters on Friday.Farmers from different states have been camping at Delhi’s Singhu, Tikri, Ghazipur and Chilla (Delhi-Noida) border points for nearly two weeks now to demand a repeal of the farm laws enacted in September.Today is the 16th day of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws. After rejecting the Centre’s proposals to make amendments in the recently enacted farm laws, against which the farmers are protesting, the agitating leaders on Thursday said that they would intensify their agitation by blocking railway tracks to put pressure on the government to repeal the three Acts.Six rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and farmer leaders regarding the laws.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with mandis that ensure earning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-to-organise-nationwide-press-conferences-chaupals-on-new-farm-bills/story-qklkcoCgMU1XR3cbKe1z1H.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Shame,’ Mahua Moitra’s take on ‘two-bit’ leaders visiting West Bengal, after Nadda’s convoy was attacked||Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra, who recently drew flak for her “two paisa media’ comment, slammed the BJP in connection with Thursday’s incident in which BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked, saying that the attack was ‘staged’ by the BJP and that is why their (central) security could not foil the attack.  Had heard of college BYOB parties@BJP having a BYOS (Bring Your Own Security) party everyday in Bengal - CRPF, CISF & every central force imaginable accompanies each two-bit leader who visitsShame they can’t protect you from staged "attacks"“Had heard of college BYOB parties. BJP having a BYOS (Bring Your Own Security) party every day in Bengal - CRPF, CISF and every central force imaginable accompanies each two-bit leader who visits. Shame they can’t protect you from staged ‘attacks’,” Moitra tweeted.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee too had raised the question on Thursday. “You depend on central forces. You provide central police security to so many people without informing the state,” Banerjee had said.On Thursday, as the BJP leaders including Nadda, Dilip Ghosh and Kailash Vijayvargiya, were going to attend an organisational meeting at Diamond Harbour, stones were pelted on their convoy. The assault was telecast live by several Bengali news channels. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged.Union home minister Amit Shah called the attack on Nadda “sponsored violence”, and said on Twitter that West Bengal has “descended into an era of tyranny and anarchy” under the rule of Trinamool Congress. The Centre also sought a report from the West Bengal government after the incident, which was sent by the state government on Friday. Since the attack, the BJP upped its ante in the state. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar submitted his report on law and order to Amit Shah who may travel to Kolkata later this month. Questioning the transparency of the report prepared by the Governor, Moitra had earlier tweeted, “BJP’s unelected hatchet-man masquerading as Governor to ‘investigate’ alleged attack on BJP President’s convoy!? Seems the BJP not even pretending anymore that Uncle Ji is an unbiased constitutional functionary, but a lackey sent from Delhi to do their bidding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shame-mahua-moitra-s-take-on-two-bit-leaders-visiting-west-bengal-after-nadda-s-convoy-was-attacked/story-JVTgfStCEg6s5TRr0RJt9N.html
11-12-2020||India||Odisha is ready with logistics for Covid vaccination, says CM Patnaik||Odisha government is fully prepared for Covid-19 vaccination in the state, and logistics system has been set up for its smooth conduct, said Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday.“The vaccination process in the country is likely to start soon and for that complete database has been prepared in Odisha and a logistics system has been set up for smooth conduct of the Vaccination process,” said Patnaik during the review of Covid-19 situation in the state, as quoted by the state government’s press release.The chief minister also directed administrative machinery to remain vigilant to deal with the economic challenges posed by the Covid-19 crisis. Patnaik further stated that the State government is working with the aim of livelihood generation.Patnaik said that he would review the livelihood program with the district Administration and Bank authorities on December 22 on the lending programs to farmers and MSMEs.The chief minister said that the negligence in lending to all these livelihood programs “would not be tolerated”. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 2,978 active cases in the state. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-is-ready-with-logistics-for-covid-vaccination-says-cm-patnaik/story-pBzVRglfOJQwwaGBBgN6IN.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Will support Sharad Pawar,’ says Sanjay Raut after NCP junks speculation over UPA chief post||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday said his party would be happy if Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar becomes United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairman. He said the Congress is weak and hence the opposition needs to come together now.“We will be happy if Pawar sir becomes UPA chairman. But I have heard that he’s personally refused it. We will support him if such a proposal comes to the fore officially. Congress is weak now so the opposition needs to come together and strengthen the UPA,” Raut said.This comes after the NCP on Thursday termed as baseless media speculation that Pawar may head the UPA. NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said there are unsubstantiated reports in the media regarding Pawar taking over as the chairperson of the UPA.“The Nationalist Congress Party would like to clarify that there is no discussion within UPA partners regarding any such proposal. The reports appearing in the media seems to be have planted by vested interests to divert the attention from the ongoing farmers’ agitation,” Tapase said.A senior Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister said he had asked around in the party about this speculation. “Nobody has any inkling about this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-support-sharad-pawar-says-sanjay-raut-after-ncp-junks-speculation-over-upa-chief-post/story-qA3amKtMdpvgUx43K4rKkN.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmer groups from Punjab begin journey to Delhi, police on alert||Several farmers’ groups which did not join the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest that began from November 26 began their journey towards Delhi on Friday ahead of the farmers’ announced programme of blocking highways by December 12 and a massive nationwide protest on December 14. The protesters are coming to Delhi primarily by tractors. However, vigilance has been upped in the border areas to check whether farmers are using public transport.“Around 700 tractor trolleys are moving towards Delhi’s Kundli border,” Kishan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee leader SS Pandher said on Friday. The members of this farmers’ group were protesting in Amritsar. On Friday, they started mobilising towards Delhi. So far, there have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer unions. The Centre has agreed to amend the farm acts according to the concerns raised by the farmers, but the unions are demanding a complete withdrawal of the laws. Though door for further talks are open from both sides — as Centre said it is willing to further talks and farmers said they will consider if Centre invites them for another meeting — the ongoing protest to lay siege to the Capital is on. The protesters announced that they would block highways to Delhi by December 12 and on December 14, there will be a nationwide protest. After that, they will block railway tracks across the country to intensify the protest. The massive gathering has triggered Covid-19 fear as two IPS officer posted at the Singhu border have tested Covid-19 positive. Public interest litigations (PIL) against the gathering in view of the Covid-19 situation have also been submitted. One PIL, filed by advocate Om Prakash Parihar, urges the Supreme Court to pass an order shifting the protesters to somewhere else. Another Delhi-based lawyer, Reepak Kansal, filed a plea seeking the framing of guidelines to balance citizens’ right to protest with right to free access and movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-groups-from-punjab-begin-journey-to-delhi-police-on-alert/story-5B5yp0EHFyWwBJKgU3DuRI.html
11-12-2020||India||India’s daily Covid tally falls below 30k for second time in 3 days, recoveries nearing 9.3 million||India on Friday registered 29,398 new cases and 414 deaths in the last 24 hours, which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 9,796,769 and 142,186, respectively. The total active cases continued to remain below 400,000 for a sixth consecutive day while the total number of people recovering from the disease reached nearly 9.3 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.This is the second time in three days that the country’s daily coronavirus tally went below the 30,000-mark. As many as 26,567 people tested positive for the infection on December 8. On November 17, the daily cases were less than 30,000 for the first time in four months. Over 15 million samples have been tested till now with 922,959 samples tested on Wednesday.Also Read: Survey identifies most vulnerable for Covid shotDelhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala continue to add the most number of infections to the total caseload. Maharashtra on Thursday logged 3,824 coronavirus cases with health officials stating that the state is not seeing a potential second wave till now. From the last seven days, Maharashtra has reported 25,585 cases and 373 deaths with a daily average of 3,655 cases and 53 deaths.Delhi’s total caseload is nearing the 600,000-mark with 2,463 cases added in the last 24 hours. The active cases have climbed to 20,546 and 569,216 have recovered so far. Health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday had said that the third wave of the disease was not over yet but it was definitely on the wane. The positivity rate further dropped to 2.46 per cent and has been below 5 per cent for nine consecutive days.Also Read: US closer to Covid-19 vaccine as cases surge againMeanwhile, the global Covid-19 caseload has climbed over 70 million with 1,588,437 deaths and 49,148,338 recoveries. The United States, which is the worst-hit nation, added record 3,253 deaths on Wednesday which pushed the toll to nearly 300,000. More than half of the states in the country have recently introduced or resumed restrictions to try to curtail the rampant spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-tally-falls-below-30k-for-second-time-in-3-days-recoveries-nearing-9-3-million/story-5htSoWN6a5WLjvIRGEYBtI.html
11-12-2020||India||Rare malaria genus Plasmodium ovale reported in Kerala, soldier who came from Sudan is under treatment||At a time when Kerala is grappling with a resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks, the health department of the state has detected a new genus of malaria called ‘plasmodium oval’, state health minister KK Shailaja tweeted on Thursday. The disease was detected in a soldier who travelled from Sudan. He was being treated at the district hospital in Kannur. “Plasmodium oval, a new genus of malaria, has been detected in the State. It was found in a soldier who was being treated at the District hospital in Kannur. The soldier had come from Sudan,” Shailaja wrote on Twitter.  Plasmodium ovale, a new genus of malaria, has been detected in the State. It was found in a soldier who was being treated at the District hospital in Kannur. The soldier had come from Sudan. The spread of the disease can be avoided with timely treatment and preventive measures.Protozoa which is responsible for malaria can be found in five varieties: Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodium falciparum, Plasmodium malaria, Plasmodium knowlesi and Plasmodium ovale. Among these, Plamodium Vivax and Palsmodium Falciparum are the most common in India. Plasmodium ovale is generally found in Africa.However, there is no reason to worry as the health minister has said that the spread of the disease can be avoided with timely treatment and preventive measures. This type of malaria is not known to be fatal. The malaria test was held at Kannur District Hospital after the soldier who went to Sudan as part of UN service complained of malaria symptoms. The virus was confirmed after a detailed study. India reported its first confirmed case of the novel coronavirus in Thrissur district of Kerala when a student, who was studying in Wuhan University, China and had returned to India. Also in 2018, a Nipah virus disease (NiV) outbreak was reported from Kozhikode district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-malaria-genus-plasmodium-ovale-reported-in-kerala-soldier-who-came-from-sudan-is-under-treatment/story-3SmqQwk1WmAhxITzYDu40K.html
11-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s AQI reaches 272, strong winds continue to improve air quality and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Strong winds improve Delhi air quality, AQI in poor categoryStrong winds continued to improve Delhi’s air quality on Friday, with the air quality index of the city reaching 272, in the poor zone, at 7am. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Thursday was 284, in the poor zone. Read more3 journalists claim assault by police in J-KThree journalists on Thursday said that they were allegedly assaulted by police and later detained while covering the district development council polls in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. Fayaz Lolu of ETV Bharat, Mudasir Qadri of News 18 Urdu and Junaid Rafiq of TV 9 also alleged that their equipment was seized by the police in the incident. Read moreKotak Bank told not to pay dividendThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has barred Kotak Mahindra Bank from paying dividend on ₹500 crore worth of perpetual non-cumulative preference shares (PNCPS) that it issued in 2018 to comply with a regulatory ceiling on promoter shareholding. Read moreIndian-American among 18 astronauts selected for NASA’s manned Moon missionAn Indian-American is among the 18 astronauts selected by NASA for its manned mission to the Moon and beyond. NASA on Wednesday named the 18 astronauts -- half of them women -- who will train for its Artemis moon-landing programme. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘He has got a life outside of cricket’, Steve Smith backs Virat Kohli’s decision of taking paternity leaveAustralian batsman Steve Smith has backed Indian captain Virat Kohli decision to return home for the birth of his first child. The former captain suggested that the absence of Virat Kohli would be a major missing for the tourists in the last three Tests but he also mentioned that the Indian skipper also lives a life outside the cricket field. Read moreThe Falcon and the Winter Soldier trailer: Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan team up in post-Endgame worldMarvel has released the first trailer for its upcoming Disney+ series, The Falcon and the Winter Soldier. The show will be centred on the superhero characters played by Anthony Mackie and Sebastian Stan in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Read moreKid giggles with happiness as family sings Phoolon Ke Rang Se together. WatchIn today’s edition of videos that will leave you happy and smiling, we have a clip of a little kid and his family. The video also involves the song Phoolon Ke Rang Se from the 1970 film Prem Pujari. The clip, since being shared on Twitter, has captured people’s attention. Read moreWatch: ‘My accent is a khichdi now’: Radhika Apte | A Call To Spy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-aqi-reaches-272-strong-winds-continue-to-improve-air-quality-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DokjhLui8d0XFWLFNSxocK.html
11-12-2020||India||Karnataka’s new cow slaughter law to cripple Goa’s beef supply, traders say||The passage of a new stringent ‘Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020’ by the Karnataka Assembly will have a ripple effect in neighbouring Goa and will likely cripple the state’s beef supply, meat traders and sellers have said. Goa relies almost entirely for its supply of beef on Karnataka. Traders either bring in freshly slaughtered beef from the neighbouring Belgaum district in North Karnataka or bring in live cattle to be slaughtered at the Goa Meat Complex, a government run and the state’s only notified slaughterhouse. Locally available cattle are not enough to meet the state’s demand, traders have said. “We have been doing this business for generations. This bill, if assented by the Karnataka government, will bring a complete stop to our business. We will take this up with the Goa government,” Anwar Bepari, a meat trader said. He said that almost 40% of Goa’s population consumes beef, besides the demand is also from the tourism industry and hotels and restaurants, which mainly cater to foreign tourists. The president of the Quraishi meat traders association, Manna Bepari, was even more sceptical of the future of meat trade in Goa. “The new law prohibits even the transport of cattle with a jail term. This will make it near impossible for us to bring live cattle to Goa for slaughter. In Maharashtra, the law was already strict but now in Karnataka, the law has changed too,” he said. “Thousands of families depend on the meat trade besides even Goa’s reputation as a tourism destination especially for foreign tourists is supported by the availability of beef,” Manna Bepari said.Both fresh beef as well as cold cuts sold in the state are sourced from suppliers from Karnataka, and any disruption from the Karnataka side has inevitably caused shortages in Goa in the past.With both Maharashtra and now Karnataka implementing strict laws on the slaughter of cattle, Goa has remained isolated. While the Goa prevention of cow slaughter act prevents the slaughter of cows, the law permits the slaughter of bulls, bullocks, male calves, male and female buffaloes and buffalo calves whose slaughter is allowed subject to an ante-mortem certification by a veterinary surgeon.Also Read: Maharashtra appoints panel to phase out unsustainable fishingOver the years vigilante groups have grown increasingly powerful and have been emboldened in their attempts to disrupt the state’s beef trade by foisting cases against the functioning of the Goa Meat Complex. On two occasions in recent years, the Bombay high court at Goa has dismissed complaints by animal rights NGOs that the complex was being operated in violation of the laws in force as ‘flimsy’. Around 20 tonnes of beef is consumed in Goa every day. It is mostly eaten by its 26% Catholic and 11% Muslim populations, apart from tourists.The Goa BJP has however distanced itself from the act of the BJP government in Karnataka. “What they are doing in the Karnataka assembly, it is their decision. It will not be right for us to comment on it,” ,” said Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade.The Goa BJP including former chief ministers Laxmikant Parsekar and Manohar Parrikar have in the past vehemently defended their government’s stance on the sale of beef.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-s-new-cow-slaughter-law-to-cripple-goa-s-beef-supply-traders-say/story-1xYXm4NciCqrvaOErbp31I.html
11-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest enters 16th day: Only God knows solution, says farmer leader | 10 points||The ongoing protest of the farmers against the three new agriculture laws enters 16th day with the farmers’ unions now threatening to block railway tracks. According to their earlier plan of blocking Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Agra highway by December 12, more farmers are likely to join the protests on Friday. Police have stepped up vigil on the border areas to ensure the protesters can’t block highways. On Thursday, the Centre said channels for more talks are open. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to the protesters to stop agitation as talks are still going on. However, that led to no breaking of ice as the farmers are unwavering in their demand of a complete withdrawal of the three laws, which the Centre is ready to amend — but won’t withdraw.Here are the latest updates of the protest1. While the Centre urged the farmers to consider the proposal that it sent on Wednesday, which includes a proposal of a written assurance on minimum support price, the unions said the proposals contained nothing new.2. Farmers’ unions have said that the protest will be intensified and a date for railway track blockade across the country will be announced soon. Several trains — either originating from or terminating at Punjab — are regularly being cancelled, diverted, short-terminated because of the ongoing protests.3. The main protest site at Singhu border, meanwhile, is buzzing with activities. Apart from langar, WiFi, reading facilities which have been there from the beginning, now a group of sportspersons, farmers are providing laundry services. Winter clothes are also being sold.4. The farmers have said of the government invites the farmers for another round of talks, then they will decide that in their meeting.5. As farmer leaders said agriculture comes under state list, the Central ministers on Thursday said the Centre has the power under Entry 33 of the Concurrent List to pass laws on contract farming and intra- and inter-state trade, and prohibit states from imposing fees/cess outside APMC areas.6. Asked about a solution to the ongoing standoff as the Centre is not mulling withdrawal of the laws, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said, “Only God knows.” “We are facing a lot of difficulties due to cold weather and the Covid-19 pandemic, but despite this, we will continue our protest until our demands are met,” Kakka told PTI.7. Talking about forces behind the farmers agitation, if any, Tomar on Thursday said media will have to find out that. Union minister Raosaheb Danve had earlier said China and Pakistan were behind the ongoing protests which evoked sharp reaction from farmers. The protesters, meanwhile, said their agitation has remained apolitical. They did not allow any political leader to use their platform.8. Amid the protests, the ministry of information and broadcasting came out with a booklet highlighting agriculture reforms introduced by the government. Titled ‘Putting Farmers First’, the booklet discusses a great deal about the recent farm laws. 9. Traffic in and around Delhi remains disrupted with the main borders remaining closed.10. On Friday, there will be more congestion in the borders that are open as police is stepping up security checks.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-16th-day-only-god-knows-solution-says-farmer-leader-10-points/story-VBsbHk5syMRDsyISTJUgJL.html
11-12-2020||India||3 journalists claim assault by police in J-K||Three journalists on Thursday said that they were allegedly assaulted by police and later detained while covering the district development council polls in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. Fayaz Lolu of ETV Bharat, Mudasir Qadri of News 18 Urdu and Junaid Rafiq of TV 9 also alleged that their equipment was seized by the police in the incident.According to the journalists, they had approached senior superintendent of police Sandeep Choudhary for a byte outside a polling booth in Srigufwara after a National Conference candidate alleged that he was not allowed to vote. “As soon as SSP came and we approached him for a comment, he and his team simply started assaulting us,” Lolu said.Senior police officials were not immediately available for comment. The incident has triggered condemnation from the Kashmir Press Club, which, in a statement, called for a thorough inquiry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-journalists-claim-assault-by-police-in-j-k/story-rJ1fIyGNnTDEq1isDieBHI.html
11-12-2020||India||Congress boycotts new Parliament stone-laying event||The Congress on Thursday boycotted the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the new Parliament building, criticizing the event at a time farmers were camped outside Delhi in protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the new building, which is expected to be completed by the 75th anniversary of India’s independence and is estimated to cost Rs 971 crore. No one from the Congress attended the groundbreaking ceremony – performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the presence of top politicians, industrialists and foreign envoys -- a party functionary said. The functionary said Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury were both invited to the function but didn’t attend.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said history would record that when farmers were fighting for their rights by protesting on the streets, Prime Minister Modi was busy laying the foundation stone of the new Parliament. “Dear PM, Parliament is not mortar and stones. It envisions democracy. It imbibes Constitution. It is economic-political-social equality. It is compassion and camaraderie. It is the aspirations of 130 crore Indians. What would a building built upon trampling of these values represent?” he tweeted. Surjewala said in a democracy, power did not mean fulfilling one’s whims and fancies, but serving the people and public interest. “Mr Modi, history will also record that when the ‘Annadata’ (food grower) was fighting for his rights for 16 days on the streets, you were building a palace for yourself in the name of Central Vista. In democracy, power is not a means to fulfil your whims, but is a medium for public service and public welfare,” he said in another tweet in Hindi. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the existing Parliament building “bears a remarkable similarity to the Chausath Yogini Temple in Morena in Madhya Pradesh, while the new Parliament bears a likeness to Pentagon in US”. Former finance minister P Chidambaram said, “The foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy.” Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the decision to build the new building was “heartless, senseless and shameless”. “At a time when the nation is going through economic recession, the BJP instead of giving any concession is taking out an ‘extravaganza procession,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-boycotts-new-parliament-stone-laying-event/story-X4HBodLune16eE548rfBKI.html
11-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Rarely do meetings of the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation get as much attention as the one that met on Wednesday did.Some of the details of the proceedings have been reported, but here’s a quick run through — and why it matters. It is important to note that SEC doesn’t approve vaccines, as some have suggested. It just recommends a course of action after looking at the data on hand. If the data is insufficient, it asks for more before deciding what its recommendation should be.On the agenda of the meeting on Wednesday were four items.One was the approval of combined Phase 1/2 trials for one of India’s most promising Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the mRNA one being developed by Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. This was granted (on the basis of data from animal studies), but with the caveat that the company would submit interim results from the first part of the trial before proceeding to the next.The second was a discussion on Pfizer’s application seeking emergency use approval of it mRNA vaccine, which has been approved in the UK, and which, the US FDA indicated earlier this this week it would approve shortly. The company, however, asked for more time to prepare for its presentation to the committee.The third was Bharat Biotech’s application for emergency use authorisation of its Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine based on data from Phase1/2 trials. Phase 3 trials are currently ongoing, and interim data isn’t expected before the end of the month. As this writer pointed out, Bharat Biotech’s action seemed to be prompted more by the desire to get in on the action — others were applying for approval for their vaccines, after all — than by logic. The results of the company’s Phase 1/2 trials have not been released publicly or published in a peer-reviewed journal, although they must have been satisfactory, because the Phase 3 trials were approved by the regulator. SEC did the right thing on Wednesday by asking the company to present data from its Phase 3 trials before its application could be considered.The fourth was Serum Institute of India’s application for emergency use authorisation of Covishield, the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca/Oxford which the company is manufacturing. Dispatch 222 wrote in detail about the trial data on the basis of which the company sought approval. In this case, SEC said it would like to see safety and immunogenicity data from the ongoing Phase 3 trials of the vaccine in India, and also wait for the decision of the UK drugs regulator, which is currently evaluating AstraZeneca/Oxford’s application, before taking a call.In all four cases, the committee was not pressured or influenced by the circumstances, and its decisions were based solely on logic, data, and science. This speaks well of the drugs regulator — regular readers of this column know that I rarely have kind words for anyone — and should reassure anyone who is worried that the desire to have its own vaccine could short-circuit India’s approval processes.Postscript: One of the reasons I decided to write this column (back in March) was to try and be the voice of reason in all matters related to the pandemic. I’m not sure I have done that consistently. However, three people who have are Gagandeep Kang, Randeep Guleria, and Chandrakant Lahariya. Kang and Lahariya are active on Twitter, where they do a very good job of being voices of reason. Guleria has done the same on other platforms (he was my first choice as expert for a HT Leadership Summit discussion on Covid-19). The three of them have written a book called Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The Covid-19 Pandemic, which looks at both the macro picture (public health and policy) and the micro one (all your pressing Covid questions answered). One of the authors was kind enough to send me a copy. Not only is it an easy read, it is an important book driven by science, data, and reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-0VxJfTXV0HgtmoN1wcbTKM.html
11-12-2020||India||‘Govt has no ego’: Tomar appeals to farmer leaders to resume talks||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday appealed to farm unions to resume talks with the government, and asked them not to chalk out new plans to ramp up their agitation against three new laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy. Tomar, along with Union railway minister Piyush Goyal, said the government was open to further negotiations with the farm leaders to find a solution. “Any law is never entirely bad or good. Therefore, we have come out with amendments on provisions which during discussions the farmers had apprehensions about,” Tomar said. “The government has no ego. The government was, is and will always be open to dialogue,” Tomar said. He added that if farm unions raise specific issues on the laws, the government can work towards solutions. The government in September deregulated farm markets, giving more space to private traders, to spur investments in a farm sector dependent on subsidies. Thousands of farmers are protesting the changes, saying they will be swallowed up by big corporations. On Wednesday, the government offered in writing concessions it was willing to make. It proposed giving states greater role in so-called free markets and a written assurance to continue the system of minimum support prices (MSP), which offers farmers state-set assured prices for staples. “We have addressed all issues that had come out of the discussions. There is nothing in the laws that can impact procurement at minimum support prices. The laws categorically state that there can be no lease or confiscation or auction of a farmer’s land,” Goyal said. The government has proposed to amend The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 to bring parity between so-called free markets and notified markets controlled by state governments. Another key offer is to bring additional legal safeguards for farmers’ rights engaging in contract farming “if needed”, including a bar on any confiscation of farm land to recover dues, and possible immunity to farmers from penalties for crop-residue burning, which causes pollution. Tomar urged farmers not to call off discussions and said farmers should say if they had any objections to the government’s written proposal. Farmers on Wednesday rejected the proposal of the government to bring amendments, saying they were pretty much based on proposals farm unions had already rejected. “The government has avoided answering farmers opposition that farm laws help only corporates and MNCs, will increase farmers’ input costs, losses, debts and displacement from land,” said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, which is spearheading the agitation under the umbrella platform All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.Farm unions on Thursday said they would occupy toll plazas and block the Jaipur-Delhi Highway on December 12 and organise protests from December 14. Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, are protesting a set of pro-market agricultural laws by camping on Delhi’s borders. The farmers have stocked up on months of supplies, preparing to dig in for months.Goyal said a large number of farmers in several states have welcomed the laws. “The recent results to [panchayat] elections in Rajasthan make this clear,” Goyal said. The railways minister was referring to wins by the BJP in panchayat polls in Rajasthan, a Congress-ruled state.Goyal also said the new laws made local magistrates the final authority to settle disputes between traders and farmers in 30 days because the government’s view was that farmers may find it cumbersome to fight long-drawn court battles. Farm unions have opposed this provision. “That is why the government’s proposal on this is that amendments will be made to allow farmers to approach civil courts of their choice,” Goyal said. Tomar said the Modi government remains committed to the well-being of the farming community and had brought policies to increase farm incomes and raise the share of agriculture in the country’s gross domestic product. “These proposals do not address most of our concerns. Despite rejecting the government’s offer of amendments, it has rehashed the same proposals,” said Kirankumar Vissa of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farmer representative. The new laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new contract-farming rules.Experts said the agitation is the first “sustainted challenge” the government has faced. “These are the first sustained challenge the Modi government is facing at the ground level. An escalation will further put the Bharatiya Janata Party’s political limits to test,” said KK Kailash who teaches in the political science department of the University of Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-has-no-ego-tomar-appeals-to-farmer-leaders-to-resume-talks/story-RNBanCxvpKtHt3hj6q6ViM.html
11-12-2020||India||New Parliament symbol of self-reliance, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament House on Thursday, describing the event as a milestone in India’s democratic history and asserting that the building will become the symbol of a 21st century nation and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India. At an event in central Delhi attended by senior ministers, foreign envoys and top industrialists, Modi performed the groundbreaking ceremony for the two-storied building amid vedic chants by 12 priests and an interfaith prayer, 93 years after the iconic circular Parliament House was completed. Addressing a gathering afterwards, Modi hoped India would be soon recognised as the “mother democracy” and asserted that Indian democratic traditions predate the Magna Carta, a 13th century English royal charter often considered the forerunner of modern Constitutions.“It is a very historic day. Today is a milestone in India’s democratic history... We, the people of India, will together build this new building of Parliament,” Modi said, adding that the building will be an inspiration when India celebrates 75 years of independence in 2022, the proposed date of completion of construction.The PM expressed confidence for the resurgence of a new, self-reliant India that would not waste “flood of opportunities” and time. Connecting the old and the proposed building, he said, “If the old Parliament House gave direction to post-Independence India, the new building would fulfil the aspirations of India in the 21st century.”The 64,500 square metre building, the showpiece of the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project, is proposed to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore. The earthquake resistant structure would involve 2,000 workers directly and another 9,000 indirectly.“I can never forget the moment in my life when I had the opportunity to come to Parliament House for the first time in 2014 as an MP. Before stepping in, I bowed and saluted this temple of democracy,” Modi said.Modi extolled the importance of the current Parliament, which will continue to function in an ancillary capacity. “The first government of an independent India was formed here and the first sitting of Parliament took place here, our Constitution was drafted here, our democracy was re-established here. Babasaheb Ambedkar and others, after deep deliberations in the Central Hall, gave us a Constitution,” the Prime Minister said.“When India got independence, there was a lot of apprehension whether democracy can survive in India given its poverty social condition, literary levels. Predictions were made that democracy would fail in India. Today, we can say with pride that those apprehensions have been proved wrong.” The new building is to have a capacity to house over 1,200 MPs, 55% additional seating capacity from than the current strength. A new office complex for all parliamentarians will also replace the Shram Shakti Bhavan and Transport Bhavan, right next to Parliament. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space.To be sure, the Supreme Court reserved its judgment in November on a batch of petitions challenging the Central Vista project, which also included 11 buildings for 51 central ministries, an underground Metro station, chambers for MPs, the Prime Minister’s office and residence, and even an arboretum of rare plants behind the Mughal Gardens. On Monday, the apex court directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the Central Vista area but allowed the groundbreaking ceremony to go ahead.The Opposition criticised the ceremony at a time when tens of thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s agricultural laws outside the Capital. “The foundation for a new Parliament building was laid on the ruins of a liberal democracy,” said former finance minister P Chidambaram. The Congress boycotted the event.At the event, Modi invoked Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, to underline the importance of dialogue and discussion. “Debate and discussion must can occur both inside and outside Parliament. Service to the nation must also continue but they must reflect national service and dedication towards national interest,” he said. After the ceremony, messages from President Ram Nath Kovind and vice president Venkaiah Naidu were read out by Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh. “In order to enable the members to realise their constitutional obligations in the near future, the extant Parliament House required restructuring which was not desirable due to the heritage status of the building. As such, a new Parliament Building was required,” said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the custodian of the parliament estate.Birla also pointed out that MPs of both Houses had repeatedly expressed the desire for a modern and hi-tech Parliament Building. Businessman Ratan Tata, whose firm has got the contract to construct the new building, was also in attendance.The PM emphasised on the importance of different views and perspectives to empower a vibrant democracy. “Democracy in India has always paved way for resolving differences apart from providing governance…there is always room for differences so long as it is not entirely disconnected from the process.”The Prime Minister described how MPs would get additional facilities in the new building but also added that the representatives of the people would be accountable to the public and the Constitution. “Their dedication, their service, conduct, thought and behaviour will become the life of this temple. Their efforts towards the unity and integrity of India will become the energy that gives life to this temple,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-parliament-symbol-of-self-reliance-says-pm-modi/story-bDkK4d4XP2iNGUorZNncWI.html
11-12-2020||India||Older vaccine platforms hold supply edge: Bill Gates||Covid-19 vaccines developed using a new platform of messenger RNA, such as those by Moderna or Pfizer, have showed promise but older platforms that use inactivated or weakened viruses, such as that by Oxford-AstraZeneca, hold the edge for public distribution because of easy scalability, cost and temperature stability, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation co-chair Bill Gates said on Thursday. In an exclusive interview, Gates touched upon the challenge to equitably distribute vaccines between rich and poor countries, and hoped that the world can go back to normal by the first half of 2022. “I think we will raise the money and we’ll have the manufacturing capacity, and so that, you know, for the rich world in 2021 and for the world as a whole... in the first half of 2022, we should be able to get the vaccine coverage that largely brings this pandemic to an end,” he said, hours before the foundation announced a grant of $250 million in the fight against Covid-19, taking its total commitment to fighting the pandemic to $1.75 billion.The comments came days after the United Kingdom, and then Canada, approved the Pfizer-BionTech vaccine for public distribution. Pfizer and Moderna used a new technology to build their vaccines that used a single strand of mRNA, which carries genetic information for protein synthesis and triggers an immune response in the patient’s body.In contrast, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, which Gates hoped the UK would approve by the end of 2020, used a cold-causing virus isolated from chimpanzees that instrued human cells to produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, and induce an immune response.This vaccine, which is being produced locally by the Serum Institute of India, can be distributed more easily than the mRNA vaccines that require storage at temperatures comparable to that of Antarctica. Gates commended the fact that multiple vaccines were developed less than 12 months into the pandemic. “Now, the mRNA platform is not a fully mature platform...The actual thermostability and cost and scalability of making an mRNA vaccine is not as good as it will be for AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and Novavax. Some of the other constructs the world knows how to scale up, and 5-10 years from now, we will get the [mature] mRNA platform, [and it] will get rid of those problems,” he said. With vaccine development in its last lap and many countries gearing up for regulatory approval, the focus has shifted on public immunisation with many reports pointing out that rich countries had an enormous advance in stockpiling. On Tuesday, a global campaign for vaccine distribution said nine out of 10 people in poor nations could miss out on getting vaccinated next year because a few rich countries have hoarded 53% of all doses – far more than they need.Gates, founder of Microsoft Corporation and one of the pioneers of the home computer revolution, admitted that equitable distribution of resources was a challenge but underlined that having a second source of manufacturing locally – such as SII – can blunt the problem. “The rich countries will get somewhat more of the early allocations, but if we really push on getting these factories running, then we can make it so [that] it’s not such a severe problem... So, the only way around this problem is to get a lot of capacity, and that’s why it’s important that we have these vaccines that are cheaper and easier to scale -- they get into the mix,” he said.Currently, the SII is on course to make 1 billion doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, and 2 billion doses of the Novovax vaccine candidate. Johnson & Johnson – which is also developing a vaccine – is talking to other Indian firms to scale up capacity. Gates felt that Covax – a partnership of vaccine developers and countries set up by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), and World Health Organization – was “a little slow” because the United States had not yet shown up to put money into the initiative.Covax – in which rich countries essentially subsidise vaccine distribution in poor countries but which also works as a hedge for rich nations to ensure access to any successful vaccine – aims to source and distribute two billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine by the end of 2021.“We need to get at least $4 billion in there, for this Gavi vaccine procurement effort. And I am hopeful, you know, but we haven’t got that yet, and there is a question that we get it before January 20th. I can’t prove it, but I think that we will get it at some point in time, and I do think that getting the US to step forward like it has in the past, for things like HIV and malaria, that it has a proud record there… I do think that will start to unlock a lot of other money,” he said. January 20th is when US President-elect Joe Biden is scheduled to be sworn in. Gates said there was still a lot about the infection that was still not understood well, such as why it didn’t hurt African nations as badly as the rest of the world, or why models to predict virus behaviour were not very accurate. He felt that other vaccines would get approved by the summer of 2021 and focus will shift to the distribution logistics. But by then, he cautioned, only the rich countries would have had more vaccine coverage than others. “So, the rich countries will be going mostly back to normal. But I still think because the virus will be in the world, we still will be somewhat conservative about large public events, we will still have some mask-wearing...They won’t be totally back to normal but sometime in the first half of 2022, I do think we will be able to say that we’re back to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/older-vaccine-platforms-hold-supply-edge-bill-gates/story-5OmKvDYkwnr6OKsoutursL.html
11-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand invokes ESMA, bans doctors from going on strike till March 2021||The Uttarakhand government has issued an order prohibiting doctors in the state from going on strike till March 2021, invoking the UP Essential Services Maintenance Act 1966 following a surge in Covid-19 cases.According to the order issued late on Wednesday night by Amit Singh Negi, secretary for health in the state, all services of doctors been declared as essential services under the relevant sections of U.P Essential Services Maintenance Act 1966 and as such all strikes have been prohibited with immediate effect till March 31, 2021. The order mentions that due to the prevailing Covid-19 epidemic, it is required for the state government to take such a step. The order will be applicable to all doctors, officials working for medical health and medical education departments in the state, along with postgraduate students studying in state medical colleges. On Friday, over 2000 private doctors from across the state are scheduled to go on strike protesting against Central government allowing Ayurvedic doctors to perform certain surgeries. The Uttarakhand chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has called for the closure of out-patient departments in private hospitals on Friday from 6 am to 6pm. Officials from IMA Uttarakhand alleged that the decision to allow Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries would endanger the lives of patients as there can be different side-effects of Ayurveda and allopathy being mixed. DD Choudhury, national vice-president of IMA said, “We will continue with our strike by closing OPDs from 6 am to 6 pm, but all emergency and trauma services will remain functional. We do not want the common public to face any problem due to the protest. It is not that we do not want AYUSH medicine to flourish in the country, but we are against mixing of two different kinds of treatments.” As per a notification, Central Council of Indian Medicines has mandated that ayurvedic postgraduation in Shalyathanthra and Shalakyathanthra are mandated to undergo training to independently perform 58 procedures that include general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-invokes-esma-bans-doctors-from-going-on-strike-till-march-2021/story-NZEqwwCKOTI59J3heShJsK.html
11-12-2020||India||‘We may be back to normal in 2022’: Bill Gates||Hours before the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation announced a commitment of a further $250 million to “support the research, development, and equitable delivery of lifesaving tools” in the fight against Covid-19, taking its total commitment to fighting the pandemic to $1.75 billion, Bill Gates, co-chair of the foundation, spoke to HT over a Zoom call. The conversation ranged from the development of vaccines to the stuttering progress of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance’s Covax programme, which aims to ensure Covid-19 vaccines are accessible and affordable for poor countries, to the timing of the world’s return to normalcy. Edited excerpts:Let’s start with vaccines. Given the progress made with vaccines over the last 12 months, and the way we have gone about finding a vaccine for Covid -- we now have a handful of vaccines, and there are perhaps going to be even more that work -- do you think we have cracked this? Is it one of those technology problems that we have solved? So the next time there is a big disease, it is not going to take us a long time to get a vaccine and we could probably have one out in 12 months?It’s very impressive that we have a vaccine in 12 months. And, you know, we will actually have vaccines from multiple approaches by the first quarter. The mRNA approach, which our foundation and a branch of the US government called Darpa have been funding for over 10 years, has proved to be the quickest. Now, the mRNA platform is not a fully mature platform. In fact, this is the first vaccine made that way. The actual thermostability and cost and scalability of making an mRNA vaccine is not as good as it will be for AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and Novavax. Some of the other constructs the world knows how to scale up, and 5-10 years from now, we will get the [mature] mRNA platform, [and it] will get rid of those problems.Do you think there is some kind of global north-south divide with the vaccine, because many of the vaccines are sort of being snapped up by the global north and countries like India have not struck vaccine deals with too many companies?Yes, there’s a huge challenge when you get into a pandemic, that the normal market mechanism will take the scarce resources and only make them available to the richest countries, and the richest people in those countries. And so, obviously you want governments to step up, both with the resources and with a more equitable allocation of those scarce resources. The good news on this is that if we can get a lot of vaccine factories doing something that has never happened before, which is being a second source -- that is, making like the AstraZeneca vaccine or the Novavax or Johnson & Johnson in factories in India -- then we get the capacity up, and the trade-off of having such short supply won’t be as painful. The rich countries will get somewhat more of the early allocations, but if we really push on getting these factories running, then we can make it so [that] it’s not such a severe problem. So that’s why I was super enthused that Serum (Institute of India), partly from with help from us (the Gates foundation has given $150 million to SII through Gavi) and partly from their own resources, is already manufacturing [the] AstraZeneca vaccine, and there is an arrangement that once Novavax is ready, which it will be in the first or the second quarter, Serum will also make that. And then Johnson & Johnson is talking to other Indian companies for possibly making their vaccine. So, the only way around this problem is to get a lot of capacity, and that’s why it’s important that we have these vaccines that are cheaper and easier to scale -- they get into the mix. [The] AstraZeneca vaccine will get approved in the UK before the end of the year, and then the other two in the first or second quarter. But this is a challenge, and this is the key role that the foundation is playing, to make sure that things like oxygen machines, dexamethasone, monoclonal antibodies, and most importantly, vaccines, are getting to the entire world.Do you think Covax (the Gavi, WHO initiative) will make a difference?It’s been a little slow because the United States has not yet shown up to put money into that. I am talking almost every day with the politicians, the Congress, about it. We need to get at least $4 billion in there, for this Gavi vaccine procurement effort. And I am hopeful, you know, but we haven’t got that yet, and there is a question that we get it before January 20th. I can’t prove it, but I think that we will get it at some point in time, and I do think that getting the US to step forward like it has in the past, for things like HIV and malaria, that it has a proud record there… I do think that will start to unlock a lot of other money, so that at least for the Gavi countries that the vaccines, that the financing for the vaccines is not a limitation, and it is clear to the manufacturers that this very low cost price, cost-based price, will be reimbursed so that they should go full speed ahead.By the middle of next year there should be no supply problem, right? We will have enough vaccines.Yes. I believe because these other vaccines will get approved by summer 2021, across all these different constructs; it will be more about the logistics of getting the vaccines out. I think we will raise the money and we’ll have the manufacturing capacity, and so that, you know, for the rich world in 2021 and for the world as a whole… in the first half of 2022, we should be able to get the vaccine coverage that largely brings this pandemic to an end.Do you think things will get back to normal by the end of next year, by summer next year – kids back at school, businesses reopen completely?There will be… By the summer of 2021, the rich countries will have more vaccine coverage than other countries. So, the rich countries will be going mostly back to normal. But I still think because the virus will be in the world, we still will be somewhat conservative about large public events, we will still have some mask-wearing. We really need to get this virus eliminated, almost everywhere or else we have seen even in countries that have done a super good job -- like Australia or Singapore or Hong Kong or South Korea – they always run a risk of reinfection. So they’ve had to restrict tourism and other travel, but by summer that will start to open up. They won’t be totally back to normal but sometime in the first half of 2022, I do think we will be able to say that we’re back to normal.Tell us a little bit about all the interventions that the Gates Foundation has done to, sort of, help countries and companies on the Covid front.Well, you know, we will do a post mortem when it is all over. [There were] a lot of countries that reacted much faster, and a lot of countries where the messaging about mask-wearing was much better. Here in the United States, although the US did the best job of funding the R&D, in almost every other category, I would have expected it to be one of the best in the world, but we certainly were not. We were in some cases as bad as the worst cohort of countries in terms of how we got our testing ramped up, and how we got our agency, the CDC, to be able to be visible and talking about best practices.Covid was, in 2020, the primary focus of the foundation? Well, particularly if you include the idea that Covid has required us to get out bed nets, HIV medicines, it’s required us to take special efforts to maintain those efforts. Now, you know, take an area like TB; the amount of testing for TB in India has gone down quite a bit, and we will see a lot of spread [of the disease] there.This new $250 million contribution that we are announcing today gets us to $1.75 billion, specifically for Covid – and that’s manufacturing capacity, and research and development and procurement money for a number of the tools, including the vaccines. That’s a big number, its more than most governments have done, but we spend about $6 billion a year, and so, we’re maintaining all the other priorities, as a foundation. And adding this on top. So we’ll spend more. We will spend extra money because it’s a unique situation.A few of our efforts have been delayed, like some of the new vaccine trials or new drug trials have been delayed, so that, sadly that was money we couldn’t spend. But overall, most of the Covid stuff is on top of our other spending.One of the interesting things is that while we seem to have seen reasonable success with vaccines, we’ve had fairly poor success rates with drugs. We haven’t managed to find drugs that can treat Covid or any of the other medicines other than the steroids.The therapeutic area has been disappointing. You know, dexamethasone -- we funded a trial in the UK on that – is fairly low cost, that has a death reduction of about 30% at a late-stage intervention. Remdesivir may have a modest benefit but it’s not gigantic and it is fairly expensive. Now we’re trying to reformulate it to make it cheap, but we may not get that done in time to make much difference. So, the therapeutic area that I am the most enthusiastic about, that’s not out there yet, is monoclonal antibodies. We’ve partnered with Eli Lilly, and if we can prove that instead of having to do this through an IV infusion, we can give you two shots which are called subcutaneous or sub-cu shots, with 0.5 gm of the Eli Lilly antibody, we may be able to reduce the hospitalisations and death by over 70%. It’s not done yet. Eli Lilly got the emergency authorisation for the infusion approach in the United States, but now we are doing additional trial work because infusion is hard to scale up. It’s still possible that in a couple of months that could be a significant therapeutic treatment. We reserved factory capacity to make those antibodies, in a factory owned by Fuji Film; we are looking at the Eli Lilly antibody [treatment] for developing countries, and India is one of the countries we are talking about. There is still some work to be done, that may be a very powerful therapeutic.You have been studying what’s happening everywhere around the world. Why is it that the waves are sharp and concentrated in some regions, and spread out in others? We still don’t seem to be able to explain that?We understand some of the factors that go into that, but I have to say, it’s very surprising sometimes. We do know that cold weather allows the virus to multiply more, and it drags people indoors, and areas where you have older people; multigenerational households and more indoor activity we know are associated with a higher disease rate. But our ability to take that and put it into a model and predict here’s what’s going to happen in the countryside or New Delhi or in the US has actually been pretty weak. I fund a group called International Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), great forecasters, and they are willing to forecast four months into the future which other people were not willing to do, and they’ve had some things that they’ve done the best, but even they’ve been surprised. They did call this fall rebound that hit in the northern hemisphere, particularly in Europe and the United States. They did predict that.The epidemic in some poor areas, particularly in Africa, has not been very bad, and yes, that’s partly the young population and the fact that they are outdoors a lot, but even so we are surprised how Covid in a direct sense has not been huge in Africa, although the economic disruption is causing huge problems not just in health, but also in education and jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-may-be-back-to-normal-in-2022-bill-gates/story-eGF2M9sNwHHUQu8Bs4HsOJ.html
11-12-2020||India||HC seeks EC reply on plea for withdrawing BJP’s election symbol||The Allahabad high court has directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to file its reply in a PIL petition on the alleged misuse of election symbols by political parties as their logos and for freezing/withdrawing the lotus — the country’s national flower and visible on several government websites — as the poll symbol of the BJP. A bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and justice Piyush Agrawal passed the order on a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by one Kali Shankar of Gorakhpur. The court has fixed January 12 as the next date of hearing in the case.Appearing for the petitioner, advocates Gulab Chandra Tiwari and Kapil Tiwari said, “Lotus is shown as a national flower and is also visible in various government websites. Therefore, no political party can be allowed to use it as its symbol as it will influence the minds of voters and the political party will get undue advantage.”According to the counsel for the petitioner, the life of election symbols is only for a specific election and a political party can’t use the symbol as its logo. As per the petitioner, if the political parties were permitted to use the election symbols perpetually, for purposes other than elections, it would be highly unjust for candidates not affiliated with recognised parties or independent candidates, as they got fresh symbols before each poll. The petitioner’s plea was that in most democratic countries, the concept of election symbols had already been withdrawn on attaining higher levels of literacy, but in our democratic set-up, there was no intention of the government to withdraw election symbols and go for elections by showing names of candidates in the script applicable.Under the Representation of People Act as well as the Election Symbols (Reservation & Allotment) Order, 1968 (Order of 1968), the concept of election symbols is applicable only for the purpose of elections and such symbols cannot be used as a logo of any political party, the petition said.The counsel appearing for the ECI sought some time to examine the issue and file a reply.The court directed the counsel for the petitioner to implead other parties as a respondent in the petition. The petition has raised several important issues pertaining to the allotment of election symbols by the ECI to candidates in accordance with the Representation of People Act, 1951.On April 4, 2019, the ECI rejected an application by the petitioner seeking freezing/withdrawal of the lotus as the election symbol of the BJP. Thereafter, the petitioner filed the PIL petition in the HC seeking quashing of the rejection order and directions to the ECI to issue fresh guidelines for the use of political symbols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-seeks-ec-reply-on-plea-for-withdrawing-bjp-s-election-symbol/story-cpjosG3hVllTVgINv4lhvJ.html
11-12-2020||India||Roshni Act: Punish illegal land grabbers, top court tells HC||The Supreme Court on Thursday observed that those who have illegally grabbed government land in Jammu and Kashmir under the 2001 Roshni Act should be punished and that the court will not come in the way of prosecution.“If anybody grabs the land illegally, they should be punished and we won’t come in your way,” remarked the SC bench headed by justice NV Ramana, as it heard a clutch of petitions against the J&K high court order of cancelling all proprietary rights and allotments under the contentious law.At the same time, the proceedings in the top court fetched reprieve for 68 petitioners, including J&K former finance minister Haseeb A Drabu and former chief secretary Mohammed Shafi Pandit, after the administration assured that no adverse steps shall be taken against them till the bench hears the matter again in January.The Supreme Court asked the high court to decide pleas seeking a review of the October 9 verdict that scrapped the Act that conferred proprietary rights on the occupants of the state land.The petitioners before the top court include former power development commissioner Nissar Hussain, former chief conservator of forest RK Mattoo, former judge Khaliq-ul-Zaman, businessmen Bharat Malhotra and Vikas Khanna, and retired commissioner Bashir Ahmed.The Roshni Act provided for transferring proprietary titles to occupants of government land in lieu of a fee, paving way for regularisation of encroachments on public land and simultaneously generating resources to fund power projects in J&K – hence, the name “Roshni”.The petitioners in SC have challenged the October 9 order of the HC, which declared all proprietary rights transferred under the Act as illegal, and directed the UT administration to recover the land. It ordered a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the alleged corruption and unauthorised usurpation of the public land.On Thursday, the J&K administration submitted in the SC that it was committed to protecting landless cultivators and genuine allottees who might have been affected by the HC order of declaring the 2001 Roshni Act null and void.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the administration, also assured the court that there will not be any adverse or coercive action against the petitioners, most of whom, he added, appear to be bonafide allottees.On its part, the bench pointed out that review petitions against the adverse order were yet to be decided by the HC and hence, the apex court would want to wait for their outcome.The bench, however, also took note of the chief grievance by the petitioners that even though there was no finding on any illegality against their lawful occupation of the land, sweeping observations by the HC could lead to cancellation of their leasehold rights apart from making them subjects of CBI investigations. “We are only saying those affected should get a chance to be heard by some forum,” the bench told Mehta.In response, the SG submitted that the J&K administration has itself sought a review of the HC order in its bid to classify between the genuine occupants and fraudulent ones, and the matter will be heard by the HC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roshni-act-punish-illegal-land-grabbers-top-court-tells-hc/story-WCXvkjrnmGF1Q4bqJ92XiL.html
11-12-2020||India||Health min Harsh Vardhan says govt not compromising on scientific, regulatory norms of Covid-19 vaccine||The vaccine against Covid-19 is expected to be available in the coming weeks and with stringent oversight, it is being ensured that there is no compromise on the scientific and regulatory norms, stretching from the safety of the trials to the efficacy of the vaccine, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday.Vardhan, who digitally addressed the inter-ministerial meeting on Vaccination of South Asia against Covid-19 by the World Bank here, detailed how by leveraging the existing digital interventions of the Mission Indradhanush immunisation programme, the country is building the advanced CO-WIN digital platform, which will allow citizens to self-register for vaccination, monitor their status and be provided with a QR code-based electronic vaccination certificate upon the completion of the process, a statement issued by the health ministry said.The minister said the government has analysed the present requirement of vaccines and is working towards augmenting capacities, the healthcare infrastructure and the workforce.“It is expected that the vaccine will be available in the coming few weeks and the vaccination process will kickstart in India as soon as it is approved by the regulatory agency concerned.“With stringent oversight, we are ensuring that there is no compromise on the scientific and regulatory norms, stretching from the safety of the trials to the efficacy of the vaccines,” he underlined.Vardhan reminded everyone of the strong political commitment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been personally supervising the vaccine production by visiting the manufacturing facilities of the pharmaceutical companies engaged in the production of vaccines, encouraging the scientists at the helm and catalysing the process.Presenting a detailed summary of the proactive, preemptive, graded, whole of the government’s and the society’s approach towards the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, he said, “Effective planning and strategic management has enabled India to keep its cases per million at 7,078 against the global average of 8,883. The fatality rate is 1.45 per cent, well below the global average of 2.29 per cent.” Vardhan informed the audience about the vaccine distribution expertise, production and storage capacity of the country, along with the presence of an experienced and vast network of professionals to streamline Covid vaccination.“India’s world-class research institutes have spearheaded the campaign against Covid-19 and are currently working towards facilitating capacity building for producing, distributing and administering the vaccine. A total of 260 vaccine candidates are in different stages of development globally.“Of these, eight are scheduled to be manufactured in India, including three indigenous ones. We have enthusiastically leveraged the support of international partners like the Oxford University, UK, and the Thomas Jefferson University, USA for vaccine research with Indian entities, both public and private,” he said.The minister concluded his speech by honouring the courage and sacrifice of numerous corona warriors across the globe, who have been at the forefront in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-min-harsh-vardhan-says-govt-not-compromising-on-scientific-regulatory-norms-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-gzn0eEVDVtRRhLm3jDz9eK.html
11-12-2020||India||Citizenship law to be enforced once rules are made, says JP Nadda||The Centre will enforce the new citizenship law in the country once the rules are made, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J P Nadda said in Kolkata on Thursday night. “The rules are being made right now. We will implement it here (Bengal) too in letter and spirit once the rules are made,” Nadda said at a press conference, hours after his cavalcade was stoned by some people at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganans district. This is the second time the BJP spoke on this issue this month. The party will start campaigning from January for implementation of the new law, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national vice-president Mukul Roy announced at a public meeting in Kolkata on December 6. The citizenship issue is bound to have an effect on the assembly polls due in about five months as chief minister Mamata Banerjee has declared that she will never enforce it. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act fast tracks citizenship for non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before December 31, 2014. Opponents of the law, among whom Banerjee is a prominent face, insist that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country. Accusing Banerjee of appeasing Muslims, Vijayvargiya said at the BJP programme at Mayo Road in Kolkata that his party will hit the streets next month to campaign for implementation of the law. “The chief minister calls the Prime Minister outsider. She calls the Union home minister outsider. But to her, the Rohingya refugees, who are spreading terror, and the infiltrators from Bangladesh are not outsiders. Mamata Ji is opposed to giving citizenship to Hindus who came to India as refugees. Why should we allow that?” Vijayvargiya had said on December 6. Mukul Roy made it clear that the issue would be raised by the BJP during campaign for elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-law-to-be-enforced-once-rules-are-made-says-jp-nadda/story-TcmVJ6vHmgqduuNpbc8mrK.html
11-12-2020||India||80% voter turnout in phase 2 of Bodo Territorial Council polls in Assam||Voting for the second and final phase of election to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam concluded on Thursday with nearly 80% polling amid reports of stray incidents of violence. One poll official was injured in Chirang district during a clash between Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) at a polling booth in Duttapara. Police had to fire in the air to disperse the crowd and ensure resumption of polling. While some allege that the poll official was trying to influence a voter, district officials said it was a case of misunderstanding. “The incident happened after a visually challenged voter entered the polling station unaccompanied by anyone. When the poll official tried to help him cast his ballot, other voters standing outside assumed that he was trying to influence the voter and attacked him (the poll official),” said Gautam Talukdar, deputy commissioner, Chirang. “Police present in the area resorted to blank fire in the air to bring the situation under control. The poll official has sustained injuries but is not critical. Chirang recorded 75% polling till 3:30 pm and the final figure is expected to cross 80%,” he added. A total of 111 candidates are in fray in the 19 constituencies in Kokrajhar and Chirang districts. Voting had taken place in 21 constituencies in Baksa and Udalguri districts the first phase of polling held on Monday. Voting started at 7:30 am and continued past 4:30 pm, the official time limit, as voters who arrived before that time were allowed to cast their ballot. Long queues of voters were seen lined up outside most polling stations since early morning prior to the start of voting. “The final polling percentage in Kokrajhar would be between 75% and 80%. Polling was by and large peaceful and went smoothly. As per Covid-19 protocols, face masks and sanitisers had been given to poll personnel and also for distribution among voters, if needed,” Bhaskar Phukan, deputy commissioner of Kokrajhar, said. Polling for the first phase on Monday had passed peacefully with over 77% voting. This is the first election being held in Assam since Covid-19 pandemic started. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but had to be postponed because of the pandemic and all the four districts under BTC placed under Governor’s rule. Assembly polls in Assam are due in March-April this year and BTC polls are being viewed as a semi-final contest.Since its formation in 2003, the BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the ruling coalition headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between the BJP and BPF started souring after BTC was placed under Governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately. The BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP is contesting 26 and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from the BJP and BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting 20 seats. Counting of votes will take place on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-voter-turnout-in-phase-2-of-bodo-territorial-council-polls-in-assam/story-YBYiJlEg0XgEMTttTC14pI.html
11-12-2020||India||2 more persons hospitalised with symptoms of Eluru’s mysterious disease die||Two more persons who were afflicted with the mysterious disease in Andhra Pradesh’s Eluru died at a hospital in Vijayawada late Wednesday night but doctors said the causes of death were different. The deceased were identified as Subbaravamma (56) and Chandra Rao (50), who were admitted to the Eluru government hospital on Sunday with symptoms of convulsions and giddiness. They were shifted to a government hospital Vijayawada on Monday. Andhra Pradesh health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas alias Nani told reporters after visiting the Vijayawada hospital on Thursday that the two deaths were not because of the “strange disease” that struck Eluru. “They were indeed admitted to the hospital with similar symptoms. However, doctors have confirmed that one of them, Subbaravamma, succumbed to Covid-19 and the other person Chandra Rao died of heart stroke,” the minister said. Eluru government hospital superintendent A V R Mohan said so far, only one person – Sridhar (45) -- died of the symptoms of the mysterious disease. “The other two also had these symptoms but they died of other health complications,” he said.He said the two patients had been admitted to the Eluru hospital first with symptoms of mysterious disease. “But since they had other serious health issues, we shifted them to Vijayawada hospital,” he said. State chief secretary Neelam Sawhney visited the government hospital at Eluru on Thursday and interacted with the patients. She later held a meeting with the experts from All India Institute of Medical Sciences and doctors of the hospitals to find out the latest position. The Eluru hospital superintendent said the number of cases of mysterious disease was gradually declining. As on Thursday evening, the total number of patients who suffered from the disease was 599 of which 528 patients were discharged. “Only nine persons got admitted since morning,” he said. Mohan said doctors, with the support of ward secretariat staff, had been observing the condition of the discharged patients. “Experts from various institutes have been probing the cases in all angles. They have also collected blood samples from even animals and food substances like rice, pulses and vegetables in Eluru but also in surrounding villages,” he said. The health minister said results of various tests conducted on blood, water and food samples were expected by Friday evening. “The experts are studying how traces of heavy metals were found in the blood samples of patients. The government is conducting medical camps in the affected areas to give treatment if there are any symptoms of the strange disease,” Nani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-persons-hospitalised-with-symptoms-of-eluru-s-mysterious-disease-die/story-Pqw8UIUyQdC2CcEAHkU1bM.html
