12-12-2020||India||Hope to have serious discussions on trade issues with Biden administration: Jaishankar||There was a fairly serious negotiation between India and the Trump administration on resolving the outstanding trade issues as well as to clinch a trade deal, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday while hoping to have talks over it with the Biden dispensation.The external affairs minister said the focus of the talks was to address the “differences” before moving towards “something bigger”.Participating in an interactive session at the annual general meeting of industry body FICCI, Jaishankar said the US economy was largely a “complementary” one and that there was “no fundamental clash of interests” between the two sides though there are some areas of overlap.“There was a fairly serious negotiation between our government and the Trump administration on resolving the outstanding trade issues. I think the general thinking on both sides was ‘let’s deal with differences before we think of something bigger’,” he said.The external affairs minister said a lot of discussions had taken place over the proposed deal.“For a variety of reasons, they didn’t close it out. I can tell you on our side, we were dead serious. We wanted to deal with those issues because we thought there was something much bigger that was in store for the relationship. But it didn’t happen. And often when it comes to trade discussions (they) are like business discussions between two governments,” he said.In such discussions, the devil is in the details, he said, adding, “If you do not close out a deal, it is not a deal.” “We made a very focused serious persevering effort, it didn’t get done this year. I do believe that in a very very basic way, the US is a complementary economy,” he said.The external affairs minister further said: “I certainly hope that we have serious discussions once the (Biden) administration comes in. I know our minister is very focused on it, and it is something which is rightly very important on his agenda.” The Trump administration last year terminated India’s designation as a beneficiary under the key GSP trade programme on the ground that it has not provided the US equitable and reasonable access to its markets.Export of certain goods to the US were previously allowed in duty-free category under a special trade scheme called the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP). The US has been seeking greater access to India’s huge poultry and dairy markets. However, India has some reservations over it.Asked about the outcome of the US presidential election, Jaishankar suggested that the ties between the two countries will continue to expand.“If I were to sum up my takeaway from the Biden administration coming into office, I would say vis-a-vis the world, quite apart from the security issues and the political influence issues, one big question for them is how do they keep America competitive. And the other big question is really, how do they deal with the climate change challenge,” he said.Jaishankar said the Indo-US relationship is at a “different level” now and that cooperation in security and defence will continue to be key aspects of it.“When it comes to economic issues, especially competitiveness, I think India can make a big difference. Because we are actually doing today much more on global issues and global challenges than we have done before, even on something like climate change if you look,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-to-have-serious-discussions-on-trade-issues-with-biden-administration-jaishankar/story-0bO7ZZ03qLCJg9vmvnr54O.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Memorable day’: Wife of army man witnesses 2nd son become army officer||It was a moment of immense pride for 52-year-old T Shakeela from Madurai when she witnessed her younger son being commissioned as an officer in Indian Army in the passing out parade held at Indian Military Academy (IMA) Dehradun on Saturday. Wife of a retired army man, Shakeela had her elder son also serving in the army as a major and now with her younger son also in the army, she said it is all her “good fortune.”On Saturday, she had come with her husband Naik Shaukat Ali (retired) and elder son Major Javed Khan to see her younger son Lieutenant Jafar Khan, 22, getting commissioned as an army officer. “My husband served for 22 years in the army and then my elder son also joined the army. Today, when my younger son also became an Indian Army officer, I think this is the most memorable day for me. It’s all my good fortune that almighty has shown me this day,” said Shakeela.Also read: Israel, Bhutan establish formal diplomatic relationsExpressing happiness while showering love on younger son Jafar, she said, “I have two sons, both wanted to join the army. I supported them to pursue their dreams as nothing is bigger than serving your nation. If I had two more sons, I would have given them also to the army.”Informing that both her sons went to Sainik School in Coimbatore with “excellent” marks, Shakeela said, “With the kind of upbringing I gave to them, I am all sure that they will perform their duty with full integrity.”Her husband Shaukat too expressed happiness on seeing both his sons donning the olive green like him. “Having served in the army, there is nothing I could have asked from almighty than seeing my both sons in the army. I am proud of both them,” he said.Jafar who got commissioned in the army said he drew inspiration to join the army from his father.“I had dreamt in the childhood itself to join the army after seeing my father. I went to Sainik School after that I sat for the NDA exam but could crack it only in the third attempt followed by IMA to see this day. I am happy that I made my parents proud,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/memorable-day-wife-of-army-man-witnesses-her-2nd-son-become-army-officer/story-tLijZ0ylISySUyxh221EwM.html
12-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth’s birthday cake spells out his political intent to those waiting||Actor Rajinikanth turned 70 on Saturday and his birthday cake bore a clear message - now or never, dropping a big hint at his political move. Last week, the Tamil superstar said on Twitter that he will launch his political party in January next year to contest in the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections and the date will be announced on December 31. Birthday wishes poured in for the megastar, including one from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin and a host of celebrities from the film fraternity, industrialists, cricketers shared their photos with the star. The Rajnikanth fan club put out messages on social media that it was now or never for him to take political plunge and said they were all ready to ensure his political success. Rajinikanth’s political debut brings a new dimension into Tamil Nadu’s politics which has been dominated by the DMK and the AIADMK. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying hard to make its presence felt in the state and has favoured Rajinikanth. Also in the fray is Rajinikanth’s contemporary Kamal Haasan, whose Makkal Needhi Maiam comes with an experience of contesting the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In the last three days, Rajinikanth held consultations with Tamilaruvi Manian, the supervisor for the yet to be launched party, and R Arjunamurthy, who was made party coordinator after he quit the BJP.“We discussed how to strengthen the party at the ground level,” said Manian. Rajinikanth will leave for Hyderabad where shooting resumes on December 15 for his upcoming film ‘Annatthe’ produced by Karunanidhi’s grandnephew Kalanidhi Maran under the Sun Pictures banner. “I’ve made a commitment and I’ve 40% shooting left to be completed,” Rajinikanth had said earlier. He will return to the city to announce on December 31 the date of his party’s launch. Several fans gathered in front of the actor’s house in Chennai dressing up as Rajinikanth-look alikes and wearing shirts with his image. A political extension of his fan club, Rajini Makkal Mandram, which engages in party work, will partake in charity work on his birthday as they do annually.The Tamil actor’s cult following transcends borders with a fan base across the world who have waited for him to make the political plunge for decades. Three years after Rajinikanth said that he will enter politics, he is yet to launch his party. He underwent a kidney transplant in 2016.The actor has now confirmed that his party will contest in all 234 seats in Tamil Nadu’s assembly. But questions remain if Rajinikanth will enter the fray as the chief ministerial candidate. So far, his stance has been that while he governs the party, he would pick a young and educated candidate for the top job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-s-birthday-cake-spells-out-his-political-intent-to-those-waiting/story-0Z9bLapkWFhLh2Hz99hHMP.html
12-12-2020||India||Officials appeal for low-key programs at Bhima Koregaon||Top district officials on Saturday appealed people to avoid gathering in large numbers at the Bhima Koregaon war memorial on January 1 in view of the coronavirus pandemic.Pune Collector Rajesh Deshmukh reviewed the arrangements for the annual program at the memorial on Saturday.“We need to stop the spread of the virus as we don’t have a vaccine yet. Therefore, we should avoid large public gatherings and organizethis program symbolically,” he said.District Superintendentof Police Abhinav Deshmukh too said that people should cooperate with the administration for maintaining law and order.“This year we have celebrated all festivals with simplicity. We should avoid large public gatherings for this program too,” he said.The memorial commemorates the 1818 battle of Bhima Koregaon in which British forces, which included soldiers from the Dalit `Mahar’ community, defeated the Peshwa’s army.Dalits look upon the battle as the beginning of self-assertion by the oppressed classes.There were caste riots in the area during bicentenary celebrations of the battle on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-appeal-for-low-key-programs-at-bhima-koregaon/story-X82EoiPCenb1eIpdZKy2XL.html
12-12-2020||India||Telangana chief minister KCR in Delhi, calls on PM Modi, Amit Shah||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and requested him to release funds due to the state. He also urged the PM to help with the financial assistance to the state government towards flood-relief work in the rain-ravaged areas of Hyderabad.KCR, as the chief minister is known, had a half-an-hour meeting with the PM and is reported to have discussed all pending issues with the Centre. The meeting between the two comes after a gap of more than 14 months – the last time the meeting took place was on October 4, 2019.Unlike in the past, there was no official release from the chief minister’s office this time, but a Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader familiar with the development said it was purely an official meeting without any political significance.“The chief minister explained to the Prime Minister how the state’s economy had suffered heavily due to Covid-19 pandemic and how Hyderabad suffered heavy damages during the recent heavy rain and flash floods,” the TRS leader said.The chief minister requested the PM to release additional grants to the state to take up restoration works in flood-hit Hyderabad, besides GST compensation and funds due to the state under finance commission devolutions.He also reiterated the demands for granting national project status to Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme on Godavari river, besides central assistance to Dindi and Palamuru-Ranga Reddy lift schemes on Krishna river.In the afternoon, KCR met civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and requested him to approve the establishment of five more airports in Telangana. He appealed to the minister to help the state finalise the sites apart from getting all statutory clearances on a single-window basis for the airports.In his representation to Puri, the chief minister said that once the statutory clearances were given, the state government can commence the infrastructure work at the earliest for starting the non-scheduled operator’s permit (NSOP) operations with its own funds.KCR, who landed in New Delhi on Friday evening, met Union home minister Amit Shah the same day and requested him to release adequate financial assistance for modernisation of police forces. He also explained how the state capital had witnessed heavy damages during the recent floods.Earlier, the chief minister also called on Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat to explain the state government’s stand on Krishna river projects.On Sunday, the TRS chief would visit the site allocated by the Central government for construction of the party office in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-chief-minister-kcr-in-delhi-calls-on-pm-modi-amit-shah/story-GibM0YmKUTzFT8BILlzHvO.html
12-12-2020||India||Israel, Bhutan establish formal diplomatic relations||Bhutan and Israel established formal diplomatic relations on Saturday, and the tiny Himalayan nation now has diplomatic ties with 54 countries and the European Union. Notes verbale on the establishment of diplomatic relations were exchanged by Bhutan’s ambassador Vetsop Namgyel and his Israeli counterpart Ron Malka during a ceremony held at the Israeli embassy in New Delhi. “The establishment of diplomatic relations would not only build upon the existing close ties but open the path to greater cooperation and further strengthen relations between the two countries and peoples,” said a joint statement issued by the two countries. The development came a little more than a fortnight after Bhutan established full-fledged diplomatic relations with Germany on November 25. It also came against the backdrop of fresh Chinese claims on parts of Bhutan’s territory near the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh. During Saturday’s ceremony, the envoys of the two countries “recognised the growing engagements between Bhutan and Israel and welcomed the establishment of diplomatic relations”, according to the statement. Namgyel and Malka reiterated the shared desire of the two countries to further strengthen bilateral cooperation for the benefit of their people. “In addition to deepening cooperation in areas including economic, technological and agriculture development, the two ambassadors highlighted that the ties between the peoples through cultural exchanges and tourism would also be further enhanced,” the statement said. Following the ceremony, Bhutan foreign minister Tandi Dorji and his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi sent mutual congratulations. Israel and Bhutan have “enjoyed cordial relations marked by friendship and cooperation, even in the absence of diplomatic relations”, the statement said. Israel supported Bhutan’s human resource development since 1982, especially in agriculture development that has benefitted hundreds of Bhutanese youth. The establishment of diplomatic relations will create new avenues for cooperation between the two countries in water management, technology, human resource development, agricultural sciences and other areas. The statement didn’t say whether the two countries will open embassies in each other’s capital. Bhutan’s capital Thimphu hosts only three foreign missions – those of India, Bangladesh and Kuwait. As part of domestic reforms introduced by late King Jigme Dorji Wangchuck, who ruled from 1952 to 1972, Bhutan gradually established relations with a small number of countries and joined the UN in 1971. There was no formal reaction from the Indian side to Saturday’s development. However, India welcomed the establishment of full-fledged diplomatic ties between Germany and Bhutan last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-bhutan-establish-formal-diplomatic-relations/story-Ipu61jdGWFXqmDrhwxmQtO.html
12-12-2020||India||Centre should not decide Covid-19 vaccination based on voters’ list: TMC MP||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday said the Centre should not go ahead with Covid-19 vaccination “on the basis of voters’ list”, but facilitate inoculation for every person in the country.TMC MP and Indian Medical Association (West Bengal chapter) president Santanu Sen said there are reports that the Centre is firming up guidelines to begin a vaccination drive based on voters’ list of persons aged over 50 years.“How can vaccination be done on the basis of voters’ list? What about the citizens whose names may not figure in it, but who have other documents? Will they be left out,” Sen told a press conference.He said the TMC demands that every bona fide resident of the country be extended the benefit of vaccines.Sen alleged that while the West Bengal government spent Rs 5,000 crore to build Covid-19 medical care facilities, there was no significant financial help from the Centre, which “forcibly” sent teams to “find lacuna in our Covid fight and one of the teams, instead, praised our infrastructure at Beleghata ID Hospital.” He also blamed the Narendra Modi government for “waking up late to the emerging Covid situation in February”.“... The Union government did not have any prior planning in the first few months about the ways to cope with the situation, though the first coronavirus case was reported in the country on January 30,” Sen said.Despite all this, West Bengal has achieved remarkable success in the fight against the contagion, as the “declining death rate in past two months proves”, he said.The death rate in the state will be 1.4 per cent in the coming days, the TMC leader said.“The festive season didn’t result in spike in Covid-19 cases. That speaks volumes about our battle yielding success,” Sen asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-not-decide-covid-19-vaccination-based-on-voters-list-tmc-mp/story-Ho4guRkgTM2Un6a3BPwXqK.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers will get over the influence of ‘Maoists and Naxalites’: Piyush Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the government fully trusts farmers of India and is sure that they will not allow “Maoist and Naxal forces to influence the people across the country.” Goyal said he was confident that farmers will get over the influence of “Maoists and Naxalites” and meet and discuss with the central leadership a solution to the deadlock over three farm laws enacted by the government in September.“They (farmers) come for negotiation here, no one is ready to form a committee. Naxals create an atmosphere of fear and that is why the farmers’ leaders could not gather the courage to talk about the issues,” the minister told news agency ANI.The Union minister, who was part of the meetings between Centre and the agitating farmers to break the impasse, said the December 8 Bharat Bandh wasn’t successful even as 18 opposition parties backed it. He also blamed the opposition parties for supporting the nationwide strike, which he said had “failed miserably” as India did not shut down. “Bharat chalega, Bharat aur tez chalega, daudega (India will progress, it will progress at a faster pace)’,” Goyal added.He said people understand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working towards a new and self-reliant nation. They know he is working to double the income of farmers and create employment opportunities, especially for the youth, Goyal added. He reassured farmers that the agricultural reforms do not change or hamper none of the existing arrangements. The aim of the new legislation is to free the farmers from any past shackles and bring new opportunities for them, he added.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said a group of “progressive farmers’ leaders” have submitted a memorandum backing the three farm laws liberalising agricultural markets. Also, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala met the Union minister earlier in the day and said he was hopeful that the next round of talks between the Centre and the farmers will be held “in the next 24 to 48 hours” and will lead to a conclusive result.The three contentious laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - have triggered protests across the country, with thousands of peasants camping at Delhi’s borders to demand their scrapping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-get-over-the-influence-of-maoists-and-naxalites-piyush-goyal/story-2atNCBTd9Aql8UijjHK97K.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Use election-like process for Covid-19 vaccination drive’: Centre tells states||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination drive will be similar to the election process in the country, Union health ministry stated in its operational guidelines for Covid-19 vaccines sent out to states. It said that the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election should be used to identify population aged 50 years and above who would be given the vaccine on priority along with health care and frontline workers.The remaining population will be offered the vaccine based on the disease epidemiology (pattern) and the vaccine’s availability.“While most of the healthcare and frontline workers would be vaccinated at fixed session sites, vaccination of other high-risk populations may require outreach session sites, and mobile sites/teams. State/UT can identify specific days for vaccination,” the government guidelines said.Only pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated following the prioritization, with 100 registered beneficiaries vaccinated per session. There will be no on-the-spot vaccination of beneficiaries at the vaccination site.Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced once all trainings are completed at the district, block, and planning units.Also read: People in Kerala to get free Covid-19 vaccine, says chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan“As demonstrated during recent experiences with pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) introduction and polio rounds conducted during the Covid-19 pandemic, national and state training of trainers may be successfully conducted on virtual platforms and cascaded to district and sub-district levels using a mix of virtual and face-to-face trainings.”The constitution of a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has been the key in guiding all aspects of Covid-19 vaccine introduction in India. Twenty-three ministries and departments, and numerous developmental partners are involved in planning for Covid-19 vaccine introduction in the country.“The Covid-19 vaccine will be offered first to healthcare workers, frontline workers and to people above 50 years of age, followed by those younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities based on evolving pandemic situation, and finally to the remaining population based on the disease epidemiology and vaccine availability,” the guidelines mentioned.“The priority group of above 50 years may be further subdivided into those above 60 years of age and those between 50 to 60 years of age for purposes of phasing of vaccine’s rollout based on the pandemic situation and vaccine availability. The latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify population aged 50 years or more,” the guiding document stated.The vaccination team will consist of five members. There will be a vaccinator officer, who could be a doctor (MBBS/BDS), staff nurse, pharmacist, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), lady health visitor (LHV). Anyone legally authorized to give injection will be considered as a potential vaccinator. Then there will be vaccination officer 1 with at least one person from the police, home guard, civil defence, National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme or Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan who will check the registration status of beneficiary at the entry point and ensure guarded entry to the vaccination session.The vaccination officer 2 will be the verifier who will authenticate or verify the identification documents while the vaccination officer 3 and 4 will be the two-support staff responsible for crowd management, information education and communication, and support the vaccinator.The Covid-19 vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system, a digitalized platform, will be used to track the enlisted beneficiaries for vaccination and Covid-19 vaccines on a real-time basis.Also read: Bihar youth’s arduous journey from working at snack factory to becoming Army officerThe existing adverse event following immunization (AEFI) surveillance system will be utilized to monitor adverse events and inform the understanding of the safety profile of the vaccines. The reporting of AEFI through SAFEVAC is being integrated with Co-WIN software and every AEFI to be reported at the district level and further the referral mechanisms in case of any AEFI needs to be put in place.SAFEVAC is an app-based capture of adverse effects after influenza vaccinations. Experts say it is a good idea to make use of the existing platform used for universal immunisation in India to conduct Covid-19 vaccination drive.“To be able to effectively reach the target population for the Covid-19 vaccination, India will need to utilize its existing national immunization network, including the infrastructure (production, storage, transport, delivery facilities) as well as the human resources (vaccinators, supervisors, etc). However, given the scale of the vaccination effort required for Covid-19, the effort will need to take the existing network and build on it. This needs to be planned for, budgeted, and efforts made to put this in place ahead of a vaccine being available for widespread immunisation,” said researcher Anant Bhan, who specializes in bioethics and public health.There are 9 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in different phases of development in India, of these 3 are in the pre-clinical phase whereas 6 are under clinical trials.According to the statements made by the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, India aims to vaccinate 250-300 million people against Covid-19 in the first phase on priority by July next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-election-like-process-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-centre-tells-states/story-rwfQPRVXRoaBZ4osGd1GdK.html
12-12-2020||India||Complainant in bribery case is one among accused, reveals CBI probe||A complainant in a corruption case is also one of the accused, revealed a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The premier investigation agency was probing a complaint against Dinesh Bhatia, associate professor at NEHU (North Eastern Hill University) and head of the department of bio-medical engineering in Shillong, who had allegedly taken a bribe of Rs 40,000.Complainant Raghuvendra Pratap Tripathi is in the docks for being involved in the whole process, as uncovered by the agency’s investigation.Bhatia was arrested by the CBI in 2018 under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 40,000 from Tripathi, who was pursuing his PhD under his supervision.“We are confident that justice will prevail and that my client will win this case,” Dinesh Bhatia’s legal counsel M Haque told HT.When contacted, Prof Bhatia told HT, “I have faith in the judicial system of our great nation. I knew I was innocent.” In its chargesheet, the CBI said Tripathi was complicit in the crime along with Dr Dinesh Bhatia and one Ranjeet Kumar Gupta. In fact, Tripathi also requested Gupta to help him and Bhatia to assist in committing the crime, the agency claimed, adding that the money trail clearly implicates the trio.Further, Bhatia’s counsel informed that while all three accused were asked to appear before the Special CBI Court on Friday, only his client adhered to the directive which has been duly noted by the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/complainant-in-bribery-case-is-one-among-accused-reveals-cbi-probe/story-sZVgGBFEqfYvURqFluMulK.html
12-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Puri Jagannath temple to open on December 23 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Puri Jagannath temple to open on December 23A little more than 9 months after the doors of the Jagannath temple in Puri town were shut to devotees due to Covid-19, the temple administration on Saturday decided to open the temple for devotees in a graded manner from December 23 onwards. Read moreAgriculture minister says ‘progressive’ Haryana farmers submitted memorandum backing new farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday a group of “progressive farmers’ leaders” have submitted a memorandum supporting the three farm laws liberalising agricultural markets, which have triggered protests by agriculturists near the national capital’s borders and across the country. The farm minister’s comments came after his meeting with farmers’ leaders from Haryana at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi. Read more‘State’s gender budget for FY 2020-21 unfavourable toward women empowerment’UNICEF, Maharashtra, in its study, has revealed that Maharashtra’s Gender Budget for financial year 2020-21 is about 7,300 crore, around two per cent of state’s total budget and departments with highest allocations are from tribal, development, social justice, rural development, housing and public health. Read more2nd Warm-up match: Rishabh Pant hits 22 runs off last over to reach hundred in 73 balls against Australia A - WATCH After a series of failures across formats, Indian wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant returned to form on Day 2 of India’s warm-up game at the Sydney Cricket Ground. He presented a strong case of selection ahead of the first Test against Australia with a cracking century off just 73 deliveries. Read moreOppo Reno 5 5G, Reno 5 Pro 5G launched, Reno 5 Pro+ 5G coming soonOppo Reno 5 5G starts at CNY 2,699 ( ₹30,400 approx) for the base model. It comes in three colour options of Aurora Blue, Moonlight Night and Starry Night. Oppo Reno 5 Pro 5G has a starting price of CNY 3,399 ( ₹38,200 approx) for the base model. It comes in the same colour options as the Reno 5. Read moreKapil Sharma apologises to wife Ginni Chatrath for working on wedding anniversary: ‘I have to earn to be able to buy a gift’Kapil Sharma and wife Ginni Chatrath are celebrating their second wedding anniversary on Saturday. The comedian, however, is working on his anniversary and has shared a sweet message for her, explaining the reason behind it. Read more Post on grandma writing down steps to change WhatsApp display picture leaves people emotionalA grandma is winning tons of love on Twitter thanks to a tweet about her posted by her granddaughter. Twitter user who goes by @extradecoction shared a heartwarming picture that shows a step by step note by her grandma on how to change WhatsApp display picture. The post, since being shared, has left people emotional. It has also prompted many to share equally heartening, if not more, stories about their grandparents. Read more Watch: ‘Events along LAC very disturbing…’: Jaishankar on border standoff with ChinaExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said India was being tested in the seven-month-long border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh and expressed confidence that the country will meet the national security challenge. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-puri-jagannath-temple-to-open-on-december-23-and-all-the-latest-news/story-W6uEUFrW5lRXSG3mu1NfyO.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Central agencies working to weaken Kerala govt’: CM Vijayan complains||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said he will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about central agencies’ bid to “weaken” his government and portray it in a bad light, adding that confidential reports of the accused in the gold smuggling case were getting leaked and opposition leaders were quoting from the same in their press briefings to attack the government. “It seems these agencies are working with an ulterior motive to target the government and weaken it. We will not allow them to have a field-day in the state,” said CM Vijayan in Kannur.“The Prime Minister is a constitutional position. He is the PM of the country, not a party. We hope he will respond positively,” the CM said, listing out how central agencies targeted political opponents in various states. He took names of many leaders like former union minister P Chidambaram, Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar, late Ahmed Patel, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and asked state Congress leaders whether they share the same perception in cases against these leaders also. Coming down heavily on the Centre, the CM said once leaders facing cases cross over to the BJP camp, charges against them disappear in no time. Elaborating his point, he took names of Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy, former Congress leader Narayan Rane and former Trinamool Congress leader Mukul Roy. “It was at my initiative a central agency probe was ordered in the smuggling case and we all welcomed it wholeheartedly. Now probe is not into the smuggling case but many other things,” the CM alleged, adding a section of media and opposition leaders were engaged in a slanderous game to weaken the government. He said voters will give a befitting reply to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-agencies-working-to-weaken-kerala-govt-cm-vijayan-complains/story-cnSBkAkwMB6htK4nsp4mqL.html
12-12-2020||India||J-K police bust inter-state racket, recover gold biscuits worth Rs 80 lakhs||With the arrest of four smugglers and recovery of nearly 1.5 kilograms of gold in Katra town, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday claimed it smashed an inter-state gold smuggling racket that was operating in three to four states.“On Friday, Reasi SSP Rashmi Wazir received information from reliable sources that few persons based in Delhi and Katra are running illegal business by bringing gold from Guwahati and thereafter making wrongful gains by selling it illegally,” said Katra SP Amit Bhasin.They were using three people as couriers for smuggling gold from Guwahati to other parts of India.“These people brought gold by illegal ways to sell it in Katra and other places to make wrongful gains. Acting on the tip-off, a police team conducted raids at various places in Katra and arrested four people from whom nearly 1.5 kilograms of gold was recovered,” Bhasin added.Also read: Bihar youth’s arduous journey from working at snack factory to becoming Army officerThe total market value of the seized gold was over Rs 80 lakhs.The officer refused to divulge the identity of the arrested accused saying, “doing so at this stage may hamper our investigations.”He informed that the seized gold was in the form of biscuits.“The racket was being run in three to four states,” he added.A case under sections 420, 109 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Katra police station.A senior police officer, however, identified the four accused as Amandeep Singh, son of Shamsher Singh of Durga Puri Haibowal, Ludhiana, presently putting up at Patel Nagar in New Delhi; Haresh Kumar, son of Hindosh Kumar of Simbli Tehsil in Jammu district; Rohit Kumar, son of Parshotam Kumar of Agarjitto in Katra, and Sunny Kumar, son of Nek Ram of Dhanas Tehsil in Udhampur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-police-bust-inter-state-racket-recover-gold-biscuits-worth-rs-80-lakhs/story-J7xqf3YfMFWtyTfkreLG2N.html
12-12-2020||India||Odisha attracted investments of over Rs 1 lakh cr during pandemic: CM Patnaik||Odisha has been able to attract new investments of over Rs 1 lakh crore across multiple sectors even during the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said on Saturday.Addressing FICCI’s Annual Convention, Patnaik said Odisha is fast emerging as a manufacturing hub of eastern India and listed a series of steps taken by his government to promote industries and investments across different sectors. He said Odisha has been recognised as an industry destination of choice over the years, was ranked number one in terms of attracting investments during April-September 2019, and poised to continue this leadership position.“I am happy to note that the investor sentiment towards Odisha is extremely encouraging. Even during the difficult COVID pandemic time, I am happy to inform you that Odisha has been able to attract new investments of over Rs 1 lakh crore across multiple sectors,” the chief minister said.Patnaik said the state has also developed a dedicated land bank with over one lakh acre of land available on the GIS based platform for easy site selection by the industries.He said in the recent past, new industrial projects were launched in diverse sectors ranging from healthcare, renewable energy, steel and aluminium to food processing.New industrial projects were launched in diverse sectors ranging from healthcare, renewable energy, steel and aluminium to food processing. The government is now targeting specific focus sectors including the ancillary and downstream to metal sectors, Patnaik stressed.“We are working for further value addition in major industrial regions such as Angul and Jharsuguda for aluminium downstream and Kalinga for steel downstream, while Paradip is being developed as a hub for chemicals and petrochemical industries,” he said.As part of the government’s initiative to reduce regulatory burden on industries, new end-to-end online systems for over 30 government-to-business services have been developed by various departments of the state, he said.To further ensure that the service delivery is prompt, the timeline for services has also been induced under the state’s Right to Public Services Act, Patnaik added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-attracted-investments-of-over-rs-1-lakh-cr-during-pandemic-cm-patnaik/story-Zl0DT39ggNuHdXjemd3TDP.html
12-12-2020||India||People in Kerala to get free Covid-19 vaccine, says chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan||The vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be provided free of cost to the people of Kerala, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Saturday. “The government will bear all expenses. We are ready once the Union health ministry gets us enough ampoules,” he said adding preference will be given to frontline health workers.The chief minister also said that the cases of the coronavirus disease are coming down and it was a big achievement to maintain low death rate in the state. It is below 0.5% against 1.3% of the national rate. Vijayan also urged people to exercise extreme caution and follow the Covid-19 protocol mandated by the government; otherwise, the situation in would worsen further, he warned.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe state, which was among the worst-affected states, has reported 664,000 infections and the number of people succumbing to the disease has reached 2,594. On Saturday, Kerala recorded 5,949 new Covid-19 cases, out of which as many as 47 were health workers, 83 had come from outside the state. While 5,173 others infected through contact and the source of infection of 646 people was not known. The number of fatalities in a day was at 32.Malappuram recorded the highest number of cases at 765, followed by Kozhikode 763 and Ernakulam 732. Kasaragod accounted for the lowest number of 60 cases on Saturday.The day also saw 5,268 people getting cured as the total recoveries rose to 6, 01,861 while the active cases stood at 60,029.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-to-be-provided-free-of-cost-in-kerala-says-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-BhqqqFe37nInXw2GDzspHI.html
12-12-2020||India||Article 370 allowed rampant corruption in J&K: Minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh Saturday said the now-scrapped Article 370 had paved the way for rampant corruption in Jammu and Kashmir as successive state governments used it to make their own anti-graft laws, customised allegedly for convenience.He said the setting up of the District Development Councils (DDC) will bring further accountability, transparency and outcome-oriented approach in the working of the administration in Jammu and Kashmir.“The Article 370 had paved the way for rampant corruption in Jammu and Kashmir because it gave the successive governments in the state the right to enact their own anti-graft laws which were inadequate and tailor-made for convenience,” he told an election rally in support of BJP candidates in the DDC polls.At the same time, Article 370 also gave the state rulers the prerogative not to allow the Centre’s Prevention of Corruption Act to be implemented in Jammu and Kashmir like the rest of the country, he said.Singh, the Union Minister for the Prime Minister’s Office, said the Prevention of Corruption Act was implemented in Jammu and Kashmir only after the abrogation of Article 370 and the state having turned into a Union Territory.The Article 370 was abrogated on August 5, 2019, and subsequently the erstwhile state was divided into two UTs -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.Singh, who hails from Jammu and Kashmir, said there was no effective curb on corruption in the past because the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir had its own anti-corruption law and probes into corruption cases carried on indefinitely, allowing the officials concerned to get superannuated, or making too late to bring them to book.“As a result, corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, both in lower as well as in higher offices, became a norm rather than an exception and the common impression was that anybody who was smart enough to get away with it, could also manage to go scot-free,” he said.With the implementation of the Prevention of Corruption Act in Jammu and Kashmir now, the minister said, now there are timelines fixed to dispose corruption cases and at the same time, not only the bribe-taker but also the bribe-giver is held guilty. Singh said that in the last one year, there is a visible change in governance and the good governance practices followed by the Centre are also being gradually implemented in Jammu and Kashmir, one after the other.“This has also led to a conspicuous change in the work culture in the government setup which was grossly lacking in the past,” he said. The minister said the setting up of DDCs will bring further accountability, transparency and outcome-oriented approach in the working of the government. “When the District Councillors and the District Council Chairman work in coordination with the District Deputy Commissioner and his administration, they will not only supplement each other’s efforts and initiatives, but also exercise the necessary checks and balances,” he said.Singh said DDCs will herald a new era of democratisation with accountability in the administration and, therefore, it is everyone’s responsibility to make this initiative successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/article-370-allowed-rampant-corruption-in-j-k-minister-jitendra-singh/story-Erf8f1FVePSjSWhu2SXwxN.html
12-12-2020||India||Jagannath temple to open its door to devotees from December 23||A little more than 9 months after the doors of the Jagannath temple in Puri town were shut to devotees due to Covid-19, the temple administration on Saturday decided to open the temple for devotees in a graded manner from December 23 onwards.Following recommendation of Chhatisa Nijog, the apex body of the Jagannath temple priests, the temple administration has decided to send a proposal to Odisha government next week recommending the re-opening of the 12th-century shrine. The temple doors have been shut since March 20.Chief administrator of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) Dr Krishan Kumar said the devotees of Puri would be allowed for 5 days in the first phase followed by people from the rest of the state.“Residents of Puri will be allowed to see the Lord till December 31. For all devotees, the temple is proposed to be thrown open from January 3 onwards. Covid-19 negative certificate will be mandatory for entry into the temple from January 3 and identity cards are must for the temple servitors and employees of the SJTA,” said Dr Kumar. A maximum of 5,000 devotees will be allowed to have darshan from January 3.Also read: Bihar youth’s arduous journey from working at snack factory to becoming Army officerHe said the SJTA will take necessary steps for sanitising all the four gates of the temple. Masks and sanitisers will be mandatory for the devotees coming to the temple for darshan of the deities. He urged people above 65 years of age and children not to visit the temple because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Unlike the previous years, the temple would remain shut on January 1 and 2 as the administration would not be able to handle the rush of the devotees.The opening of Jagannath temple is expected to set the stage for the opening of rest of the temples across the state next month. Over the last couple of months, priests across hundreds of temples have been protesting the closure of temple by beating gongs. Opposition BJP has been demanding the opening of temples, stressing that priests who depend on the donation of the devotees have been in a precarious state ever since the temples closed down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-to-open-its-door-to-devotees-from-december-23/story-dZfCwO47ptbiHDN5zP1A7H.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers’ group in support of new laws meet Agri minister, threatens to protest if repealed||Amid an ongoing protest against three farm laws, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday to extend their support to the new legislations and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed.The delegation, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash, submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded the government to continue with these legislations.“We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters after the meeting.  He also sought to know why the previous government did not implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission till 2014.“Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” he said.Claiming that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is no longer a peasant movement, the BKU leader said, “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws.” This was the second group of farmers from Haryana that met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7.No breakthrough has been achieved during the six rounds of talks between the Centre and the agitating farmers so far, as the farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three laws have been presented by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis (wholesale markets), leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The Centre has maintained that the MSP and the mandi system would continue and would rather be improved and strengthened further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-in-support-of-new-laws-meet-agri-minister-threatens-to-protest-if-repealed/story-QDUUi6NjjKqFwk13IsJTsL.html
12-12-2020||India||3-way race among BJP, BPF and UPPL to wrest control of Bodoland Territorial Council||The Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) was marginally ahead of United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in a three-way race to come to power in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam on Saturday. Counting of votes to the 40 seats in the council, which administers four districts Kokrajhar, Chirang, Udalguri and Baksa collectively called Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR), began at 8 am on Saturday and till 7:30 pm, the BPF candidates had won in 8 seats and were ahead in 9 others. Nine seats had been bagged by the UPPL and it was leading in 3 others. The BJP, which ran an aggressive campaign in the council polls for the first time, had won 7 seats and was leading in 3 others. Congress was leading in one seat. Voting for the BTC election had taken place in two phases on December 7 and December 10. The election is seen as a semi-final before the assembly polls due in the state in March-April next year. In 2015, the BPF had come to power for the third time in the BTC by winning 20 seats, Independent candidates had bagged 15 seats, All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) bagged 4 and BJP had won one seat. Also read: Farmers’ leaders to go on hunger strike on Dec 14 as protests intensifyWith no party looking to cross the halfway mark of 20 seats on its own, the BTC could witness a coalition rule for the first time. Since the BJP and the BPF ran a bitter campaign against each other, there are indications that the saffron party could tie-up with the UPPL to come to power. Polling for 40 seats in the council, which comes under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution, scheduled in April, was postponed due to Covid-19 and the area was placed under the Governor’s rule. Since its formation in 2003, the BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the BPF, a partner in the ruling coalition headed by the BJP with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between the BJP and the BPF started souring after the BTC was placed under Governor’s rule. Both parties contested the BTC polls separately. The BPF had fielded candidates in 37 seats while the BJP contested in 26 and supported Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from the BJP and the BPF, opposition Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, contested 20 seats. The UPPL contested all 40 seats and Gana Surakha Party (GSP) of Kokrajhar MP Nava Sarania fielded candidates in 35 seats. The BTC polls was the first election in Assam since the Covid-19 pandemic started and polling was conducted following all safety protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-way-race-among-bjp-bpf-and-uppl-to-wrest-control-of-bodoland-territorial-council/story-NNJMwZE9WoOAcEywLYIfWL.html
12-12-2020||India||Agriculture minister says ‘progressive’ Haryana farmers submitted memorandum backing new farm laws||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Saturday a group of “progressive farmers’ leaders” have submitted a memorandum supporting the three farm laws liberalising agricultural markets, which have triggered protests by agriculturists near the national capital’s borders and across the country. The farm minister’s comments came after his meeting with farmers’ leaders from Haryana at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi.“They also shared their experiences on how these laws are benefitting them,” Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers mostly from Punjab and Haryana have led the agitation since last month and have been protesting in and around the Capital.According to PTI, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met agriculture minister Tomar to extend their support to the new legislation and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed. The delegation was led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash and it submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded that the government must continue with these laws.“We will also protest if the government repeals the laws. We have given a memorandum to all districts,” Prakash told reporters after the meeting. “Everyone has a right to protest. They have, so do we. We are in support of the three laws, but this protest is being led by Leftists and those who are violent,” he said.Also read | Farmer agitation no longer remains farmers’ movement; infiltrated by Leftist, Maoist elements: Piyush GoyalPrakash also claimed that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is no longer a peasant movement. “It has taken a political colour. Farmers will get real freedom through these three laws,” he said.This was the second group of farmers from Haryana which met Tomar and extended support to the farm laws. The first group had met the minister on December 7.The leader of Sanyukta Kisan Andolan Kamal Preet Singh Pannu had earlier in the day that farmers’ leaders will go on hunger strike on December 14 at Delhi’s Singhu border, PTI reported. “If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready. But we will first discuss the repeal of the three legislation,” Pannu said demanding the complete withdrawal of the three laws. “On December 14, all farmer leaders will sit on a fast sharing same stage at Singhu border. We want government to take back three Farm bills, we’re not in favour of amendments,” he said.Also read | Pasta, pizza, ‘pinni’…Ludhiana villages spoil farmers for choiceTomar’s meeting with the farmers’ group came hours after Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala met agriculture minister Tomar and defence minister Rajnath Singh. The Jannayak Janta Party leader had said after the meetings that he discussed the matter with the Union ministers and expressed hope that a way will be found with mutual consent. Chautala also expressed hope that the final round of talks between the government and farmers’ unions over the farm laws will be held within the next 24 to 48 hours and they will reach a conclusion over the issue, according to ANI. “The way Centre is holding talks they also want a resolution of the issue. I am hopeful that in 24 to 48 hours final round of talks will be held between the central government and farmers’ leaders and will lead to a conclusive result,” Chautala said.“It is my responsibility as a representative of farmers to secure their rights. I discussed the matter with Union Ministers, I am hopeful that a way will be found with mutual consent and the standoff will be resolved. The Centre is positive,” he told ANI.The Centre and the agitating farmers have held at least six rounds of talks so far and no breakthrough has been so far. Farmers have stuck to their demand for a repeal of the laws, despite the government sending them a draft proposal to amend specific issues without abolishing the legislations.The three laws, the government has said, will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and scrap the mandis or wholesale markets, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has maintained the MSP scheme and the mandi system would continue and would rather be improved and strengthened further.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-minister-says-progressive-haryana-farmers-submitted-memorandum-backing-new-farm-laws/story-XiPJVe8Bo9FgmIxVKfipKK.html
12-12-2020||India||Most rape cases lodged after relationships go sour: Chhattisgarh women’s panel chief||Chhattisgarh’s women’s commission president Kiran Mayee Nayak said most rape cases are lodged by women after consensual relationships turn sour, triggering controversy and prompting chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to say that her comment must be on the basis of her experience and data.“In most cases, girls get into a consensual relationship, go for live-in, then lodge rape cases after relationships turn sour,” Nayak said on Friday, according to news agency ANI. “If a married man lures a girl into an affair, she must understand whether the man is lying to them and whether he will help them survive or not. If that is not the case, both of them, mostly the women, approach the police,” Nayak was quoted saying by ANI.Nayak’s remarks come after the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report on ‘Crime in India’, released on September 29, which painted a grim picture of Chhattisgarh. The NCRB report said that of the 1,036 women raped, 683 were between the ages of 18-30 and in 96% cases, the accused were known to the survivors. In 473 rape cases, the accused was a live-in partner.The NCRB report also made special mention of domestic violence in its report and said it was the reason behind most of the crimes against women. “Majority of cases under crime against women under IPC were registered under ‘cruelty by husband or his relatives’,” the report stated.Nayak, who is also a Congress party leader, said women must be careful. “I would like to request you to adjudge your relationship and status first. If you enter into any such relationship, the result will always be bad” Nayak told ANI.Nayak, whose Twitter bio describes her as a Reiki grandmaster and the former mayor of Raipur amongst other things, compared the women’s commission’s role in settling domestic disputes to that of a counsellor. “Our efforts through the commission are to ensure that we settle as many domestic disputes as we can. For this, we often scold women and men, and try to convince them, in a way its counselling,” she saidShe asked young adult women to not fall into the trappings of a moviesque romance as it has the potential to ruin their and their family’s lives. “These days, there is a new trend that people prefer, to get married off at the age of 18. After a few years, when the couple has kids, they both find it difficult to survive,” she added.Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel, on being asked about Nayak’s remarks, refused to comment but added they must have been made on the basis of her experience and data. “I would not like to make a comment on it. This is a constitutional post. If she has said anything then it must be on the basis of her experience and on the basis of the data.” he said to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-rape-cases-lodged-after-relationships-go-sour-chhattisgarh-women-s-panel-chief/story-2a2Y8gjCaLWeUVnfCEhjjN.html
12-12-2020||India||Against involuntary methods of family planning, Centre tells SC||The Central government has submitted before the Supreme Court that it is against the involuntary methods of family planning for population control and added that Family Welfare Programme in India is voluntary in nature.The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in its affidavit filed on December 7, said the Family Welfare Programme in India is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt the family planning methods, best suited to them, according to their choice, without any compulsion.The affidavit was filed on a petition moved by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay to control the population explosion in India by introducing a population control law.In fact, the government said 2001-2011 witnessed the sharpest decline in decadal growth rate among Indians in 100 years, the Centre said in its affidavit.It said India was a signatory to the Programme Of Action (POA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, which was unequivocally against coercion in family planning.It added that international experience shows that “any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions.” The government also explained that India had been witnessing a “constant decline” in the total fertility rate (TFR).The Central government referred to the Census statistics, according to which it said, “2001-2011 was the first decade in the last 100 years which had not only added lesser population as compared to the previous one, but also registered the sharpest decline in the decadal growth rate from 21.54 per cent in 1991-2001 to 17.64 per cent in 2001-2011”.The Total Fertility Rate, which was 3.2 at the time when National Population Policy 2000, was adopted has declined substantially to 2.2 as per the Sample Registration System of 2018.The government asserted that “the wanted fertility in India as per National Family Health Survey IV is only 1.8 as against the actual fertility of 2.2 prevailing at that time, indicating thereby that couples on an average do not want more than two children. Also, as many as 25 out of 36 States/UTs have already achieved the replacement level fertility of 2.1 or less.”It told the apex court that there is a National Health Policy (NHP) 2017, which provided for policy guidance to inform, clarify, strengthen and prioritise the role of the government in shaping health systems in all its dimensions. It added that the NHP sets out indicative, quantitative goals and objectives, which includes the achievement of TFR of 2.1 by 2025.The Centre also said public health is a state subject and it is of the view that the state must lead the process for health sector reforms in a suitable and sustainable manner to protect the common individual from health hazards.Earlier, the top court had sought Ministry’s response on the plea, which highlighted the problem of population explosion, terming the same as being more potent than a bomb explosion.“Population explosion is more dangerous than bomb explosion and without implementing effective population control measures, Healthy India, Literate India, Prosperous India, Resourceful India, Strong India, Secured India, Sensitive India, Clean India and Corruption and Crime-Free India campaign won’t succeed,” the plea said.The appeal was filed before the apex court after the Delhi High Court dismissed Upadhyay’s plea in September last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/against-involuntary-methods-of-family-planning-centre-tells-sc/story-8JoQb5AYrs3X5ti0R8TY1J.html
12-12-2020||India||United Airlines starts Delhi-Chicago daily flights||United Airlines inaugurated on Saturday a daily non-stop flight between Delhi and Chicago, according to a company statement. The airline will operate a Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft between the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi and its hometown hub at the O’Hare International Airport in Chicago. With the introduction of the service, United will operate four daily nonstop flights from India. “The airline additionally operates daily year-round services from Mumbai and New Delhi to New York/Newark, and from New Delhi to San Francisco,” the statement said.United also expects to introduce a new daily nonstop service between Bengaluru and San Francisco from May 8 next year, it said. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under the air bubble arrangements formed between India and around 22 countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/united-airlines-starts-delhi-chicago-daily-flights/story-wbsOygO9zmnkvmk4uq7IMJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Hopeful, Centre will talk to farmers in next 24 to 48 hours: Haryana deputy CM after meeting agriculture minister||Deputy chief minister of Haryana Dushyant Chautala met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday regarding the farm laws that have stirred protest across the country. During the meeting, Chautala asserted that minimum support price (MSP), among the key demands of agitating farmers against the farm laws, will be ensured to each farmer as long as they are a part of the state government.Chautala also said that he is hopeful that the next round of talks between the Centre and the farmers will be held “in the next 24 to 48 hours” and will lead to a conclusive result. “The way Centre is holding talks, they also want a resolution of the issue,” he also said, according to news agency ANI. “It’s my responsibility as a representative of farmers to secure their rights. I discussed the matter with Union ministers, I’m hopeful that a way will be found with mutual consent and the standoff will be resolved. The Centre is positive,” ANI quoted Chautala as saying.The meeting comes as farmers have intensified their agitation against the farm reforms enacted in September. On Saturday, farmers blocked Delhi-Agra and Jaipur highways and held demonstrations at various places.While the government has assured the farmers over MSP, the agitating farmers are demanding an act for the scheme instead of a “written guarantee,” promised by the Union agriculture minister earlier. “We want MSP of all our produce including potatoes, sugarcane, grains, vegetables and milk. We don’t want this guarantee in written form but we want a law for MSP now,” ANI quoted Dungar Singh, a farm leader from Uttar Pradesh, as saying.Meanwhile, farmers announced they will hold a hunger strike on December 14 as they gave a call for nationwide agitation. They also announced to take out a tractor march on Sunday from Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and said they will block the Jaipur-Delhi main road.The farmers are protesting the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hopeful-centre-will-talk-to-farmers-in-next-24-to-48-hours-haryana-deputy-cm-after-meeting-agriculture-minister/story-Dg1IGTQcJlEZJpHMQBDiIK.html
12-12-2020||India||Most workers at lunch, major tragedy averted at Hyderabad explosion site: TRS legislator||A legislator of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) said on Saturday there were around 40 workers in the chemical factory on the outskirts of Hyderabad, where a huge explosion was reported, but a major mishap was averted as most of them were in the canteen because of the lunch hour. The MLA from Patancheru slammed the factory management “for not taking safety measures.”Only 10 employees were working at Vindhya Organics in the industrial development area in Bollarum of Sangareddy district when the explosion took place in the afternoon and eight of them sustained injuries as they ran out of the unit when the fire broke out, news agency PTI quoted police as saying. The eight workers were being treated at a private hospital after the blast at Vindhya Organics, officials said. Rescue operations are still underway with four more fire tenders rushed to the spot, apart from the four already present, they added.The blast inside Vindhya Organics was supposedly due to the explosion of a reactor, divisional fire officer V Srinivas said. “A solvent was kept for some reaction after which it caught fire,” news agency ANI quoted the police as saying.In the afternoon, Srinivas had told reporters that the situation inside the factory couldn’t be ascertained as it was difficult to enter premises. “We are making attempts to go in while dousing fire gradually,” Srinivas had said.Officials also evacuated workers from adjacent factories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-workers-at-lunch-major-tragedy-averted-at-hyderabad-explosion-site-trs-legislator/story-KKkJtM8mvbKBlzKJpmafuK.html
12-12-2020||India||Ministers who called farmers Khalistani must apologise: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Attacking Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government regarding the ongoing deadlock with farmers over the three agriculture sector laws, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said all the ‘ministers’ who ‘defamed’ the protesting farmers by calling them ‘Khalistanis’ and ‘anti-national’ must apologise to them publicly.Speaking to media in Amritsar, Badal questioned why the Central government is showing ‘tyranny’ and not repealing the laws when the section of the society for whom the laws are made is not happy with them.“Centre is trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties. It is unfortunate that if one disagrees with them they call them anti-nationals. Ministers giving such statements must apologise publicly. We condemn Centre’s attitude and such statements,” said the SAD chief.“It is unfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices of the farmers, instead of listening to them. Farmers don’t want the farm laws. Why is Centre showing tyranny when the section of the society, for whom laws have been formed, doesn’t want it? I request the Prime Minister to listen to farmers,” he added.Badal said the farmers are not happy spending their nights in the streets in this fierce cold but are helpless, and added “it has been the policy of the central government that anyone who raises voice against them is defamed by being called anti-national.”The farmers’ agitation on the borders of Delhi, against the three farm laws passed by the Central government in the last monsoon session of Parliament, entered the 17th day today, with the farmers’ unions now threatening to block railway tracks.According to their earlier plan of blocking the Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Agra highway by December 12, more farmers are likely to join the protests on Friday. Police have stepped up vigil on the border areas to ensure the protesters cannot block highways.On Thursday, the Centre said channels for more talks are open. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar appealed to the protesters to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-who-called-farmers-khalistani-must-apologise-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-09E4j5vwixUqLB8yYhdOJL.html
12-12-2020||India||Why BJP believes there’s ‘opportunity to grow independently’ in Andhra||Bolstered by its success in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly seat and impressive show in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections in Telangana, the Bharatiya Janata Party has set its eyes on neighbouring Andhra Pradesh.The state executive committee meeting of the BJP held at Tirupati on Saturday set the tone for a frontal attack on the YSR Congress Party government in Andhra Pradesh led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy.“We shall form the next government in Andhra Pradesh. The present YSRCP government has completely ruined the state’s economy and development has come to a grinding halt,” senior BJP leader and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh said, addressing party functionaries of the state through virtual mode.The temple town was chosen as the venue for the state executive committee meeting, keeping in mind the by-elections to Tirupati Lok Sabha seat, which has fallen vacant due to the sudden demise of YSRCP MP Balli Durgaprasada Rao due to Covid-19. The BJP has been consistently raising the issues concerning the Tirumala temple, including attempts to dispose of temple properties and diversion of TTD funds for other activities, etc.Raman Singh alleged that the YSRCP government had been hijacking the centrally funded schemes and claiming them as its own. “The state government is just renaming the central schemes and claiming credit for the same,” he said.He lashed out at the YSRCP for blaming it on the Centre for non-completion of projects like Polavaram, besides raking up non-issues like special category status to AP.Union minister and BJP in-charge of Andhra affairs V Muralidharan and several senior party leaders addressed the state executive committee meeting of the party at Tirupati.The state executive committee of the BJP discussed the strategy to be adopted by the party in the by-elections to Tirupati seat. The party also organised a Shobha Yatra in Tirupati town in the evening to put up a big show.A senior BJP leader said there was a clear political vacuum in Andhra Pradesh due to weakening of the Telugu Desam Party and the BJP could easily fill it and emerge as a potential force by 2024. “Hitherto, we had no opportunity to grow as a force in AP, as we had an alliance with TDP in 1999 and 2014. Now, we have a chance to grow independently,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bjp-believes-there-s-opportunity-to-grow-independently-in-andhra/story-a2SRIbka5a42dNV91CmuRL.html
12-12-2020||India||New agri law used to compel firm to abide by contract, says MP govt||The administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district ordered a firm to buy rice at a higher price as per an agreement by invoking the new law on contract farming, the government said on Saturday.Farmers are protesting against the three new farm laws, including the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, on Delhi’s borders.A release from the MP Public Relations Department said that following complaints, a private firm was directed to procure rice on the contract prices under the new law.Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Pipariya, Nitin Tale said that despite the contract with famrers signed on June 3, 2020, the firm did not buy the produce as per the sale price of December 9 which was Rs 3,000 per quintal.Farmers Pushpraj Patel and Brajesh Patel of Bhokhdi village made a complaint to the SDM on December 10. The district administration constituted a conciliation board under the new law, and the company agreed to purchase rice at the higer rate, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-agri-law-used-to-compel-firm-to-abide-by-contract-says-mp-govt/story-0ZkvWhQDo1XO9cosIMOCdM.html
12-12-2020||India||‘It’s thrilling to play what you are not!’||Lucknow-born actor Ariah Agarwal shifted to Mumbai with her parents as a child but her work kept her connection with the city intact. The major projects she has done so far all have a strong Uttar Pradesh connect. “In my very first show ‘Kya Haal Mr Panchal’ I played a Meerut girl. In ‘Kasautii Zindagii Kay-2’ I played an NRI who had a UP origin. For Box Cricket League I was playing for Azamgarh Royals and my ongoing show ‘Prem Bandhan’ is again an UP-Bihar based show. Besides, I have styled for movie ‘Guns of Banaras’ shot in Varanasi. I guess maybe my looks, body language and accent goes well with portraying an UPite,” said the young actor. Talking about her UP connect Ariah said, “My mother (Beena Agarwal) hails from the state capital and used to work in Doordarshan as a producer. My parents were working in Luknow and then we shifted to Mumbai where I completed my studies. My relatives still live here and we come down frequently.” Ariah switched from the field of fashion to acting. “After my course in fashion designing from Singapore, I joined Bollywood as a stylist and did lot of films, ads and web content. I was styling for a TV show for the first time where I was asked to audition. And luckily got the show ‘…Mr Panchal’.” In her current show, Ariah plays a negative role for the first time. “It’s thrilling to play what you are not. Playing a negative role is challenging and fun.” Her elder brother Ayush Agarwal is an actor-producer and has played Mohit in ‘Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai.’ He has worked in a couple of films too. “He too was surprised when I cleared the audition and started shooting in a week. Probably, my working as a stylist in the industry helped me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-thrilling-to-play-what-you-are-not/story-o5AjZXGCpb34E5ekWCB8bO.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Violence against women has intensified over the years’||Known for playing strong women characters on TV, the Banarasi ‘bahu’ in real life, actor Neha Marda enjoys balancing her personal and professional life well. “I want the best of both worlds. I can’t give up on life for career! Each has its own importance, so I have been choosy in taking up projects that demand leaving home and family for a long time,” said the ‘Balika Vadhu’ actor. Talking about her journey, Neha said, “My early days were like that of any other Marwari family girl but learning classical Indian dance changed me a lot in terms of getting right exposure. I enrolled for ‘Boogie Woogie’ from my hometown Kolkata and won three seasons of the dance show till I was banned to participate (laughs). Then, I got a show where my acting skills were bashed in media and I cried over it for months. My mother gave me all strength to stand up again and resume work.” Neha has played strong women characters throughout her career. “It was never a planned move to take up shows like ‘Balika…’ or ‘Doli Armaano Ki’ where women characters were seen taking a stand and fighting for their rights. Thankfully, these shows worked brilliantly but the sad part is that the condition of young women in our society is no good and violence against them has intensified over the years,” she said.Neha has been married over eight years and visits Varanasi-based in-laws frequently. “I love my spiritual connect with the city. I have got so much love and affection there that now, I feel, I wholly belong to Benaras,” said Neha who will next be seen in the show ‘Kyun Rishton Main Katti Batti’ playing strong-willed mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/violence-against-women-has-intensified-over-the-years/story-WmdA9iryozct4Wk2vA1uzN.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Sanitise power corridors of intruders’: West Bengal governor appeals ahead of 2021 polls||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday assured the people of free, fair and violence-free polls in the state ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held next year and made an appeal to “sanitise power corridors of intruders”.“Free, fair and violence-free election is my assurance to the people of West Bengal as they are entitled to it. We must work for it. The real stakeholder is the voter and they’ll contribute to it,” Dhankhar said, according to news agency ANI. In an apparent swipe at the ruling Trinamool Congress, Dhankhar also said, “I am concerned when unauthorised people take control of political power without legal authority. It is then I make an appeal, sanitise power corridors of intruders. Otherwise, whoever does politics, is their lookout, not mine.”On Friday, Dhankhar had submitted a report to the Centre over the “extremely disturbing developments that do not augur well for democratic values.” He alleged that violators of law in the state have the protection of police and administration.The law-and-order situation in the state has been a matter of concern for quite some time and the subject has come to spotlight again following an attack on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) convoy that included the party’s national president JP Nadda, who was on a two-day visit to the state in view of the upcoming assembly elections.The BJP has blamed chief minister Mamata Banerjee led-TMC for the attack on its convoy in South 24 Parganas district on Thursday. Several BJP workers and frontline leaders sustained injuries, the party also alleged.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) later summoned the state’s chief secretary and police chief to New Delhi on Monday over the law-and-order situation in the state. However, the ministry was informed about the top bureaucrats’ refusal to appear before it through a letter.Earlier on Saturday, MHA also called three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers responsible for Nadda’s security back on central deputation from West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanitise-power-corridors-of-intruders-west-bengal-governor-appeals-ahead-of-2021-polls/story-gFagNmt298OVawIWcmmMqL.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Like protests in Delhi’: Amaravati farmers’ plan against 3-capital move||Inspired by tens of thousands of farmers gathered at several points on Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh protesting against the three agricultural marketing reform laws, the farmers of Amaravati, the present capital city of Andhra Pradesh, are planning to intensify their agitation against three-capital plan of the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Starting Saturday, the farmers, under the umbrella of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi joint action committee, launched a six-day long agitation, which would culminate in a massive public meeting on December 17 at Uddandarayunipalem village, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid foundation stone for Amaravati on October 22, 2015. The public meeting marks the completion of one-year of agitation by Amaravati farmers, as it was on this day last year that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced the formation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh in the state assembly. “After the public meeting, we shall come out with a concrete action plan to mount pressure on the Jagan government to drop the three-capital plan,” JAC convenor A Siva Reddy told Hindustan Times. Reddy hinted that the farmers of Amaravati would take out rallies and block the national highways. “Our movement will be on the lines of ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi. How we shall go about it shall be decided after the December 17 meeting,” he said. On Saturday, more than 5,000 farmers took out a silent padayatra (foot march) from Shubham Function Hall to Dr BR Ambedkar statue in Guntur town highlighting their demand for retention of Amaravati as the state capital. On December 14, the JAC would hold a “Kisan Sammelan,” where the farmers would come out with a charter of demands. This would be followed by another silent padayatra in Vijayawada city on December 15. “It is a do-or-die battle for us. In the last one year, the Jagan government has used all tactics to crush the Amaravati protection movement. Hundreds of farmers were booked in false cases, arrested, hand-cuffed and physically assaulted. What is worse, the government itself is instigating counter-agitation by paid artists from other regions in support of three capitals,” the JAC leader said. Several opposition parties, including Telugu Desam Party, the Congress, Jana Sena, CPI and CPI (M) have extended their support to the week-long agitation of the Amaravati farmers. TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu called upon the party cadre to take part in the week-long agitation of farmers. “They have sacrificed 34,000 acres of land for the construction of a world-class capital city at Amaravati. Their sacrifices should not go to waste,” Naidu said. He asked the TDP cadres to explain to the people how the YSRCP government had ruined Amaravati project and stalled the development completely. “We shall stand by the farmers who are putting up a spirited fight for the capital,” he said. Meanwhile, the state high court has been continuously hearing over 90 petitions filed by JAC and other individuals challenging the legislations enacted by the state government to abolish AP Capital Region Development Authority and formation of three capitals. “The hearings are expected to be completed in January and we are hopeful of getting a favourable judgment by then. Under any circumstances, we shall fight till the end to see that Amaravati is retained as the capital of Andhra Pradesh,” the JAC convenor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-protests-in-delhi-amaravati-farmers-plan-against-3-capital-move/story-snkcMqV0OZ3z7TnQa4G77L.html
12-12-2020||India||Not accountable to home minister: TMC hits out on summons over JP Nadda’s convoy attack||Senior Trinamool Congress lawmaker Kalyan Banerjee wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday, saying that West Bengal’s chief secretary and director-general of police were summoned to Delhi over the attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy with “political motive”, asserting that law and order is a state subject.Banerjee, the chief whip of the TMC in the Lok Sabha, alleged that the Centre was resorting to coercive means to intimidate the state administration, and the top officials were summoned at the instance of the Union Home Minister.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, said that everyone saw how Nadda’s convoy was attacked by alleged TMC workers on December 10 and Banerjee’s letter to Bhalla has “little merit”.“We want to inform you that law and order is within the domain of the state under 7th Schedule of the State list.... How in respect of the law and order situation you can call both the officers for any sorts of discussion?” the TMC MP said in the letter.“It appears that with a political motive and at the instance of your minister, who is a political person belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party, you have issued the said letter.You are trying to coerce the officers of West Bengal with political vindictiveness. It appears you are interfering with the federal structure,” Banerjee added.He said that in respect of law and order, the state government is accountable to the legislative assembly “but not to you or to your home minister”.The TMC leader also claimed that a person, who is a convict in a case and named in 59 other criminal cases, was in the convoy of Nadda on December 10 and “made provocative gestures” to the TMC supporters standing on the roadside.“Laws have been thrown out in river by your action at the instance of Shri Amit Shah, BJP leader and Union Home Minister,” the lawmaker said, adding that indirect attempts were being made to impose emergency in West Bengal.Banerjee said that with Parliament not in session, he was voicing strong opposition to the move by the Centre through the letter on behalf of his party.In response to the letter, Vijayvargiya said, “Everyone saw what happened on December 10, how the convoy was attacked by TMC men.” “There is little merit in Kalyan Banerjee’s letter.His comments don’t have any significance to us,” the BJP’s Bengal minder told reporters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district.The MHA had on Friday summoned Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra asking them to present themselves on December 14 for an explanation on the law and order situation in the state, following Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s report on the attack on Nadda’s convoy by alleged supporters of the ruling TMC in South 24 Parganas district on December 10.The chief secretary wrote to the Union home secretary, saying that he has been directed to request to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in the meeting convened on December 14.Nadda’s convoy was pelted with stones by alleged TMC activists when he was going to attend a party programme at Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency on December 10.Though Nadda, who was in a bullet-proof vehicle, was unharmed, several BJP leaders including Vijayvargiya Vijayvargiya suffered injuries in the attack, the party claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-accountable-to-home-minister-tmc-hits-out-on-summons-over-nadda-s-convoy-attack/story-E9kqnjIMmwuJMFuY1ZSFkL.html
12-12-2020||India||India’s active Covid cases drop below 3,60,000. Lowest in 146 days||India’s Covid-19 recoveries have outnumbered new cases over the past fortnight, which has led to the number of patients with current infection dropping below 3,60,000 as on Friday, according to data from the ministry of health. This is the lowest number of active cases in 146 days since July 17, when just over 359,000 active cases were recorded. The decline is being mimicked by the six states that have been contributing the highest number of cases to the country’s total. Maharashtra, which had the highest burden of the disease, also showed the highest decline in the number of daily cases being reported. The seven-day rolling average of new cases reported reduced from 21,982 in mid-September to 4,596 as on December 10. Delhi, on the other hand, saw an increase from 4,156 cases in mid-September to a peak in November and then a decline to a seven-day rolling average of 3,036 new cases a day as on December 10. Not only has there been a decline in the number of cases, the number of deaths due to the viral infection across the country has been fewer than 500 for seven days in a row. At its peak, the total number of deaths being reported across India in a day had touched over 1,200 deaths in September. There were 442 deaths due to the infection on Friday, with 78% of these deaths being reported from 10 states and union territories. Maharashtra accounted for almost 20% of the total, with 87 deaths reported on Friday. This was followed by Delhi with 60 deaths and West Bengal with 50 deaths. The data from the health ministry also showed that only 10 states and union territories recorded 74% of the new cases reported on Friday. Kerala had the highest number of cases with 4,748, followed by West Bengal with 2873 cases and Maharashtra with 2,778 cases. “The number of cases is on the decline across the country. However, no one can say whether there would be another peak in cases or not; we still do not know everything about Sars-CoV-2. We do not know whether herd immunity through natural infection works,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at Indian Council of Medical Research. “Countries like Spain, where it felt like almost everyone had been exposed to the infection, still had another peak of the infection. From a study in Iceland, we know that the antibodies reduce and become undetectable over time. Only after the vaccine becomes available will the virus start behaving in a predictable pattern,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-covid-cases-drop-below-3-60-000-lowest-in-150-days/story-QTjbpZtkVSCxasV0vutoTN.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers’ leaders to go on hunger strike on Dec 14 at Delhi’s Singhu border, says union member||All farmers’ leaders will go on hunger strike on December 14 at Delhi’s Singhu border as the protests against the farm laws intensified, news agency PTI reported on Saturday citing a union member as saying. Demanding the complete withdrawal of the three laws, the farmers’ leader said, “If the government wants to hold talks, we are ready. But we will first discuss the repeal of the three legislation.”“On December 14, all farmer leaders will sit on a fast sharing same stage at Singhu border. We want government to take back three Farm bills, we’re not in favour of amendments,” said Kamal Preet Singh Pannu, leader of Sanyukta Kisan Andolan.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar meets leaders from Haryana“Centre wants to thwart our movement, but we will not allow this” Pannu also said as farmers vowed to keep protest against agriculture laws “peaceful”.The farmers also announced to take out a tractor march on Sunday. The march will begin at 11am tomorrow from Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and will block Jaipur-Delhi main road, Pannu also said.He also said that farmers from other parts of the country are also on their way to join the protesters here and they will take the agitation to the next level in the coming days.Also Read | ‘Like protests in Delhi’: Amaravati farmers’ plan against 3-capital moveThe government on Friday asked the protesting farmers to be vigilant against their platform being misused, saying some “antisocial” as well as “Leftist and Maoist” elements were conspiring to spoil the atmosphere of the agitation.Watch | ‘Farm reforms to provide new markets, benefits’: PM Modi assures farmers Farmers are agitating for 17 days now against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. Describing the laws as “anti-farmer”, the agitators fear that latest legislation will leave them at the mercy of the big corporates as it does not promise minimum support price.Earlier this week, the government sent a draft proposal of reforms that it is planning to incorporate in the laws. However, the protesting farmers at the Singhu border, the epicentre of the demonstration, rejected the proposal and remained firm on the demand for complete withdrawal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-leaders-say-all-farmers-to-go-on-hunger-strike-at-delhi-s-singhu-border-during-nationwide-strike-on-dec-14/story-Z1MN41t19QRfRN77UB6VsM.html
12-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC issues notice to Nagaland government on ‘illegal taxation’||The Kohima Bench of Gauhati High Court has served notice to the government of Nagaland on Friday after admitting a public interest litigation (PIL) regarding alleged rampant collection of taxes in Nagaland, filed by three social organizations - Against Corruption and Unabated Taxation (ACAUT) Nagaland, Public Action Committee (PAC) and Business Association of Nagaland (BAN).The state government, represented by the chief secretary, chairperson of Central Board of Indirect Taxes (Government of India), commissioner and secretary for Municipal Affairs, commissioner Nagaland, commissioner and deputy commissioner of taxes, administrators of Kohima and Dimapur municipal councils and the director-general of police (DGP) Nagaland were named as respondents in the PIL. The PIL, filed under Article 226, seeks the court’s intervention to pass necessary directives with regard to “illegal taxation” collected by various government departments, Naga political groups etc. The petition mentioned that a representation dated November 25, 2020, was sent to the respondents for necessary action, but till date, no action was taken to resolve the public grievances highlighted in the representation.The petitioners maintained they were not challenging the Goods & Services Tax or any other tax imposed legally in accordance with the provisions of the constitution. However, they stated the menace of “illegal taxation” prevailing in the state was creating fear and resentment amongst the business community and the public, thus violating the fundamental rights of the people to live with dignity, to live without fear, freedom to profess any profession and the right to equality and equal protection of law guaranteed by the constitution as well as by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.Also read: On Ladakh standoff with China, Jaishankar says ‘India being tested’On Friday, a two-judge bench of the Gauhati High Court in an order served notices on the respondents, returnable within five weeks. While the senior government advocate accepted the notice on behalf of all the respondents, the petitioners were asked to take steps to serve notice to the Central Board of Indirect Taxes within three days.Friday being the last working day of the court, the matter is to be listed again after the winter vacation.When contacted, consumer rights activist and ACAUT legal cell convener, advocate Kezhokhoto Savi said the three organizations had filed the PIL due to rampant taxation by both government and non-governmental bodies.“For example, there is a standing government order on closure of all tax booths at check gates since 2017, but unauthorised tax collections are still continuing in those places,” Savi said. With the matter being listed for further hearing, he was hopeful for a positive outcome which would help the public at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-issues-notice-to-nagaland-government-on-illegal-taxation/story-gr5K9BRQ2nHHGvxLRa988I.html
12-12-2020||India||On Ladakh standoff with China, Jaishankar says ‘India being tested, will meet national security challenge’||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday India was being tested and that he was confident that it would meet the national security challenge along the contested border amid the stalemate with China over the eastern sector of Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC)“We are being tested. I have every confidence we will rise to the occasion and meet the national security challenge. But beyond that, at this time, I would really frankly keep my own counsel,” the Union minister said during an interactive session at the annual general meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).Also Watch | ‘Events along LAC very disturbing…’: Jaishankar on border standoff with China Jaishankar called the events along the LAC very disturbing that have raised some very “basic concerns’’, adding “what has happened in eastern Ladakh was not actually in China’s interest as it has significantly impacted public sentiment in India.”Recalling the ties between India and China when he was younger and how the relationship has evolved over the years, Jaishankar said, “Professionally, I have seen the evolution of how the Indian public feels about China over the last many decades and I am old enough to remember much more difficult days, especially in my childhood and in my teens,” he said.”The minister expressed concern over the future of bilateral ties between the two countries and said the events of this year have not helped at all. “In fact, I think the real danger is that the goodwill which was so carefully developed will dissipate,” he added.When asked about when India and China are likely to arrive at a resolution, Jaishankar said, “I would not go into the prediction zone at all whether it is going to be easy or not, and what will be the timelines and so on.”For almost eight months now, the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense border standoff in the Ladakh region with no breakthrough yet despite multiple rounds of discussions between top authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-ladakh-standoff-with-china-jaishankar-says-india-being-tested-will-meet-national-security-challenge/story-4pIZlEnWfeYiBloLIt4e3O.html
12-12-2020||India||Rajinikanth celebrates birthday, leaders, celebs extend wishes||Actor Rajinikanth turned 70 on Saturday, receiving wishes from leaders cutting across political lines including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin and a host of celebrities from the film fraternity, industrialists, and cricketers shared their photos with the star, who is set to launch his political party in January ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in early 2021. All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) party coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam wished Rajinikanth a day earlier on Friday evening. Following Rajinikanth’s announcement of a political foray, Panneerselvam had said that there are possibilities of an alliance, but AIADMK leaders quickly distanced themselves from his comment, saying that it was his personal opinion. Several fans gathered in front of the actor’s house in Chennai dressing up as Rajinikanth lookalikes and wearing shirts with his image. A political extension of his fan club, Rajini Makkal Mandram, which engages in party work, will partake in charity work on his birthday as they do annually.Rajinikanth’s political debut is set to bring a new dimension into Tamil Nadu’s politics which has been dominated by the DMK and the AIADMK. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is playing all its cards to make its presence felt in the state where it is an AIADMK ally and has favoured Rajinikanth. Also in the fray is Rajinikanth’s contemporary Kamal Haasan, whose Makkal Needhi Maiam comes with an experience of contesting the 2019 parliamentary elections. In the last three days, Rajinikanth held consultations with Tamilaruvi Manian, the supervisor for the yet to be launched party, and R Arjunamurthy, who was made party coordinator after he recently quit the BJP.“We discussed how to strengthen the party at the ground level,” said Manian. Rajinikanth will leave for Hyderabad where shooting resumes on December 15 for his upcoming film “Annatthe”, produced by Karunanidhi’s grandnephew Kalanidhi Maran. “I’ve made a commitment and I’ve 40% shooting left to be completed,” Rajinikanth had said earlier. He will return to the city to announce on December 31 the date of his party’s launch. The Tamil actor’s cult following transcends borders with a fan base across the world who have waited for him to make the political plunge for decades. The actor has now confirmed that his party will contest in all 234 seats in Tamil Nadu’s assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-celebrates-birthday-leaders-celebs-extend-wishes/story-k7ufYDHYQqv6QeUxjVjj1J.html
12-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: Piyush Goyal hails startups as the backbone of new India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Startups are going to be backbone of new India: Piyush GoyalStartups are going to be the backbone of the new India and the ecosystem of startups in the country is encouraging innovation, promoting and strengthening new young entrepreneurs, businesses with new ideas and ways of doing business, Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Read MoreCentre calls 3 cops responsible for Nadda’s security back on central deputation from BengalThe Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday called three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers responsible for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s security back on central deputation from West Bengal, officials said. Read MorePawar’s detractors in Congress conspired twice to deny him PM’s chair: PatelNCP chief Sharad Pawar had two opportunities to become the Prime Minister of India but his detractors in the Congress party denied him the same, NCP leader Praful Patel has written in an article on the occasion of the 80th birthday of the NCP chief. Read MoreAAP to protest outside homes of Delhi L-G, Amit Shah tomorrow over alleged MCD scamThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday announced it will stage a sit-in against the alleged misappropriation of funds of more than Rs 2,400 crore in the north Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD). Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘I’d pay to watch him’ - Brian Lara heaps praise on India star ahead of Australia TestsVirat Kohli, Cheteshwar Pujara, Jasprit Bumrah, Ravichandran Ashwin, Steve Smith, Marnus Labuschagne, Pat Cummins, Nathan Lyon – It’s a tough job to find a more exciting pool of talent . Read More NASA shares new, stunning pictures of universe for Hubble Space Telescope’s 30th birthdayGiving someone a present on their birthday is quite a common and kind practice. Yet, the space agency, NASA has turned the tables. Read MoreSunny Leone reacts to Bihar student claiming he is her and Emraan Hashmi’s son: ‘Way to dream big’Sunny Leone reacted to a college student from Bihar naming her as his mother and Emraan Hashmi as his father in his admit card. Read MoreMilind Soman sets another fitness-travel goal with his bare-torso headstand in Kanchenjunga’s backdropWe have only one heart and we wonder how many times Milind Soman is going to win it as the supermodel’s latest shirtless pictures and videos left netizens drooling. Read More‘Farm reforms to provide new markets, benefits’: PM Modi assures farmersAmid ongoing protests, Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured them that his government was committed to the welfare of farmers and that the farm reforms would open up new avenues for them. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-piyush-goyal-hails-startups-as-the-backbone-of-new-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wjg6YSs1dhtOGHzTMYJGHP.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmer agitation no longer remains farmers’ movement; infiltrated by Leftist, Maoist elements: Piyush Goyal||As the farmers’ protest against new farm laws entered its 17th day, Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said the agitation no longer remains a farmers’ movement as it has been “infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements” demanding the release of those put behind bars for “anti-national activities”. This, he said, was clearly to derail agriculture reforms brought by the government. Goyal, however, did not say if the government had or is planning to take any action against any person belonging to banned outfits seen at the protests. “We now realise that the so-called farmer agitation hardly remains a farmers’ agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national (and) who have been put behind bars for illegal activities,” Goyal, the Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry and Food and Consumers Affairs, said at FICCI’s annual meeting.Also Read | Farmers’ stir: Forces deployed to deal with anti-social elements, says UP ADGThe demands being raised on a farmers’ platform to release so-called intellectuals and poets clearly demonstrate that the effort to derail farm law improvements is probably in the hands of certain elements who are not good for India, he said. “I would urge all well-meaning business leaders and all well-meaning intellectuals who are involved with Ficci, who are on this webcast, to talk about the benefits of these farm laws, to understand the law. Should you have any apprehension, please talk to us,” Goyal said. The minister assured that these laws are for the benefit of nearly 100 million farmers across the country. He said this is a government that has been committed to farmer welfare, which has almost doubled procurement under minimum support price or MSP, which is “wrongly sought to be portrayed as being under danger”. “This is a government that has ensured that farmers get 50 per cent over their cost of production. “This is a government that has increased the agricultural budget nearly six times, never before increased to today nearly USD 20 billion, Rs 1.34 lakh crore invested in the agricultural sector,” said the minister. Goyal urged industry leaders to educate the farmers in their sphere of influence. He urged them to “explain the benefits, explain how these laws without...in any way touching the past systems, open up new opportunities to do trade and commerce and business for our farmers so that they can go in for more investment”.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders closed as stir intensifies Explain them how these reforms will spur investment in rural India, there will be R&D, more opportunities for value addition and, therefore, farmers can increase their income, Goyal urged industry leaders. Responding to Goyal’s comments, Former Ficci president and Vice-Chairman of Bharti Enterprises Rajan Bharti Mittal said, “Clearly, you can see when you do the tough reforms like the farm bills, please don’t step back. The industry will back you up.” Besides, talking about reducing compliance burdens, Goyal said efforts were on to create the first genuine single-window system in terms of compliances, ease of approval process. “We intend to come up with a much easier process to meet with compliances, while simultaneously working across ministries to see if we can reduce the burden of compliances,” he added. Speaking about the proposed Brand India initiative, the minister said it is an idea where the government and the industry will partner with each other and develop both on the Make in India side and overall Brand India side. “We are also looking at branding India. It is time now that India demonstrates to the world its leadership position and commitment of quality,” said the minister. He observed that under the Brand India initiative, consumers both in India and internationally will be educated about products which are made in India. “We are pushing all industries to certify the Make in India products,” Goyal added. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked tirelessly and inspired the nation with his vision, simplicity and courage to think beyond the past limitations and willingness to embrace change. The minister said the government will identify areas where the country has competitive and comparative advantages, where we can become global players and contribute to global trade in a bigger way. Observing that the tyre and rubber industry can become a great business leader in the years to come, he said the Centre will encourage rubber plantation through the support of private investment and give adequate support to the tyre industry so that it can grow and flourish. “We have identified another 24 sectors on which work is going on by industry leaders who are working together to come up with actionable agenda to add nearly 200 lakh crores worth of manufacturing in India in the next 10 years,” Goyal said. Describing start-ups as the backbone of the New India, Goyal said start-ups and their ecosystem are encouraging innovation and promoting young entrepreneurs. He urged the industry to support start-ups by providing them financial support, hand-holding, opportunities and mentorship. Referring to Aatmanirbhar Bharat, he emphasised that “we are not at all suggesting that we are anti-imports”, and that it is about India improving its quality and scale of production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-agitation-no-longer-remains-farmers-movement-infiltrated-by-leftist-maoist-elements-piyush-goyal/story-d5nuSF9TCps1ayKAFlM0nI.html
12-12-2020||India||China faces ‘real danger’ of losing goodwill created by decades of good ties: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Saturday refused to set a timeframe for resolving the border standoff in the Ladakh sector but said China faces the “real danger” of losing the goodwill created by positive relations with India in recent decades. Jaishankar’s remarks, made during an online interaction organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), came a day after the external affairs ministry blamed China for tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and called on the Chinese side to deliver on promises about abiding by border agreements and settling the boundary issue through talks. “I wouldn’t get into the prediction zone at all, whether it is going to be easy or not, and what will be the timelines and so on,” he said in response to a question on whether India is in for the long haul in the border standoff or a breakthrough is expected. Jaishankar described this year’s events along the LAC as “very disturbing”, and said they had raised “very basic concerns”. These events occurred because China “has not abided by agreements that we have had with them about respecting and observing the LAC and not bringing forces to the LAC”, he said. He added, “I think a lot of work had gone into the relationship on both sides. And I don’t believe the events of this year have helped at all. In fact, I think the real danger is that the goodwill, which was so carefully developed, will dissipate.” Jaishankar likened China’s actions to a “very substantial” violation of the terms of a contract, and said such moves were not “in the interests of China, because what it has done...has significantly impacted public sentiment”. Acknowledging that India is being “tested” by events along the LAC, he said: “I have every confidence that we will rise to the occasion, we will meet that national security challenge. But beyond that at this time, I would really keep my own counsel.” On Wednesday, Jaishankar had said that China has offered “five differing explanations” for deploying thousands of soldiers on the LAC and pushing bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever. A day later, China’s foreign ministry said responsibility for the situation “totally lies with the Indian side” but this was rejected by the external affairs ministry. The two countries haven’t been able to push ahead with disengagement at friction points on the LAC despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, and tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have dug in for the winter in Ladakh sector. Asked whether India’s relations with the US would change under the Joe Biden administration, Jaishankar said: “Today the relationship is at such a different level, that the only place for it to go is up.” Much will depend on where India stands in the US’s priorities such as security and trade, but New Delhi is now doing more on global issues and challenges such as climate change, he said. Talking about India’s efforts to reach a trade deal with the Donald Trump administration, Jaishankar said there were “fairly serious negotiations” between the two sides on resolving outstanding trade issues and differences. “For a variety of reasons, [the US] didn’t close it out. I can tell you on our side, we were dead serious. We wanted to deal with those issues because we thought there was something much bigger that was in store for the relationship,” he added. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, distinguished fellow for foreign policy studies at Gateway House, said Jaishankar’s remarks about not predicting the resolution of the standoff mirrored recent comments by defence minister Rajnath Singh. “The big question for Indian diplomacy in 2021 is what path the relationship with China will take. Over the next six months, will it be status quo on the LAC or will there be a functional resolution? Clearly, no one is betting on things going back to where they were in April 2020,” he said. “In Delhi’s view, it will all depend on how Beijing takes things forward,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-faces-real-danger-of-losing-goodwill-created-by-decades-of-good-ties-jaishankar/story-45GSuHU540d6W9Npm0hlpK.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir: Forces deployed to deal with anti-social elements, says UP ADG||Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG) of Law and Order in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday assured that adequate security arrangements have been made to deal with anti-social elements amid farmers’ protest. “We have deployed forces to check that no anti-social elements or miscreants join the protest. We are taking measures to see that public movement is not affected. We are ensuring that anti-social elements, who are trying to create trouble, are being dealt with,” said ADG Kumar told ANI.Further talking about the ongoing protest, the UP ADG said, “...So far the farmers’ protest has remained mainly peaceful. Even during the Bharat Bandh, everything remained well organised. Now the talks are underway with the farmers regarding the farm laws. With the arrival of Agriculture reforms, no farmers from UP or any other part of the country will face any trouble.”Issuing warning about the miscreants joining the protests, ADG Kumar said the UP police has informed farmers about the possibility of miscreants amid the protest. “And we have made police arrangement for the same. We have deployed as many as 130 company force,” he added.Meanwhile, traffic movement continued as usual across toll plazas in Agra district on Saturday amid farmers’ call to block Agra-Delhi Expressway to protest against the farm laws.“There are five major toll plazas here and we have no information of any one of them being blocked by farmers. We are monitoring the plazas as well,” Satyajeet Gupta, Assistant Superintendent of Police (West) Agra told ANI.Farmers have been protesting in and around the national capital since November 26 against three newly enacted farm laws. Farmers’ unions have so far held six rounds of talks with the government.After rejecting the Centre’s proposal to amend the recently enacted farm laws, the agitating leaders said that they would intensify their agitation by blocking railway tracks to put pressure on the government to repeal the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-forces-deployed-to-deal-with-anti-social-elements-up-adg/story-HGlllNVPpaUp0wvARltl4M.html
12-12-2020||India||After over 2 years, senior leader Ghanshyam Tiwari back in BJP||More than two years after resigning from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), senior leader Ghanshyam Tiwari returned to the party in Jaipur on Saturday. On June 22, 2018, Tiwari and his son Akhilesh floated a political outfit named “Bharat Vahini Party” to contest the assembly polls in Rajasthan later that year. Tiwari had joined hands with the Congress ahead of Lok Sabha elections in 2019. After joining party in presence of senior BJP leaders in Jaipur, Tiwari said: “After a long time I am getting a chance to speak from the platform. I thank the party leadership, which considered my letter to join the party.” He said that he is completely committed to the party’s ideology and never took the Congress party’s membership. Earlier, state party president Satish Poonia said that Tiwari joining the BJP is not an exception. “Uma Bharti, Kalyan Singh, Babu Lal Marandi too had joined back after leaving the BJP. They had left the party for some reasons and have joined back,” he said. Reacting to Tiwari returning to the BJP, state Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said: “It was his (Tiwari) wish to extend support to Congress (in the 2019 elections), saying that he didn’t get enough respect from party and we welcomed him. He would know better why did he joined the BJP again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-over-2-years-senior-leader-ghanshyam-tiwari-back-in-bjp/story-a0PuLrxmbJetN2WOcOQa9M.html
12-12-2020||India||Rajasthan man sets minor girl on fire, then kills himself||A man set a minor girl on fire in Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Friday and then immolated himself allegedly as part of suspected practice of sorcery or occult, police said.Confirming the incident, superintendent of police in Barmer Anand Sharma said station house officer Nimb Singh received a call from the villagers about the two bodies around 11 am on Friday. Police reached the spot and found the bodies of a 10-year-old girl and one Kisturam Bheel, a middle-aged man who claimed to be an occultist, in a pit-shaped hideout in Sujon Ka Niwan village.According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s father, Ramchandra Bheel, Kisturam tried to pull two girls, including his daughter, into the shaped hideout on Friday, while they were passing by. The other girl managed to escape and informed the villagers about the incident.However, by the time the villagers reached the spot, the accused had set Ramchandra’s daughter on fire and immolated himself. Their bodies were found in the pit.Sharma said a case has been lodged under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. “The police searched the house of the accused and found some items related to black magic. Prima facie, it appears that the accused was a black magician (tantrik),” Sharma said.Initial probe has indicated that the accused committed the crime as part of his black magic practice. Further investigation has been ordered into the case,he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-sets-minor-girl-on-fire-then-kills-himself/story-GAma4mgB4TQSbxY1Nev7qO.html
12-12-2020||India||Bodoland Territorial Council polls: UPPL, BPF in close fight as counting of votes is underway||The counting of votes for the elections to the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam is currently underway and as per early trends, the ruling Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) are locked in a close battle. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trailing with three seats only. As per the counting till 3pm, the UPPL has secured a lead on 21 seats, while the BPF is ahead on 10. Congress has grabbed one seat so far.The BPF has fielded candidates in 37 seats while BJP is contesting 26 and supporting Independent candidates in the other seats. Apart from the BJP and BPF, opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which have a tie-up for the assembly polls, are contesting 20 seats. The election for the 40 seats was held in two rounds of polling as 23,87,422 voters exercised their franchise to elect their representatives. Assembly polls in Assam are due in March-April next year and the BTC elections are being viewed as a semi-final contest among the parties prior to that.Since the coronavirus pandemic began in March, this was the first election to be held in Assam. The polls were scheduled to be held in April but were postponed indefinitely due to the pandemic. Subsequently, all the four districts under BTC were placed under governor’s rule. Since its formation in 2003, BTC had been governed by Hagrama Mohilary, a former rebel who now heads the BPF, a partner in the ruling coalition headed by the BJP with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) as the third partner. But relations between the BJP and BPF started souring after BTC was placed under governor’s rule. Both parties are now contesting the BTC polls separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodoland-territorial-council-polls-uppl-bpf-in-close-fight-as-counting-of-votes-is-underway/story-7qaR14pd5bh90UgPBYYIeP.html
12-12-2020||India||HC directs Tamil Nadu CB-CID to trace ‘missing’ 103 kg gold in CBI case||The Madras High Court has directed the Tamil Nadu Crime Branch-CID police to probe into ‘missing’ 103 kg gold, which was seized by CBI in a raid from an importer here.The gold is part of 400.47 kg in bullion and ornaments confiscated by the CBI when it carried out searches at the office of Surana Corporation Ltd in Chennai in 2012.Justice P N Prakash on Friday directed the CB-CID to conduct an inquiry by an officer in the rank of superintendent of police to be completed in six months, while rejecting the CBI’s submission that its prestige would “go down” if the investigation was carried out by local police. The matter relates to a petition filed by the liquidator of Surana Corporation Ltd, seeking a direction to CBI to handover the remaining 103.864 kg gold.The yellow metal was kept in the safes and vaults of Surana Corporation Ltd under the CBI’s lock and seal.When the matter came up, the judge said, “This court cannot subscribe to this view because the law does not sanction such an inference. All policemen must be trusted, and it does not lie in the mouth of one to say that CBI have special horns, whereas, local police have only a tail.” The judge further observed that it may be an Agni pariksha (test by fire) for the central agency. “But that cannot be helped. If their hands are clean like Sita (wife of Ram in the epic Ramayanam), they may come out brighter. If not, they would have to face the music,” the judge said.The central agency submitted that it had handed over the 72 keys of the safes and vaults to the Chennai principal special court for CBI cases. During the seizure, the gold bars were weighed all- together but while handing over to the liquidator, appointed for a settlement of debts between Surana and SBI, it was weighed individually and that was the reason for the discrepancy, the CBI claimed.While prosecuting the case, the CBI accused officials of Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation of India (MMTC) of showing undue favour to Surana in importing gold and silver.Subsequently, the CBI came to the conclusion that the gold did not have a bearing on a corruption case, and that it had, however, been imported in violation of the Foreign Trade Policy (FTP). Hence, a separate case was registered in 2013, and the seized gold was transferred to the file of the new case.Later, the CBI concluded the probe and filed a closure report, holding that the accused had not committed any offence, but, by issuing the nominated agency certificate to Surana, had violated certain circulars, for which departmental action was recommended against some officials.The agency also requested the special court to transfer the gold to the office of the director-general of foreign trade (DGFT) as the ownership of the gold was subject to the outcome of the departmental inquiry.Aggrieved, Surana challenged the transfer of gold to DGFT. Meanwhile, the SBI moved the National Company Law Tribunal seeking a direction the central agency to handover the gold to the bank as directed the special CB on December 27, 2019, the NCLT rejected the Union Commerce Ministry’s request for the gold and ordered that it be handed over to the liquidator in the presence of officials of all loanee banks.Accordingly, the CBI along with representatives of all banks and those from Surana broke open the seals of the vault and took inventory of the gold between February 27 and 29 this year and found that there was only 296.606 kg of gold.Subsequently, the liquidator approached the high court seeking a direction to the central agency to handover the remaining gold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-directs-tamil-nadu-cb-cid-to-trace-missing-103-kg-gold-in-cbi-case/story-meODT140nqlPhEUxpOWjcL.html
12-12-2020||India||Centre calls 3 cops responsible for Nadda’s security back on central deputation from Bengal||The Union ministry of home affairs on Saturday called three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers responsible for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s security back on central deputation from West Bengal, officials said. The move comes in the backdrop of a BJP convoy, including Nadda’s vehicle, being attacked in the South 24 Parganas district of the eastern state.Superintendent of police of Diamond Harbour, Bholanath Pandey, additional director general of police of South Bengal, Rajeev Mishra, and deputy inspector general of police, Presidency Range, Praveen Tripathi, were deputed for the BJP chief’s security in the state when his convoy was attacked at Shirakol in Diamond Harbour. It is the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.ALSO WATCH | Nadda convoy attack: Cong likens situation to UP; TMC on top officers’ summon Nadda was visiting Diamond Harbour as part of his two-day trip to the state ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held next year. The BJP alleged that some of the party’s frontline leaders, as well as workers, sustained injuries after being assaulted by the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress. Stones raining on the convoy and shattering windshields could be seen in the footage shown by television channels.BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, its national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were also hit by stones and shards of glass from shattered windows and windshields of their cars, according to the party.On Friday afternoon, the Union home ministry had also summoned the state’s chief secretary and police chief to New Delhi on Monday over the law-and-order situation in the state. However, the ministry was informed about the top bureaucrats’ refusal to appear before it through a letter.Chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said he was directed to request to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in the meeting in Delhi. In his two-page letter Bandopadhyay wrote, “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials in the meeting, considering that the State Government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness.”As the row over the attack and the law-and-order situation in Bengal intensifies, Union home minister Amit Shah is planning a trip to the poll-bound state next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-3-ips-officers-responsible-for-jp-nadda-s-security-back-on-central-deputation-from-bengal/story-Kq0l3AxxqVxkIYylsxuhiM.html
12-12-2020||India||Security stepped up at Delhi borders as farmers’ protests intensify||Delhi Police on Saturday deployed additional personnel and placed more concrete barriers at various border points of the national capital after farmers announced they will intensify their protest against the Centre’s new farm laws and block the Delhi-Jaipur highway and the Yamuna Expressway.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday assured farmers, who have vowed to expand their protests over the new farm laws, that his government was committed to their welfare and that the legislation were aimed at giving them alternate markets to boost income. PM Modi, without directly referring to the farmers’ agitation, said agriculture reforms as part of government efforts are aimed at removing roadblocks, and the new laws will also bring in technology and investment in the sector. The government, he said, is committed to protecting the interest and welfare of farmers through its policies and actions.ALSO WATCH | More farmers head to Delhi from Haryana, Punjab; block toll plazas | Updates “Reforms will help draw investment in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers. The aim of all government reforms is to make farmers prosperous. The new legislation, which were approved in the previous Parliament session, give farmers an additional option outside of the designated mandis to buy or sell their crops,” he said at the annual meeting of industry body FICCI.“Farmers have now options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties. While mandis are being modernised, the digital platform is also available to farmers to buy and sell their produce. These efforts are aimed at raising incomes of farmers,” he said. “All these efforts are directed towards improving the farmers’ income so that they become prosperous. When farmers prosper, the country will prosper.”Security arrangementsA senior police officer said there has been no protest yet on Delhi’s borders with Gurgaon and at other points of National Highway-8 that connects the national capital with Jaipur. “So far, there is no protest at Delhi-Gurgaon border. There is no disruption in traffic movement. However, we have proper security arrangements in place to deal with any situation,” the officer said, according to news agency PTI.The increase in security arrangement comes as thousands of farmers have been protesting at various areas on Delhi’s borders for the last 17 days and demanding that the legislation be withdrawn. The police have said they have made adequate arrangements, including multi-layered barricading and deployment of personnel. Officials have said that measures have also been taken to ensure commuters do not face inconvenience at places where protest are being staged.Also read | How many sacrifices will farmers have to make, asks Rahul GandhiThe developments come after farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected a government proposal to amend the new agricultural laws and announced they would intensify their agitation by blocking the Jaipur-Delhi and the Yamuna expressway by Saturday.Social activist Yogendra Yadav, who is part of the ongoing protests, said farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana are assembling on Saturday and their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march would begin on Sunday. “Farmers’ ‘Delhi march’ on Jaipur-Delhi highway will not start today and it will begin from Shahjahanpur border tomorrow. Today, farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana will congregate in Kotputli and Behror,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi.Also read | ‘Put them behind bars’: Farmer leader on ‘anti-social’ elements in stirTraffic situationDelhi Traffic Police have also deployed their personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle. They informed commuters about the closure of several borders and suggested that motorists take alternative routes. “The chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road,NH 44,” the department said in a tweet.“Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” it added.Hundreds of farmers from states like Punjab and Haryana have blocked some of the highways leading to Delhi borders for more than two weeks now against the new farm laws which they fear will prompt the government to stop making direct crop purchases at minimum state-set prices or minimum support price (MSP). They have vowed to expand their protests across the country until the government scraps the new farm laws. The government has so far refused to heed to their demand but has promised to continue the MSP-based procurement.The three new laws remove restrictions on marketing farm products and allow cultivators to engage with private companies to sell their crops. The government says this allows farmers an alternate avenue to sell crops, raising their income and is aimed at making farming more competitive.The government had asked farmer groups to consider its proposals for amending the laws to address their concerns and said it was open to discussing its offer further whenever the unions want. Farmers leaders on Thursday also announced they would block railway tracks across the country if their demands were not met by the government and would announce a date for that soon.The Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have taken part in at least five rounds of formal talks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farmers’ union leaders, scheduled to be held on Wednesday morning, was cancelled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-stepped-up-at-delhi-borders-as-farmers-protests-intensify/story-Wg64F0dIoPjRXGYwLLsvlI.html
12-12-2020||India||Pawar’s detractors in Congress conspired twice to deny him PM’s chair: Patel||NCP chief Sharad Pawar had two opportunities to become the Prime Minister of India but his detractors in the Congress party denied him the same, NCP leader Praful Patel has written in an article on the occasion of the 80th birthday of the NCP chief.The article was published by Shiv Sena mouthpiece, Saamna, on Saturday.“After Rajiv Gandhi’s unfortunate death during the Lok Sabha elections in 1991, the Congress party was in a state of shock. There was a demand to make Pawar party president to handle the situation but some drawing room politicians conspired to block this. They did not want a strong leadership for the party and hence made P V Narsimha Rao the Congress president,” Patel has written.ALSO WATCH | ‘Congress weak’: Sanjay Raut says will support Sharad Pawar for UPA chief post “After the results of Lok Sabha elections, Congress was close to winning a majority (in Parliament) and again there was demand to choose Pawar as prime minister. However, the same people got together and misused Sonia Gandhi’s name to make Rao prime minister,” Patel says in the article.“There has been a conspiracy against Pawar since 1989 when he was the chief minister of Maharashtra. I have witnessed how conspiracies were hatched against him in Delhi. I have seen how he lost the prime ministership when he was within a striking distance from the same,” Patel writes.He has also claimed that Rao was prejudiced against Pawar when the former was the prime minister.Later in 1996 Lok Sabha elections, Congress lost the elections. Patel says there could have been an opportunity for Pawar to get to the top office since there was a fractured mandate. “The Congress could win 145 seats. H D Deve Gowda, Mulayam Singh Yadav and leaders of the Left had shown willingness to be part of the government if Pawar replaced Rao as Congress nominee for prime ministership. Rao was not willing and as such Congress had to extend outside support to Deve Gowda,” Patel has claimed.Also Read: Sharad Pawar turns 80, Uddhav govt pays tribute with rural scheme launchLater in 1997, then Congress president Sitaram Kesari withdrew support from the Deve Gowda government. “125 Congress MPs had gathered at Pawar’s residence and extended their support to him but Pawar chose not to take any step to prevent a split in the Congress. It was the second time when he lost an opportunity to get the prime ministership,” Patel stated.Patel alleges that Pawar’s targeting by his detractors (in Congress) continued, leading him to float his separate party.The Congress is yet to officially react to Patel’s allegations.Also Read: Opposition must come together, strengthen UPA, says Sena’s RautA senior Congress leader and former Union minister said: “In 1991, party top brass wanted a nominee who had experience of handling central government portfolios. Rao and Arjun Singh were the front runners. As such Rao was chosen. Pawar had returned to the Congress just a few years ago so the top brass was not comfortable with him. Besides, they also considered the fact that the majority of newly elected MPs of the party were from the south.”The Congress leader also reasoned why Pawar was left out even in 1996. “In 1996, Congress lost the election and third front parties had more MPs than us so the party decided to respect the mandate and support Deve Gowda,” the leader said, without wanting to be named because the party has not officially reacted yet.Significantly, veteran Congress leader Ulhas Pawar, in another article, has surmised that Pawar would have reached the highest positions within the party had he continued with the Congress. He has also appealed to Pawar to return to the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-s-detractors-in-congress-conspired-twice-to-deny-him-pm-s-chair-patel/story-4rJDusUUnPRv6fJOtCseXM.html
12-12-2020||India||Can’t force couples to have only two children: Centre to Supreme Court||The central government has submitted in the Supreme Court that it is “unequivocally” against forcing people to have only a certain number of children in a bid to control population. In its affidavit in the top court, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) maintained that the Family Welfare Programme in India gives couples the right to decide the size of their family without any compulsion. Responding to a PIL by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, the ministry has rejected the need to have a mandatory two-child norm or frame a specific law on limiting the size of families in the country. After his plea was shot down by the Delhi High Court, Upadhyay has moved the Supreme Court for introducing a population control law. Upadhyay has said that population explosion is more dangerous than bomb explosion and that the constitutional rights to clean air, drinking water, health, livelihood and education cannot be secured to all citizens without controlling the population. But the MoHFW has sought dismissal of Upadhyay’s petition, stating that the central government cannot introduce or encourage authoritative or legislative methods to control population. “The Family Welfare Programme in India is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt the family planning methods, best suited to them, according to their choice, without any compulsion,” said the ministry’s affidavit. It said India was a signatory to the Programme Of Action (POA) of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, which was unequivocally against coercion in family planning. “In fact, international experience shows that any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter productive and leads to demographic distortions,” the ministry explained. It further pointed out that there has been a constant decline in the total fertility rate (TFR), suggesting that couples do not want more than two children in the family. The affidavit also placed reliance on the Census data of 2001-2011 to demonstrate the sharpest decline in decadal growth rate among Indians in 100 years. “2001-2011 was the first decade in the last 100 years which had not only added lesser population as compared to the previous one, but also registered the sharpest decline in the decadal growth rate from 21.54% in 1991-2001 to 17.64% in 2001-2011”, it emphasised. The ministry said the TFR, which was 3.2 at the time when National Population Policy 2000 was adopted, has declined substantially to 2.2 as per Sample Registration System of 2018. “The wanted fertility in India as per National Family Health Survey IV is only 1.8 as against the actual fertility of 2.2 prevailing at that time, indicating thereby that couples on an average do not want more than two children. Also, as many as 25 out of 36 States/UTs have already achieved the replacement level fertility of 2.1 or less,” added the MoHFW. The ministry held that the National Population Policy 2000 and the National Health Policy 2017 are guiding documents to prioritise the role of the government in shaping health systems in all its dimensions and achievement of TFR of 2.1 by 2025. On Upadhyay’s plea to issue necessary directive to the state governments, the MoHFW has said no such directions can be issued since “public health” is a state subject and it is the prerogative of the respective state government to implement the schemes envisaged by the Central government as per the prescribed guidelines. An SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, had in January sought a reply from the MoHFW, which has now been filed. There is, however, no next date of hearing as yet fixed.Upadhyay, speaking to HT, lamented the stand taken by the central government. “India now has a population of 150 crore and it is clear from the numbers of Aadhaar cards made. But this affidavit seems to be evading the real issues. Legally too, the affidavit fails to take note that Entry 20A in the Concurrent List specifically mentions population control and family planning. How can the Centre now say it lacks power to make law on population control?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-force-couples-to-have-only-two-children-centre-to-supreme-court/story-sfkoVwb8xyt0w50dvHuISK.html
12-12-2020||India||India readies for 600 million Covid vaccine jabs; to use standard cold storage, says top govt expert||India will deploy its vast election machinery to deliver 600 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the most vulnerable people in the next six to eight months through conventional cold chain systems, the expert leading the initiative said on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The government has lined up cold storage facilities with temperatures between 2 to 8 degrees Celsius (36 to 48°F), said V.K. Paul, who heads the group of experts on vaccine administration for Covid-19 that advises India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Paul said these preparations meet the requirements of what he said were the four emerging candidates in the race for India’s vaccine.“The four that I can see, including Serum, Bharat, Zydus, and Sputnik need normal cold chain. I see no problem for these vaccines,” he told Reuters in an interview.Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, is already mass producing and stockpiling AstraZeneca’s Covishield shot, while Indian biotech players Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila are developing their own vaccine candidates. And last month, Indian pharmaceutical player Hetero inked a deal with Russia’s RDIF to manufacture over 100 million doses of the Russian Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine per year in India. The government expects the first approvals “very soon” from the independent drug regulator for emergency use, he said.“I am hoping at the earliest because we are ready.”The government, however, was yet to have formal talks on pricing and had no firm purchase orders, he said.“The Indian companies know the government will give a fair and reasonable price.” SUPPLIES AND STORAGEAt present, Indian regulators are considering three vaccines for emergency use authorisation, including those from Pfizer Inc, AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech.But, Pfizer’s limited stockpiles and its extreme storage condition requirements at minus 70 degrees Celsius or below, would likely limit its use in India, which lacks such infrastructure.“In a theoretical scenario, where there is no vaccine with conventional cold chain requirement, minus 70 degrees Celsius capacities will have to be created, and we will do so,” Paul said. Paul said the government is also in talks with Moderna, which also has requirements for ultra-cold storage. India does not anticipate supplies from either Pfizer or Moderna until the second half of next year, said Paul. “We would like to work with them (Moderna) to make that vaccine available in India, and (ensure) that vaccine is also manufactured in India - for us and for other countries. This is the call we have given to Pfizer also and we are in touch with them as well.”Paul said India may still consider granting Pfizer emergency use authorisation, despite it not having conducted safety and immune response trials in India, but said that decision would be taken by the drugs regulator.“As of now, it is a norm or standard operating procedure that any vaccine marketed in India should have human study results from the Indian subjects,” he said.India has the world’s second highest caseload of coronavirus behind the United States, but its death rate has been far lower. Still, Paul said the immediate task was to protect lives and the government had prepared a plan to administer vaccines to 300 million people - or 600 million doses at two jabs each - in the first part of the programme. This would be made up of 260 million people above the age of 50, an estimated 10 million below the age of 50 with serious co-morbidities and 30 million frontline workers, who have borne the brunt of infections.“The way it looks as of now, optimistically, it appears possible to cover the above population of 300 million in six to eight months’ time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-readies-for-600-million-covid-vaccine-jabs-to-use-standard-cold-storage-says-top-govt-expert/story-YFfOKdh7U2zCglKj1KlrKJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders closed as stir intensifies||Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday informed commuters about routes which are closed for traffic in view of a large number of farmers camping at the borders of the national capital. The Chilla and Ghazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida and Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers’ protests. Commuters were advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders.“The chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders. Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road,NH 44,” Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. Traffic Alert,The chilla & Gazipur borders are closed for traffic from Noida & Gaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests.People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara & bhopra borders. Traffic Alert,Singhu,Auchandi,Piau Maniyari & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad,Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road.Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd ,GTK road,NH 44“Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” it added. Traffic AlertTikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement.Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movementFarmers, who have been protesting for 17 days now, are gearing up to block highways and picket toll plazas on the border to Delhi in response to a call from farmers’ unions to intensify their agitation against the three agricultural sector laws.The farmers’ unions have threatened to block railway tracks as well. More farmers are likely to join the protests and move towards the borders of Delhi. Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the protesting farmers to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand of repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders, which was scheduled for Wednesday morning, was cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-several-delhi-borders-closed-as-stir-intensifies/story-D2OF3krlrVDLqN0r2WKx3L.html
12-12-2020||India||India’s mRNA vaccine candidate advances to human trial phase||India’s first mRNA vaccine candidate – developed by Pune-based Gennova in collaboration with the USA’s HDT Bio – has been granted approval to conduct human trials to determine whether it’s safe and produces immune response protective against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Subject Expert Committee under India’s apex drug regulator recommended that the vaccine candidate -- HGCO19 -- to proceed to human trials in a meeting on Wednesday. The candidate uses the messenger RNA platform to generate immune response just like the vaccines developed by Pfizer and Moderna, which have been found to be 95% efficacious. Currently, Pfizer has applied for emergency use authorization of its vaccine in India. Gennova’s candidate, HGCO19, has already demonstrated safety, immunogenicity, and production of neutralising antibodies (antibodies that directly attack the virus) activity in animals. The neutralising antibody response of the vaccine in mice and non-human primates was comparable to the convalescent or recovered patients of Covid-19. In addition, the mRNA used in the vaccine is attached to a nano-lipid carrier that enhances the release of it inside cells. This self-amplifying platform means requirement of a lower dose of the vaccine. The vaccine candidate also solves one of the biggest problems with the Pfizer vaccine, which can be stored only at -70 degrees Celsius. Gennova’s vaccine is stable for two months at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, which is the temperature at which other vaccines used under universal immunisation programme in India is stored. Gennova has received a seed grant under the Ind-CEPI mission of Department of Biotechnology, which is aligned to the global Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). An mRNA vaccine uses a synthetic RNA (genetic material) encoded with instructions to make specific proteins of the Sars-CoV-2 virus so that the body can generate an immune response without getting the disease. When it comes to manufacturing, mRNA vaccines are synthetically made and do not need cell cultures, bacteria, or other hosts for growing it. This means it can be manufactured quickly and inexpensively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-mrna-vaccine-candidate-advances-to-human-trial-phase/story-euXWYNfRxfLKT84B7ntmjL.html
12-12-2020||India||Col Prithipal Singh, World War 2 veteran and only officer to serve in army, navy, air force, turns 100||Retired Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill who is the only person to have served in all three wings of Indian defence forces turned 100 on Friday. Colonel Gill celebrated the occasion at his Chandigarh residence surrounded by his family and well-wishers. Another celebration is on the cards for the Colonel — of his 70th marriage anniversary with 93-year-old wife Preminder Kaur on December 24.The defence veteran has served in World War II, the Indo-Pak War of 1965, and as a sector commander with Assam Rifles in Manipur. Social media has been abuzz with wishes and greetings for the centenarian Colonel. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh too joined in wishing him. “Congratulate Col Prithipal Singh Gill, who turns 100 today. He bears the unique distinction of having served in all three armed forces. Sir, Wish you many more years of good health and may you continue to always inspire all of us,” Singh said in a tweet. Congratulate Col. Prithipal Singh Gill who turns 100 today. He bears the unique distinction of having served in all the three Armed Forces. Sir, wish you many more years of good health and may you continue to always inspire all of us. @adgpi pic.twitter.com/jmIqeXdLB7A life of serviceColonel Gill was born in pre-Independent India’s Patiala in 1920 and started taking flying lessons at Walton Aerodrome in Lahore, earning his flying license. He later joined the Royal Indian Air Force but was withdrawn from training by his father Major Harpal Singh Gill because the family feared for his safety. Thereafter, he joined the Navy and served on a minesweeper INS Teer, escorting cargo ships on the rough seas during World War II. After Independence, he moved on to the Army and was keen on serving in the Sikh regiment, where three generations of his family had served before. However, he was alloted the Gwalior Mountain Battery due to his gunnery experience at the Navy.Colonel Gill went on to serve at 34 Medium Regiment and later raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment. He served as the commander of the 71 Medium Regiment during the Indo-Pak War of 1965, serving at Sialkot. He was promoted to his final rank in the Army, that of a Colonel while serving with the Assam rifles at Ukhrul in Manipur, and retired from the armed forces at the age of 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-prithipal-singh-world-war-2-veteran-and-only-officer-to-serve-in-army-navy-airforce-turns-100/story-WwZSL3Rf1UFW52iom3xgyK.html
12-12-2020||India||Fog disrupts train schedules, many cancelled till Jan 31. Full list here||As dense fog enveloped several parts of the country, many trains were cancelled and timings for a few changed till January 1, Indian Railways announced.“Keeping in mind the convenience of passengers, several trains have been cancelled from December 16 to January 1,” North eastern railway CPRO Pankaj Kumar told Hindustan.Here is a list of trains cancelled:Train number 02571 - Gorakhpur- Anand Vihar terminus will be cancelled on all Wednesday and Sundays between December 16, 20, 23, 27 and 30, January 3, 6, 10, 13, 17, 20, 24, 27, and 31. Train number 02572 - Anad Vihar terminus- Gorakhpur will be cancelled on all Mondays and Thursdays between December 17, 21, 24, 28, 31 and January 4, 7, 11, 14, 18, 21, 25 and 28.These trains are partially cancelled:Train number 05004 - Gorakhpur- Kanpur Anwarganj will be partially cancelled from Prayagraj Rambagh to Kanpur between December 16 and January 31. Train number 05003 - Kanpur Anwarganj- Gorakhpur will be partially cancelled from Anwarganj to Prayagraj Rambagh between December 16 and January 31. Trains affected due to farmers’ protests:Train number 05212 - Amritsar- Darbhanga, scheduled to depart from Amritsar on December 13, stands cancelled.Train number 04652 - scheduled to depart from Amritsar, will depart from Amritsar-Jayanagar Ambala. It stands partially cancelled between Amritsar- Ambala.Train number 04651- scheduled to depart from Jayanagar will be run to Jayanagar - Amritsar Ambala. It stands partially cancelled between Amritsar- Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fog-disrupts-train-schedules-many-cancelled-till-jan-31-full-list-here/story-RZCKQ04OPceqarJ6Q133QI.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Shakti act’: Maharashtra’s new bill on sexual crimes to have death penalty, hefty fines||In a bid to curb crimes against women and children in Maharashtra, the state cabinet has approved a draft bill called the Shakti act that has provisions for stern punishment, including the death penalty, life sentence, and hefty fines against perpetrators.A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said on Wednesday that two bills will be tabled in the legislature - the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Special Court & Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law, 2020 - to give shape to the law against perpetrators of crime against women and children. The draft bill will be tabled in the state legislature during the upcoming two-day winter session in Mumbai on December 14-15.Here’s everything you need to know about the Shakti act:1. The Shakti act is modelled on the lines of Andhra Pradesh’s Disha act, which was brought last year. A committee was set up to study the Disha act and prepare a similar law. After this, a cabinet sub-committee headed by PWD minister Ashok Chavan was set up to approve the draft act and put it before the cabinet for clearance.2. The draft bill will come up for discussion and approval in both houses of the legislature. After getting the house nod, the bill will be sent to the central government for approval and presidential assent. 3. The draft bill seeks to amend relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.4. It provides for completing probe in a case within 15 days and trial within 30 days. Therefore, there is a stipulated time frame for completing the investigation and trial.5. Stringent punishment, including the death penalty and heavy fines on the perpetrators is a key feature of the draft bill. The perpetrators will be punished with imprisonment for life for not less than ten years but may extend to the remainder of natural life or with death in cases characterised as ‘heinous’.Read more| Maharashtra government to launch a digital platform to help disabled6. Special police teams and separate courts will be set up for investigation and trial of cases against women and children under the new legislation. As many as 36 special courts, each having a special public prosecutor have been proposed to be set up.7. In cases involving acid attacks, a sum of Rs 10 lakh will be given to the victim for plastic surgery and facial reconstruction and the amount will be collected as fine from the accused.9. Some cases will be tried in-camera for the recording of evidence of victims and witnesses who are vulnerable.10. The draft bill also incorporates provisions with respect to social media. Threatening and intimidating women on social media will be an offence with a maximum punishment of two years and a Rs 1 lakh fine. This also includes uploading morphed videos of women or threatening them with uploading of photos, videos which could defame, cause disrepute to them or violate their privacy.11. The bill also proposes setting up of a “Women and Children Offenders Registry” linked to the National Registry of Sexual Offenders with details of persons convicted of specified offences of sexual violence against women and children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shakti-act-maharashtra-s-new-bill-on-sexual-crimes-to-have-death-penalty-hefty-fines/story-VD6Muv0aAFotsjgbVXgCpJ.html
12-12-2020||India||After indications of severing alliance, Dushyant Chautala meets Rajnath Singh||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister and Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader Dushyant Chautala on Saturday met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi a day after the former announced that he will resign from his post in the Haryana government if he is unable to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for the procurement of farmers’ crops.“Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana, Dushyant Chautala meeting Raksha Mantri, Rajnath Singh in New Delhi,” the Defence Ministry of India informed via a tweet from its official account.While it is not yet known what was discussed between the two, the meeting holds significance in light of Chautala’s recent announcement of a possible exit from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government amid the ongoing farmers’ protest.“Our party’s national president already made it clear that MSP must be ensured to farmers. The written proposals given by the Central government to the protesting farmers include a provision for MSPs. I’ll work to secure MSP for farmers as long as I am in power. I will resign from my post the day I am unable to fulfil the promise,” Chautala had said yesterday.The BJP holds power in Haryana with its 40 seats out of the 90-seat Haryana Assembly, and the support of 10 JJP MLAs and five independent MLAs. Congress, on the other hand, has 31 seats.This comes when thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at the gates of the national capital against the three recent farm laws passed by the Central government.The farmer leaders are engaging with a delegation of the Central government in several rounds of talks to resolve their differences, however, all the meetings have remained inconclusive so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-indications-of-severing-alliance-dushyant-chautala-meets-rajnath-singh/story-nIACbPcHvyUPGojwL808vK.html
12-12-2020||India||AAP to protest outside homes of Delhi L-G, Amit Shah tomorrow over alleged MCD scam||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday announced it will stage a sit-in against the alleged misappropriation of funds of more than Rs 2,400 crore in the north Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD). The sit-in will be staged in front of the homes of Union home minister Amit Shah and Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, until the Centre gives nod to an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged MCD scam.“North MCD waived off Rs 2,500 crore rent dues of South MCD, resulting in a loss to the public exchequer. Who is responsible for this corruption? Tomorrow, we’ll go and meet Union home minister and LG at 11 am. We will sit there till they give consent for CBI enquiry,” AAP lawmaker Atishi Marlena said in a press conference today.AAP has accused the north MCD of misappropriation of funds to the tune of more than Rs 2,400 crore and said that the Delhi government had initiated a probe into it. Describing the allegations as “politically biased”, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — which rules all three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) — has denied the allegations.The allegations comes at a time when mayors of the three civic bodies have been protesting outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal demanding disbursement of funds which they claim the Delhi government owes the civic bodies.All the three municipal corporations are facing a crippling financial crunch with North corporation and the East civic body not being able to pay regular salaries to their staff. This has led to protests by municipal, engineers, doctors and other staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-to-protest-outside-homes-of-delhi-l-g-amit-shah-tomorrow-over-alleged-mcd-scam/story-lVRtezhVDsCuCPsk9jNSFK.html
12-12-2020||India||11 workers hospitalised after massive explosion in Hyderabad chemical factory||At least 11 workers were shifted to a hospital after a massive explosion at a chemical factory in the industrial development area in Bollarum on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Saturday, officials said. Several others are injured and many are feared trapped, they added.WATCH | Explosion, fire at Hyderabad chemical factory, many hospitalised Four fire engines were rushed to the spot as thick fumes were seen billowing after the explosion inside Vindhya Organics, Sangareddy divisional fire officer V Srinivas said. Workers were seen running due to the chaos caused by the explosion.“The fire erupted in the factory supposedly due to the explosion of a reactor. We are trying our best to prevent the fire from spreading to other areas,” he told reporters, adding that the situation inside the factory couldn’t be ascertained immediately as it was difficult to enter premises. “We are making attempts to go in while dousing fire gradually,” he said.Officials said that it is not exactly known yet how many workers were there inside the factory. The company authorities are examining the duty chart to find out the exact number.Officials are also evacuating workers from adjacent factories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-injured-many-trapped-after-massive-explosion-in-hyderbad-chemical-factory/story-jMbahVlE4JlmFC3FXkpBNM.html
12-12-2020||India||2 Rajasthan govt teachers sacked for abusing girl students||Eleven months after four teachers of a school run by the Rajasthan government in Sri Ganganagar district, were booked for sexually abusing girl students, the directorate of secondary education has finally sacked two teachers on Friday night. “Services of two teachers identified as Bahad Ram and Gajanand, posted at secondary government school at 22 PTD village, have been terminated. Also, increment of the then principal and two other teachers have been stopped for one-year,” said a senior official of the education department. The incidents of alleged sexual misconduct by the teachers had surfaced in January this year. The matter heated up after some school girls,with assistance from the villagers, recorded videos of the teachers abusing the girls on phone . Later, parents and villagers staged a protest at the school as no action was taken against the teachers. Later, four teachers including English teacher Bahad Ram, science teacher Gajanand, physical education teacher Paramanand and Indraj were booked under Section 354 (assault or use of criminal force against woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Education minister Govind Singh Dotasara later tweeted to announce that all the four teachers have been suspended and the principal had been put on Awaiting Posting Order (APO) for not taking action even after receiving a complaint. One of the parents of a student who didn’t want to be named, said, “These teachers would touch the girls and would do things which we can’t even describe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-rajasthan-government-teachers-sacked-for-misbehaving-with-girl-students/story-8zGYMPPhKXCLNZYojGjMqM.html
12-12-2020||India||Medicine ‘not just profession but vocation’: Harsh Vardhan at LHMC||Highlighting the role played by the Delhi’s Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) amid the pandemic, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday gave a message at the college’s convocation ceremony, saying that medicine is not a “just a profession but a vocation” and one must keep learning and keep upgrading their knowledge and skills.“You should always keep in mind that medicine is not just a profession but a vocation. You must always keep learning and should continuously keep upgrading your knowledge and skills,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan while addressing the 99th Convocation Ceremony of the Lady Hardinge Medical College, Delhi.While advising the students, the Union Minister in his message to the graduates said, “It is important to show compassion while treating patients. Never forget your humanity or that of your patience. They are people and not just a collection of specialised parts. They have unique life stories, linked to their families, communities and society.”Talking about LHMC’s history, the Health Minister said, “LHMC has been a symbol of women empowerment in our country. Today Lady Hardinge alumni occupy the position of pride in India and abroad and have made a laudable contribution in the field of health care and medical education and brought glory to the institution and the country.”“And this has also been ranked within the top medical colleges in the country and has been consistently producing outstanding medical professional,” he added.The minister further lauded LHMC for its role in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am proud to acknowledge how the LHMC rose to the unprecedented challenge of the Covid-19 and excelled in their battle against this deadly virus,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said.“Lady Hardinge was among the first government institution in Delhi to establish a state of the art facility to conduct the RT-PCR test. As the pandemic spread and various treatment modalities were being tested against this little known virus, LHMC was one of the centres for conducting trials for evaluating the usefulness of convalescent plasma therapy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medicine-not-just-profession-but-vocation-harsh-vardhan-at-lhmc/story-iKjWhLGnMycarWsTkpvYsM.html
12-12-2020||India||Vaccination drive in India may start in January, says Adar Poonawalla as Serum Institute hopes to get nod by December||Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla has said India’s vaccination drive may begin by January 2021 as his company is hoping to get emergency-use authorisation by December end. Speaking at the Economic Times Global Business Summit, Poonawalla said life is likely to become normal by September-October 2021 as by then there will be enough vaccines for everyone.“We might get emergency license by this month-end, but licence for wider use might come at a later date. But, we are confident that if the regulators give a nod, India’s vaccination drive can start by January 2021,” Poonawalla said.Pune’s SII is preparing to manufacture enough vaccines for the government as well as private makers. An expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has sought additional safety and efficacy data from Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech as their applications for emergency-use authorisation came up for review. From SII, the expert committee has sought an upgraded safety data of phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials in the country, immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in the UK and India along with the outcome of the assessment of the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine will be priced at Rs 500-600, Poonawalla had said during the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. “Emergency use authorisation will be for healthcare workers and other frontline workers, and by March- April, the vaccine should be available for use to general public. Emergency use licensure is based on the positive UK results. There is a good T-cell and antibody response but nobody at this stage can answer whether these vaccines can protect long-term,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-in-india-may-start-in-january-says-adar-poonawalla-as-serum-institute-hopes-to-get-nod-by-december/story-hPRknomxmSHoUAuNXOPrAL.html
12-12-2020||India||SC slams Centre for not appointing mandatory legal member in CERC||Observing that executive acting in breach of judgments would be an “invitation to anarchy”, the Supreme Court has slammed the Centre for not appointing mandatory member (law) in the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC).A three-judge bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy expressed its anguish on the development and said, “we have shown considerable restraint in this matter. Our restraint seems to be misunderstood!”The bench, in its order passed earlier this week, has observed that the government is, unfortunately, showing no anxiety about the interests of the consumers or the Commission as it is taking its own sweet time.“Government does not seem to be interested in coming to the aid of the consumers or making the Commission functional, which is not an unusual scenario seeing the functioning of the other Tribunals and Commissions, on account of lack of appointments to deal with the matter,” the bench said.The apex court had, through its April 12, 2018, order, held that it is mandatory to appoint a member (law) in its quorum. It had directed CERC and all state electricity commissions to appoint a member from the field of law with qualifications of a high court or district judge.Later, a contempt petition was filed before the court as directions of the apex court were sought to be breached on account of appointments made to the Central Commission on January 21, 2019, and thereafter on April 7, 2020, without appointing a member from the law, the bench noted.Observing that there is “prima facie willful disobedience” on the part of the government, the top court had in August directed two members of the CERC to go on leave until a ‘member (law)’ is appointed to the Commission.The order, passed earlier this week, read, “We have to express our anguish with the manner in which the Government sought to act, contrary to a judgment of this Court. It is the legislative function to pass the Acts and the administrative function to implement the provision of that Act. It is left to the judiciary to interpret the law. The law was interpreted by our judgment. The Executive cannot be expected to act nor permitted to act in breach of the judgment of this Court. This would be an invitation to anarchy! The mutual respect of the three pillars of democracy requires each of them to respect the role and functioning of the other.”“The passage of time also doesn’t seem to have awoken the Government to the problem at hand and almost four months have passed since then. We are unable to come to the aid of the consumers because the Government does not seem to be interested in coming to the aid of the consumers or making the Commission functional, which is not an unusual scenario seeing the functioning of the other Tribunals and Commissions, on account of lack of appointments to deal with the matters,” the order added.In the end, the apex court said that having expressed its anguish, it now specifically posed a question to the Additional Solicitor General as to when should we keep the matter, so that the government would have completed the task by then.The bench then posted the matter for further hearing on January 20, 2021, accepting the request of the Additional Solicitor General.The top court noted that as per the affidavit placed by the CERC 177 judgments were lying reserved from February to August 2020. However, it refused to lift the stay order to the extent of permitting the judgments to be pronounced by the Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-slams-centre-for-not-appointing-mandatory-legal-member-in-cerc/story-6IEuDNVJExOEXBJaOOf3hJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers close toll plaza in Haryana’s Ambala, Karnal||Amid the ongoing protest in and at the borders of the national capital against the recently enacted farm laws, farmers closed two toll plazas in Haryana’s Ambala and Karnal late last night, letting the vehicles cross without paying the duty. “Vehicles are not paying the toll since midnight. Some farmers had come and forced us to close the toll plaza. We haven’t received any information yet as to how long this will continue but the farmers are saying that it will remain toll-free throughout the day till midnight,” said Ravi Tiwari, in-charge at Shambhu Toll Plaza in Ambala, on Saturday.Apart from Ambala, farmers also closed Bastara Toll Plaza in Karnal late last night, as part of their agitation.The farmers, who were mainly from Haryana and Punjab were adamant that until the government fulfills their demands to withdraw the laws, the movement would continue in a similar way.This would lead to huge losses for the toll plaza operators. Thousands of vehicles cross the Bastara Toll Plaza on the Delhi-Chandigarh route everyday. Around Rs 200 is charged here.Scores of farmers across the country, including Haryana, are heading towards Delhi to join the agitation amid the deadlock with the central government over the new farm laws. They also planned to block the Delhi-Jaipur, and Delhi-Agra highways on Saturday.Besides, the farmers’ unions have threatened to block railway tracks if the laws are not repealed. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to the protesters to stop their agitation as talks are still going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-close-toll-plaza-in-haryana-s-ambala-karnal/story-NX4vrld2cXR4q4IUz9f8MK.html
12-12-2020||India||Goa Zilla Panchayat polls: Over 11 per cent voting recorded till 10 am||Over 11 per cent voting was recorded till 10 am in Goa on Saturday, two hours after polling for Zilla Panchayat elections started for 48 seats in over 1,200 polling stations.As per State Election Commission (SEC), there are 25 seats in North Goa, while 23 seats are in South Goa.“A total of 200 candidates are in the fray on 48 seats. Ruling BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) has fielded 41 candidates, while 37 candidates are on field from Congress’ ticket. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has also fielded 20 candidates, followed by 17 candidates from Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP). Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is also in the race with six candidates, while 79 independent candidates are fighting the election independently,” said the SEC.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant along with his wife voted from Pale Zilla panchayat seat today.After casting his vote, the chief minister tweeted, “Let us come together and strengthen our democracy. Urging all voters to exercise your democratic right to vote for the Zilla Panchayat Election 2020, to drive Goa’s rural development.”The polls were scheduled to be conducted in March but were postponed due to the nationwide lockdown in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-zilla-panchayat-polls-over-11-per-cent-voting-recorded-till-10-am/story-dBB3NjZ0vaMTks6OG4OE7O.html
12-12-2020||India||Against forcing family planning, Centre tells SC after population control PIL||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that India is unequivocally against forcing family planning on its people and any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions.In an affidavit filed in the top court, the health ministry told the apex court that the family welfare programme in the country is voluntary in nature, which enables couples to decide the size of their family and adopt family planning methods best suited to them, according to their choice and without any compulsion.The submission was made in response to a PIL filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay challenging a Delhi High Court order that dismissed a plea seeking certain steps, including two-child norm, to control the country’s growing population.The ministry said that ‘public health’ is a state subject and the state governments must lead the process of health sector reforms in a suitable and sustainable manner to protect the common people from health hazards.“Improvement in the health sector can be effectively led by the state government with effective monitoring and specific intervention to control and regulate the implementation process of the guidelines and schemes in a proper perspective,” it said.“The answering respondent no. (ministry) plays a supportive and facilitative role in achieving the health care reforms and outcomes. It is reiterated that the answering respondent no. 1 merely acts as a facilitator for providing accessible and affordable health care through state-led reforms in the health sector,” it said. The ministry said that as far as implementation of the guidelines and schemes in the states is concerned, it does not have any direct role and it is the prerogative of the respective state governments to implement the schemes as per the prescribed guidelines.The ministry only allocates funds to state governments for implementation of the approved schemes, it added. The Ministry of Health And Family Welfare told the top court that India has adopted a comprehensive and holistic National Population Policy (NPP), 2000, with clearly articulated objectives, strategic themes and operational strategies.The National Health Policy (NHP), 2017 provides for a policy guidance to inform, clarify, strengthen and prioritise the role of the government in shaping health systems in all its dimensions, it said. The NHP sets out indicative, quantitative goals and objectives which includes the achievement of total fertility Rate (TFR) of 2.1 by 2025. The Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development, 1994, to which India is a signatory, is unequivocally against coercion in family planning.“In fact, international experience shows that any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortions,” the ministry said.India is witnessing a constant decline in TFR, the ministry said, adding that the fertility rate which was 3.2 at the time when NPP was adopted has declined substantially to 2.2 as per the Sample Registration System, 2018.The apex court had earlier sought the Centre’s reply on a plea challenging a Delhi High Court order that dismissed a PIL seeking certain steps, including two-child norm, to control the country’s rising population.   The appeal has challenged the September 3 high court order, which said it was for Parliament and the state legislatures to enact laws and not for the court.     The PIL said the high court failed to appreciate that the right to clean air, drinking water, health, peaceful sleep, shelter, livelihood, and education guaranteed under Articles 21 and 21A of the Constitution could not be secured to all citizens without controlling the population explosion. The plea in the high court had claimed that the population of India had “marched ahead” of China, as about 20% of Indians did not have Aadhaar and therefore, were not accounted for, and there were also crores of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis living illegally in the country.     It claimed that “population explosion is also the root cause of corruption”, apart from being a contributory factor behind heinous crimes like rape and domestic violence.It also held population explosion responsible for pollution and the dearth of resources and jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/against-forcing-family-planning-centre-tells-sc-after-population-control-pil/story-IJpqHhdep8jRwRHbfNt5wK.html
12-12-2020||India||Bengal: 3 shot after altercation over installing solar lamps||Three villagers were shot at following a heated exchange over installing street lamps at Islampur in Murshidabad district in south Bengal late on Friday night. Police said that condition of two of them was critical as they had sustained multiple injuries. One person has been detained. According to the police, the local panchayat had installed a solar street lamp to light up a village road stretch that was prone to accidents. A garage owner, however, changed that direction of the lamp to illuminate the stretch where his garage was located. When villagers noticed it, they confronted the garage owner. An altercation broke out and the police had to intervene. Later when police went away, the accused, his brother and his father went to the garage’s terrace and started firing at the villagers. “The victims were rushed to a local hospital from where two of them were shifted to a state-run medical college and hospital. One person has been detained,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-3-shot-after-altercation-over-installing-solar-lamps/story-x9k2C5GQi7FQLQHeZxamdJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Govt committed to protect interest of farmers through its policies: PM Modi||Amidst protests by farmers over the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the government is committed to protect the interest of the farming community through its policies and intentions. The government has taken various initiatives to improve the income of people engaged in the farm sector, he said, adding that farmers now have options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties. Also Read: ‘Put them behind bars’: Farmer leader on Centre’s accusation of ‘anti-social’ elements in protestsThe government at any cost is committed to protect the interest of farmers through “its policies and intentions”, he emphasised. Expressing dissatisfaction over the limited participation of India Inc in the agriculture sector, the Prime Minister asked industries to show there interest and increase investment in the sector.  Frankly speaking, he said, unfortunately the India Inc “has not made adequate investments in agriculture and private players did not explore the sector to its full potential, rather they worked in limited fashion”. Citing an example, he said “the private sector’s participation is not as per the desired level in cold storage and fertiliser manufacturing”. Addressing the FICCI Annual Convention, the Prime Minister said tax terrorism and Inspector Raj are things of the past.Also Read: How many sacrifices will farmers have to make to get agri laws repealed, asks Rahul Gandhi India is now among the few nations which have implemented faceless assessment and faceless appeal with regard to tax matters, Modi said. Even the corporate tax in India is very competitive after the moderation effected last year, he added. It is to be noted that thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporate houses. The farming community has expressed apprehension that three new laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. Enacted in September, the laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-committed-to-protect-interest-of-farmers-through-its-policies-pm-modi/story-lp3nuiYCpNGzRZvSAtlhiO.html
12-12-2020||India||Training for UP Covid vaccinators begin||Training of vaccinators for administering Covid vaccine once they are available has begun in the state. Two batches in Uttar Pradesh attended the online ‘training-of-trainers’ sessions conducted by the union health ministry in the last two days.“These master trainers will train more master trainers who will then train vaccinators at district level,” said a senior health official. Training, he said, was being given on how to handle the vaccine, on bio-waste disposal and also on cold chain management for the vaccine.“Almost all the vaccinators are part of the routine immunisation programme. Hence, they just need some additional input regarding Covid vaccine, which is being arranged by the experts,” said officials.The number of vaccinators at district level is yet to be finalised but as the state will have 35,000 vaccination centres, the number of vaccinators will be more than that. “Vaccinators will be deployed at the vaccination centres along with the logistics,” said another health official.The inoculators will record the data of people vaccinated by them on an online platform—an app developed for the purpose. A certificate will also be issued to those getting vaccinated. This certificate may be used by the beneficiary wherever required.The officials said in the next 10 days, things will be in place. The vaccination centres will be identified and prepared with vaccinators deployed there. The vaccinators are being selected from among those conducting routine immunisation, pharmacists, staff nurses working at government and private hospitals and lab technicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/training-for-up-covid-vaccinators-begin/story-nmlhzawjBUgD0EDS1KpHbO.html
12-12-2020||India||Indian Army organises medical, vet camp in J-K’s Kishtwar||The Indian Army organised a medical and veterinary camp in the remote areas of Kishtwar district here and distributed Covid-19 kits and educated locals on taking precautions, officials said on Saturday.According to officials, the medical and vet camp was organised in Kishtwar’s Chhatru and Shergwari area on Saturday morning.“IndianArmy organised medical and vet camp in remote areas: Chhatru and Shergwari of district Kishtwar. Domestic animals treated and medicines provided,” PRO Defence Jammu informed in a series of tweets.In a subsequent tweet, it informed that the army personnel also distributed stationery items among students. A volleyball match was also organised for the youth here.The security personnel helped locals in opening bank accounts, availing pension and insurance schemes. “1187 adults and 235 children attended the event. 276 Domestic animals checked,” the tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-organises-medical-vet-camp-in-j-k-s-kishtwar/story-o97STNDZgZhM53XhyQMVBJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Custody of a child can’t only be decided on monetary matters: HC||The Allahabad high court has held that every child has the right to be in care and company of both parents who, together, are a child’s world.The court also said that in cases of estranged couples fighting for the custody of their child, if one parent is given custody, then another parent should be given visitation rights so that the child can meet his other parent.The court further held that issues related to the custody of a child can’t only be decided on monetary factors, rather factors like intellectual guidance and moral training by parents, which are important facets of a child’s grooming, must also be considered while deciding the issue of child custody.Justice JJ Munir allowed the writ petition filed by a woman seeking custody of her four- year-old son, who was allegedly forcibly taken away by her husband.According to petitioner, she and her husband had married on April 20, 2014 and the boy was born on September 20, 2016.As her husband used to torture her for dowry, therefore, in June 2018, she returned to her mother’s house with her son.The petitioner’s contention was that on April 6, 2019, her husband forcibly took the child away from her custody. Therefore, she was entitled to get custody of her son.The father’s contention was that he was a farmer who earned around Rs 1.5 lakh per annum but the petitioner had no personal source of income and was fully dependant on earnings from her ancestral agricultural land.After hearing the parties concerned, the court observed, “The mother is an educated woman and a post graduate in education. She is far better educated than the father. The welfare of the young child is not dependent on material resources alone. It requires a lot more. Literal and then intellectual guidance, besides moral training are important facets of a child’s grooming. This court finds that all these would be better secured with the mother than the father.”The court directed the father to give the custody of the child to the mother. The court also directed the mother to allow the father to meet his son on the second and fourth Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/custody-of-a-child-can-t-only-be-decided-on-monetary-matters-hc/story-vI4xY1w26uOK6JYE403I1M.html
12-12-2020||India||Tiger spotted above 3,000 m altitude for first time in Nepal, raises concern about impact of global warming||The Royal Bengal Tiger has been sighted at an altitude of 3,165 m above sea level for the first time in Nepal, raising concerns about the impact of global warming on wildlife.The departments of forest and soil conservation, and national parks and wildlife conservation, confirmed it to be the first sighting of a “big cat” at such a high altitude.“The majestic Royal Bengal Tiger (Panthera Tigris), the largest of all Asian big cats, was captured on November 13 and November 21 at an elevation of 3,165 m by a camera trap set up in a forest in Illam district of eastern Nepal. It is the country’s very first photographic evidence of tiger sighting in the mountains of the eastern region,” a joint press release issued by the two departments read.After spotting tigers at the high altitude of the Himalayas in Nepal for the first time, both the departments stressed the need for special attention in the area where lynxes were also spotted lately.“This sighting demonstrates the importance of the Kanchenjunga Landscape in eastern Nepal, and it needs special attention since the forests provide connectivity to India’s Singalia National Park in north Sikkim and Dooars in North Bengal,” the release stated.Earlier, Bhutan had captured a tiger on camera at an altitude of 4,038 m in 2018, while India’s Arunachal Pradesh recorded a sighting at Dibang Valley at an elevation of 3,630 m.Sighting of the tiger at such elevations has raised concerns about the impact of global warming as well as possible depletion of habitats of the carnivore, which is enlisted as an endangered species.World Tiger Statistics released in 2016 had recorded a total of 2,226 big cats in India, 433 in Russia, 371 in Indonesia, 250 in Malaysia, 198 in Nepal, 189 in Thailand, 106 in Bangladesh, 103 in Bhutan, seven in China, five in Vietnam and two in Laos.On World Tiger Day on July 29 this year, Nepali Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli had mentioned that global warming is hampering tiger conservation.“Despite the efforts being made by the countries hosting the tigers, depletion of vegetation, increased human-wildlife conflict, poaching and hunting, illegal trade of animal organs, the danger of climate change and various diseases have increased the challenges in the field of tiger conservation,” Oli said.In the last census in 2018, Nepal counted a total of 235 tigers. As per the latest census, there are 93 tigers at Chitwan National Park, 87 in Bardiya National Park, 16 in Shuklaphanta, 21 in Banke and 18 in Parsa.The number had increased from the preceding five years. In 2013, the Chitwan National Park had recorded 120 tigers, Baridya 50, Suklaphanta 17, Parsa seven, and Banke four tigers, taking the number to 198.In 2009, the number of tigers was recorded at 121. At the end of the last decade, Nepal, along with 13 other countries, had agreed on a framework to double the number of the carnivore.Nepal has set a target of taking the number of tigers to 250 by 2022 when the next tiger census takes place. Currently, tigers are found in five national parks in the Tarai Arc Landscape covering 18 districts and seven biological corridors in the plains of Nepal.The Royal Bengal Tiger is listed as “Endangered” in the International Union for Nature Conservation (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species and protected in Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-spotted-above-3-000-m-altitude-for-first-time-in-nepal-raises-concern-about-impact-of-global-warming/story-noYcaDhPfGvqqUepMvUvMP.html
12-12-2020||India||Sharad Pawar turns 80, Uddhav govt pays tribute with rural scheme launch||While the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is celebrating Sharad Pawar’s 80th Birthday by holding around 400 virtual rallies and a slew of programs, including blood donation camps and job fairs, the Maharashtra government has launched a rural development scheme named Sharad Pawar Gram Samruddhi Yojana to commemorate the most senior political leader of the state.The scheme will be implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNRES).The State government is also launching a digital platform on Saturday, allowing people with disabilities to register for their needs, such as hearing aid, battery-operated wheelchair, prosthesis, Braille kits etc. and those who believe in charity can also register and donate. The portal will be called www.mahasharad.inApart from this, a celebration program has been organised by the NCP at YB Chavan Centre in Mumbai with a limited number of people attending, keeping the need to maintain social distancing amid the Covid-19 pandemic in mind. Pawar will be present along with friends and family at this functionThe party has asked leaders and workers to attend the program through virtual rallies. Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray wishes Sharad Pawar on birthday,calls him MVA’s pillarPawar is seen as the glue and the force holding the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, together. The three-party coalition government in the state to keep the BJP away from power was his brainchild. Both the NCP and the Congress were facing mass exodus last year and the coalition was seen as a survival strategy.“Around 3 lakh people will be attending the celebrations through 400 to 500 virtual rallies across 36 districts of the state,” said state NCP chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil.NCP has started blood donation camps across the state from December 10 that will continue for a week to help state cope up with the shortage of blood.Pawar is a three-term chief minister of Maharashtra and has handled defence ministry, agriculture ministry at the Centre. Currently, he is a Rajya Sabha MP. He has been a big factor in Maharashtra politics and a key leader in national politics for five decades now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-turns-80-uddhav-govt-pays-tribute-with-rural-scheme-launch/story-cJrdsmGv2CQp9PGGBVnjnO.html
12-12-2020||India||How many sacrifices will farmers have to make to get agri laws repealed, asks Rahul Gandhi||The Congress on Saturday cited a media report to claim that 11 farmers had died in the last 17 days while protesting against the new agri laws, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi asking how many more sacrifices will farmers have to make to get the legislations repealed.At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, protesting on various borders of the national capital for over two weeks, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws.“How many more sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get the agri laws repealed?” Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, tagging a media report which claimed that 11 protesting farmers had lost their lives in the last 17 days due to various reasons such as ill health or a mishap.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that despite the “martyrdom of 11 farmer brothers in the last 17 days, the Modi government is not relenting”.“They (government) are still standing with their ‘money providers’ not with ‘annadaatas’ (food providers),” he alleged in a tweet in Hindi.“The country wants to know -- ‘Is Rajdharma (constitutional responsibility) bigger or Rajhat’ (stubbornness)?” Surjewala asked, tagging the media report that Gandhi also cited.Farmers are protesting the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-many-sacrifices-will-farmers-have-to-make-to-get-agri-laws-repealed-asks-rahul/story-4HV2ivXHWbowdAgRMaKgAM.html
12-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Lancet launches ‘Citizens’ Commission’ to discuss health care in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lancet introduces commission to discuss health care in India, make suggestionsThe Lancet on Friday launched the Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System, which will work on developing a strategy for implementing universal health coverage (UHC) in India. The work of the commission will begin on Friday with an aim to publish a final report of its findings and recommendations in the next two years. Read moreIndia, Iran, Uzbekistan to hold first trilateral meet on Chabahar port useIndia, Iran and Uzbekistan will hold their first trilateral meeting on joint use of the strategic Chabahar port next week against the backdrop of reports that the incoming Joe Biden administration in the US will re-engage Tehran on the nuclear issue. Read moreFarmers protest enters 17th day: No question of returning home, says union leader; protesters overpower toll plazas of Karnal, Panipat | 10 pointsThe ongoing protest of the farmers enters its 17th day on Saturday with a massive plan to block highways set in motion. As the impasse persists with government saying it is open to talks and farmers concurring as well to more discussions — only if the Centre wants to discuss the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the standoff sees no immediate resolution while the protest intensifies with more and more farmers’ groups joining. Read moreShah meets cops, security officials to pre-empt any chances of violence in DelhiHome minister Amit Shah on Friday met with senior government, police and security officials and discussed ways to pre-empt any chances of violence on Delhi’s borders in connection with the ongoing farmers’ agitation, people familiar with the matter said. Read more‘He will bat at No.4 after Virat Kohli leaves’: Sunil Gavaskar names his pick ahead of India vs Australia TestsVirat Kohli’s paternity leave had become a huge topic of discussion in the lead-up to India’s tour of Australia. Now with less than a week to go before the first of the four Tests in the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, it has once again come to fore with the discussion evolving into who would replace Kohli in the Indian batting order after he leaves at the end of the first Test Adelaide. Read moreOracle is leaving Silicon Valley and moving to TexasBusiness computing giant Oracle on Friday said it is leaving Silicon Valley for Texas as it embraces a remote work model made common by the pandemic. “We believe these moves best position Oracle for growth and provide our personnel with more flexibility about where and how they work,” Oracle said. Read moreRajinikanth turns 70: Shatrughan Sinha calls him ‘real Guru Ghantal’, PM Modi wishes him ‘long, healthy life’Superstar Rajinikanth turned 70 on Saturday. Everyone from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to South superstars Chiranjeevi and Mohanlal have wished the actor who is set to announce his new political party on December 31, ahead of the Tamil Nadu elections. Read moreSwara Bhasker looks breathtaking as she dazzles at the I-View World Film Festival in an emerald georgette sareeMaking some sartorial statements during the promotions of her recently released web series ‘Bhaag Beanie Bhaag’, actor Swara Bhasker extended her fashion game to the I-View World Film Festival which kicked off from Thursday. Set to be the home of Oscars-bound features and artistes while screening over 50 movies from all over the world, the film festival will run from December 10 to 20 at the DLF CyberHub in Gurgaon. Read moreRelationship goals: Couple remodels school bus into mobile home, travels AustraliaIf you’re someone who loves travelling and is feeling particularly wanderlusty after having stayed indoors for most of this past year, then here’s an Instagram page that you must check out. This couple’s posts are certified travel goals. Read more‘US needs presidential leadership on Covid-19 right now’: Joe BidenUS President-Elect Joe Biden said combating the Covid-19 pandemic is a ‘serious business’ that requires ‘presidential leadership’. Biden said that with ‘more than 3,000 deaths in one single day,’ the US was seeing more deaths than from the 9/11 terror attack or at Pearl Harbor. He added that the American public should have confidence in a coronavirus vaccine that may soon begin to become available. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-lancet-launches-citizens-commission-to-discuss-health-care-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xZAbz60iObxJiA1S6IIVBI.html
12-12-2020||India||Govt cancels GST registration of 163k biz entities over non-filing of tax returns||The government has cancelled Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration of over 163,000 business entities due to non-filing of tax returns for more than six months to curb the menace of fly-by-night operators who create bogus firms and fraudulently avail input tax credit (ITC) worth thousands of crores, two officials said.To handle the menace of fake firms and circular trading entities, GST officials have cancelled 1,63,042 registrations in the month of October and November this year due to non-filing of GSTR-3B returns for more than six months , the finance ministry officials said, requesting anonymity. “All these business entities, who had not filed their GSTR-3B returns for more than six months, were first issued the cancellation notices and then their registrations were cancelled as per standard operating procedure,” one of the officials said. GSTR-3B is a summary statement of business transactions filed by a registered entity every month.In Ahmedabad zone alone, 11,048 GST registrations have been cancelled. In Chennai zone, 19,586 suo motu cancellations have been done so far in respect of GST taxpayers who have failed to file returns for more than six months, he said. “Further, 28,635 registered entities who have not filed their GSTR-3B returns for more than six months as December 1, 2020 have been identified and the tax authority has suo motu initiated cancellation process in these cases,” he added.The tax authority has last month launched a massive crackdown against fake entities indulging in issuing bogus invoices to fraudulently usurp ITC. Within one month, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) and Central GST Commissionerates have so far arrested 132 persons, including four chartered accountant and a woman for availing or passing on ineligible ITC fraudulently and have booked 1,430 cases against more than 4,586 bogus entities, a second official said. “The tax authority is also scanning newly registered entities that have not provided correct details at the time of registration. Out of 720 deemed registrations granted between August 21 and November 16 this year, where Aadhaar authentication was not done, 55 deemed registrations have been identified for discrepancy and the process of cancellation was initiated in these cases,” the first official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cancels-gst-registration-of-163k-biz-entities-over-non-filing-of-tax-returns/story-v8C77I7c5Pk2WBw05GdqNJ.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Put them behind bars’: Farmer leader on Centre’s accusation of ‘anti-social’ elements in protests||A day after the government said that the farmers’ protest is being misused by some “Leftist, Maoist, anti-social elements”, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said protesting farmers have no idea of any such stray element in their protest. Central intelligence agencies should catch them, he said. “Central Intelligence should catch them. If people of a banned organization are roaming amid us, put them behind bars. We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we’ll send them away,” Tikait told ANI.Amid the ongoing stalemate between the Centre and farmers, which went a notch higher on Saturday with protesters, Union railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal brought direct charges of the protest getting derailed.“People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support and therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation and trying misuse this platform for their own agenda,” Goyal tweeted.The farmers have maintained from the beginning that their protest is apolitical though their call for Bharat Bandh garnered massive support from most of the opposition and regional political parties. No politician has been allowed to speak at the stage at the key protest site at Singhu. However, on December 10, many supporters at Tikri border — another site of the protest — displayed posters of Umar Khalid and Susha Bharadwaj. Some supporters were observing Human Rights Day, union leaders have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/put-them-behind-bars-farmer-leader-on-centre-s-accusation-of-anti-social-elements-in-protests/story-7k1qGq97CfspIIcFLulZDN.html
12-12-2020||India||Maharashtra govt mandates free blood at state-run hospitals||The health department of Maharashtra Government on Friday issued a notification to implement the facility of providing blood free of cost to the patients receiving treatment at all state-run hospitals from Saturday onwards.This notification comes as Maharashtra continues to the worst affected state by the coronavirus pandemic. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 74,408 active Covid-19 cases in the state.On Thursday, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope first made the announcement that blood will be provided free of cost at state-run hospitals from December 12. In a tweet on Thursday, Tope had encouraged the people of the state to donate their blood. “Against the backdrop of blood scarcity in the state, I and MP Supriyatai Sule at Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan today appealed the citizens to donate their blood,” the minister wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-mandates-free-blood-at-state-run-hospitals/story-VZFUSdzD5QS32RvkNhKzeL.html
12-12-2020||India||Gehlot says BJP spreading lies on Congress performance in rural body polls, presents data||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has accused the BJP Union ministers of spreading lies regarding performance of the Congress in rural local body elections to discredit the ongoing farmers’ protests at Delhi borders on the directions of saffron party high command.“The BJP is displaying these results as its big victory, which is proven wrong in the analysis of data,” the CM said in a statement. He said the Congress got higher vote share than the BJP in the elections held on 222 Panchayat Samitis in 21 districts, whose results were announced on Wednesday. The Congress got 40.87% votes, while the BJP got 40.58% votes-- 0.29 percentage points less than the Congress.In the 222 Panchayat Samitis, Congress and BJP won 98 chairperson posts each and 26 went to independents and other parties. In 2015, on these Panchayat Samitis, the BJP had won 112 and the Congress had 67. The number of chairperson posts with the Congress has increased by 31, while the BJP’s numbers have reduced by 14, he said. In 21 district council or Zila Parishad posts, the BJP had received 48.87% votes in 2015 which has come down to 43.81% votes this year, a fall of 5 percentage points. Congress has got 42.76% votes, which is just 1.05 percentage points less than the BJP. In 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP’s vote share in these districts was 61.05% of the votes polled, which Gehlot said had come down by 18 percentage points. In 2015, the BJP had won 14 district council heads in these 21 districts, which has come down to 13 now, he added. Also Read: With another win, BJP gets 13 pramukh seats in 21 zila parishads in Rajasthan“The entire focus of the state government was on containing the pandemic and therefore did not send state and central level leaders to campaign in these elections to avoid gathering of crowds and curb the spread of infection. The BJP Union ministers such as Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Kailash Chaudhary and Arjun Meghwal along with state leaders such as leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and his deputy Rajendra Rathore campaigned and violated corona guidelines,” he said. When 2,500 people and two MLAs of the state have lost their lives due to Corona, it is our responsibility to take the infection seriously but the BJP leaders did not, the CM said, alleging that in order to win the elections, BJP leaders presented the wrong example of breaking the corona protocol in front of the common man. Also Read: Rajasthan forms panel to probe death of 12 infants“The BJP is misleading the media over the election results and trying to create an illusion as if the Congress has been wiped out. The farmers of Rajasthan have supported the farmers’ movement by giving the BJP 18% less votes in 18 months. The farmers of Rajasthan are completely against the new farm laws, and have voted against the BJP,” the CM said. BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said the CM was presenting wrong facts and figures to hide Congress party’s alleged failures. “It is clear that the BJP has won 13 Zila chairperson posts and we will win Jhalawar also, whose result is pending,” Pareek said. He claimed that despite being in the government and misusing the government machinery, the Congress lost in rural areas, which the party claimed to be their stronghold.“Leaders of BJP and Congress campaigned in the election and maintained social distancing but levelling charges against the BJP is unfortunate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-says-bjp-spreading-lies-on-congress-performance-in-rural-body-polls-presents-data/story-uebI3o2XLEwJ4urxF4RFoN.html
12-12-2020||India||Lancet introduces Commission for universal health coverage||The Lancet on Friday launched the Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System, which will work on developing a strategy for implementing universal health coverage (UHC) in India. The work of the commission will begin on Friday with an aim to publish a final report of its findings and recommendations in the next two years.The Lancet, a global health journal, and the Lakshmi Mittal And Family South Asia Institute, Harvard University, together formulated the commission which will be led by four distinguished health and business leaders—Gagandeep Kang, a professor at the Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory of Christian Medical College, Vellore, and one of India’s leading scientists; Tarun Khanna, Jorge Paulo Lemann Professor, Harvard Business School; Lakshmi Mittal And Family South Asia Institute, Harvard University and Director, Lakshmi Mittal and Family South Asia Institute; Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, CMD, Biocon Ltd and Vikram Patel, Professor in the Department of Global Health and Population at Harvard Medical School and founder of Sangath. They have brought together 13 experts from academia, the scientific community, civil society, and private healthcare to serve with them on the Commission.The mission of the Lancet Citizens’ Commission is to lay out the path to achieving UHC in India in the coming decade. The commission will take a participatory approach with engagement of all sectors engaged in healthcare and citizens. “We expect that the commission will formulate a roadmap for realising a resilient health system that offers comprehensive, accountable, accessible, inclusive, and affordable quality health care to all citizens in India. Although we recognise the important role that social determinants have in influencing health, the focus of the Commission will be on the architecture of India’s health system…”a commentary in Lancet India said on Thursday.The commentary also said that despite progress in health indicators such as maternal and infant mortality, disease burden in India is disproportionately high and that less than two-thirds of children were fully immunised in 2017–18, malnutrition and other risk factors for disease and injury are widespread. The commission observed that the Covid 19 pandemic has exposed the weaknesses of India’s health system ranging from inadequate medical supplies and shortage of health care workers in public hospitals to profiteering by private hospitals. “Out-of-pocket payments for health care in India continue to be among the leading causes of poverty for many households… An estimated 400 million people could fall deeper into poverty. In the coming year, as India’s gross domestic product contracts by a projected 10·3%. The pandemic could worsen health disparities since much of the public health system has been redeployed in the Covid-19 response,” the commentary said.Data from India’s National Health Mission showed there was a 64% decrease in child immunisation, a 50% drop in BCG vaccinations, and a 39% fall in oral polio immunisation in April, 2020, compared with January, 2020.The commission organised a webinar on Monday where Dr Vinod Paul, member Niti Ayog said Ayushman Bharat and Digital Health Mission have laid the path towards UHC. “A few significant big tickets steps have been taken in the past few years. On the human resource front, I assure you that we will achieve a doctor patient ratio of 1 per 1000 which is the WHO norm by 2024. Our public spending has to increase we made a commitment to go to 2.5% of GDP by 2025 which we will follow through. Our 15TH Finance Commission has also put weight behind it. Two-thirds of spending on health comes from state governments. State spending should be disaggregated,” said Paul, adding: “We have a chronic problem of human resources. Our specialist scarcity is huge. The Commission should think about that granularity. We have 20 to 25% of what we should have. We need five times the number of paediatricians we have today. We cannot do without specialists. The Commission also needs to work on infrastructure. We have just about one bed per 1000 population. Under the national health policy, we aspire to be 2 beds per 1000 population.”WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said “the index that’s now used was developed years ago which looks at 14 indicators focused on process indicators. We wanted to measure UHC by looking at health outcomes and impact. So instead of focusing on distribution of ORS in primary health centres as a management of childhood diarrhoea, let’s look at mortality incidence ratio for diarrhoea. India could innovate in the measurement system to move ahead. We have proposed a new UHC measuring index.”Gagandeep Kang said that all stakeholders will be consulted. “Engagement must start with listening to issues, perspectives, goals and preferences of all stakeholders which includes the designers, providers and recipients of healthcare services. In the next year or so we will make sure we use every opportunity to listen and engage so our framing of a reliable, efficient and accountable healthcare system can be realised in ten years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lancet-introduces-commission-to-discuss-health-care-in-india-make-suggestions/story-SIADvIXdssT6MYUlFqw1MM.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology: PM Modi on farm reforms||Amid the ongoing standoff between the Centre and the farmers who are agitating against the three new farm laws for the last 16 days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday championed the ongoing reforms and said these will open new avenues in front of the farmers. “We had seen walls between the agriculture sector and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain.We don’t want walls. We want bridges. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. This in turn will bring in more investment,” Modi said delivering the keynote address at the 93rd Annual General Meeting of FICCI.“The cold storage infrastructure will be modernised. This will result in more investments in the agriculture sector. Farmers will be benefitted the most out of it,” Modi said. His comments come at a time when thousands of protesters have laid siege to Delhi demanding an immediate withdrawal of the farm laws as they fear the new laws will corporatise farming and will benefit corporates at the cost of farmers.Batting for the involvement of all stakeholders in all sectors, PM Modi said, “If the government is confident, then it does not get threatened to make space for other players. This has been happening in India for the last six years.”This is not the first time after the massive agitation of the farmers began that PM Modi touched the issue of farm laws. In his last Mann ki Baat speech, PM Modi had said, “Parliament has recently passed farm reform laws after rigorous brainstorming. These reforms have not only broken shackles of farmers but have also given new rights and opportunities to them.”The theme of FICCI’s annual convention this year is ‘Inspired India’, the Prime Minister’s Office’s (PMO) said on Friday. PM Modi also launched the FICCI Annual Expo 2020. This will provide an opportunity to exhibitors from across the globe to showcase their products and advance their business prospects, the PMO had added.Over the three days of the convention, more than 10,000 delegates from across the world and Union ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, S Jaishankar and Ravi Shankar Prasad will address the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-get-new-markets-options-and-more-benefits-of-technology-pm-modi-on-farm-reforms/story-LewN97PzJMUHHAwew7MH0K.html
12-12-2020||India||India, Iran, Uzbekistan to hold first trilateral meet on Chabahar port use||India, Iran and Uzbekistan will hold their first trilateral meeting on joint use of the strategic Chabahar port next week against the backdrop of reports that the incoming Joe Biden administration in the US will re-engage Tehran on the nuclear issue. The first trilateral working group meeting will be held virtually on December 14, and will be jointly chaired by deputy ministers of Iran and Uzbekistan and a secretary from India, the external affairs ministry said on Saturday. The announcement came a day after Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev proposed during a summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that a trilateral meeting should be held with Iran to promote Chabahar port. India currently operates one of the terminals of Chabahar port that it has developed. The strategic project has been given a waiver from sanctions imposed by the US on Iran in view of its importance in shipping cargo and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. “India welcomes the interest of Uzbekistan to use the Chabahar port as a transit port,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “This would open up economic opportunities for the traders and business community of the region. Besides Uzbekistan, other Central Asian countries have also shown interest in using the port. India seeks to cooperate closely with regional countries on this issue,” the statement added. US President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from the nuclear deal with Iran in 2018 and re-imposed crippling sanctions as part of a “maximum pressure” campaign. However, president-elect Joe Biden has said he will offer Iran a “credible path back to diplomacy” since dealing with Tehran’s nuclear programme is the best way to achieve stability in the region. The US, in consultation with allies and partners, will engage in “negotiations and follow-on agreements to tighten and lengthen Iran’s nuclear constraints”, Biden told The New York Times in an interview this month. Biden also said he will insist on Iran agreeing to new demands if it wants the US to return to a nuclear deal and lift sanctions. These developments had resulted in renewed interest in Chabahar port, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Following the India-Uzbekistan Summit on Friday, Adarsh Swaika, joint secretary (Eurasia) in the external affairs ministry, said the two sides had discussed how to overcome lack of overland connectivity. Mirziyoyev gave his in-principle concurrence to joining the International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC), when Modi reiterated a proposal on Uzbekistan’s participation in the project. “We as a principle would welcome any initiative that increases connectivity between Afghanistan and Uzbekistan or with other Central Asian countries,” Swaika said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-iran-uzbekistan-to-hold-first-trilateral-meet-on-chabahar-port-use/story-Dcxn4uNUPR7MI5rNuW4dzI.html
12-12-2020||India||‘World’s faith in India built over 6 years, strengthened in past months’: PM Modi at FICCI’s AGM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India was able to prioritise saving lives during coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and as a result, the situation has changed for the better. The world’s faith in India, which was built over the last six years, has strengthened over the past few months, he said.“The faith that the world placed in India in the last 6 years has further strengthened in the past few months. Be it FDI or FPI - foreign investors have made record investments in India and are continuing to do that,” PM Modi said at the inauguration of FICCI’s (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) 93rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual Convention.Further, the PM said that reforms introduced by the current government are aimed at breaking the walls between different sectors. “We have introduced some reforms with the aim of breaking walls between various sectors. These walls hamper development,” the PM said, adding that the Farm laws is one such example. “We’d seen walls between agriculture and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology,” he said.Another example of the government’s planned and integrated approach towards building bridges between different sectors is that of reforms introduced in the banking sector, the PM said. “We have ensured everyone’s financial inclusion through changes in the banking sector. We joined banks and made cheap mobiles and mobile data available to poor. Today, direct benefit transfer (DBT) system, that aims to transfer subsidies directly to the people through their bank accounts, is working in our country,” he said.“At the time of Covid-19, when other nations were dependent on cheques and postal services to transfer money, India could send thousands of rupees to its citizens with a click. This was happening even at the time of lockdown, when the banks were shut. We have received global appreciation for this model and experts have advised other nations to learn from it,” he said.The theme of the annual convention this year is ‘Inspired India’, the Prime Minister’s Office’s (PMO) said on Friday. PM Modi also launched the FICCI Annual Expo 2020. This will provide an opportunity to exhibitors from across the globe to showcase their products and advance their business prospects, the PMO had added.Over the three days of the convention, more than 10,000 delegates from across the world and Union ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, S Jaishankar and Ravi Shankar Prasad will address the conference.Finance commission chairman NK Singh and NITI aayog chairman Amitabh Kant will also address the FICCI AGM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-built-globally-over-6-years-strengthened-over-past-months-pm-modi-in-inaugural-address-at-ficci-s-agm/story-jGks35VYwyJmvhnfrBBw3J.html
12-12-2020||India||Manipur CM inaugurates 100-bed ‘dedicated Covid block’ at JNIMS in Imphal||In the bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic, Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh has inaugurated a 100-bedded ‘dedicated Covid block’ at the state run Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) in Imphal.This comes amid a rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. According to the Union Health Ministry’s data, there are 2,970 active cases in Manipur.“Hon’ble Chief Minister inaugurated 100-bedded dedicated Covid Block at JNIMS today and handed over to the people and the medical professionals who are leading from the front in the fight against Covid -19 pandemic,” the Office of the Chief Minister of Manipur tweeted on December 10. Hon'ble CM inaugrated 100-bedded dedicated COVID Block at JNIMS today and handed over to the people and the medical professionals who are leading from the front in the fight against #COVID19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/YrNSEf6ERsOn Wednesday, the Manipur Chief Minister had inaugurated eight different projects and laid foundation stones for five others here in the Senapati district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-inaugurates-100-bed-dedicated-covid-block-at-jnims-in-imphal/story-L8pi9BU3GsazHiYnujHJcI.html
12-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM inaugurates trial run of IVRS to monitor people in isolation||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday inaugurated the trial run of Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) at the Secretariat for monitoring people living in isolation due to the novel coronavirus for Haridwar district.Through this IVRS system, people living in isolation will be regularly monitored, all their problems and other information will be recorded in the system according to the response of the questions asked by the system. Through this system, questions related to symptoms, testing and follow-up can be asked and according to the answers, immediate medical help will be provided by informing the concerned nodal officers.“It is necessary to monitor the persons infected with Covid-19, but it should also be ensured that contact with the patient is made at a convenient time. While taking feedback, the person living in isolation should face the least difficulty,” Rawat said. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand has reported 5,742 active Covid-19 cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-inaugurates-trial-run-of-ivrs-to-monitor-people-in-isolation/story-BvpCE3UaKH6pQpSGMtKYPN.html
12-12-2020||India||Srinagar gets season’s 1st snowfall, more predicted in Ladakh and Kashmir||Srinagar on Saturday witnessed season’s first snowfall while areas in south Kashmir and upper reaches of Kashmir received good snowfall. Weather department officials said fresh western disturbance (WD) is active and could bring more rain and snowfall in Ladakh and Kashmir.The fresh snowfall has disrupted traffic on Srinagar-Jammu national highway.“Due to snow accumulation at Jawahar Tunnel and landslides/ shooting stones at several places along the national highway, the road is blocked,” said inspector general of J&K Traffic.Shoiab Ahmad, a Srinagar resident said that though the city observed a few inches of snow since early morning, it was not heavy. “It’s the first snow in the city but it’s a light snowfall, not like November last year,” he said. Director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Sonum Lotus, said that widespread rain, snow occurred in J&K, Kargil and in the upper reaches of Leh district.“Today no major rain or snow is expected in J&K, while snowfall is likely to continue in Sonmarg, Zojila Dras and Zanskar axis and on the higher reaches of Leh,” said Lotus.Also Read: Principal secretary to L-G reviews Jammu Smart City ProjectHe said that the weather is gradually improving in J&K and there is no major prediction till December 20.Kashmir region had already received December’s first rain and snowfall earlier this week. An avalanche warning has been issued for J&K, while a yellow alert has been sounded for higher reaches of Ramban, Anantnag, Baramulla, Kupwara, Ganderbal, Poonch, Doda, Kishtwar, Kulgam and Kargil districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-gets-season-s-1st-snowfall-more-predicted-in-ladakh-and-kashmir/story-a0VFPQ7LlEHPQkXNCpRTUO.html
12-12-2020||India||Guruvayur temple closed for devotees as 22 employees test Covid positive||Kerala’s famous Sree Krishna temple in Guruvayur was closed for devotees for at least two weeks after 22 employees were tested positive on Friday. The temple administration said daily rituals and other offerings will continue as usual at the shrine.Later, the Thrissur district administration has declared areas surrounding temple town as a containment zone. But weddings and other rituals, which were booked earlier, will be done outside the temple adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols, an official of the temple board said. Out of 160 employees at the temple, at least 48 have tested positive so far, after three rounds of random tests. Most of the infected employees were asymptomatic. The temple administration has decided to conduct RT-PCR tests every month among employees. One of the oldest temples that devotees believe was built by Deva Guru Brahaspati and Lord Vayu after deluge in Dwaraka (hence, Guruvayur), an estimated 2.5 million devotees throng the temple every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guruvayur-temple-closed-for-devotees-as-22-employees-test-covid-positive/story-5liWPhyAkGtFuv5xr96uMK.html
12-12-2020||India||Pandemic threatens India’s children with child labour rising||A boy who cried out when he was beaten for complaining of stomach pains drew attention from a passerby, who alerted police in the central Indian city of Agra.Officers broke a padlock on the gate of the illegal shoe factory where the boy was working and found a dozen children, aged 10-17.With classrooms shut and parents losing their jobs in the pandemic, thousands of families are putting their children to work to get by, undoing decades of progress in curbing child labour and threatening the future of a generation of India’s children.In rural India, a nationwide lockdown imposed in March pushed millions of people into poverty, encouraging trafficking of children from villages into cities for cheap labour. The pandemic is hampering enforcement of anti-child labour laws, with fewer workplace inspections and less vigorous pursuit of human traffickers.“The situation is unprecedented,” said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a children’s rights group whose founder, Kailash Satyarthi, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2014.“These children are made to work 14-16 hours a day and if they refuse to work they are beaten. One beating sends the message down the group, which suits the owner,” said Tingal.Tingal’s organization has rescued at least 1,197 children between April and September across India. In the same period last year, it helped 613.Childline, a nationwide helpline for children in distress, received 192,000 distress calls between March and August, most of them related to cases of child labour. It handled 170,000 such calls in the same period of 2019.The 13-year-old boy who was working in the illegal shoe factory in Agra cannot be identified by name because Indian law forbids naming suspected victims of child labour and trafficking.He was working 12-14 hours a day attaching the rubber soles of shoes with glue in a small cramped room, with little food and water when police rescued him and other children in September.He was sent home to Bahraich, a rural town in India’s heartland state of Uttar Pradesh, some 460 kilometers (285 miles) from Agra, with help from the Children’s Welfare Committee, a government body that provides care and protection for children in need.But with schools closed and his father struggling to feed his four children, the boy went back to work, this time on a farm in his village.In India, children under 14 are not allowed to work except in family businesses and farms. They are also barred from dangerous workplaces such as construction sites, brick kilns, and chemical factories.The country has made serious gains in combatting child labour, but more than 10 million Indian children are still in some form of servitude, according to UNICEF.At the height of the pandemic, which has infected more than 9.5 million Indians and killed more than 138,000, the 13-year-old’s father, Sukhai Ram, a landless farmer from the lower end of India’s unforgiving caste system, was jobless and worried.One day, he met a man who promised to give Ram’s son a job paying about $60 a month. Ultimately, the family only got one month’s pay for the two months the boy worked there before he was rescued.“I was swayed by those words and allowed him to take my son to the city,” Ram said.In many cases, families know the child traffickers, said Surya Pratap Mishra, a children’s rights activist.In some Uttar Pradesh villages, traffickers distributed free food to impoverished families during the pandemic lockdown, which lasted 68 days. Having earned the confidence of the villagers, they offered to give their children jobs in big cities.“As the villagers knew these people, they agreed and sent their children with them,” said Mishra.Many did not return for months and were sent home only after being rescued by the authorities and nonprofit groups. Some have not yet been found.In July, India’s Home Ministry redoubled its fight against the resurgence of child labour, issuing guidelines for urgently setting up Anti Human Trafficking Units in every district. Many Indian states have flouted that advisory.Ajit Singh, a child rights activist in Uttar Pradesh, said the government’s efforts to protect children since the pandemic began have been abysmal.Most of India’s elementary and middle schools are still closed because of the pandemic, affecting more than 200 million children. Teachers visit families to check in with students, but online learning is beyond the reach of millions of families that can’t afford smartphones or laptops.One recent morning in a suburb of the capital, New Delhi, Mohammad Shahzad watched with concern as his 14-year-old son shouldered a heavy bag of sand at a construction site.“Keep your body stiff. Else it’ll fall,” Shahzad shouted as the boy, a seventh-grader, headed barefoot into the building. At least four other children were working alongside their parents.With schools closed, the boy will keep working, Shahzad said.“There is already very little work. If he won’t help us in these trying times, we won’t have enough to eat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-threatens-india-s-children-with-child-labour-rising/story-430qFwNJShHxjeOLNYpXJJ.html
12-12-2020||India||Election Commission considers proposal for digitisation of voter ids||The Election Commission of India is considering a proposal to digitise voter id cards and do away with hardcopies, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. The digitisation process of the Elector’s Photo Identity Card (EPIC) could begin before the next round of assembly elections to be held in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, which are due before May next year. The EPIC is presently available in form of a hardcopy and may now be available as a PDF file. The modalities of how the scheme will work are still being finalised, the people said, requesting anonymity. The digitisation of the card will help do away with printing costs. The proposal will have to be approved by the chief election commissioner, Sunil Arora, and election commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar before it is implemented. There are nearly 911 million eligible voters registered with the Commission, according to 2019 data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-considers-proposal-for-digitisation-of-voter-ids/story-pNgryYFJSwEi5h2KgHzy8H.html
12-12-2020||India||Fighter pilot killed in MIG-29K crash laid to rest with full military honours||The Indian Navy bid farewell to slain fighter pilot Commander Nishant Singh who was killed in a MiG 29K fighter that crashed into the Arabian Sea off the coast of Goa with full military honours in Goa on Friday evening. “Nishant Singh did not survive the Mig-29K crash off Goa on November 26. His wife, Nayaab Randhawa received the tricolour and her husband’s uniform from the Commanding Officer of the squadron,” the Indian Navy said in a statement. “The son of a naval officer, Commander Nishant, was a Qualified Flying Instructor adept on Kiran, Hawk and Mig-29K fighter aircraft. The Indian Navy has lost one of its most accomplished aviators in Cdr Nishant as he had also received advanced strike training with the US Navy,” the Navy added. Singh was posted at Goa and was flying a trainer aircraft along with a younger pilot when the aircraft developed a technical fault forcing both the pilots to eject. The trainer pilot was found but Singh remained untraceable for 11 days despite a massive search operation involving air and surface units.Also Read: IAF raises objections to Netflix trailerSingh was found on the 11th day of the search along with all sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats that have been accounted for, using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The flight data recorder alongwith other important materials have been recovered for analysis.The officer was also a qualified mountaineer as well as a skilled yachtsman who recently got married. His hilarious letter seeking permission from his commanding officer in order to get married had gone viral on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighter-pilot-killed-in-mig-29k-crash-laid-to-rest-with-full-military-honours/story-obPST65dNKQXe5Ihf0JWeJ.html
12-12-2020||India||India records 30,006 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, total tally crosses 9.8 million||India recorded 30,006 fresh Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, registering a 2 per cent increase from Friday’s fresh infection tally. With 33,494 recoveries and 442 deaths recorded in the same time, the total tally reached 98,26,775. The number of active cases on Saturday further dipped to 3,59,819. The number of total recoveries reached 93,24,328, according to the dashboard of the Union health ministry. On Friday, the number of fresh cases was 29,398.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the two million mark on August 7, three million on August 23 and four million on September 5. It went past five million on September 16, six million on September 28, seven million on October 11, eight million lakh on October 29, and nine on November 20. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a cumulative total of 15,26,97,399 samples have been tested up to December 11 with 10,65,176 samples being tested on Friday.On Friday, India reported the landmark achievement of bringing the active caseload to 3.63 lakh after 146 days.Kerala for the past few days has been recording the maximum number of new infections, while the situation in Delhi has improved. On Thursday, West Bengal (2,801), Uttar Pradesh (1,662)and Rajasthan (1,592) reported more cases than Delhi (1,575). On Friday, however, Delhi saw a spike of 1,000 cases as it recorded 2,385 fresh Covid-19 infections. In the view of the steady rise in cases, Kerala has decided to not allow devotees inside Guruvayur temple in Thissur for two weeks as the area has been declared a containment zone. On Friday, as many as 22 employees of the devaswom tested positive for the infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-30-006-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-total-tally-crosses-9-8-million/story-dh78D6JsftOo6oOqZco51M.html
12-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address FICCI’s 93rd AGM, Annual Convention today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address FICCI’s 93rd AGM, Annual ConventionPrime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at FICCI’s (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) 93rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual Convention on December 12 at 11 am via video conferencing. Read more.Farmers protest enters 17th day: Toll plazas of Karnal, Panipat overpoweredThe ongoing protest of the farmers enters its 17th day on Saturday with a massive plan to block highways set in motion. As the impasse persists with government saying it is open to talks and farmers concurring as well to more discussions — only if the Centre wants to discuss the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the standoff sees no immediate resolution while the protest intensifies with more and more farmers’ groups joining. Read more.5 years on, where India stands in its commitment to Paris AgreementPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Climate Ambition Summit on Saturday on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the landmark Paris Agreement. The virtual summit is being hosted by the United Nations (UN) and the United Kingdom and is being co-hosted by France in partnership with Chile and Italy. Read more.All not well with India’s Tokyo preparationIt was a sight emblematic of this pandemic-shattered sporting year: Norway’s Karsten Warholm, running all alone, with no competitors or spectators, clearing one hurdle after another with those long strides, powering through the distance of 300m in a record time (33.78 seconds). Read more.Prateek Kuhad performs Kasoor, Cold/Mess, Tune Kaha, & more #HTLS2020The 18th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit had a colourful conclusion with singer-songwriter Prateek Kuhad performing some of his hit songs. The musician sang songs like Kasoor, Cold/Mess, Tune Kaha, and The Last Time, among others. Watch the full concert here.Happy Birthday Rajinikanth: As he turns 70, five popular dialogues that are best suited for his political entryActor Rajinikanth recently made his political entry official. But the star has been hinting about his political plunge for many years through several popular dialogues in his movies. On the occasion of his 70th birthday, we take a look at five most popular dialogues from his movies that are best suited for his political ambition. Read more.Hallelujah! Porta potties mix elements of light and music to ‘sing’ carolsThe year 2020 has been filled with surprising happenings and unprecedented events, some more grave than others. However, if you thought that you’d seen it all, then think again. Here is a video which may leave flabbergasted. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-ficci-s-93rd-agm-annual-convention-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BrhhxZi2tq7b1DrIdrASRL.html
12-12-2020||India||Rain, thundershowers likely to occur during next 3 hours at isolated places in UP||Rain/thundershowers and lightning is very likely to occur during the next three hours on Saturday at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh over Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandsahar, Aligarh, Moradabad, Sambhal, Badaun and Rampur, the Meteorological Centre, Lucknow said.Light rain occurred in parts of Delhi on Saturday morning and it is likely to bring the maximum temperature down by a few notches, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The rains are a result of a Western Disturbance passing over the Himalayas, an IMD official said, adding the mercury is expected to drop by two to three notches by Monday with the wind direction changing to northwesterly, it said.“Thunderstorm and light intensity rain” occurred over south, north, central, east, northeast, and southwest Delhi, the IMD said.New Delhi and its neighbouring areas also recorded light rainfall, it added.On Friday, the minimum and maximum temperatures in Delhi settled at 11.3 degrees Celsius and 25.8 degree Celsius, respectively.Westerly-northwesterly winds blow from snow-laden western Himalayas towards the plains.An increase in the moisture content in the air due to the rain is likely to result in “moderate to dense” fog in the national capital over the next two-three days, the official said.Delhi’s air quality, which was recorded in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday morning, is also likely to improve “significantly” due to stronger winds and rain.The city’s air quality index (AQI) was 348 at 7 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 295 on Friday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thundershowers-likely-to-occur-during-next-3-hours-at-isolated-places-in-up/story-26zMQDbErWG4rhE1EoD5VI.html
12-12-2020||India||Goa zilla panchayat polls: Voting underway for 48 seats||Nearly 7.91 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to 48 seats in over 1,200 polling stations in the zilla panchayat elections scheduled in Goa on December 12. This is the first major polling exercise in the state since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded 43 candidates, the Congress has fielded 38 candidates, followed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) with 17 each. There are also 79 independent candidates in the fray. Here’s everything you need to know about Goa zilla panchayat polls: 1. Goa has 50 zilla panchayat seats, but one unopposed candidate has already been declared victorious, while a candidate contesting from the Navelim seat in South Goa district has died as a result of which no polling will take place on the seat. 2. The polling was originally scheduled to be held on March 22 and campaigning for the polls had already been carried out by candidates of different political parties. But the polls were postponed after the nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to control the Covid-19 pandemic.3. All voters will be thermally screened at the entrance of the polling station. To ensure social distancing norms are followed, circles will be marked on the ground at 2m distance for voters to stand in a queue outside the polling station.Read more| On Saturday, Goa to vote in elections that will test CM Sawant’s popularity4. Voters with high temperature will also be allowed to cast their votes. If the temperature of a person is above the specified mark, the voter will be asked to sit in the shade for 10 minutes and a second reading will be taken. If the second reading is still higher than the prescribed norms, then the voter will be asked to return during the last polling hour between 4pm and 5pm.5. Covid positive persons will also be able to cast their votes between 4pm and 5pm. All necessary arrangements will be made to provide PPE kits for Covid patients at the polling booth across the state and there will be a separate queue for them. Based on the number of persons, the required PPE kits and gloves will be forwarded by the returning officers to the block development officers (BDOs) which will be used when the Covid positive voters come to the polling stations.6. All licensed liquor premises located within zilla panchayat constituencies will remain shut from midnight of December 11 till midnight of December12. 7. The government has declared December 12 as a paid holiday. This will apply to “registered voters of the poll bound areas even if they are working outside the territorial limits of such areas” and will also apply to those belonging to central, state government offices, undertakings and other entities. 8. The counting of the votes will be held on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-zilla-panchayat-polls-voting-underway-for-48-seats/story-UBaihPnZHa741KuuV6J4eJ.html
12-12-2020||India||5 years on, where India stands in its commitment to Paris Agreement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the Climate Ambition Summit on Saturday on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the landmark Paris Agreement. The virtual summit is being hosted by the United Nations (UN) and the United Kingdom and is being co-hosted by France in partnership with Chile and Italy. This will be an opportunity for countries to show their commitment to the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate change which was adopted by 196 parties at the 21st Conference of Parties in Paris, on December 12, 2015, and was enforced on November 4, 2016.Here’s everything you need to know about India’s commitment to the Paris climate agreement: 1. While addressing a side meeting on climate change at the G20 Summit, PM Modi said India is not only meeting targets set at the Paris Agreement but is also exceeding them while calling for “an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way” to tackling climate change.2. In the G20 summit, Modi also said that India aims to restore around 26 million hectares of degraded land by 2030.3. Ahead of the Paris climate summit, environment minister Prakash Javadekar said, “Climate change hasn’t happened in a day. It is the result of historical emissions over one hundred years. US has 25% of historical emission; EU has 22% of historical emissions; China has 13% and India has only 3%. We haven’t caused this problem but as a responsible nation, we will be a part of the solution.” 4. Currently, India is contributing only 6.8% of global emissions and its per capita emissions are only 1.9 tonnes (per capita). 5. India’s nationally determined contribution (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement is 2 degree compliant. The country is also likely to meet and possibly overachieve its NDCs under the Paris Agreement, the emissions gap report 2020 noted. 6. The Modi government has repeatedly touted schemes as national plan on climate change; National clean air programme; Swachch Bharat mission; Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana; Namami Gange policy, etc, saying that they are helping India reach its climate goals. 7. India’s installed capacity of renewable energy has also increased by 226% in the past five years to over 89 GW now and India has a target of increasing installed renewable energy capacity to 450 GW by 2030.8. India is projected to meet its pre-2020 climate pledge, also called the Cancun pledge, made in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-years-on-where-india-stands-in-its-commitment-to-paris-agreement/story-M31plpICVbCP264U3q2h5L.html
12-12-2020||India||Several govt offices set afire in Arunachal’s Changlang ahead of panchayat poll||Several government offices were set on fire by a large group of youths in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh on Friday, ahead of Panchayat and civic body polls in the state later this month. According to district officials, the office of the extra assistant commissioner (EAC) and the post office in remote Vijoynagar were burnt down and the offices of the special branch (SP) and a police station in the area were vandalized. “Around 500 youths had carried out a rally on Friday morning from Gandhigram village to Vijoynagar, the circle headquarters. Suddenly, without provocation, the youths attacked government property,” said Devansh Yadav, deputy commissioner, Changlang. “They burnt down the office of the EAC and the post office and vandalized the SP office and police station around 8:00 am. There were no injuries or casualties, but government property was destroyed,” he added. The district administration has taken the help of Assam Rifles and also rushed senior police officers to Vijoynagar to bring the situation under control and also to nab the miscreants involved in the incident. Also Read: BJP wins over 5500 seats unopposed in Arunachal panchayat and municipal polls Reports say that the youths were seeking cancellation of the Panchayat polls, due in the state on December 22, over alleged grant of voting rights to scheduled tribes not belonging to Arunachal Pradesh. “The Panchayat elections in the area have already been postponed but despite that the youths carried out the rally and destroyed government property. Appropriate action will be taken,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-govt-offices-set-afire-in-arunachal-s-changlang-ahead-of-panchayat-poll/story-4P1YSUsVYtXnXrygbr9rNK.html
12-12-2020||India||‘May you lead a long and healthy life’: PM Modi wishes Rajinikanth on his 70th birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted Tamil superstar Rajinikanth on his 70th birthday and wished for his long and healthy life.“Dear @rajinikanth Ji, wishing you a Happy Birthday! May you lead a long and healthy life,” PM Modi tweeted.Earlier in August, Rajinikanth completed 45 years in the film industry and he finally took his highly publicised and long-awaited political plunge.Also Watch | Rajinikanth turns 70: PM Modi, Shatrughan Sinha, AR Rahman extend wishes Rajinikanth, had on December 4, announced his intention to launch a political party by January 2021 and contest the assembly election.He made two appointments for his yet-to-be launched party - his confidante Tamilaruvi Manian as supervisor while a former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member R Arjunamurthy as chief coordinator.Rajinikanth’s contemporary Kamal Haasan will contest as the chief ministerial face of his party Makkal Needhi Maiam which made its electoral debut in 2019 parliamentary polls with a 3.7% vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-you-lead-a-long-and-healthy-life-pm-modi-wishes-rajinikanth-on-his-70th-birthday/story-sFrC3j0AJzULB2JTypOEsM.html
12-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address FICCI’s 93rd AGM, Annual Convention||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at FICCI’s (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) 93rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual Convention on December 12 at 11 am via video conferencing. The convention is being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic on December 11, 12 and 14, 2020. The Prime Minister will also inaugurate the virtual FICCI Annual Expo 2020 which will provide an opportunity to exhibitors from across the globe to showcase their products and advance their business prospects. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the theme of this year’s convention is “Inspired India”. Over 10,000 delegates from across the world will participate in the three-day virtual meeting which will also see the participation of several ministers, bureaucrats, captains of industry, diplomats, international experts, and other leading luminaries. Union ministers likely to address the conference include union home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, minister of micro, small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari, minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, minister of external affairs S Jaishankar and minister of law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad. Read more| ‘Inspired by Bharathiyar’s vision of empowered women,’ says PM Modi at International Bharati festivalFinance commission chairman NK Singh and NITI aayog chairman Amitabh Kant will also address the FICCI AGM.Industry leaders like Microsoft’s CEO Satya Nadella; former chairman, Alphabet, Eric Schmidt; Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran are also expected to address the meeting. The convention will witness various stakeholders deliberating on the dynamics of the post pandemic world, implications of Covid-19 on the economy, reforms being undertaken by the government and the way forward for the Indian economy.Uday Shankar, the president of Walt Disney Company for Asia Pacific and the chairman of Star and Disney India will succeed joint MD of Apollo Hospitals Sangita Reddy as the FICCI president in the AGM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-address-ficci-s-93rd-agm-annual-convention/story-qMyAEokC3KxYESBrYmWRbL.html
12-12-2020||India||After a year’s break, fresh anti-CAA protests begin in Assam||After a year-long hiatus, a fresh round of protests against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was launched in Assam from Friday, months ahead of the next Assembly polls in the state. Protests against the legislation, which seeks to grant citizenship to persecuted Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Bangladesh, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, had turned violent last year and five persons were killed in police firing. Many indigenous groups in Assam and other states in the region feel CAA would lead to an influx of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh, which in turn could hurt indigenous communities. The fresh round of protests have been supported by 18 organisations including North East Students Organisation (NESO), All Assam Students Union (AASU), Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) and Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS). All student organizations in the seven northeastern states which are affiliated to NESO marked Friday as a Black Day. The organization had also observed Black Day on December 11 last year, the day CAA was passed by Rajya Sabha. “We won’t accept CAA at any cost. NESO had observed Black Day in all states in the region on December 11 last year and this year too we are registering our protest in the same manner on the same date,” said NESO chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharya in Guwahati. KMSS, which had spearheaded the anti-CAA protests last year along with AASU and AJYCP, started their fresh round of protests on Thursday. The organization staged a large protest in Sivasagar on Friday which will be followed by a state-wide protest on Saturday. Also Read: Memorial for those killed in Assam Agitation, CM Sonowal lays foundation stoneFounder of KMSS, Akhil Gogoi, who was arrested on December 12 last year for allegedly fanning violent anti-CAA protests, continues to remain in jail. AASU’s protests began on Friday with a ‘gana hunkar’ (mass outcry) and torch rallies against the CAA while AJYCP also organised a rally against the legislation. The anti-CAA protests last year led to curfews across the state and suspension of mobile internet services for 10 days. But thousands defied restrictions and came out to voice opposition to the legislation. This year, AASU and AJYCP joined hands to form a new political party called Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) while KMSS launched another party called Raijor Dal. Both parties will be contesting the coming assembly polls in March-April next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-year-s-break-fresh-anti-caa-protests-begin-in-assam/story-8BFmVl25qUsClPMOLtk3AP.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers protest enters 17th day: No question of returning home, says union leader; protesters overpower toll plazas of Karnal, Panipat | 10 points||The ongoing protest of the farmers enters its 17th day on Saturday with a massive plan to block highways set in motion. As the impasse persists with government saying it is open to talks and farmers concurring as well to more discussions — only if the Centre wants to discuss the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the standoff sees no immediate resolution while the protest intensifies with more and more farmers’ groups joining. On Friday, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the commitment of the Centre and said it has not yet received any proposal from the agitating farmers. The farmers, on the other hand, said the Centre should inform the farmers when they want to meet. Follow live updates of farmers protest hereHere are the latest updates of the protest:1. On Friday midnight, farmers overpowered the toll-plazas of Karnal and Panipat on Delhi-Chandigarh National highway, allowing toll-free movement. Today, the workers of Bharatiya Kisan Union will make all highways leading to Delhi free of toll. #WATCH Haryana: Farmers closed Bastara toll plaza in Karnal late last night, as part of their agitation against the three #FarmLaws by Centre. pic.twitter.com/5fv4ZY5UTt2. Faridabad Police is deploying as many as 3,500 police personnel at the toll plazas at five Delhi-Haryana border points, including Badarpur Border, Gurugram Faridabad, Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal, Pali Crusher Zone and Dhauj. There will be drone surveillance too.Also Read: Shah meets cops, security officials to pre-empt any chances of violence in Delhi3. On Friday, the Centre alleged that Leftist-Maoist are hijacking farmers protest. “People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support & therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation & trying misuse this platform for their own agenda,” Food, railways and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. People of India are watching, seeing what is happening, observing how across the country Leftist-Maoists are not finding any support & therefore they are trying to hijack this farmers agitation & trying misuse this platform for their own agenda: @PiyushGoyal4. A faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union has moved the Supreme Court demanding the laws be rolled back. “The impugned legislations corporatise agriculture and usher in unregulated and exploitative regime because Indian farmers, of which most are illiterate, would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best terms with a private company and due to this [will] lead to unequal bargaining position in negotiating the farm agreements with corporates,” the plea said.5. Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) leader and Haryana deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday said he will resign from his post in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government if he is unable to ensure minimum support price for the procurement of farmers’ crops.6. As several farmer groups from Punjab, Haryana are on their way to Delhi, on December 14, there will be sit-ins near BJP offices, according to the plan of the protesters. The Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh will organise sit-ins on Monday.7. Meanwhile, the BJP has decided to hold nationwide programmes, including chaupal in rural areas to highlight the benefits of the three farm laws. 8. The main protest site at Singhu border is bustling with protesters are settling down at their makeshift new homes without betraying any sign of budging. Trolleys containing jaggery, roasted gram, peanuts, gajjak arrived at Singhu border on Friday from Punjab.9. Free medical units have also been set up to check the health of elderly protesters who are braving the cold.10. Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday said famers won’t back out now unless the three laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-enters-17th-day-no-question-of-returning-home-says-union-leader-protesters-overpower-toll-plazas-of-karnal-panipat-10-points/story-D4digVgCUBeBm3IgDPp6GP.html
12-12-2020||India||Farmers Protest Live Updates: Protesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met||With farmers gearing up to block the highway and picket toll plazas on the border to Delhi on Saturday in response to a call from protesting farmer unions to intensify their agitation against the three agricultural sector laws, police personnel have been deployed in strength to protect toll booths and ensure smooth flow of traffic, Faridabad Police said.As many as 3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas in the area, a statement said. Station house officers and the Police Reserve Force of the respective police stations will also be deployed and personnel will be equipped with anti-riot equipment.The ongoing protest of the farmers against the three new agriculture laws entered its 17th day today with the farmer’s unions now threatening to block railway tracks.Follow live updates here:Chilla border opens for traffic movementProtesting farmers open Chilla border for traffic after assurance demands will be met, reports ANI.People at Singhu border set up a temporary gymA makeshift gym has been set up at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana Border) where farmers’ protest entered 17th day today. “It’s part of our daily routine so we decided to set up one here. People visit the gym according to their convenience,” ANI quoted Jaspreet Singh from Rupnagar as saying.Progressive Haryana farmers submitted memorandum in support of farm laws: Tomar“Progressive farmer leaders from Haryana met me and submitted a memorandum with their signatures supporting the three farm laws. They also shared their experiences on how these laws are benefitting them,” says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.Ready for talks with govt, but will first discuss repealing farm laws:, says farmer leadersSticking to their demands, farmer leaders Saturday said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border, farmer leader Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu said that thousands of farmers will start their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march from Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur through the Jaipur-Delhi Highway at 11 am on Sunday.Farmers to stage hunger strike“We have decided to intensify our agitation against new farm laws, Union leaders will sit on hunger strike on Dec 14,” say farmer leaders.Dozens of farmers detained in AligarhDozens of farmers were detained in different parts of this district for trying to make toll plazas on highways toll-free as part of their stir news agency PTI reported citing police. A large number of protestors at Kurana village under Tappal police station have been taken into police custody and would be kept under detention till 11 pm, officials said.Don’t want written guarantee, want a law for MSP: Farmer leader“We want MSP of all our produce including potatoes, sugarcane, grains, vegetables and milk. We don’t want this guarantee in written form but we want a law for MSP now,” says Dungar Singh, farmer Leader from Uttar Pradesh.Local residents block toll plaza at Makdoli village on Rohtak Panipat highwayFarm reforms will bring investments, technological advancements in agriculture, says PM Modi Trying to assuage farmer’s apprehensions Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that the new reforms will usher in technological advancement and investments in agricultures.Farmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting feesFarmers take over some toll plazas in Haryana, stop authorities from collecting fees as they intensify protest against new agri lawsCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties: SAD chiefCentre’s trying to defame agitation by calling it that of Khalistanis and political parties. Unfortunate that if one disagrees with them they call them anti-nationals. Ministers giving such statements must apologise publicly. We condemn Centre’s attitude & such statements:SAD chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chiefUnfortunate that Centre is trying to stifle the voices, instead of listening to them. Farmers don’t want farm laws. Why is Centre showing tyranny when the section -for whom laws have been formed- don’t want it? I request PM to listen to farmers: SS Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal chief.We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest: Prashant Kumar, UP ADG (Law & Order)We have deployed forces to check that no miscreant joins the protest. We are taking measures to see that public movement is not affected. We are ensuring that anti social elements, who are trying to create trouble, are being dealt with: Prashant Kumar, Uttar Prdaesh ADG (Law and Order).Section 144 imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi DadriSection 144 has been imposed in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri area.Farmers protesting at Delhi-Ghazipur border march towards Delhi“With this march we want to give a message to the Govt to listen to our issues,” says Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union.After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology: PM ModiWe had seen walls between agriculture sector and other areas associated with it - be it agriculture infrastructure, food processing, storage or cold chain. All walls and obstacles are being removed now. After reforms, farmers will get new markets, options and more benefits of technology. The cold storage infrastructure will be modernised. This will result in more investments in the agriculture sector. Farmers will be benefitted the most out of it, says PM Modi.Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmer: Hanuman BeniwalHanuman Beniwal, RLP leader and MP from Nagaur begins a demonstration march towards Delhi, protesting farm laws“Thousands of farmers will meet in Kothputli and then decide the further course of action. Govt should work to raise the MSP and also listen to farmers,” he says.Security at Delhi borders increased after farmers’ announcement to intensify stirThe Delhi Police has increased security arrangements at the city’s border points following the announcement by agitating farmers to block the Jaipur-Delhi and the Delhi-Agra Expressways on Saturday to further intensify their protest against the Centre’s new agri laws.Haryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana borderHaryana police placed barricades and cemented pillars on Khanauri-Narwana border on Saturday morning. However, locals removed these barricades and rocks from the road.We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitationCentral Intelligence should catch them. If people of a banned organizations are roaming amid us, put them behind bars. We haven’t found any such person here, if we do we will send them away: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union when asked if ‘anti-national elements’ got involved in agitation.Normal vehicular traffic flows through functional toll plazas in Agra district“There’re 5 major toll plazas here and we have no information of any one of them being blocked by farmers. We’re monitoing the plazas as well,” says ASP(West) AgraFarmers head to Delhi to join agitation at the bordersFarmers head to Delhi, to join the agitation at the borders of the national capital against Central government’s farm laws. All doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue: Venkaiah Naidu on farmers stirAmid the ongoing agitation by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has said all doubts can be solved through constructive dialogue.Farmers overpower toll plazas on NH44Farmers overpowered the employees of toll-palazas of Karnal and Panipat on Delhi-Chandigarh National Highway 44 allowing toll- free movement of all vehicles from Friday midnight.Opposition efforts to spread disharmony won’t be tolerated: Uttar Pradesh CM AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has hit out at opposition parties for allegedly leading the farmer’s movement towards disorientation, and said that the “malicious” efforts to spread disharmony in the country would not be tolerated.3,500 police personnel to be deployed at 5 Delhi-Haryana toll plazas3,500 police personnel will be deployed at the five toll plazas at five Delhi-Haryana toll plazas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-3-500-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-at-5-delhi-haryana-toll-plazas/story-WGDvNFZ3tFPf6vTSYtXzTI.html
12-12-2020||India||India set to ask Pak for info on 7 Pulwama perpetrators||India has decided to formally ask Pakistan to share details of the terrorists behind last year’s Pulwama attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy, people familiar with the development said. The suicide bombing attack killed 40 Indian troopers and brought the two countries to the brink of a war. A formal judicial request or Letter Rogatory (LR), prepared by National Investigation Agency (NIA) seeking information about seven perpetrators, four based in Pakistan — Maulana Masood Azhar, his brothers Abdul Rauf Asghar and Ibrahim Athar, and his cousin Ammar Alvi — and three Pakistanis who came to India to execute the attack, Athar’s son Umar Farooq, Kamran (both killed in encounters with security forces after the Pulwama attack) and Ismail alias Saifullah, is currently being fine-tuned in the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the people added on condition of anonymity. Ismail is believed to be hiding in Kashmir. Also Read: Local explosives used to trigger Pulwama attackOnce MHA finalises the document, which the people said will be done by the end of the month, permission will be sought from the court to send the judicial request to Pakistan. “It’s first such judicial request being sent to Pakistan in the Pulwama attack seeking its cooperation,” said one of the people,a senior government official. Apart from whereabouts of Azhar, Asghar, Athar and Alvi, India is seeking details of communications between them and the others, including WhatsApp chats, voice notes and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls made from and to Pakistan, and information on persons seen in photographs and videos recovered from the phone of Umar Farooq , showing different stages of preparation of the Pulwama attack, the official added. Also Read: Pulwama case accused seeks bail to give NEET examFarooq was sent to India in April 2018 to supervise the February 14, 2019 Pulwama attack, which triggered the Indian Air Force (IAF) action against a Jaish terror camp deep inside Pakistan 12 days later, and resulted in a dogfight between fighter jets of the two nations on February 27. In its official request, the Indian government is also seeking information on the GPS locations extracted from Farooq’s phone as well as details of payments worth Rs10 lakh made into his accounts in Meezan Bank and Allied Bank in Pakistan, recovered by NIA during investigation, said a second officer. The NIA filed on August 25 a detailed 13,500 page charge sheet naming all seven Pakistanis including JeM chief, Masood Azhar, and 12 others for the Pulwama attack. “A strong judicial request, equipped with irrefutable technical, material and circumstantial evidence, is being sent to Pakistan. We hope that instead of sheltering them, Pakistan provides evidence and takes action against the Jaish chief and his family members,” said a second person, a MHA official. India has earlier sent judicial requests to Pakistan in 2016 Pathankot IAF base attack and 26/11 Mumbai attacks but to no avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-ask-pak-for-info-on-7-pulwama-perpetrators/story-DfOzHxc6BDQngKPX2KtXDN.html
12-12-2020||India||Shah meets cops, security officials to pre-empt any chances of violence in Delhi||Home minister Amit Shah on Friday met with senior government, police and security officials and discussed ways to pre-empt any chances of violence on Delhi’s borders in connection with the ongoing farmers’ agitation, people familiar with the matter said.HT learns that the concern is that some radical groups may have embedded themselves among the protestors with the aim of prolonging the agitation or engaging in violence that could force the police to react.Also Read: Top kabaddi players, wrestlers lead sporting twist to farm agitationThe people cited above added that intelligence reports suggest the presence of at least 10 such groups among the protesting farmers.The farmer groups are protesting the passage of three farm reform laws and have rejected a government proposal that met some of their demands; they are demanding a complete repeal of the laws, which the government has ruled out. However, the government has maintained that it is still open to discussing the issues farmers have with the laws and address them.Also Read: Farm union moves SC seeking repeal of lawsThe protesting groups, which appear to have hardened their position, have said that on Saturday, December 12, farmers will block the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Farmers have also threatened more protests on December 14.Interestingly, right from October, the demands of the protesting farmers have included the release of “imprisoned intellectuals and democratic rights activists and student activists”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-meets-cops-security-officials-to-pre-empt-any-chances-of-violence-in-delhi/story-j2DfvRtEHie2bQPcPNyVjM.html
12-12-2020||India||Top kabaddi players, wrestlers lead sporting twist to farm agitation||To get to the main stage at the massive farmer’s protest at the Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi, one has to go through a formidable man called Sukhjeet Singh. Built like a tank, with a neck as thick as a truck tyre, Sukha Bhandal, as he is better known, is one of India’s most celebrated Kabaddi players. In rural Punjab and Haryana, he is a household name. Songs are written about him. His other moniker is “sher” (lion) and he has sprawling lion tattoos on his back and arms. His annual earnings from tournaments easily makes him worth millions.“I was part of the protest from Day 1, when farmers started agitations at the district and state level,” he said. “Later, when they decided to march to Delhi on November 26, I joined them.” Sukhjeet is not the only sportsperson who is a part of the agitation; among the protesters at this border is a large contingent of some of the biggest stars of rural sports in northern India; kabaddi exponents and wrestlers who draw crowds in their thousands at dangals, the traditional kushti competitions.Vijender Singh, India’s first Olympic medallist in boxing, also went to the protest site on December 6. Unlike many of the other athletes at the site, he has clear political ambitions, but the man from a village called Kaluwas in Haryana is also intimately connected to farming. “There is no way that anyone from our rural areas would not be part of the protest,” Vijender said. “My grandfather was a subedar in the army and the one who brought boxing to our village. My brother Manoj fought in the Kargil war. My father was a driver with Haryana Roadways and I am into sports. But our entire family is linked to one common profession -- farming.” The protests have seen participation from several other mainstream sportspersons. On December 6, Kartar Singh (wrestling), Gurmail Singh, Rajbir Kaur and Ajit Singh (all hockey Olympians) and boxer Jaipal Singh shared the stage with Vijender and announced their intention of returning their Padma Shree, Arjuna, Dhyanchand and Dronacharya awards. Like Vijender, Sukhjeet, too, is deeply rooted to the land. Two decades back, when he was 14, he lost his parents in the space of a year. One of three siblings, he found himself alone at the family’s farm in Bhandal Dona village in Kapurthala. His sister had married and left, his brother had migrated to Germany. Despite their requests to join either of them, Sukhjeet decided to stay back and try his hand at managing the farm. It also allowed him to pursue his passion, kabaddi. “Farming has given me everything,” he said. “So how can I not be here?” If there’s one thing sportspeople know well, it’s organisation and team work. At the Singhu protest site, which sprawls nearly 15km along the highway, that collaborative discipline has been critical. When the protesters’ plan to march to Delhi was blocked, and the highway became the site of protest, the kabaddi players were involved in arranging for tents. “We entered Haryana on November 26 evening and our night halt was near the Panipat toll plaza. Next day, in the morning, we moved towards Delhi, but as the border was sealed, we had to stop at the Singhu border,” said Mangat Singh aka Mangi Bagga, who is as well-known as Sukhjeet. At the inaugural Circle Kabaddi World Cup (circle kabaddi is the more popular rural version of the sport in Punjab) in 2010, Mangat was the Indian captain. “We took help from our kabaddi friends in Haryana and arranged for tents and material for the stage.”Kabaddi players and wrestlers from Sonepat (Singhu border falls in Sonepat), India’s pre-eminent wrestling belt, also pitched in with public address systems. Kabaddi player Sandeep Nangal Ambian, who came to Singhu with his colleague Sultan Samspur, driving a truck packed with fruits meant for distribution at the protest site, said “senior kabaddi players have made an appeal to all the players to join the protest. At any given time at Singhu and Tikri borders, you would see more than 100 kabaddi players and other athletes giving their services to the movement.” Athletes from the famed wrestling village of Mandothi, near Haryana’s border with Delhi at Tikri, which has turned into another protest site, are running a kitchen. “It’s a fight for a common cause,” said kabaddi player Viney Khatri, 23, whose village Kharak Jatan in Rohtak is 80km from Tikri border. Wrestling and kabaddi enjoy immense cultural popularity and a thriving socio-economic niche in rural northern India. The overseas (Canada, England, US) and domestic circuit of circle kabaddi is valued at approximately Rs100 crore just in terms of the prize money on offer, according to Sandhu and several athletes. This year, both the season and its robust economy was left in tatters by the pandemic. The foreign season was cancelled in its entirety, while the domestic season limped into action late in October with a heavily reduced calendar. The farmer protests have meant that even this diminished season has been further curtailed. “If the farmers prosper, then the village will prosper and only then can we (athletes) earn well,” said Mangat. “So, the economic cycle begins with the farmers, We have requested the players and organizers to put a hold to tournaments. Right now, this movement is more important than kabaddi.” Jaskanwar, who is a mountain of a man with a full beard and a luxurious moustache upturned at the ends said that with his entire family involved in protests, he found it hard to think about sports.“I have sent my refusal to many dangals,” he said. “We can earn later, but for us, this is a revolution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-kabaddi-players-wrestlers-lead-sporting-twist-to-farm-agitation/story-oDHLn4o7YNrbI2Q1Taq1dO.html
12-12-2020||India||Farm union moves SC seeking repeal of laws||A faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), one of the farmers’ groups at the vanguard of the protests against three Central laws enacted to open up agricultural trade, has moved the Supreme Court demanding that the laws be rolled back, citing concerns that they would give multinational companies a free handto exploit poor and illiterate farmers.In an application and a separate petition filed on December 9, BKU (Bhanu), led by Bhanu Pratap Singh, said the laws will make farmers vulnerable to the corporate greed of multinationals, as the central government on Friday made the second appeal in two days to farmers groups to resume talks to end the standoff. “The impugned legislations corporatise agriculture and usher in unregulated and exploitative regime because Indian farmers, of which most are illiterate, would not have the knowledge to negotiate the best terms with a private company and due to this [will] lead to unequal bargaining position in negotiating the farm agreements with corporates,” said the plea.The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSP), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. The petition by BKU Bhanu to repeal the laws are among a clutch of other petitions already pending in the Supreme Court against the farm laws, including one moved by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (CMK) MP Tiruchi Siva and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP Manoj Jha. BKU Bhanu has sought the court’s permission to be impleaded as an “intervener” in the petition already filed by Siva against the three farm laws. Thousands of farmers who are camping on Delhi’s borders said on Friday that they were in the process of intensifying their agitation, and will block the Delhi-Jaipur highway on December 12 as well as occupy toll plazas, even as Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar made a second appeal in 24 hours to farm unions to resume talks with the government. “Any law is never entirely bad or good. Therefore, we have come out with amendments on provisions which during discussions the farmers had apprehensions about,” Tomar had said on Thursday. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the common platform under which several farm unions are protesting against the farm laws and recently held talks with the Centre, said the BKU Bhanu faction was not one of its constituents and its decision to approach the SC was its independent decision. But its leaders indicated that they were not against the idea of the faction moving court.“We are with [petitioner] Bhanu Pratap Singhji. Everybody has a right to move to court,” said Rakesh Tikait of the BKU’s Tikait faction, which is part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.“The BKU’s Bhanu faction is not one of our constituents and we are not associated with their legal processes. They are against the farm laws and have sought to be impleaded in an ongoing case. That’s their choice,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, another prominent leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.In its plea, BKU (Bhanu) has compared corporate entities with “unscrupulous money lenders who would twist the words in their contracts, making it unfavourable for farmers.” The plea added that implementation of the three laws in their present form will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market that is unregulated and leave room for exploitation of Indian farmers. Supporting the continuation of agriculture produce market committees (APMCs) as a “protective shield” around the farmers, BKU Bhanu maintained that without APMCs, the market would ultimately fall to the corporate greed of multinational companies that are profit-oriented. The Bhanu faction holds influence over sugarcane farmers in Uttar Pradesh as well as agriculturists in Rajasthan, one of the largest growers of millets and spices. “The government is saying [let’s find a] ‘middle path…middle path’. What middle path? The government is there because we voted them. We voted the Congress out. So, they have to listen to us,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, the leader of BKU Bhanu. Singh said the farm-reform laws would lead to a collapse of the notified markets and these “markets would fall to the greed of MNCs who are profit oriented”. A large number of supporters of the BKU Bhanu faction are camping on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. The government has deregulated farm markets, giving more space to private traders, to spur investments in a farm sector dependent on subsidies. Thousands of farmers are protesting the new changes, saying they will be swallowed up by big corporations. Offering to make concession, the government had sent out a written proposal to amend The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 to bring parity between so-called free markets and notified markets controlled by state governments. Another key offer is to bring additional legal safeguards for farmers’ rights engaging in contract farming “if needed”, including a bar on any confiscation of farm land to recover dues, and possible immunity to farmers from penalties for crop-residue burning, which causes pollution. The government had also proposed to keep farmers out of a law to impose penalties for stubble burning. It has also said that the existing mode of subsidising electricity for agricultural use will continue as demanded by the farm unions. The government in its written proposal had also said it was willing to issue a written assurance that the current system of minimum support prices would continue as usual. “The courts will obviously take a view, whatever that is. How far it will go in matters of policy execution is not clear now. There were similar petitions in Supreme Court against some decisions taken during the economic reforms in 1991,” said K Mani, a former economist at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Talks between the government and farmers union have broken down, with farmers calling off the sixth round of negotiations slated for December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-union-moves-sc-seeking-repeal-of-laws/story-cxTcvq2MvwlrY9dYShTirM.html
12-12-2020||India||Cannot cure all ills of system, says top court||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the responsibility of curing all the ills of society doesn’t rest solely with the judiciary, and appeared to suggest that the executive and legislative wings were not always keen on stronger laws to control corruption.A bench headed by justice Sanjay K Kaul added that it was not possible for the judiciary to take over all the roles and entertain petitions with “Utopian” prayers. “You are all asking for a Utopian situations, and Utopia doesn’t exist. For every person getting illicit money, there is one person distributing it,” said the bench, as it took up two separate public interest litigations filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay relating to corruption. In the first petition, Upadhyay pressed for life imprisonment in cases of black money, corruption, money laundering, tax evasion, food adulteration and cheating. Arguing for the plea, senior advocate Gopal Sanakaranarayan rued the lack of will on the part of the government to come up with more stringent measures, pointing out that the target of corruption appears to be within the executive wing. The bench responded that there could be some substance in what the lawyer has to say, but it is not for the court to ask Parliament to frame a specific law on punishment for a certain category of crimes. “You may be right in saying it that the executive wing might not be keen to frame stringent laws but can we be entertaining a petition such as this? This court administers law. It is for Parliament to make laws. We cannot issue a mandamus to Parliament to make a law,” it said. When there is no vacuum in law, said the bench, it is not for a constitutional court to entertain “all-encompassing” prayers in a petition asking for a declaration in the nature that all is not well in the country. “Curing all the ills in the system does not prevail only with the judiciary. There are executive and legislative wings too with specific roles. You cannot expect judiciary to take over all roles and do everything. It is impossible. It is never envisaged in the Constitution nor desirable,” commented the bench. Sankaranarayan chose to withdraw the PIL with the liberty to go to the Law Commission for examining the issue of enhanced punishment in corruption-related cases. Upadhyay’s second PIL before the same bench was listed as the next matter. It pleaded for a direction to the Centre for handing hand over the 1993 report of the Vohra Committee to various Central agencies for a comprehensive probe. Upadhyay complained there has been no follow-up on the report submitted by then Union home secretary NN Vohra on the alleged link between crime syndicates, politicians and bureaucrats. “...You are making these kinds of prayers. Write a book on it. Don’t file petitions like this. One can understand cases where a nudge can be given to government authorities but not with such Utopian prayers,” said the bench, as Upadhyay opted to withdraw the PIL with liberty to approach Law Commission first. Vineet Narain, a noted anti-corruption activist, said, “The Supreme Court is right in saying that judiciary can’t change everything by itself. When the majority of politicians and bureaucrats seem to be shirking their duties in tackling corruption and have rather become a cause of it, one cannot expect judiciary to do wonders. These changes must begin as a society and then we can demand stronger laws...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-cure-all-ills-of-system-says-top-court/story-RKE5TmnnSEA4ByAWXqPclK.html
12-12-2020||India||With another win, BJP gets 13 pramukh seats in 21 zila parishads in Rajasthan||The BJP won the post of pramukh in Jhalawar zila parishad in Rajasthan on Friday, taking the party’s tally to 13. With this, the results of election to the post of pramukh in all 21 zila parishads have been declared, a state election commission spokesperson said. The BJP now has its pramukh in 13 zila parishads and the Congress in 5. Three independent candidates have also been elected as pramukh. Elections for the post of members in 222 panchayat samitis and 21 zila parishads were held recently and the results were announced on Tuesday and Wednesday. Due to repolling at one booth, the result of zila parishad members in Jhalawar could not be declared along with others. The repolling was done on Thursday. The election to the post of zila pramukh was held on Friday. The elections to the post of pramukh in the remaining 20 zila parishads were held on Thursday. The election of uppradhan in 222 panchayat samitis and uppramukh in 20 zila parishads were held on Friday and their results were announced. The election of uppramukh in Jhalawar zila parishad will take place on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-another-win-bjp-gets-13-pramukh-seats-in-21-zila-parishads-in-rajasthan/story-niAPNbsO5SCyXwAo9ObjtK.html
12-12-2020||India||In memoir, Pranab blames Manmohan, Sonia for Cong’s defeat, says Modi govt’s first term autocratic||A soon-to-be-released autobiography by former President Pranab Mukherjee blames Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for the party’s devastating loss in the 2014 general elections, and contends that Prime Minister Narendra Modi employed an autocratic style of governance during his first term in power, the book’s publisher announced on Friday. Mukherjee, who was a senior minister in the United Progressive Alliance government and the Congress party’s chief troubleshooter before his term as President between 2012 and 2017, died in August. His new book, The Presidential Years, is the fourth volume of his memoirs and will be released in January 2021. The statements attributed to Mukherjee are from a statement released by Rupa books on Friday. HT has not seen a copy of the book or directly verified the excerpts, which are yet to be released.“While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary,” he wrote, according to the statement. “Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government.”According to the statement, the former President — whose 85th birth anniversary was celebrated on Friday — wrote in his first-person account that he believed the moral authority to govern was vested with the PM and the state of the nation was always reflective of the functioning of the PM and their administration. Mukherjee, who was a senior leader of the Congress party for five decades and held almost every senior position in the party and central government, had strong words for his party’s functioning. “I do believe that the party’s leadership lost political focus after my elevation as president. While Sonia Gandhi was unable to handle the affairs of the party, Dr Singh’s prolonged absence from the House put an end to any personal contact with other MPs,” he wrote. In the 2014 general election, the Congress slumped to its worst performance and won only 44 of 543 Lok Sabha seats. He wrote that there was section of leaders who believed that if he was elevated as PM in 2004 — when the Congress stitched together a coalition to snatch power with an unexpectedly strong showing in the general elections — the party’s poor performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls could have been averted. But, he added, he did not subscribe to this view.Mukherjee’s memoir comes amid a firestorm raging within the Congress over its internal processes as senior leaders publicly express their displeasure following a series of electoral reverses. In August, a group of 23 leaders wrote to party chief Gandhi demanding internal reforms. Leaders from the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) refused to comment. In the book – replete with rare photos and handwritten notes, according to Rupa – Mukherjee also touched on the diplomatic tension that apparently flared up during the visit of US President Barack Obama in 2015 when the US Secret Service insisted Obama travel in a specially armoured vehicle brought from the US, and not in the car designated for use by the Indian head of state.“They wanted me to travel in the same armoured car along with Obama. I politely but firmly refused to do so, and requested the MEA to inform the US authorities that when the US president travels with the Indian president in India, he would have to trust our security arrangements. It cannot be the other way around,” he said, according to the statement.The memoir, the publisher said, also focused on his journey from a remote village in Bengal to Rashtrapati Bhavan, and how he reshaped the presidency, the Rupa statement added. The book also recollected the challenges he faced as President, the difficult decisions he made and the tightrope walk he undertook to ensure that both constitutional propriety and his opinion were taken into consideration.“If he were still alive, he would have been thrilled to note the widespread excitement among readers to read this extremely well-written autobiography. It’s so personal in tone that to me it almost seems like the former President is sitting in his study with a cup of tea (and shingara) and narrating his story,” said Kapish G Mehra, managing director, Rupa Publications India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-memoir-pranab-blames-manmohan-sonia-for-cong-s-defeat-says-modi-govt-s-first-term-autocratic/story-58tKPX7Nq6ROstKc08CDeO.html
12-12-2020||India||Woman Maoist killed in encounter in Odisha’s Kandhamal||A woman Maoist was killed during an encounter with a combined team of Special Operations Group and District Voluntary Force in a forest area of Odisha’s Kandhamal district on Friday.Odisha DGP Abhay said based on a reliable input, an operation was launched in Gochhapada area of Kandhamal by two units of SOG and DVF on December 9. “On Friday, while the teams were on a combing operation, a group of Maoists opened fire and our forces retaliated. The Maoists could not face the firing of our forces and withdrew from the area. A woman Maoist who had sustained bullet injuries was found dead at the encounter site,” said the DGP. The identity of the dead Maoist is not yet known.Two guns, four rounds of bullets, and some articles were recovered from the spot by the security forces.Last month, a senior Maoist cadre with a reward of Rs 8 lakh on his head was killed in an encounter with Odisha and Andhra Pradesh police in Swabhiman Anchal area of Malkangiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-maoist-killed-in-encounter-in-odisha-s-kandhamal/story-bCnp5jdsB9G03No3xK7J3J.html
12-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee won’t send chief secretary, police chief to Delhi on MHA summons||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has decided not to send the state’s chief secretary and police chief to New Delhi on Monday, reported news agency PTI. On Friday, they were issued summons by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to appear before it on December 14 over the law-and-order situation in the state following an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s convoy on Thursday.Chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay said, in a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, he was directed to request to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in the meeting in Delhi on December 14, according to PTI. In his two-page letter Bandopadhyay wrote, “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials in the meeting, considering that the State Government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness.”Also Read: Amit Shah skeds Bengal visit next week to amp up offensive over Nadda attackHe added that incidents regarding Z-category protectees were already being examined and that the West Bengal police had provided a bulletproof car and a pilot to Nadda, along with the escort vehicle by the state government, personnel and personal security officers (PSOs) by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “While the central protectees had their own central protection arrangements, these arrangements were made over and above the same from the end of the State,” Bandopadhyay wrote, while seeking to be excused from attending the meeting.According to the letter, the deputy inspector general of police of the range was stationed in the West Bengal’s South 24-Parganas district, where the BJP convoy was attacked, to supervise the arrangements personally. At the same time, four additional superintendents of police (SP), eight deputy SPs, 14 inspectors, 70 sub-inspectors/assistant sub-inspectors, 40 RAF personnel, 259 constables and 350 members of auxiliary forces were deployed on the route and at the venue at Diamond Harbour, it added.Also Read| Are home minister, PM of India outsiders?: Minister hits out at Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeThe letter comes as MHA asked Bandopadhyay and the state’s director general of police Virendra to appear before it. It also comes after Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar submitted a report to the central government about the “extremely disturbing developments that do not augur well for democratic values.” He alleged that violators of law in the state have the protection of police and administration.The rift between the Centre and state comes in the backdrop of the BJP convoy was attacked at Shirakol in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew.According to the BJP, some of the party’s frontline leaders, as well as workers, sustained injuries after being assaulted by the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress. Television news footage showed stones raining on the convoy and shattering windshields. Vehicles of some media houses were also damaged. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, its national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were hit by stones and shards of glass from shattered windows and windshields of their cars, according to the party.Nadda was visiting Diamond Harbour as part of his two-day trip to the state. He said after the attack that the state had plunged into a state of lawlessness and appealed to the BJP’s workers to ensure the party’s win in the assembly elections scheduled for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-won-t-send-chief-secretary-police-chief-to-delhi-on-mha-summons/story-DmRQKeMpc2fYOubJMR8gFJ.html
12-12-2020||India||‘Independent ties with countries’: India pushes back against Russian minister’s comments||New Delhi on Friday pushed back against the Russian foreign minister’s stand that the West’s Indo-Pacific policies were aimed at enmeshing India in “anti-China games”, saying the country has an independent foreign policy based on its national interests.India’s long-standing ties with Russia, including in the sphere of military-technical cooperation, stand on their own merits and New Delhi doesn’t perceive the Indo-Pacific as an exclusive club directed against any country, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said.Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov had created a flutter in diplomatic circles by telling a meeting of state-run think tank Russian International Affairs Council on Tuesday that Western powers were promoting the Indo-Pacific strategy and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad to engage India in “anti-China games”. At the same time, Lavrov said, the West is trying to undermine Russia’s partnership with India.Asked about these remarks at a weekly news briefing, Srivastava said, “India has always pursued an independent foreign policy based on its national interest. India’s relationship with each country is independent of its relations with third countries.”Also read: Situation at border over last 6 months result of China’s actions - IndiaHe added, “We hope that this is well understood and appreciated by all our partners.”India’s position on the Indo-Pacific had been “unequivocally outlined” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a speech at the Shangri-La Dialogue in June 2018. “India does not see the Indo-Pacific region as a strategy or as a club of limited members or as a grouping that seeks to dominate. It is not directed against any country. It stands for a free, open and inclusive region,” Srivastava said.While addressing the Russian International Affairs Council in Moscow, Lavrov had also said that the “very tough pressure” from the US on India concerning military-technical cooperation is part of the efforts to undermine the partnership with Russia. The remarks were apparently a reference to the US threat of imposing sanctions on India under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for the $5.4-billion deal with Russia for S-400 air defence systems. However, Srivastava said India’s long-standing relations with Russia were characterised as a “special and privileged strategic partnership”, and 2020 marks the 20th anniversary of this strategic partnership. “Our relations with Russia stand on their own merits, including in the sphere of military-technical cooperation,” he said. Russia currently accounts for more than 60 per cent of the inventory of India’s armed forces despite New Delhi’s efforts to acquire weapon systems from more diverse sources, including the US, Israel and France. The US has pushed India in recent years to acquire more American military hardware.While India has acquired platforms such as Chinook and Apache helicopters and C-17 heavy lift aircraft and leased MQ-9B Sea Guardian drones from the US, it has also inked big-ticket deals with Russia for acquiring the S-400 systems and assault rifles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independent-ties-with-countries-india-pushes-back-against-russian-minister-s-comments/story-bseCNBUpPiNP29AUPgdRNP.html
12-12-2020||India||‘It’s a blessing to be known by your character’s name’||Actor Shaji Choudhary became a household name playing Maqbool in ‘Mirzapur’ but when he was offered the role he had refused it point blank. “I was fed-up with playing right-hand man in films as well as shows. So, I did refuse but its co-director Gurmmeet Singh convinced me that the character has a lot of potential as the show proceeds. And today I’m happy that it became my most successful show,” said Shaji. He has been seen playing Saurabh Shukla’s bodyguard in ‘PK’, Manoj Bajpai’s right hand in ‘Tevar’ and Kabir Bedi’s aide in ‘Mohenjo-daro’. The ‘Jodha Akbar’ actor recently wrapped shooting for Sanjiv Jaiswal’s next film ‘Bagawat’ in Lucknow. “For an actor, the biggest feat is when people remember him with his character’s name — Mogambo, Shakal... I feel blessed to have witnessed something similar. Many may feel that it’s an overnight fame but actually it’s a result of 17 years of hard work — first as a model and then as an actor,” he shares. Talking more about his journey he tells, “I was born in Dodwari village in Tonk, (Rajasthan). Bitten by acting bug, I started with local Ram Lila before shifting to Jaipur. Due to my personality, people encouraged me and I took up modelling. I came to Mumbai in 2003. A year later, I got a role in ‘Main Hoon Na’ and then my most noticeable role was of Adham Khan in ‘Jodha Akbar’ (2007) which helped me survive.” In between he did TV shows like ‘Phulwa’, ‘Doli Arman Ki’, ‘Shani Dev’, ‘Vikram Betal’ along with films ‘Thugs of Hindostan’ and ‘Kabil’. In ‘Bagawat’ Shaji plays a negative role, “I’ll be seen playing Ahem’s (Sharma) father. In 2010 I have shot ‘Shudra’ film in Lucknow, then I shot ‘Mirzapur’ here and now ‘Bagawat’ I was here for a month. It was good fun as once again I got a chance to try horse riding. Being in Lucknow feels as if I’m in my hometown because it’s culture is very close to my state. God-willing, I may come for another project soon.” Post lockdown Shaji has shot for ‘Mirzapur-2’ teaser and is currently shooting for a mega project in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-a-blessing-to-be-known-by-your-character-s-name/story-HX1d3a1pgS8LkISuNcy6nL.html
12-12-2020||India||Extreme weather events impact 75% of India’s districts: Report||A new report has found more than 75% of India’s districts are hot spots of extreme climate events. With an unusual spike in extreme events since 2005, these districts are bearing the effects of changing microclimate with loss of property, livelihoods and lives.Coming on the heels of United Nations Environment Programme’s Emissions Gap Report 2020 that warned on Wednesday that the world was heading for a temperature rise of over 3 degree C this century, the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) report has highlighted that even with a 0.6 degree C rise in temperature over the past century, India is facing devastating consequences.While India witnessed 250 extreme climate events (drought, floods, cyclones and compounding events like floods and cyclones) between 1970 and 2005, it recorded 310 extreme weather events after 2005. The report released on Thursday also found a shift in the pattern of extreme climate events such as flood-prone areas becoming drought-prone and vice-versa in over 40% of the districts.The pattern reflects what’s happening globally: Extreme weather events resulting from climate change led to 495,000 human deaths across the world in 1999–2018. More than 12,000 extreme weather events led to losses worth USD 3.54 trillion (measured in terms of purchasing power parity or PPP) during this period.The CEEW report titled: Preparing India for Extreme Climate Events has estimated that 97.51 million people are exposed to extreme floods in India. There has been an abrupt surge in the number of extreme flood events since 2005. Between 1970 and 2004, 3 extreme flood events occurred per year on average, but after 2005, the yearly average rose to 11. Similarly, the annual average for districts affected by floods until 2005 was 19, but after 2005 it jumped to 55.The year-wise analysis shows how changes in microclimate processes have altered the frequency and pattern of extreme flood events. Six of India’s eight most flood-prone districts in the last decade -- Barpeta, Darrang, Dhemaji, Goalpara, Golaghat, Sivasagar -- were in Assam.Also read | Low carbon recovery from Covid-19 slowdown can solve climate crisis, says reportAfter 2005, the yearly average number of districts affected by cyclones tripled and the cyclone frequency doubled. In the past decade, 258 districts were affected by cylones with hot spot districts being Chennai, Cuttack, East Godavari, Ganjam, Nellore, North 24 Parganas, Puri, and Srikakulam – all along the eastern coastline. The east coast’s warming regional microclimate, land-use change, and degrading forests are triggering the region’s cyclonic activity, the author has said.The analysis shows that the decade 2000–2009 showed a spike in extreme flood events and in associated flood events, which affected almost 473 districts. The compounding effects of land subsidence, the urban heat island phenomenon, and sea-level rise due to glacial melts are leading to the intensification of cyclonic disturbances, thus increasing the number of flood events experienced during the decade and making it an outlier.Some of the extreme events are also associated with the weakening of monsoon. “The empirical evidence generated from our analyses coincides with the weakening of monsoons due to rising micro-temperatures. This further can be validated by the fact that states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh saw severe water scarcity during 2015 due to record-breaking temperatures during summer and weakening monsoons,” the report states.An interesting trend that the report has highlighted is swapping of the nature of extreme events in some districts. Several traditionally flood prone districts such as Cuttack, Guntur, Kurnool, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Paschim Champaran, and Srikakulum are becoming drought prone in recent years. Coastal southern Indian states such as Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Karnataka are increasingly witnessing more droughts. Further, floods and droughts coincide during the same season in several districts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu.“I agree with the findings of the report. I will not be able to comment on the exact numbers immediately though. In general, there is a spike in extreme weather events particularly extreme rainfall and heat wave events. Changes are being seen in the spatial pattern of extreme weather events also. Our climate models are showing that these trends will continue for the next few years so we need to worry,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.“These changing patterns are due to micro-climatic changes across the Indian subcontinent that are triggered by local climate change drivers such as land-use-surface change, deforestation, encroachments upon mangroves, and wetlands,” the report adds.The author of the report, Abinash Mohanty has coupled information available from globally validated data sheets with data from other sources like the India Meteorological Department, World Meteorological Organization (WMO), and Press Information Bureau (PIB). The team has then developed a gridded exposure sheet of climate events; and a geospatial analysis of extreme climate events using coarse grain resolution temporal maps.Mohanty recommends micro-level hazard assessment of climate extremes in India and comprehensive risk assessments at the localised level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-weather-events-impact-75-of-india-s-districts-report/story-x2YiYDP0JbapvhXpmaIlOK.html
