13-12-2020||India||Haryana health minister Anil Vij who tested positive for Covid-19 shifted to Rohtak hospital||A day after Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who tested positive for coronavirus a week ago, was shifted to Rohtak’s Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), a team of doctors started the process of giving him plasma treatment on Sunday evening.PGIMS medical superintendent, Dr Pushpa Dahiya said a joint team of doctors of the PGIMS, Medanta and the AIIMS Delhi are observing the health status of the minister Vij.“ We have started the process of plasma transfusion under the supervision of PGIMS vice-chancellor OP Kalra. The minister is facing symptoms of fever and cough after testing positive for the virus. The doctors had administered a trial dose (either vaccine or placebo) during the third phase of the indigenous vaccine for coronavirus at Ambala hospital two week ago before he was tested positive. He is stable and fine now,” she added.She said they had shifted the minister to a special ward at the PGIMS for his treatment.“ We are monitoring his sugar level and blood pressure also because the health minister is diabetic too,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-health-minister-anil-vij-who-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-shifted-to-rohtak-hospital/story-S6WnDNdGl84s1IZhosHrXO.html
13-12-2020||India||Woman detained under UP’s new law against ‘love jihad’ suffers miscarriage||A 22-year-old Hindu woman who was detained under Uttar Pradesh’s new law against “love jihad” suffered a miscarriage at a shelter home at Moradabad, alleged her mother-in-law. The police however termed it “fake news”.Muskan Jahan (Hindu name Pinki) is also the first woman detained under UP prohibition of unlawful conversion of religion ordinance 2020. She had converted to Islam after marrying a Muslim.She was shifted to a government shelter home after her husband Rashid, 28, was booked under the new law on December 6.The inspector of Kaanth police station, Ajay Gautam, said that she has been kept in a government shelter home and her statement will be recorded on Monday. He, however, denied the reports of her miscarriage and described it ‘rumour’ and ‘fake news’.The woman’s mother-in-law alleged that injection might have been administered to her to abort the baby because she dared to marry a Muslim and converted to Islam, several reports said quoting her.Muskan and Rashid fell in love and married in Dehradun in July. Rashid belongs to Kaanth town of Moradabad district and arrived at the court in his native town on December 6 to get their marriage registered. A group of saffron brigade activists got information about their marriage and landed at the court. They then took the couple to Kaanth police station where few members questioned them in the presence of policemen.Later, Rashid was booked under section 3 of the new law and Muskan was sent to a shelter home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-detained-under-up-s-new-law-against-love-jihad-suffers-miscarriage/story-ZJyLolrouFhyK8lFJfrGjK.html
13-12-2020||India||DMDK to announce alliance in January for upcoming Tamil Nadu assembly polls||Tamil actor-turned-politician Vijayakanth’s Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) will announce in January their decision on alliance for the upcoming 2021 assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, party leaders said on Sunday.The DMDK is presently in an alliance with the combine of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state.The party held a consultative meeting in Chennai on Sunday led by Vijayakanth and his wife Premalatha, who is also the party treasurer, along with their 62 secretaries from districts. “In January, we will hold a general council and executive meetings to arrive at a decision,” said Premalatha Vijayakanth.Also read: Date for next round of talks with farmers soon - Union ministerThe AIADMK, during Amit Shah’s two-day visit to Chennai in November, announced that it will continue its alliance with the BJP for the assembly elections. The national party has not made any formal announcement on the alliance as yet.Vijayakanth launched the DMDK in 2005. He became the opposition leader in 2011 with 8 per cent vote share when he was with the AIADMK which formed the government. However, he parted ways and for the 2016 assembly polls, he joined hands with the left and smaller parties but drew a blank. In 2019, the DMKD joined the National Democratic Alliance for the Lok Sabha polls but its vote share dropped to 2.1 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmdk-to-announce-alliance-in-january-for-upcoming-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls/story-9LYiUZI0UMzc0AoT2QeeFJ.html
13-12-2020||India||Army chief Gen. Naravane holds talks with Royal Saudi Land Forces Commander on defence cooperation||Indian Army chief General M M Naravane on Sunday discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation with Commander of the Royal Saudi Land Forces General Fahd Bin Abdullah Mohammed Al-Mutir during his historic visit to the Gulf Kingdom.Gen Naravane, who arrived in Saudi Arabia on the second leg of his two-nation visit that included the United Arab Emirates, is the first-ever head of the Indian Army to travel to the two strategically important Gulf countries.“COAS discussed issues of bilateral defence cooperation with General Fahd Bin Abdullah Mohammed Al-Mutir, Commander Royal Saudi Land Forces,” the Indian Army’s Additional Directorate General of Public Information said in a tweet on Sunday.He also received a Guard of Honour at headquarters of the Royal Saudi Land Forces.Earlier, Gen Naravane visited the UAE where he discussed bilateral defence cooperation and issues of mutual interest with the UAE’s Commander of the Land Forces Major General Saleh Mohammed Saleh Al Ameri.His visit is seen as a reflection of India’s growing strategic ties with the two countries and is expected to further open up new avenues for cooperation in the defence and security sphere.Gen Naravane’s visit comes in the midst of fast-paced developments in the Gulf region including normalisation of Israel’s relations with several Arab countries as well as situation arising out of the assassination of Iran’s top nuclear scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh.Ahead of his visit to the UAE and Saudi Arabia, the Army said in a statement in New Delhi that “During the visit, he will be meeting his counterparts and senior military leadership of these countries. The visit is historic in the sense that it will be the first time an Indian Army chief is visiting the UAE and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.” Gen. Naravane’s visit to the Gulf region comes days after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s trips to Bahrain and the UAE during which he called on top leaders of the two countries.In the last few years, India’s ties with Saudi Arabia and the UAE have witnessed a major upswing. Last month, the Army chief travelled to Nepal on a three-day visit that had significant diplomatic overtone.In October, Gen. Naravane travelled to Myanmar along with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on a very crucial visit during which India decided to supply an attack submarine to the Myanmar Navy besides agreeing to further deepen military and defence ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-holds-talks-with-royal-saudi-land-forces-commander-on-defence-cooperation/story-WWYWyx0WKIWJUvkpdtIyeI.html
13-12-2020||India||Shashi Tharoor joins protesting MPs at Jantar Mantar, says govt failed nation and farmers||Hitting out at the Centre over farmers protest against the three agriculture laws, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday said that the government has failed the nation and the farmers. Tharoor joined the protest held by the party MPs from Punjab at Jantar Mantar here on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, Tharoor said, “The Government has failed the nation and the farmers. Why did they pass the laws in such haste without consulting the stakeholders?”“The winter session should have taken place normally by the 3rd week of November,” added Tharoor. When asked what is the way forward, the Congress MP said, “I think that the government now should give some assurances to the farmers. The farmers are insisting that the laws be withdrawn. If technically they (government) feel they can suspend its application for now pending discussions, let them suspend it, convene Parliament winter session. The Parliament has the authority to withdraw the laws, they can also talk to the unions.”“The government should realise that in democracy, you cannot bulldoze your way through. We stand here for democracy and rights for the people,” he added. Meanwhile, the farmers’ agitation entered the 18th day today, with their call to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-joins-protesting-mps-at-jantar-mantar-says-govt-failed-nation-and-farmers/story-chJgl4e2O2c7EaXSDXNFyO.html
13-12-2020||India||BJP leaders break CCTV cameras installed at Kejriwal’s house: Delhi CMO||The leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sitting on strike in front of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence here broke CCTV cameras installed at his house, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said on Sunday.“BJP leaders sitting on strike broke CCTV cameras installed at the Chief Minister’s house,” CMO was quoted as saying in a statement.The mayors of Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) and leaders of municipal corporations continue their demonstration outside Kejriwal’s residence. They have continued their demand to get the MCD’s due of Rs 13,000 crore from the Delhi government. The BJP members also held demonstrations in various parts of the national capital on Sunday.On December 10, Delhi Police arrested six persons after registering a case on the complaint by C Arvind, Secretary to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in which it was alleged that “BJP goons” attacked Sisodia’s house on Thursday.Delhi Police has said that an investigation is underway and a proper offence has been registered under appropriate sections of law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-break-cctv-cameras-installed-at-kejriwal-s-house-delhi-cmo/story-mMA0UZuAnTjQWIaXkqsUMJ.html
13-12-2020||India||Rape accused ex-bishop Franco Mullakal on church calendar, protests follow||Angry believers and church reformers hit the street and burnt copies of the 2021 calendar of Thrissur Archdiocese of Syro-Malabar church after it featured the photo of rape accused and former bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mullakal. The month of March had Mullakal’s photo, displaying his date of birth and other details. When contacted, a spokesman of the diocese refused to comment. The trial against the former bishop, who is accused of raping a nun, is in final stages. “It shows the attitude of church authorities. Last year also his photo appeared on the calendar. When protests took place, authorities said his photo will be taken out next year. But it was again repeated this year. It was deliberate,” said convener of the State Our Sisters (SOS) K Riju. SOS was formed in the wake of a protest against Mullakal two years ago. Copies of the calendar were burnt in Kollam, Pala and Kottayam, said church reformers. They asked church authorities not to glorify the rape accused any more. They alleged that a prominent section of the clergy still supported the deposed bishop. The case against Mullkal surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun, also a mother superior, had complained to the police in Kottayam that Mullakkal had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mullakkal denied her allegations, saying he was framed after he took action against her for financial irregularities at the convent. Later the special investigation team of Kerala police arrested him after several rounds of questioning. He was removed from the post of bishop later. The SIT had filed the charge sheet against him last year and he reportedly made several attempts to delay the trial. His petition seeking to quash charges against him was dismissed by the Supreme Court in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-accused-ex-bishop-franco-mullakal-on-church-calendar-protests-follow/story-76MKnEd6kn0lG8yq45e2QN.html
13-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition trying to destabilize nation through farmers’ stir, says Yogi Adityanath and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Opposition trying to destabilize nation through farmers’ stir’: Yogi AdityanathComing down heavily on opposition parties, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday blamed them for hatching a conspiracy to destabilise the country through farmers’ movement and cautioned the farmers to be alert against such elements. Read moreBJP president JP Nadda tests positive for Covid-19, self-isolatesThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda said on Sunday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and that he has been following all the guidelines for home isolation. Read moreSome just oppose, weaken the country: Tomar’s latest jab at oppn over farmers’ stirUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday accused opposition parties of running a propaganda against the new farm laws and said these legislations “may cause difficulty for some in the short term” but will help farmers in the long run. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Rishabh Pant or Wriddhiman Saha? Hanuma Vihari weighs in on India’s ‘happy headache’ ahead of Adelaide TestThe Indian cricket team will have a big call to make as they gear up for the upcoming pink-ball Test against Australia which kicks off from Thursday next week in Adelaide. Read moreKangana Ranaut meets Rajnath Singh with the team of Tejas, seeks his ‘blessings’ for the filmKangana Ranaut and the team of her upcoming film, Tejas, met defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday. She shared pictures of the meeting on Twitter and said that they sought his blessings for the film, in which she plays an Indian Air Force pilot. Read moreApple iPhone 12 Mini is not as popular as we thought it would be; fails to get buyersWhen Apple launched the iPhone 12 Mini, there were speculations that other Android OEMs will soon follow the suit as there exists a market where people want a powerful yet compact smartphone. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja aces smart layering and turns winter look inspiration on Bhaane’s 8th birthdayBeating herself at her own previous fashion games, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja once again stepped out in London streets with her sartorial foot forward and fans were left gushing. Read moreHere’s what 2 supermassive black holes merging together look like. Check it outFrom astronomers to general space enthusiasts, black holes are a topic of interest for many. If you’re someone who spends a lot of their time researching facts about this region of spacetime or watching videos on the same, then here is an Instagram post that you must check out. Read moreWatch: Shikara capsizes during BJP rally amid DDC polls in J&K, people rescuedA shikara, carrying BJP workers and mediapersons, capsized in the Dal Lake on Sunday during campaign for the ongoing District Development Council elections, officials said here. The shikara capsized when it was closing on the bank of the lake in the last leg of the rally. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yogi-adityanath-slams-opposition-for-trying-to-destabilize-nation-through-farmers-stir-and-all-the-latest-news/story-S27BJ6tV0AG4HJ6viMPEEP.html
13-12-2020||India||‘New dawn’ in Bodoland council: BJP, UPPL and GSP join hands to keep BPF out||The Bodoland Territorial Council would witness a ‘new dawn’ said Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma as Bharatiya Janata Party extended its support to the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) and Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) to stake claim for running the council after the BJP’s ally in state government, the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), emerged as the single majority party in the final election results declared on Sunday. UPPL chief Pramod Boro will become the new BTC chief, said Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday, after a crucial meeting held among representatives of the three political parties. After the declaration of the results, he said the coalition - the UPPL, the GSP and the BJP - will stake claim to run the Council.Soon after the announcement, BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted, “A New dawn in BTR. “ Earlier in the day, BJP national president JP Nadda tweeted, “Congratulations to UPPL, NDA partner and Sarbanda Sonowal (Assam chief minister), to getting majority in Assam BTC election. The results show people’s faith in leadership and policies of prime minister Narendra Modi.”Despite being an alliance partner in Assam government, the BPF and the BJP contested the 40-seat BTC polls separately after Sarma announced that their alliance was only for 2016 assembly polls.Also read: Some just oppose - Tomar slams opposition again over farmers’ stirIn elections, for which polling happened on December 7 and 8, and votes were counted on December 10, the BPF got 17 seats, the UPPL secured 12 seats and the BJP nine. The Congress and the GSP won one seat each, according to final results released on Sunday. BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary, on the other hand, sought BJP’s support. As Assam Assembly polls are about to be held in 2021, the BTC poll was seen as semi-final contest among the political parties. The BTC poll was conducted following a fresh Bodo Accord that was signed by the four factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) in New Delhi on January 27.The poll was conducted in four districts of the Bodoland Territorial Region including Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksha and Udalguri. Over 23,00,000 electorates exercised their franchise in the election. The poll was supposed to be held on April 4 but the schedule was deferred to March 20 following the Covid-19 pandemic. The term of the House ended on April 27 and the Council administration went under the Governor’s rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-dawn-in-bodoland-council-bjp-uppl-and-gsp-join-hands-to-keep-bpf-out/story-zARwwlmR3dpofXrTXNBNjN.html
13-12-2020||India||Arrested youth party leader of Popular Front of India funding unrest: ED||An arrested member of the student wing of the Popular front of India is alleged to be a key fund-raiser for subversive activities in the country, said the Enforcement Directorate in its remand report. The agency said Rouf Shareef, national secretary of Campus Front, received more than Rs 2 crore in his three bank accounts from west Asian countries and was using the same to fund unrest in the country. The ED was allowed two-week custody of Shareef by a court in Kochi. Shareef was arrested from Thiruvananthapuram airport on Saturday following a tipoff from intelligence agencies. The Uttar Pradesh police had also issued a lookout notice against him on November 18 for allegedly funding unrest in Hathras. The ED said he was planning to flee the country and evaded summons a couple of times on the pretext of coronavirus pandemic. The UP police said he was in frequent touch Atiq-ur-Rehman and AP Masood and funded their trip to Hathras, where a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and cremated in the dead of the night bythe state police. Hailing from Kerala, both were arrested when they were planning to visit Hathras along with journalist Siddiq Kappan. A police team from UP is expected to question him in a couple of days. When Rouf Shareef was taken to his home in Anchal in Kollam district (south Kerala), Campus Front workers staged a protest and tried to block the ED vehicle carrying him. Later more police personnel reached the spot to remove protesters. Campus Front leaders said he was arrested for supporting the ongoing farmers’ strike and intelligence agencies were being used to silence dissenters. Two weeks ago, the ED had carried out a nationwide raid on offices and residences of top leaders of the Popular Front of India (PFI). The PFI, a radical outfit, is often considered as an offshoot of the banned Students’ Islamic Front of India (SIMI). When Muslim cleric Abdul Nasser Madani, an accused in Bangalore and Coimbatore blast cases, founded the Islamic Seva Sangh on the lines of RSS after Babri mosque demolition, many joined it. Later when Madani was in jail in connection with Coimbatore blasts, these leaders formed the National Development Front. Later it merged with Manitha Neethi Passarai of Tamil Nadu and Forum for Dignity, a Karnataka-based outfit, to form the Popular Front of India (PFI). Now the PFI claims that it has units in 22 states. Most of its frontline leaders are from Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-youth-party-leader-of-popular-front-of-india-funding-unrest-ed/story-5BKnPORTW0c4vEBNPwihiI.html
13-12-2020||India||‘Opposition trying to destabilize nation through farmers’ stir’: Yogi Adityanath||Coming down heavily on opposition parties, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday blamed them for hatching a conspiracy to destabilise the country through farmers’ movement and cautioned the farmers to be alert against such elements. Addressing a gathering in Meerut on the premises of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture, after inaugurating its library and laying down foundation stones of different projects, CM Yogi targeted the opposition parties extending support to farmers’ movement and said, “They (opposition parties) are those who don’t want development of the country, the poor and the farmers. They are attempting to destabilise the country by training their guns on farmers’ movement.“ The CM’s programme was scheduled to start at 11 am at the agriculture university but his helicopter could not land due to rough weather and returned to Ghaziabad. He then arrived at the university by road which delayed the programme by more than two hours. He said that the opposition parties were upset because PM Narendra Modi was taking the country forward. “They were conspiring because the government ensured payment of sugarcane to farmers. They were receiving money in their bank accounts and getting benefits of many welfare schemes, including crop insurance.” He said that the state government had announced to construct additional lane on Hanga canal and allocated a budget of Rs 600 crore for the project. He further said that Meerut was being connected to Delhi through regional railway project of Rs 32,000 crore. Also read: Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protestThe CM reiterated that the poor and the farmers were on the priority of the Prime Minister but a few people were conspiring because Section 370 was abolished in Kashmir, issue of Ram Temple was resolved in Ayodhya and income of middlemen who used to exploit farmers, had been stopped. The chief minister accused the opposition parties of demanding the release of those who were involved in anti-national activities using farmers’ movement. He said the farmers had always contributed to the development and growth of the country and they would continue doing it. He reiterated that the “problems could be resolved through conversation not struggle.” The chief minister planted a sapling before attending the programme. He then reached the regional office of the BJP and planted a banyan sapling. The chief minister will participate in discussions on the party’s policies and strategies over different issues, including the upcoming panchayat elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-trying-to-destabilize-nation-through-farmers-stir-yogi-adityanath/story-7Ezrj2r9wMBMbEZVbL2jFN.html
13-12-2020||India||Modi govt to deal sternly with ‘Tukde Tukde gang’ trying to take advantage of farmers stir, says Union minister Ravi Shankar||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday stated that stern action will be taken against nation breakers “Tukde Tukde Gang” trying to take advantage of farmers movement against the new farm laws.Prasad, who is a Union Minister for Law and Justice, made the assertion while launching Bihar BJPs state-wide “Kisan Chaupal Sammelan” (farmers conference) in support of the three agricultural Acts at Tekbigha village in Bakhtiarpur assembly constituency of Patna district. “They (those protesting farm laws) are saying that they will not withdraw their movement unless and until these laws are withdrawn.We would like to say that Narendra Modi government respects farmers but would like to make it clear that stern action will be taken against ‘tukde tukde gang’ taking advantage of farmers movement,” Prasad said. “I want to ask who are these people who are talking the language of breaking the country...Now demands are being raised to free those so-called intellectuals who are in jails for indulging in rioting in Delhi and Maharashtra. “Police have filed chargesheets, they are not able to obtain bail from the court as trials are underway. Now these people have taken refuge under farmers movement for their interest but we will not allow them to succeed in their goal,” Prasad said while addressing the ‘Kisan chaupal sammelan’. Union Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has also earlier asked protesting farmers to be vigilant against misuse of their platform by the “anti-social” as well as the “Leftist and Maoist” elements conspiring to spoil the atmosphere. He had said this on Friday after photographs of some protesters at the Tikri border seen holding posters demanding release of activists arrested under various charges had gone viral. Food, Railway and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal has been more direct in his charge, alleging that certain Leftist and Maoist elements seem to have taken “control” of the agitation and rather than discussing on farmer issues, they seem to be having some other agenda. As per the Bihar BJP’s programme, similar conferences will be held at the district level and chaupals (meetings) in every assembly constituency till December 25, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The pro-agri Acts meetings across Bihar will be attended by various union and state ministers.The conference was also attended by Bihar BJP president and MP Sanjay Jaiswal, MLAs Gyanendra Singh Gyanu, Sanjeev Chaurasia and a host of other leaders. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of the big corporates. The Centre has maintained that MSP and Mandi mechanisms will stay. Prasad asserted that the three agri laws have been enacted to benefit farmers especially small and marginal ones across the country and wondered as why the opposition parties and farmers of Punjab are agitating against the laws which will free the farmers from shackles of Mandi system as they can sell their produce anywhere in the country. “The laws give the farmers opportunity to sell their produce either in Mandi or in PACS or outside the realm of mandi, PACS or Vyapar Mandal...I just want to ask whether or not farmers be given such freedom or opportunity. It is beyond ones fathom as they are opposing the laws,” he said. The minister cited examples of farmers of Kishanganj and Aurangabad in Bihar making good money by selling one lakh MT of pine-apple and 200 MT of strawberry to the traders from Kolkata, respectively. “Why makhana (gorgon nut) of north Bihar be sold locally and why not it be given the access to global market?” he asked.As per the farm law, those entering into agreements with farmers can neither sell nor lease out or mortgage the land of farmers, Prasad asserted while adding that companies (entering into agreement) will provide quality seeds, technique to farmers, buy their produce and finally farmers getting money sitting at home. If any company was found indulge in irregularities with farmers or harassing them, then both the Narendra Modi government at Centre and Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, which are firmly standing behind farmers, will send such erring person to jail, the minister said. Speaking on the occasion, Jaiswal said that there is a “conspiracy” behind the farmers movement which is hugely participated by cultivators of Punjab alone. “This conspiracy needs to be exposed”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-to-deal-sternly-with-tukde-tukde-gang-trying-to-take-advantage-of-farmers-stir-says-union-minister-ravi-shankar/story-4F2bycEKA4SLVD8eXO3QNO.html
13-12-2020||India||2 Pak terrorists killed, associate arrested in J-K’s Poonch||Two Pakistani terrorists were killed and their associate was arrested in Poshana area on Mughal Road in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Sunday evening.Inspector-General of Police, Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh said, “Two terrorists were killed and their associate was arrested at Chatta Pani area near Poshana in Poonch in a joint operation of the security forces”.A senior police officer said that a group of terrorists had recently sneaked into Poonch after crossing the LoC.“They had to go to Shopian and carry out a major terror strike amid the DDC elections but we got intelligence inputs and immediately an operation was launched to neutralize them.”Security forces had reached the area on Friday but heavy snowfall and inclement weather hampered our operations. Finally, on Sunday, we launched the operation and after trapping them in a cordon, we eliminated two of them and arrested their associate.”Also read: Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protestChatta-Pani area is situated along Mughal Road, which falls under the territorial jurisdiction of Surankote police station of Poonch district.Earlier today, Western army commander Lt Gen RP Singh reviewed security along the 198-kilometre-long Indo-Pak international border in the Jammu region. Recently, there has been a rise in incidents of Pakistani drones entering Indian territory to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Last month, security forces had also discovered a cross-border tunnel, which was used by four Jaish terrorists to enter Jammu before they were killed in an operation at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota.India is observing the 19th anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attack on Parliament. Nineteen years ago on December 13, terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) entered the Parliament complex and opened fire. Nine people, including eight security personnel, died in the incident. All five terrorists were killed by security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-pak-terrorists-killed-associate-arrested-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-nkcVvkftVBDiTezgAzxfYM.html
13-12-2020||India||GST officers arrest 140 persons on charges of fake invoicing, focus on under-valuation of transported goods||GST authorities have arrested as many as 140 persons, including five chartered accountants, in about a month’s time on charges of issuing fake invoices, and have now trained their guns on entities transporting under-valued goods.In its nationwide drive against fake invoice frauds since the second week of November, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) have also unearthed cases of GST evasion by way of transporting under-valued and unaccounted goods, they added.Revenue Department sources said some companies of Delhi and Himachal are under investigation for under-valuation of goods and its transportation through transporters of Ludhiana and Jalandhar. During searches and surveys, the field formations have seized unaccounted goods as well. DGGI sources said that it appears that a good number of transporters too are involved in this kind of GST evasion activities through under-valued goods transportation and further investigations are required to ascertain the evasion to the exchequer.Sources said that preliminary investigation done so far shows under valuation of goods by 20-30 per cent and a number of unaccounted goods, which have been seized. Since the second week of November, GST officers have booked 1,488 cases against 4,839 fake entities and arrested 140 unscrupulous persons including five chartered accountants and a woman, for allegedly being involved in fake invoicing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-officers-arrest-140-persons-on-charges-of-fake-invoicing-focus-on-under-valuation-of-transported-goods/story-0t0E121f8XaLvRKSk7FccL.html
13-12-2020||India||‘Sent to all’: IRCTC denies mailing Sikhs on govt’s behalf amid farmers’ protest||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has denied reaching out to the Sikh community through emails on behalf of the central government amid ongoing farmers’ protests. IRCTC refuted the reports suggesting it had sent out the mails, highlighting the relationship between Sikhs and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to people with surname ‘Singh’ and those from the Punjab region. It said the emails were sent to all and that such activities are not unprecedented.“It may be informed to all that the comments of IRCTC have not been quoted correctly and the mails have been sent to all irrespective any particular community...This is not the first instance. Earlier also such activities have been undertaken by IRCTC to promote government welfare schemes in the public interest” the subsidiary of the Indian Railways said in a statement.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle as farmers threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highwayAccording to several media reports, IRCTC sent mails with a 47-page attachment titled ‘PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs’. The reports, quoting IRCTC chief public relations officer, claimed that the organisation sent the mails from cim@irctc.co.in to those who had registered their email id on its website while booking travel tickets.The 47-page document is reportedly in Hindi, Punjabi and English language and starts with a citation from the Qaumi Seva Award presented to PM Modi. It also highlighted the measures taken by the government, apparently meant for the welfare of the Sikh community, including Sri Kartarpur Corridor and Jalianwala Bagh Memorial, according to the reports.The farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the three farm laws, which were enacted in September. The farmers are demanding to repeal the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sent-to-all-irctc-denies-mailing-sikhs-on-govt-s-behalf-amid-farmers-protest/story-J5Mee1yRYKcmF427UVbOKM.html
13-12-2020||India||UK PM praises India’s ‘incredible’ solar power strides at climate summit||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has hailed the “incredible things” being done by India in the solar energy sector as he warned that the emergency facing the world from climate change was far more destructive than even the coronavirus pandemic.Johnson said this in his address to the Climate Ambition Summit this weekend, co-hosted by the UK to mark the fifth anniversary of the Paris climate agreement.In his speech to the virtual summit, which was earlier addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi among around 70 heads of state and government, the British prime minister reiterated the UK’s pledge to radically cut dependence on fossil fuels.“We’re going ahead with a massive solar programme, even though we can’t hope to emulate the incredible things being done by India, Australia or Morocco for instance,” he said.“Today, we’re putting our foot to the accelerator – in a carbon friendly way of course – with a Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution. We want to turn the UK into the Saudi Arabia of wind power generation, enough wind power by 2030 to supply every single one of our homes with electricity… Hydro of course – we’re liberating the awesome potential of hydrogen, whether for homes or all sorts of uses,” he said.The summit, held as a precursor to the UK’s hosting of the United Nations’ COP26 summit in November 2021, included addresses urging the world’s economies to “stop the assault” on the planet and increase their ambition on cutting the greenhouse gases that drive climate change. United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres warned leaders that the world was heading for a “catastrophic” 3 degrees Celsius of warming, as he urged them to declare a state of climate emergency in their countries until they become carbon neutral.“Have we made any real progress at this summit? And the answer to that is: yes,” said Alok Sharma, the UK’s Business Secretary and President of COP26.“But they will also ask, have we done enough to put the world on track to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, and protect people and nature from the effects of climate change? To make the Paris Agreement a reality. Friends, we must be honest with ourselves, the answer to that, is currently: no. As encouraging as all this ambition is. It is not enough,” he said.Earlier on Saturday, Johnson said advances in renewable energy technologies would “save our planet and create millions of high-skilled jobs” as the UK announced an end to support for the fossil fuel sector overseas. Described as a significant move as in the last four years, the UK government supported 21 billion pounds of UK oil and gas exports through trade promotion and export finance.The new policy will be implemented after a short period of consultation and is intended to come into force as soon as possible before COP26 next year.“Together we can use scientific advances to protect our entire planet - our biosphere – against a challenge far worse, far more destructive even than the coronavirus. And by the promethean power of our invention, we can begin to defend the Earth against the disaster of global warming,” said Johnson.The UK had recently also announced a new commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 68% by 2030, compared to 1990 levels. The UK claims this means its Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) under the Paris Climate Agreement is now among the highest in the world and commits the country to cutting emissions at one of the fastest rates of any major economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-pm-praises-india-s-incredible-solar-power-strides-at-climate-summit/story-P0mvPTUAu57AtE4AEaKzgK.html
13-12-2020||India||Delhi-Jaipur highway partially opened amid farmers’ protest||The Delhi-Jaipur highway was partially opened post 2 pm after it was blocked as farmers began a march from Shahjahanpur of Alwar district on the Rajasthan-Haryana border as part of their protest against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. The Haryana police did not allow march to the national capital resulting in the highway blockade. The announcement by farmers’ unions to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway came amid protests by thousands for the last 17 days at the various other border points of the national capital, including Singhu and Tikri, against the laws. Farmers are demanding the Centre withdraw the legislations.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.Farmers of several organisations reached the Haryana border near Jaisinghpur-Khera area through Behror, Kotputli and Shahjahanpur of Rajasthan.Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyan, social activists Aruna Roy and Medha Paatkar, and CPM leader Amra Ram also joined farmers at Shahjahanpur, where the highway was blocked.“We are sitting on the national highway in support of the farmers agitating at Singhu border in Delhi,” Yogendra Yadav said.“Police and administration are telling us that blocking the national highway will create trouble for people, so we have told them that we are ready to leave the highway if we are allowed to march towards Delhi. We have also apologised to the people for the inconvenience caused by the blockade,” he said.Kisan Panchayat national president Rampal Chaudhary continued his sit-in on the highway after farmers were stopped at Haryana border on Saturday.“Farmers of different organisations are reaching Shahjahanpur border. We just want to march towards Delhi to press for repeal of the farm laws,” Chaudhary said.Farmer leader Amra Ram of CPM asked the union government to withdraw the farm laws. “We do not intend to block Jaipur-Delhi national highway. It’s police who are blocking it by stopping our march,” he said.The vehicular movement on the highway was diverted through Bansur and other routes in Alwar. Vehicles are plying on the one-way lane from Delhi to Jaipur.Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief and MP Hanuman Beniwal also has plans to march towards Delhi. He organised a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ in Kotputli on Saturday, where he accused the Congress and BJP of being two sides of the same coin and urged the Narendra Modi government to repeal the farm laws. The RLP is an ally of the BJP and part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).“PM Narendra Modi has a big heart, so he should withdraw farm laws in the interest of farmers. It is a do-or- die situation for farmers who are united,” Beniwal said.He urged the union government to implement Swaminathan Commission’s report for farmers’ benefit.The Rajasthan police have scaled up security in view of the farmer agitation. Bhiwadi SP Ram Murti Joshi said, “Police have made all arrangements to maintain law and order in view of the farmers’ agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-jaipur-highway-blocked-after-haryana-stops-farmers-march/story-TQfrwUzQm7OWMIZNuFcrrK.html
13-12-2020||India||From JP Nadda to Amit Shah, here are some BJP leaders who contracted Covid-19||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) president JP Nadda said on Sunday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has isolated himself at home. The 60-year-old Nadda shared the news on his Twitter account and said that he has been following all the guidelines for home isolation. The BJP leader said that he got the test done after he experienced some initial symptoms.“I got the test done after experiencing the initial symptoms of corona and the report came back positive. My health is fine and I have been following all the guidelines for home isolation on the advice of doctors. I request everyone who has come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate yourself and get yourself checked,” Nadda tweeted in Hindi. कोरोना के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने टेस्ट करवाया और रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मेरी तबीयत ठीक है, डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर होम आइसोलेशन में सभी दिशा- निर्देशो का पालन कर रहा हूँ। मेरा अनुरोध है, जो भी लोग गत कुछ दिनों में संपर्क में आयें हैं, कृपया स्वयं को आइसोलेट कर अपनी जाँच करवाएं।Before Nadda, several leaders of the BJP and other political parties have contracted the viral disease. Union home minister Amit Shah was the first member of the Union cabinet to test positive for Covid-19 on August 2. The senior BJP leader was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon. The 55-year-old said a fortnight later that he had tested negative for the viral infection. Shah was later admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on August 18 for post-Covid-19 care after he had complained of fatigue and body ache. Shah was again admitted to AIIMS on September 13 for two days for a complete medical check-up ahead of Parliament monsoon session,Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel, Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, minister of state for parliamentary affairs and heavy industries Arjun Ram Meghwal, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union AYUSH minister Shripad Naik, Union minister of state for agriculture Kailash Chaudhary and Union minister of women and child development Smriti Irani are some of the political leaders who have contracted Covid-19 and recovered.Also read | ‘Be serious. Don’t take it lightly’: Covid survivor Nitin Gadkari’s adviceMinister of state for railways, Suresh Angadi, died due to the coronavirus disease in September. He was 65. Angadi was a Lok Sabha member from Belgaum in Karnataka. Other politicians who contracted the disease include Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease went up to 98,57,029 on Sunday after 30,254 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases of Covid-19 went down further to 356,546 and 9,357,464 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals. The country also recorded 391 new fatalities, which pushed its death toll to 143,019, according to health ministry figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-jp-nadda-to-amit-shah-here-are-some-bjp-leaders-who-contracted-covid-19/story-Q1DDEG7UtESWrrvxFniEZO.html
13-12-2020||India||Haridwar teachers to be Uttarakhand govt’s Corona warriors for Mahakumbh 2021||In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the Mahakumbh 2021 fair, which is scheduled to begin next year in Haridwar, teachers of government schools have been trained to generate awareness and sensitize locals, pilgrims on how to remain safe from the deadly virus. Over 30 government school teachers from the district have already been trained under the guidance of Haridwar chief medical officer, informed officials. These teachers will further spread awareness in Haridwar city and suburban areas to priests and saints in temples, ashrams, dharmashalas, traders, rickshaw pullers, and auto-drivers. Anand Bharadwaj, chief education officer of Haridwar district said, “Under the supervision of chief medical officer, Haridwar, the selected teachers have been trained regarding the do’s, don’t, identification of Covid-19 symptoms, asymptomatic factors, home isolation procedure and how to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and maintaining distance. These teachers will act as our ‘Kumbh corona warriors’.” He added that the respective government departments are assisting in ensuring that the targeted people arrive at the training centres so that maximum number of can be sensitized and be prepared ahead of Mahakumbh mela next month. The district administration is keen on keeping the services of these trained teachers till the final months of Mahakumbh fair in March-April. Also read: Ministers in huddle as farmers threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highwayTrader associations, priests’ community, transport associations and hotel associations have welcomed this Kumbh-oriented Covid-19 safety training module. Sanjay Chopra, president of Small-scale Traders Association said, “We aim to contain the spread of Covid-19 during Mahakumbh, and we are willing to cooperate with the district administration in any capacity.” While Ganga Sabha, which manages affairs of sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri and comprises teerth purohits, said that it is imperative that social distancing is practised strictly as Mahakumbh is approaching and any workshop or programme that the government, district and mela administration organize will help in mass sensitization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-teachers-to-be-uttarakhand-govt-s-corona-warriors-for-mahakumbh-2021/story-fwmIUUaw9Xy0KcZBHsIBFN.html
13-12-2020||India||There has been absolutely no compromise in clinical testing of Covid-19 vaccines, says clinical scientist Gagandeep Kang||Seeking to allay apprehension of people over safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, noted clinical scientist Gagandeep Kang said that though vaccines for the coronavirus are being developed in a short period of time, there has been absolutely no compromise in their clinical testing.Click here fro complete coverage of Covid-19 Kang, who is associated with the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness, a global consortium involved in facilitating vaccine candidates for the novel coronavirus, also said that there should be equitable Covid-19 vaccine access globally and domestically. Known for her inter-disciplinary research on transmission, development and prevention of infections and their sequelae in children in India, Kang is also the first Indian woman to be inducted as a Fellow of the Royal Society in London. Though vaccines for the coronavirus are being developed in a “very short period of time”, all clinical phases of testing are being done, she told PTI in an interview. “What has changed is the approach to the testing where all steps that used to happen between phases of clinical trials have been cut out, which means regulators are working much longer and harder than they ever have before,” Kang said. Everybody is talking about things being done very fast but “I think it is very important to know what steps we are cutting out and quite frankly, in all of the testing of vaccines that is being done, there is no aspect of testing that is being removed from the development pathway”, she said. “I think it is very important to understand that there has been absolutely no compromise in clinical testing of Covid-19 vaccines. The only thing that we do not have from these trials, that we might have had otherwise, is the duration of safety follow-up. Generally, we follow up on trials for six months or one year, and generally, we do not find anything extra in the six months or one year,” Kang said. Kang, who was the executive director of the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI) but resigned in July, said that another thing that is different in the development of Covid-19 vaccines is that clinical trials have been made very large to get results faster. To a question on availability of cold chain capacity to store vaccines, she said that equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines should be ensured. The case should not be that those who live in big cities, where there is better cold chain capacity, get vaccinated while those in rural areas or small towns do not get it because of lack of storage facilities, Kang said. “My worry with all of it is the question of equity, will we end up with a system where we have freezers in big cities and some classes of people can get vaccines, whereas in rural areas or small towns there is no access to these vaccines as cold chain capacity does not exist,” she said. “Even in the work that we are planning to do with the Lancet Commission, equity is a big part of looking at what services are provided to whom and where, and making sure that where you live and what your socio-economic status is does not determine what kind of services you get,” Kang said. The Lancet, a global health journal, on Friday launched the Lancet Citizens’ Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System, which will work on developing a strategy for implementing universal health coverage (UHC) in India. The journal and the Lakshmi Mittal and Family South Asia Institute, Harvard University, together formulated the commission. Speaking about the Lancet commission, Kang said that its purpose is to aim for universal health coverage to examine all health concerns, to look at mental and physical health problems and their solutions, to ensure that catastrophic health expenditure does not happen and make sure coverage is accessible and affordable. The commission is being led by four distinguished health and business leaders, including Kang and CMD Biocon Ltd Kiran Mazumdar Shaw. “If we think about Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which have a target of 2030, there is no way we can achieve these goals with the trajectory that we have at the moment. So what we are seeking to do over the next few years is to try and layout a road-map to make sure we are on a better path to achieving the SDGs,” Kang said. She said in India, out of pocket payments for healthcare continue to be highest in the world and it is one of many reasons why many families are driven into poverty. This kind of “catastrophic health expenditure” actually winds up promoting further health inequities in the system, Kang said. “We have a situation where the most vulnerable in our population don’t get services that they want and there is a problem in terms of accountability where the poor are treated as beneficiaries rather than as clients of the system, and there seems to be a lack of trust in the quality of the care that is provided by the healthcare system,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-has-been-absolutely-no-compromise-in-clinical-testing-of-covid-19-vaccines-says-clinical-scientist-gagandeep-kang/story-8N34vXuQBiuzlQzDnnBQWI.html
13-12-2020||India||BJP president JP Nadda tests positive for Covid-19, self-isolates||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda said on Sunday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and that he has been following all the guidelines for home isolation.“I got the test done after experiencing the initial symptoms of corona and the report came back positive. My health is fine and I have been following all the guidelines for home isolation on the advice of doctors,” Nadda tweeted in Hindi.The BJP chief has asked those who have come in contact with him to get tested. “I request everyone who has come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate yourself and get yourself checked,” Nadda said. कोरोना के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने टेस्ट करवाया और रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मेरी तबीयत ठीक है, डॉक्टर्स की सलाह पर होम आइसोलेशन में सभी दिशा- निर्देशो का पालन कर रहा हूँ। मेरा अनुरोध है, जो भी लोग गत कुछ दिनों में संपर्क में आयें हैं, कृपया स्वयं को आइसोलेट कर अपनी जाँच करवाएं।Many political leaders took to Twitter to wish BJP chief a speedy recovery from Covid-19. Chief minister of Karnataka, BS Yediyurappa expressed his best wishes to Nadda. “My best wishes for a speedy recovery and good health of our party President Shri JP Nadda ji,” he tweeted.“I am confident that you will soon be freed from Covid-19 and will inspire workers with your experience and organisation skills. I am surel you will soon guide the party workers with your foresight and knowledge. I pray to God for your speedy recovery,” Railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Twitter.Also read | Some just oppose, weaken the country: Tomar’s latest jab at oppn over farmers’ stirFormer chief minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis tweeted: “Wishing you a very speedy recovery Mananeeya Adhyaksh JP Nadda ji.Get well soon ! Maharashtra awaits to welcome you soon.”Earlier this week, several vehicles in BJP chief’s convoy were damaged in West Bengal as Nadda was travelling to Diamond Harbour to address a public meeting and some of the party’s leaders and workers were injured by stone-throwing protesters who were allegedly carrying the ruling Trinamool Congress’ (TMC’s) flags at Sirakol.Following the incident, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has sent a summons to West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and director general of police (DGP) Virendra to appear on December 14. The home ministry is likely to seek an explanation from the two regarding the law-and-order situation in the state and the preventions taken so far against political violence and other crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-president-jp-nadda-tests-positive-for-covid-19-self-isolates/story-yUleQN69h32sxiRtUdUfiO.html
13-12-2020||India||Activists, women’s groups oppose Maharashtra Shakti bill, ask CM Thackeray to not table it||Several activists, lawyers and women’s organisations have urged Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to not table the Shakti bill, calling it draconian legislation that is fundamentally anti-women with the potential to negate the very offence of rape.A statement from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said last Wednesday that two bills will be tabled in the legislature - the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Special Court & Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law, 2020 - to give shape to the law against perpetrators of crime against women and children. Also Read | ‘Shakti act’: Maharashtra’s new bill on sexual crimes to have death penalty, hefty finesThe draft bill will be tabled in the state legislature during the upcoming two-day winter session in Mumbai on December 14-15. The bills are meant to bring down the rate of crime against women and propose the death penalty, stern punishment, life sentence, hefty fines as retributions for the offences.The consensus of a large group of feminist activists, lawyers, women’s organisation leaders and academicians working on the issue is that the bills go against their fundamental beliefs and principles.They have said in a letter, dated December 11, that the proposed amendment to Section 375 that says where parties are adults and the conduct of such parties from all circumstances surrounding the same appears that there was consent or implied consent, presumes consent, negates the entire definition of consent under the section and of rape itself. It said that this is a step back for women’s right after the 2013 amendments wherein as per Verma Committee’s report the definition of consent was added to the section.“While the Act is said to be made for justice to women it feeds into the patriarchal construction of consent and conduct of women. It goes against the statement and object of this Bill. In a lot of cases of rape, the accused take the plea of consent with such an explanation added it will become impossible for the prosecution to establish rape. Such an explanation negates and nullifies the very offence of rape,” the letter with 92 signatories said.They said the bill came to them on December 10 hence giving them less time for a detailed review and critique. It also questioned the potency of the death penalty as an effective deterrent for crimes against women and stated the proposed amendments can lead to endangering the lives of survivors and less reportage in case of sexual assaults on children as reports suggest that most of the offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) act are committed by people known to children.Organisations like the Akhil Bharatiya Janwadi Mahila Sanghatana, MumbaiBebaakCollective, MumbaiBhartiya Mahila Federation (NFIW), TISSStree Mukti Sanghatana; advocates Indira Jaising, Veena Gowda and Rouble Sarkar; professors Asha Bajpai and Anjali Monteiro; activists Manisha Gupte and Snehal Velkar and others have signed the letter opposing the draft bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-women-s-groups-oppose-maharashtra-shakti-bill-ask-cm-thackeray-to-not-table-it/story-0h3ipgmq4n1bx4e43Mdl8H.html
13-12-2020||India||RTGS facility to be available round the clock from mid-night tonight||The Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS) for high-value transactions will become available round-the-clock from 00:30 hours Monday onwards, making India one of the few countries in the world to operate the system 24X7.In October, the RBI had announced that RTGS will be available round-the-clock on all days of the year.“RTGS facility becomes operational 24X7 from 12.30 am tonight. Congratulations to the teams from RBI, IFTAS and the service partners who made this possible,” RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in a tweet.India will become one of the few countries in the world to operate its RTGS system round-the-clock throughout the year.RTGS on 24X7X365 facility comes within a year of RBI operationalising NEFT 24x7. NEFT is a popular mode for small-value transactions.RTGS, which began its operations on March 26, 2004 with a soft launch involving four banks, presently handles 6.35 lakh transactions daily for a value of Rs 4.17 lakh crore across 237 participant banks.The average ticket size for RTGS in November 2020 was Rs 57.96 lakh, making it a truly large value payment system.RTGS uses ISO 20022 format which is the best-in-class messaging standard for financial transactions. The feature of positive confirmation for credit to beneficiary accounts is also available in RTGS.“Round the clock availability of RTGS will provide extended flexibility to businesses for effecting payments and will enable introduction of additional settlement cycles in ancillary payment systems. This can also be leveraged to enhance operations of Indian financial markets and cross-border payments,” RBI had said last week.Earlier, RBI had decided not to levy charges on transactions through NEFT and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system in order to promote digital transactions in the country, and asked banks to pass on the benefits to the customers.The RBI used to levy minimum charges on banks for transactions routed through RTGS and NEFT. Banks, in turn, levied charges on their customers.RTGS is meant for large-value instantaneous fund transfers, while NEFT is used for fund transfers of up to Rs 2 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtgs-facility-to-be-available-round-the-clock-from-mid-night-tonight/story-QNXzOYVopWfOBtHEkVrWlN.html
13-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand to get its first crocodile safari in Kumaon’s Khatima||Uttarakhand is planning to set up the state’s first crocodile safari in Surai forest range in Kumaon, said forest officials. Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai-east forest division, said, “We are chalking out a plan for a crocodile safari in Khakra nullah of Surai range in Khatima area in US Nagar district. Our aim is not only to conserve crocodiles but also earn revenue from this for the department by attracting tourists and boosting ecotourism.” Surai range falls in Terai-East forest division in Kumaon and Khakra nullah passes through the range. Since crocodiles are in good numbers in this forest range, a proposal for crocodile safari has been prepared, said Kumar. The spot where the safari is being planned is 12 km from Khatima town of US Nagar and 20 km from Pilibhit tiger reserve in Pilibhit district of Uttar Pradesh. Khakra had 170 crocodiles in the last count held in 2018. Now their numbers have increased, according to forest officials Kumar said, “A 750-metre stretch of the nullah has been identified for safari and ample fencing and walls will be erected on both sides so that crocodiles don’t harm the tourists and tourists too don’t venture too close to the animal. A track will be constructed on both sides for tourists. Later electric vehicles will be provided if the safari gets good footfall.” Babu Lal, sub divisional officer (SDO) of Khatima forest, said, “Surai range is spread on 22,000 hectares of land and has a very rich flora and fauna. We have sent a proposal for a crocodile safari in Khakra nullah on the instruction of higher authorities.” Praveen Kabir, a social activist of Khatima, said, “It is a nice idea to have crocodile safari in a remote area like Khatima. It would give Khatima a chance to shine on the tourism map of India.” In Uttarakhand, crocodiles are found in the Corbett landscape, Terai area, some areas of Haridwar forest division and Rajaji National Park landscape. According to the latest wildlife census released by the state forest department in June this year, crocodile numbers have increased in the state from 123 in 2008 to 451 in 2020. Of 23 crocodilian species found in the world, India has three species. Uttarakhand has two of the three crocodilian species - Mugger Crocodile and Gharial (in Corbett landscape). Mugger Crocodile (Crocodylus palustris), the most widespread freshwater croc species is found throughout India, except the extreme north.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-get-its-first-crocodile-safari-in-kumaon-s-khatima/story-9z0mId7lFB6OLvd0m8IKAO.html
13-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Ministers in huddle as farmers threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highway||Top Union ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, went into a huddle on Sunday as farmers who have been camping at Delhi’s borders to demand the repeal of three contentious laws aimed at opening up farm trade dug in their heels.Tomar and Parkash met Shah on Sunday as the deadlock between farmers and the Centre over the new farm laws continued for the 18th day, reports said. The ministers were accompanied by leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Punjab, according to news agency PTI. Tomar and Parkash, along with their ministerial colleague Piyush Goyal, have been leading the government’s negotiations with the protesting farmers.Tomar and Parkash met the Union home minister at his house and it was not immediately known what transpired in the meeting, even as the farmers’ agitation in and around Delhi entered its 18th day with the protesters threatening to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway.Also read | ‘Always listened to my conscience’: Senior Punjab cop resigns to support protesting farmers“Thousands of farmers will begin a tractor march at 11am on December 13 from Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan and block the Jaipur-Delhi main road,” Sanyukta Kisan Andolan leader Kamal Preet Singh Pannu had said on Saturday.The farmers’ union leader added they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border. “On December 14, all farmer leaders will sit on fast sharing the stage at Singhu border. We want the government to take back the three farm laws; we’re not in the favour of the proposed amendments. The Centre wants to thwart our movement but we’ll continue it peacefully,” he said, according to news agency ANI.Also read | New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: ModiPannu alleged that the Centre is trying to “fail” the farmers’ movement, making attempts to divide the farmers. “We will foil any attempt by the Centre to fail our movement. The government made a few small attempts to divide us and instigate people. But, we will peacefully take this movement towards victory,” he said, according to news agency ANI.Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.The three farm laws, which were enacted in September, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. Farmers have, however, demanded the repeal of these laws, saying the reforms will make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and weaken the government’s MSP system. These laws together allow agribusinesses to trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming.On Saturday, a delegation of farmers from Haryana, including those connected with Farmer Producer Organisation, had expressed their support, in a letter, for the three farm laws with the modifications proposed by the central government.The government has held five rounds of formal talks with the representatives of farmers, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand of repeal of the three contentious laws. The sixth round of talks between the government and farm union leaders was cancelled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ministers-in-huddle-as-farmers-threaten-to-block-delhi-jaipur-highway/story-aKFEwvWcMNcCd297leZZkK.html
13-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: Senior Punjab cop resigns from job to support protesting farmers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Senior Punjab cop resigns from job to support protesting farmersA senior official of Punjab police has quit his job to support farmers protesting the three new farm laws, saying the pieces of legislation were “detrimental to the interest of farmers and their future generations”. Punjab’s deputy inspector general of police (prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar said he had tendered his resignation to the state government on Saturday. Read more3 terrorists trapped on Mughal Road in Jammu, encounter onThree terrorists have been trapped by the security forces at Chatta-Pani area on the Mughal Road in Jammu’s Poonch district, officials said Sunday. Read moreBTC polls: New alliance on cards as BJP may join hands with UPPLThe ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to tie up with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) to take over the Bodoland Territorial Council. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘If he opens, India can convert their weakness into strength’ - Ashish Nehra picks his openers for Australia TestsIt cannot be exactly called a weakness but India have plenty to ponder when it comes to deciding on their opening combination for the Test series against Australia. India have four designated openers currently in their squad for the four-match Border-Gavaskar Trophy which begins December 17 – Shubman Gill, Prithvi Shaw, Mayank Agarwal and KL Rahul – and although Rohit Sharma likely to join the team for the final two Tests, for the first two, the toss up is between Agarwal and youngsters Shaw and Gill. Read moreGoogle unknowingly reveals a mysterious Nokia smartphone that is yet to launchNokia 5.4 has been spotted on Google’s list of AR Core devices confirming the smartphone’s existence. This comes shortly after the specifications of the Nokia 5.4 were leaked. Nokia 5.4 will succeed the Nokia 5.3 that was launched earlier this year. Read more Kia Motors aims to expand to small towns to further cement its position in IndiaSouth Korean automaker Kia Motors aims to expand its sales network in smaller towns and rural areas as it looks to scale up its presence across the country, according to a senior company official. Read more ‘Angelina Jolie lookalike’ Sahar Tabar sentenced to 10 years in jail in Iran, for ‘corrupting youth’Instagram star Sahar Tabar, who made headlines for her resemblance to Angelina Jolie, has been jailed for 10 years, after she was arrested over her social media activities. She had previously called on Jolie to campaign for her release. Read moreMandira Bedi sizzles in a Rs 16k trail-drape dress with off-shoulder detail in rust that you want to stealThe fashion police have unapologetically centered all limelight on television hottie Mandira Bedi and we don’t blame them as the diva recently made jaws drop with her sizzling look while hosting GQ Men of the Year awards. Taking the glam quotient a notch higher, the Saaho actor served one of her hottest off-shoulder look in a trail-drape dress and fashionistas could not help but take note. Read more‘Soul-stirring and heavenly’: Lucky Ali’s impromptu gig at Goa strikes a chord with netizensIt was not long ago that a video of singer Lucky Ali strumming a guitar and singing his own song O Sanam went viral on the Internet. One of the country’s most popular and loved indie-pop artists, another clip of Ali is again creating a buzz online. It’s his impromptu gig at Arambol, Goa. After watching the clip, you may find yourself grooving to the music. Chances are you’ll also be reminded of the days gone by. Read more Watch: PM Modi, Vice Prez & other ministers pay tribute to Parliament attack heroesPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and Opposition leaders paid tributes at the Parliament complex to those who lost their lives in the 2001 Parliament attack. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-senior-punjab-cop-resigns-from-job-to-support-protesting-farmers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-spEYVt4UfKqaBhSZtBMwRO.html
13-12-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal says will fast in support of farmers tomorrow, urges AAP workers to do the same||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal on Sunday said he will hold one-day fast on Monday in support of farmers protesting the three farm laws and also urged the workers and supporters of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to join him. Kejriwal also asked the central government to roll back the three contentious farm laws which were implemented by the Centre in September, and demanded a new bill to ensure minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers – currently a policy issue – be drafted and tabled.“I request all party (AAP) supporters and people across the country to observe fast for a day tomorrow (Monday) in solidarity with protesting farmers. I shall be observing a day’s fast too… Let’s support our farmers from our homes. I understand that it is not possible for many of us to be physically present in the (state) border points where the protesting farmer groups have gathered,” the chief minister said in a video press briefing on Monday.Watch | Kejriwal to fast with farmers in support, urges centre ‘shun arrogance’ On the people being called “anti-national” for supporting the protesting farmers, Kejriwal reminded of 2011 Anna Hazare-led movement against corruption, saying that Congress then had done a similar thing to disregard the movement. “In the last few days, I have seen several ministers and BJP leaders calling the protesting farmers anti-national. I have a question for them: So many ex-servicemen, sportspersons, artistes, doctors, lawyers, businessmen have been supporting the protests in some way or other – are they all anti-national? During the Anna Hazare-led anti-corruption movement in 2011, the Congress had done similar things to bring disrepute to the movement. The BJP is doing the same thing now,” Kejriwal said.Thousands of farmers from Haryana and Punjab have been protesting in and around several borders of Delhi against the three farm laws. The government pushed for the agriculture laws saying that it will bring major reforms in the farming sector that will help eliminate the middlemen from the equation, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the farmers are apprehensive of the new laws and say that it will takeaway the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system, due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders. “Some people claim that only a few farmers from Punjab and Haryana are participants in the protest. It is their misconception. Farmers across the country are troubled... The new bills make hoarding legal. It will lead to inflation… I urge the central government to leave behind their ego, roll back the three laws and prepare a new bill to ensure minimum support price for farmers,” Kejriwal added.Earlier in the day, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash met Union home minster Amit Shah as the deadlock between protesting farmers and the Centre over the new farm laws continued for the 18th day, according to reports. The agitating farmers have threatened to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The farmers’ union leader also said that they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-says-will-fast-in-support-of-farmers-tomorrow-urges-aap-workers-to-do-the-same/story-y2Q5H9kN4ZLpgJb0XzPh1K.html
13-12-2020||India||Jharkhand woman raped, three arrested: Police||A married woman has been allegedly raped by two of her relatives in Jharkhand’s Garhwa district, the police said on Sunday. The accused also shot the video of the act and circulated it. Three people have been arrested in this connection.The incident happened in Ramkanda area in Garhwa district on December 9 when the victim was alone at home.Her husband and three children had gone to another village to attend some function. The matter came to light on Saturday when locals saw the video of the crime.On getting information about the video, the local police also began inquiry and traced the woman as well as the accused involved. When the woman’s husband arrived home, she approached the police station and lodged a case against three named accused.“We have arrested all three named accused and seized the mobile phone used for shooting the act. The phone had clips of the incident,” the Ranka sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Manoj Kumar Mahto, said on Sunday. “Two of the three accused raped the woman and they were her chachera devar (brother-in-law from husband’s uncle’s side). One accused thrashed her badly and left,” the SDPO added.The police said that the accused had dismantled the thatched roof of the woman’s house to make an entry into her home when she was alone at night.The police on Saturday also sent the woman for medical examination and were preparing to get her statement recorded under section 164 of IPC as mandated by standard operating procedure for such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-woman-raped-three-arrested-police/story-YBlcJ67qgn8RuPsF1WcmAO.html
13-12-2020||India||BTC polls: New alliance on cards as BJP may join hands with UPPL||The ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) is likely to tie up with the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) to take over the Bodoland Territorial Council.Its alliance partner Bodo People’s Front (BPF), which fought the polls separately and is engaged in a bitter war of words with the BJP, won 17 seats in the 40-member Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls, four short of the majority mark of 21. The UPPL won 12 and BJP 9, thus enabling the two parties to form stake for the council chairperson post. The Congress and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) won one seat each, said officials on Sunday.In 2015, the BPF had come to power for the third time in the BTC by winning 20 seats, Independent candidates had bagged 15 seats, All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) bagged 4 and the BJP had won one seat. BJP national president JP Nadda tweeted: “Congratulations to UPPL, NDA partner and Sarbananda Sonowal (Assam chief minister), to getting majority in Assam BTC election. The results show people’s faith in leadership and policies of prime minister Narendra Modi.”The poll was conducted in four districts of the Bodoland Territorial Region comprising Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksha and Udalguri. Total 23, 87,422 electorates exercised their franchise in the two rounds of polling on December 07 and 10.Counting for the polls started from Saturday and continued till Sunday morning.This was the first poll held in Assam since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic in March.BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary won from Debergaon seat while UPPL candidate Ukil Mushahary won Kachigaon seat. Prominent losers included outgoing deputy chief executive member Khampa Borgoyary, BPF member Shyam Chundi and AIDUF’s four sitting members lost the polls.Despite being an alliance partners, both the BPF and the BJP fought the BTC polls independently. On the other hand, the BJP and the UPPL indicated a possible post-poll pact though there was no announcement of any formal alliance among them so far.When asked, BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the reporters that they would announce their decision about formation of the council after discussing with chief minister Sonowal later on Sunday.This poll was seen as semi-final contest among the political parties ahead of assembly polls in Assam, supposed to be held in March-April in 2021.The BTC poll was conducted following a fresh Bodo Accord that was signed by all four factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) in New Delhi on January 27.Sonowal , then All Bodo Students’ Union (ABSU) chief Pramod Boro, then BTC chief Hagrama Mohilary signed the accord.The poll was supposed to be held on April 04 but the schedule was deferred to March 20 following the Covid-19 pandemic.Filing of nomination papers followed by scrutiny was completed by March 20.The term of the House ended on April 27 and the Council administration went under Governor’s rule.(Inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btc-polls-new-alliance-on-cards-as-bjp-may-join-hands-with-uppl/story-wNfvIu84KsB0maSfa1HZiP.html
13-12-2020||India||‘Always listened to my conscience’: Senior Punjab cop resigns to support protesting farmers||A senior official of Punjab police has quit his job to support farmers protesting the three new farm laws, saying the pieces of legislation were “detrimental to the interest of farmers and their future generations”. Punjab’s deputy inspector general of police (prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar said he had tendered his resignation to the state government on Saturday.“I Capt. Lakhminder Singh Jakhar, DIG, Prisons would like to inform you of my considered and introspective decision to stand with my farmer brothers who are peacefully protesting against the Farm Ordinances,2020 which are detrimental to the interest of farmers and their future generations,” Jakhar wrote to the principal secretary (home).“As I am myself a farmer by birth and same being inherited to me from my forefathers who tilled their agricultural lands with hands to grow food and serve mankind. I have always listened to my conscience and now I earnestly feel that I should stand by my brotherhood,” he said in the letter.Also read | Hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab join farmers’ agitationThousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at various border points of Delhi to protest the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.“Farmers have been protesting peacefully for long. Nobody heard their problems. I am from a disciplined force and as per rules, I can’t support a protest if I am on duty. I have to decide about my job first then decide further course of action,” Jakhar said, according to news agency ANI. “As per rules, I have to give three months’ notice for such an action or I have to submit the paid allowances of that period if I want to resign today. I am ready to deposit the amount because I have to go now. I am a farmer’s son and I am proud of it,” he added.Also read | New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: ModiShiromani Akali Dal’s leader and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has said he has returned his Padma Vibhushan award in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. SAD (Democratic) leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa had also announced that he would return the Padma Bhushan award to express solidarity with farmers.Several international players from Punjab have also extended their support to the farmers’ agitation. Noted Punjabi poet Surjit Patar had also announced his decision to return his Padma Shri award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/always-listened-to-my-conscience-senior-punjab-cop-resigns-to-support-protesting-farmers/story-AzgKty4CWl5fJgNs4LCZDI.html
13-12-2020||India||Khud kamao, ghar chalao: Sonu Sood to give e-rickshaws to those without job due to pandemic||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood launched an initiative to help the underprivileged by providing e-rickshaws to those who are out of a job due to the coronavirus pandemic and the following lockdown. The ‘Dabangg’ actor announced this new initiative - ‘Khud Kamao, Ghar Chalao’ - on Instagram on Sunday.“I have received a lot of love from people over the past few months. And that has motivated me to continue being there for them. So, I have launched the ‘Khud kamaao ghar chalaao’ initiative. I believe providing job opportunities is more important than distributing supplies. I’m sure that this initiative will help them stand on their feet yet again by making them self-reliant and self-sufficient,” he said.The 47-year-old had launched the Pravasi Rojgar mobile application earlier this year which helped create more than 50,000 employment opportunities for people who lost their jobs and livelihood due to the coronavirus pandemic and the ensuing nationwide lockdown.He also recently mortgaged his own property in Mumbai to raise Rs 10 crore to help those in need. In May, during the nationwide lockdown in the country, Sood had helped several migrant workers who worked in the big cities get back to their native places as safely as possible while shouldering all of their expenses himself. The actor’s gestures have been garnering a lot of positive responses all across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khud-kamao-ghar-chalao-sonu-sood-to-give-e-rickshaws-to-those-without-job-due-to-pandemic/story-sV190zEG9Td4XTVG00SVYM.html
13-12-2020||India||Over 42.5% votes polled till 1pm in sixth phase of J&K DDC polls||The sixth phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday witnessed 42.79% voter turnout till 1pm across 31 constituencies in 18 districts, officials said.The polling has been smooth in the union territory so far with no untoward incident being reported from anywhere, they said. Rajouri district in Jammu has recorded the highest voter turnout of 63.07% so far, while Shopian district in south Kashmir the lowest at a meagre 3.66%, the officials said.As per the figures released by the office of the State Election Commissioner, Jammu Division recorded 56.90% voting, while Kashmir Division registered an overall polling percentage of 26.28% up to 1pm. The polling ended at 2 pm, but the final figures are yet to be released.In Jammu Division, where most parts were engulfed by dense fog early in the morning, enthusiastic voters started thronging the polling stations at various places even before the start of the voting at 7am.Rajouri district was followed in the voter turnout by Ramban at 61.91%, Reasi (61.21%), Poonch (60.73%), Samba (60.61%), Jammu (55.62%), Udhampur (54.69%), Doda (53.39%) and Kathua (50.09%), the officials said.Similarly, in Kashmir Division, where most parts are reeling under subzero temperatures after the recent snowfall, Ganderbal recorded a voter turnout of 45.89%, followed by Kupwarar (41.21%), Kulgam (32.71%), Budgam (27.44%), Baramulla (26.68%), Anantnag (20.95%), Pulwama (6.80%) and Shopian (3.66%) till 1 pm, they said.In the sixth phase of the DDC polls, voting was held in 31 DDC constituencies -- 14 in Kashmir Division and 17 in Jammu Division.For smooth conduct of the elections, 2,071 polling stations -- 1,208 in Kashmir Division and 863 in Jammu Division -- have been set up in this phase, where 7,48,301 electors (3,90,432 male and 3,57,869 female voters) were eligible to exercise their right to franchise. The maiden DDC elections, to be conducted in eight phases, commenced on November 28, and so far voters in 221 constituencies, out of total 280 across 20 districts, have registered their choice.While the first phase on November 28 recorded the highest 51.76% polling, the subsequent phases on December 1, 4, 7 and 10 witnessed 48.62%, 50.53%, 50.08% and 51.20% polling, respectively.The DDC polls, which are being held along with by-elections to panchayats, is the first democratic exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since it was reorganized as a union territory last year. Counting of votes is slated to take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-42-5-votes-polled-till-1pm-in-sixth-phase-of-j-k-ddc-polls/story-IV1tVySmtiYOTwx65HwJYP.html
13-12-2020||India||3 terrorists trapped on Mughal Road in Jammu, encounter on||Three terrorists have been trapped by the security forces at Chatta-Pani area on the Mughal Road in Jammu’s Poonch district, officials said Sunday.“Acting on a tip off, a cordon and search operation was launched by security forces in areas along Mughal Road which resulted in the contact with the hiding militants,” said officials.A contact was established with the terrorists, believed to be three in number, and an encounter has now started, they added. Chatta-Pani area is situated along Mughal Road, which falls under the territorial jurisdiction of Surankote police station of Poonch district.Earlier today, Western army commander Lt Gen RP Singh reviewed security along the 198km long Indo-Pak international border in the Jammu region. Recently there has been a rise in incidents of Pakistani drones entering Indian territory to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Also Read: Western army commander reviews security along Indo-Pak border in JammuLast month, security forces had also discovered a cross-border tunnel, which was used by four Jaish terrorists to enter Jammu before they were killed in an operation at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota.Today, India is observing the 19th anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attack on Parliament . Nineteen years ago on December 13, terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) entered the Parliament complex and opened fire. Nine persons, including eight security personnel, died in the incident. All five terrorists were killed by security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-trapped-on-mughal-road-in-jammu-encounter-on/story-3yD5e1orqTQbnBl5Et2wnJ.html
13-12-2020||India||BPF seeks BJP’s support in formation of Bodoland Territorial Council||Kokrajhar, Dec 13 (PTI) Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) Chief Hagrama Mohilary on Sunday appealed to BJP, its alliance partner in the Assam government, to extend its support in forming the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) following a hung House in the polls.The BPF and the BJP had contested the 40-seat Council polls separately with the former emerging as the single largest party with 17 seats and its ruling partner winning nine seats.The United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) won 12 seats, and the Congress and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) bagged one seat each.The Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) is an autonomous district council coveriung the four districts of Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri which falls under the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR).“In 2016, we had entered into an alliance with the BJP and formed a government at the state and we are also a part of the NDA. We have not broken the alliance yet and so I request the BJP to continue with the alliance and extend support to the BPF in the formation of the new Council”, Mohilary said at a press conference here.He appealed to BJP President JP Nadda and state unit President Ranjit Dass to continue with the alliance and extend their support to the BPF.He expressed confidence that the BJP will continue with the alliance and support the BPF in BTC as in “politics there are no permanent friends or enemies”.The election to the Council was held after a fresh Bodo Accord was signed in New Delhi on January 27 by the leaders of all four factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB)- then All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) Chief Pramod Boro, then BTC Chief Hagrama Mohilary and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal.Asked about the bitter war of words both BJP and BPF had launched against each other during the campaign, Mohilary said that it happens during elections with many debates taking place but that is now over and the alliance between the two parties must continue.“All political parties including the UPPL, Congress and AIUDF contested the polls independently but now the point is that both BJP and BPF are an alliance partner at the state and centre and must help each other to form the Council”, he said.The BJP and the UPPL did not announce any formal alliance but both have indicated of a possible post-poll pact in case of a hung Council.UPPL Chief Promod Brahma, BJP Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, BJP state unit President, BJP National General Secretary and Mangaldoi MP Dilip Saikia and Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) Chief and Kokrajhar MP Naba Kumar Sarania were engaged in late night deliberations and they again met this morning to discuss the formation of the Council.Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Sarma and BJP state president along with other senior party leaders are currently holding discussions regarding the formation of the Council and the decision is likely to be announced during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bpf-seeks-bjp-s-support-in-formation-of-bodoland-territorial-council/story-Osy47rEQvj9q8NrCZqFiZJ.html
13-12-2020||India||100 people per session, electoral rolls, mobile sites: Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine guidelines||The Union health ministry has sent its operational guidelines to states and Union territories for the distribution of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as and when it becomes available. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said India will look to vaccinate 250-300 million people against Covid-19 in the first phase on priority by July next year.India’s Covid-19 tally has risen to 98,57,029, 9,357,464 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals and its death toll has mounted to 143,019, according to health ministry figures. There are nine Covid-19 vaccine candidates in different phases of development in India and of these three are in the pre-clinical phase whereas six are under clinical trials.Here’s what the Centre’s Covid-19 Vaccines Operational Guidelines say:1. The Covid-19 vaccine will be offered first to healthcare workers, frontline workers and to people above 50 years of age. It will be followed by those younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities based on evolving pandemic situation. Finally, the remaining population will be vaccinated based on disease epidemiology and vaccine availability.2. The priority group of above 50 years may be again subdivided into those above 60 years of age and those between 50 to 60 years of age for purposes of the phasing of the vaccine’s rollout based on the pandemic situation and vaccine availability.Also read | Vaccination drive in India may start in January, says Adar Poonawalla as Serum Institute hopes to get nod by December3. The latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly election will be used to identify population aged 50 years or more.4. While most of the healthcare and frontline workers would be vaccinated at fixed session sites, vaccination of other high-risk populations may require outreach session sites, and mobile sites or teams. States and Union territories can identify specific days for vaccination, the government guidelines say.5. Only pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated following the prioritization, with 100 registered beneficiaries vaccinated per session. There will be no on-the-spot vaccination of beneficiaries at the vaccination site.Also read | India’s first mRNA vaccine candidate gets nod for human clinical trials6. Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced once all training is completed at the district, block, and planning units.7. The vaccination team will consist of five members. There will be a vaccinator officer, who could be a doctor (MBBS/BDS), staff nurse, pharmacist, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), lady health visitor (LHV). Anyone legally authorised to give injection will be considered as a potential vaccinator.8. There will be vaccination officer 1 with at least one person from the police, home guard, civil defence, National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme or Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan who will check the registration status of the beneficiary at the entry point and ensure guarded entry to the vaccination session.Also read | How state govts are preparing to administer Covid-19 vaccine doses9. The vaccination officer 2 will be the verifier who will authenticate or verify the identification documents while the vaccination officer 3 and 4 will be the two-support staff responsible for crowd management, information education and communication, and support the vaccinator.10. A digitalised platform, the Covid-19 vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system will be used to track the enlisted beneficiaries for vaccination and Covid-19 vaccines on a real-time basis.Also read | Maharashtra prepares to vaccinate 3.25 crore people in six months11. The existing adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) surveillance system will be used to monitor adverse events and inform the understanding of the safety profile of the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-people-per-session-electoral-rolls-mobile-sites-centre-s-covid-19-vaccine-guidelines/story-0d2PkeOf9hcfT83pTAgGtM.html
13-12-2020||India||Greater integration between foreign and military policies key to cope with challenges: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday called for greater integration between the foreign and military policies to more effectively deal with national security challenges and protect India’s interests around the world. Delivering the second Manohar Parrikar memorial lecture, Jaishankar indirectly referred to security challenges linked to Pakistan and China as well as routine challenges linked to India’s long borders and large maritime spaces and said the country should give “primacy to hard security”. “There are very few major states that still have unsettled borders to the extent that we do. Of equal relevance is the very unique challenge that we face of years of intense terrorism inflicted on us by a neighbour,” he said during the lecture commemorating the late former defence minister. “We also cannot disregard attempts to undermine our national integrity and unity...As India expands its global interests and reach, there is an even more compelling case to focus on hard power,” he added. Noting that foreign policy cannot be conducted by the foreign ministry alone, Jaishankar spoke of the need to build on reforms in defence and security, such as the creation of the posts of national security adviser and chief of defence staff, by giving up the concept of functioning within silos and embracing institutionalised integration. “The complexity of national security issues requires serious specialisation and that also means it requires equally serious integration,” he said. Such integration between foreign and defence policies and even beyond will ensure optimal use of resources and eliminate duplication, he added. Jaishankar referred to the magnitude, complexity and pace of changes around the world and said: “We have seen sharp shifts in the basic stance and behaviour of nations and their interplay with each other.” These global changes included the salience of China, repositioning of the US, Brexit, intra-European Union politics, the Abraham accords signed by Israel and the evolution of the Indo-Pacific. He also spoke of the role played by Parrikar, who served as defence minister during 2014-17 and died last year, in fostering greater synergy between defence and foreign policies. These efforts helped enhance India’s reputation as a first responder during humanitarian crises across the Indian Ocean and allowed the country to carry out operations such as the cross-Line of Control (LoC) strikes after the Uri terror attacks, he said. Parrikar also reformed the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), which helped India improve its infrastructure along the frontiers, Jaishankar said. India’s current national security challenges include “some perennial problems associated with national consolidation and development”, a “long-standing political rivalry...expressed as sustained cross-border terrorism by a neighbour”, and reactions to the country’s rise, such as “attempts to dilute our influence and limit our interests”, he said. In an increasingly inter-dependent world with accompanying constraints, the “era of unconstrained military conflicts may be behind us but the reality of limited wars and coercive diplomacy is still very much a fact of life”, and responding to the new range of national security challenges requires the “willingness to continuously review policy and audit performance”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greater-integration-between-foreign-and-military-policies-key-to-cope-with-challenges-jaishankar/story-ua1YejUQQ6d9hPNDVrDKgO.html
13-12-2020||India||Hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab join farmers’ agitation||They have long juggled the demands of field and family, making sure both are tended to, and now hundreds of women from Haryana and Punjab have added another dimension to their busy lives – the protest grounds at the various gateways into Delhi.As their husbands, sons and brothers leave home to demand a rollback of the Centre’s new agri laws, many women are joining them too, making the trip from village towards the national capital even if for only a few days at a time. For these women, who describe themselves as homemakers, farmworkers, and protesters all rolled into one, any suggestion that farmers are about being alpha males because it requires physical labour is met with scorn. “The profession of farming is not defined by gender. Our fields don’t produce crops differently if tended by women and men. Many male farmers are here protesting. Why should we sit at home?” asked 53-year-old Mandeep Kaur, a farmer from Ludhiana who refuses to be stereotyped into any one role.Mandeep took a bus to the Singhu border, a major protest site of the farmers’ agitation that has been going for more than two weeks, spent a night and returned home. “But I will be back,” she said. “We have to look after both our homes as well as our fight. I watered the fields before I came here. It will sustain the land until I return home.” While the men have been camping at the Tikri and Singhu border, the main access point into the city from Punjab, many of the women have been travelling back and forth, balancing the jobs of taking care of their homes and fields and also participating in the agitation.Mandeep’s companion on the five-hour bus ride from Ludhiana to Singhu was her neighbour Sukhwinder Kaur.  The 68-year-old widow said she was tired of sitting at home while the men in her family were out protesting, and decided she needed to come down, even if it was for a short visit.“I wasn’t being able to sleep at night properly. I couldn’t sit back at home while my brother and nephew, and all our farmer brothers, are fighting here. I had my first good night of sleep after I came here,” Sukhwinder added. It wasn’t the epitome of comfort and toilets were a problem but that didn’t matter, said the feisty women. Sukhwinder and Mandeep, with several other women protestors, slept in a water proof tent provided by Khalsa Aid, an international NGO.  Sukhwinder said she was aware of the fight the farming community had undertaken but didn’t realise what it actually took to keep the fight going until she came here.“We are ‘gharelu’ women, don’t know much about the world, but after coming here I have realised how big this fight is. We are prepared for it, however long it takes. The kind of help we are getting for the protest shows the entire country is with us. I have heard that people from Australia, Canada and America are also with us,” she said.  The farmers, with help from various organisations and generous donors, have pulled out all the stops to sustain their agitation. The site is seeing a constant supply of cooked meals, fruits, dry fruits, and even ‘chaat’.There’s also chai-pakora, cold drinks, kheer and other sweet treats. Arrangements for laundry service, and medical facilities, including regular health check ups and a dental camp, have also been taken care of.Sukhwinder only had one complaint. “The toilet is a little too far,” she said.Staying on the Haryana side of the border, she said she had to take a bit of a stroll to find a toilet, which was on the Delhi side.Inadequate sanitation facilities is one reason why many women have to go back and forth, managing to stay at the protest sight only for a few days at a time. But 75-year-old Daljinder Kaur takes it all in her stride, like many others. She is Mandeep’s aunt and insisted on accompanying her to Singhu despite her age. Daljinder said she is positive her farmer brothers and sisters will convince the government.“‘Modi ko mana ke jaenge. Apne haq lene aaye hain, peeche nahi hatenge’ (We will convince Modi. We won’t go back until we get our rights),” she said. “’And if needed, we will die here too, she said. The farmers have called for a hunger strike on December 14, when they have called for a nationwide protest. Refusing the government’s requests to make amendments to the new farm laws, the farmers are insisting that they should be repealed. On Saturday, farmers picketed highway toll plazas in Haryana, UP, and Rajasthan.They are apprehensive the new legislations will eventually do away with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of the corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-women-from-haryana-and-punjab-join-farmers-agitation/story-juKzelfNniB8U4yEuBMiJP.html
13-12-2020||India||Amit Shah congratulates ally UPPL as NDA crosses majority mark in BTC polls in Assam||Union home minister Amit Shah celebrated the crossing of majority mark by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Assam Bodoland Territorial Council polls on Sunday.“NDA secured comfortable majority in Assam Bodoland Territorial Council polls. Congratulations to our ally UPPL, CM Sonowal, State Min HB Sarma & party’s Assam unit. I thank people of Assam for their continued faith in PM’s resolve towards developed North East,” he said.The United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) won 12 seats in the elections, the BJP nine, while the Congress and the Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) bagged one seat each. The ruling Bodo Peoples’ Front (BPF) emerged as the single largest party winning 17 seats.The BPF and BJP, both alliance partners in the state government, had contested the BTC election separately.Though BJP and the UPPL have not announce any formal alliance, they had indicated of a possible post-poll pact in case of a hung Council.UPPL chief Promod Brahma, BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, BJP state unit president Ranjit Kumar Das and BJP national general secretary and Mangaldoi MP Dilip Saikia were engaged in late night deliberations on Saturday on the BTC poll and their decision regarding the formation of the Council is likely to be announced soon, after discussions with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, news agency PTI reported. The counting of the ballot papers for the 40-member house began on Saturday and continued till Sunday morning.Assam Assembly elections are due in April next year.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-congratulates-ally-uppl-as-nda-wins-btc-polls-in-assam/story-Puhk4ADnGHX7c9t6LtyazH.html
13-12-2020||India||Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna seeks peaceful, fair solution to farmers’ issue||Indian-American Congressman Ro Khanna has hoped for a peaceful and fair solution to the farmers’ issues in India, saying he is encouraged by the ongoing dialogue between the protesting farmers and the government.Khanna, 44, was recently elected for a third consecutive term from the congressional district representing Silicon Valley.“India and the US share a rich tradition of democracy and peaceful protests. Farmworkers are the backbone of both our nations and must have their voices heard. I hope there’s a peaceful and fair solution so they can provide for their families,” Khanna said in a tweet on Saturday.“I am encouraged by the ongoing dialogue,” he said, joining other American lawmakers who have expressed their views on the ongoing farmers’ protest in India, several of whom have expressed their concerns.“As Co-Chair of the American Sikh Caucus in Congress, my office has received first-hand accounts of the horrific crackdowns on protestors who are trying to peacefully express their disapproval of India’s recent agricultural reform legislation,” said Congressman John Garamendi, who along with two other lawmakers wrote a letter to India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu early this week.According to the letter, “hundreds of thousands of farmers from the states of Punjab and Haryana that have made their way to New Delhi to peacefully protest these new agricultural laws, and the Indian government has met these peaceful protestors with tear gas, water cannons, barricades, baton attacks, and more.“Many of these farmers have children, relatives, and friends who are US citizens, many of whom have reached out to us to share their concerns about these developments. We urge the Indian government to demonstrate its respect for these crucial democratic freedoms, and to be a model of democratic values in the vital Indo-Pacific region”.The letter, dated December 4, was released this week. The two other lawmakers who have expressed their concern on the protest were congressman Jim Costa and congresswoman Shelia Jackson Lee, members of the American Sikh Caucus.Thousands of farmers are currently staying put at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protestors and the government but the logjam continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-american-congressman-ro-khanna-seeks-peaceful-fair-solution-to-farmers-issue/story-iKd5M7Eb6lTnAinF116zCN.html
13-12-2020||India||Free Covid vaccine offer by Kerala CM kicks up controversy||Ahead of a key phase of local body elections, the announcement of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the state will make Covid-19 vaccine free has kicked up a big controversy. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday approached the state election commission, saying it was a clear violation of the election code of conduct. While addressing a press conference in Kannur (north Kerala) on Saturday, the CM had said the state was waiting for vaccines from the Union government (once a candidate is approved) and that they will be distributed free of cost. He said the state will all bear expenses of the Covid vaccine , like some of the prevailing vaccines. The big announcement, which came at a time when the final phase of local body election, is due on Monday angered opposition parties. “It was a deliberate attempt to influence voters. Neck-deep in trouble, the CM is resorting to dirty politics. We have already made a written complaint to the Election Commission (EC). We need action against him,” said Congress leader KC Joseph. BJP state president K Surendran has also announced his plan to petition the EC. “He thinks vaccine will save him from impending humiliation and ignominy. But he’s mistaken,” he said. The CM’s office has clarified that it was not an announcement and he was replying to a question posed by a journalist. There was no violation of election code of conduct, it maintained. Considered a semi-final before the assembly election that is due in four months, local body elections are conducted in three phases in the state. First two phases are over, and the final, in north Kerala, will take place on Monday. Results will be announced on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-covid-vaccine-offer-by-kerala-cm-kicks-up-controversy/story-qCOop3TIaegsRUXL16usyO.html
13-12-2020||India||Western army commander reviews security along Indo-Pak border in Jammu||Western army commander Lt Gen RP Singh reviewed security along the 198km long Indo-Pak international border in Jammu region. “The western army commander visited Tiger Division on Friday and Saturday. The army commander was briefed by Lt Gen Upendra Dwivedi, Corps Commander Rising Star Corps and Maj Gen Vijay B Nair, GOC Tiger Division on the operational situation and security scenario in Jammu Sector,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.The army commander interacted with troops deployed in forward areas and complimented them for maintaining a high degree of operational preparedness, added Col Anand. Of late there has been a spike in incidents of Pakistani drones entering Indian territory across the border to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. Also Read: China wants India to accept the new normal on LAC, move on to restore bilateral ties | AnalysisPakistan has also been digging trans-border tunnels along the international border for terrorists to cross over undetected. Using one such tunnel, discovered recently, four Jaish terrorists had entered Jammu before they were killed in a swift operation at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota on November 19.The four terrorists had entered from a 160 meter long trans-border tunnel near the Regal post of the Border Security Force (BSF). It originated from Chak Bhura post of Pak Rangers in Shakargarh area in Pak Occupied Kashmir. On the 744 km long Line of Control (LoC), south of Pir Panjal, Pakistani Army has been regularly opening heavy fire and resorting to intense mortar shelling targeting hapless civilians in Rajouri and Poonch districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/western-army-commander-reviews-security-along-indo-pak-border-in-jammu/story-OQ1DZTRMmcD3VzI2AmUvdN.html
13-12-2020||India||Another HC judge succumbs to Covid-19; Justice Vandana Kasrekar of Madhya Pradesh HC passes away||Madhya Pradesh (MP) High Court judge, Justice Vandana Kasrekar passed away today morning due to Covid-19. She was 60.Her death comes little over a week after the demise of Gujarat High Court judge, Justice GR Udhwani who had also succumbed to Covid-19.Justice Kasrekar was born on July 10, 1960 and practiced before the MP High Court before being appointed as judge of the Indore Bench of the High Court on October 25, 2014.Senior advocate Vivek Tankha who hails from Madhya Pradesh expressed his condolences.“Two years back we lost Justice RK Tankha on December 13 a wonderful human being. Today MP High Court lost another wonderful human being Justice Vandana Kasrekar on December 13. We have lost a gem. A young life departs after a grim struggle. Thanks Dr. Trehan for trying your best,” he tweeted. 42 years back we lost Justice RK Tankha on Dec 13 a wonderful human being. Today MP High Court lost another wonderful human being Justice Vandana Kasrekar on dec 13. We have lost a gem. A young life departs after a grim struggle. Thanks Dr Trehan for trying yr best. @medantaChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also took to Twitter to express his condolences. He tweeted in Hindi “I got the sad news of the demise of Honorable Justice Vandana Kasrekar, posted at Indore Bench of MP High Court. My condolences to her family.”  इंदौर उच्च न्यायालय में पदस्थ माननीय न्यायमूर्ति वंदना कसरेकर के निधन का दुःखद समाचार मिला है।मैं ईश्वर से प्रार्थना करता हूँ कि वे दिवंगत आत्मा को अपने श्रीचरणों में स्थान दें और उनके परिजनों को इस वज्रपात को सहने की क्षमता दें।मेरी संवेदनाएँ उनके परिवार के साथ हैं।ॐ शांति||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-hc-judge-succumbs-to-covid-19-justice-vandana-kasrekar-of-madhya-pradesh-hc-passes-away/story-wdk5x8W0uB2pP6ZtcEPY4O.html
13-12-2020||India||Spotlight on rot in forest dept with Odisha’s highest-ranked official’s arrest||As Odisha vigilance department digs up more details on the disproportionate assets case of addl PCCF (principal chief conservator of forests) Abhay Kant Pathak, the highest-ranked forest official in Odisha to ever face a corruption case, Odisha vigilance records show at least 82 forest officials from the state, ranging from forest guard to CCF, have been accused of corruption in last 5 years.A 1987 batch IFS officer of Odisha cadre, Pathak served as additional PCCF (plan, programme and afforestation) and was all set to become the next principal chief conservator of forests from June next year as per his seniority level, till the vigilance officials raided his residence and other premises, accusing him of amassing disproportionate assets worth Rs 9.35 crore, which was 435 % of his total income.Vigilance department officials said the amount is the highest disproportionate asset amassed by any forest officer of Odisha till date. Arrested along with his son Akash Pathak, who has been charged with duping many job aspirants with the false promise of employment in Tata Motors in lieu of money, the father-son duo is likely to stay behind bars for some time, said vigilance officials.While Pathak is the topmost forest official to be charged with corruption in Odisha, vigilance records show 82 forest officials have been charged with cases of corruption in last 5 years.In August this year, Alok Ranjan Hota, divisional forest officer of Chilika Wildlife Division was found to be in possession of disproportionate assets worth Rs 77 lakh. In February 2016, vigilance seized Rs 1.10 crore cash from Athgarh DFO Sudhanshu Sekhar Mishra, while in February 2017, Sarat Chandra Panda, DFO of Khariar, was arrested by vigilance dept on charges of having disproportionate assets of Rs 4.5 crores. In March 2017, DFO Mahadeb Badaika, working in works department, was raided in disproportionate assets case.Besides, there have been numerous forest guards, range officers and forest rangers, foresters, junior clerks in the forest department accused of corruption in last the 5 years.Also Read: Odisha attracted investments of over Rs 1 lakh cr during pandemic: CM PatnaikEnvironmentalists alleged that the forest department has become a hub of corruption where official are defalcating money from several state forest-related schemes as well as from lucrative postings like Kendu-leaf and mining divisions.“Corruption is often linked with long tenures of officers /staff beyond the normal posting period of 3 years. Very often people in lucrative posts pay heavy bribes or use political influence to ensure that they are not transferred. This is one of the chief breeding grounds for corruption. There are numerous cases of Range Officers posted for as long as 5-6 years in the same post. DFOs/range officers who are on the “Agreed List” or “Doubtful Integrity List” prepared by the vigilance are given lucrative field posts where the scope of corruption is high. A strict policy should be not to post such officers to any key posts in the field or allow them to handle huge sums of money,” said environmental activist Biswajit Mohanty.Pathak, who worked as additional PCCF of afforestation and planning in the state forest department since June 2018, was in charge of a huge budget for afforestation that included money from CAMPA fund, NREGS as well as plantation under state schemes. During the current financial year 2020-21, the state forest department had formulated forestry projects of Rs 602 crores under NREGA that included plantations of around 40,000 hectares of area, 5,000 kilometer avenue plantation and distribution of 3.5 crore seedlings. In 2019, Centre had released Rs 5,933 crore of CAMPA fund to Odisha, the highest among all states.Neither state forest secretary Mona Sharma nor principal chief conservator of forest Sandip Tripathy responded to queries on the steps being taken to cleanse the forest department of corrupt officials.RTI activist Pradip Pradhan, who has been seeking details about various expenditures of forest department, said while the forest officials had scope for amassing money from smuggling of valuable timbers and forests products, allowing mine owners to extract mineral in forest areas and allow illegal trade in Kendu leaves, the failure of vigilance department to convict them was the major deterrence.“The vigilance department has a poor track record when it comes to conviction. It creates a sensation during arrest and lodging of cases against officials, but its paperwork is very poor. As a result, cases don’t stand in court of law,” said Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spotlight-on-rot-in-forest-dept-with-odisha-s-highest-ranked-official-s-arrest/story-YhdaGqDffi3HRVJdVgdDSP.html
13-12-2020||India||Himachal to bring 4,000 hectare land under red rice cultivation in 5 yrs||In a bid to give red rice, which is “on the verge of extinction” a new lease of life, the Himachal Pradesh government has fixed a target to bring around 4,000 hectares of land under its cultivation and produce around 40,000 quintals of the cereal grain annually in the next five years, state Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar said on Sunday.At present, the total area under cultivation of red rice -- for which the state government is also trying to get a Geographical Indication tag -- in Himachal Pradesh has been recorded at around 1,100 hectares. The total annual production is 9,926 quintals, with an average of 8-10 quintals/hectare production.According to the state government, the area under the cultivation of red rice has registered a slight increase from past years due to the sustained efforts of the Agriculture Department.“With growing health consciousness, and environmental concern, red rice -- probably the earliest of cereal grains that humans started domesticating -- which is on the verge of extinction, are making a comeback,” said Himachal Pradesh Agriculture Kanwar.An official release said that in the past few decades, farmers’ inclination towards cash crops and high-yielding variety, along with the subsidised supply of fine cereals through the public distribution system, and change in consumer preferences, had led to a decrease in the area under the red rice cultivation. “Due to shifting of farmers to apples and vegetable crop, the area under rice drastically declined in past few decades but the farmers have now returned to the cultivation of this traditional crop,” the minister was quoted in the release.As per the state government, currently, the red rice -- one of the most ancient crops domesticated about 10,000 years ago -- is cultivated in water-surplus areas under Chirgaon, Rohru and Rampur blocks in Kullu Valley, the high hills of Shimla, Sirmour and Chamba districts, besides parts of Kangra in Himachal.“Some of these popular varieties of red rice include Chhohartu from Rohru (Shimla district), Sukara from Tiyan (Chamba), Lal Zhini and Red Ramjawain (Kangra), and Jattoo and Matali (Kullu district),” the minister stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-to-bring-4-000-hectare-land-under-red-rice-cultivation-in-5-yrs/story-UpJ5n0noQkjwQxsYmMosNK.html
13-12-2020||India||Indian defence forces to stock weapons, ammo for 15-day intense war||In the middle of a conflict with China, India has taken a significant step by authorising the defence forces to enhance their stocking of weapons and ammunition for a 15-day intense war now. Making use of the extended stocking requirements and the emergency financial powers in the ongoing conflict with China in Eastern Ladakh, the defence forces are expected to spend over Rs 50,000 crore for acquisition of equipment and ammunition from both local and foreign sources.Also Read: The LAC is the new LoC | HT EditorialThe authorisation to increase the weapon and ammunition reserves to minimum 15-I levels from the earlier existing 10-day stocking is to prepare the defence forces for a two-front war with both China and Pakistan.Also Watch | Senator Mark Warner on India-US ties, China, Pakistan & Kashmir #HTLS2020 “A number of weapon systems and ammunition are being acquired now under the authorisation of having reserves to fight a 15-day intense war with the enemies. The stocking would now be at 15-I level from the 10 I levels,” government sources told ANI.The authorisation for enhanced stocking for the defence forces was approved some time ago, they said.As per the authorisation many years ago, the armed forces were supposed to stock for a 40-day intense war but it was then brought down to 10-I level due to issues with the storage of weapons and ammunition as well as the changing nature of warfare.After the Uri attack, it was realised that the war wastage reserves stocks were low and the then Manohar Parrikar-led defence ministry enhanced financial powers of the vice chiefs of Army, Navy and Air Force to Ra 500 crore from Rs 100 crore.Also Read: China wants India to accept the new normal on LAC, move on to restore bilateral ties | AnalysisThe three services were also given the emergency financial powers to procure items worth Rs 300 crore to buy any equipment which they felt could be of use to them for fighting wars.The defence forces have been buying a number of spares, weapons, missiles and systems for effectively taking on the two adversaries.Sources say a large number of missiles and ammunition for tanks and artillery have been acquired in satisfactory amounts to shed worries for the troops on the ground.India has been engaged with China in the Eastern Ladakh sector where the Chinese have been transgressed at multiple locations and trying to change the status quo on the LAC.(The story has been published from a wire feed without any modifications to the text, only the headline has been changed)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-defence-forces-to-stock-weapons-ammo-for-15-day-intense-war/story-9fcJFRv3lqYgadntsM6UWK.html
13-12-2020||India||Ahead of poll campaign launch, Haasan questions PM Modi on new Parliament building||Hours ahead of kicking off his election campaign, actor-and-politician Kamal Haasan on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to explain why a new Parliament is being built when people were starving after losing their livelihood due to the Covid-19 crisis. “Thousands of people died during the construction of the Great Wall of China and rulers said that it was to protect people. When half of India is starving after losing their livelihood due to corona, whom will the 1000-crore construction of the parliament protect? Please respond, my honourable elected Prime Minister,” Haasan’s tweet in Tamil read. PM Modi laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament House on Thursday, describing the event as a milestone in India’s democratic history and asserting that the building will become the symbol of a 21st century nation and Aatmanirbhar Bharat, or self-reliant India. Also Watch | ‘New Parliament building will witness making of Aatmanirbhar Bharat’: PM Modi The 64,500 square metre building, the showpiece of the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista project, is proposed to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore. The earthquake resistant structure would involve 2,000 workers directly and another 9,000 indirectly.Haasan’s party Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) launched its first phase of election campaign Sunday for the upcoming 2021 assembly polls in Tamil Nadu. His poll plank so far has been to fight corruption. MNM’s campaign will cover districts of Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar. Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari. Launching his poll campaign in Madurai, Haasan said, “Our political strategy is honesty.” He added that when MNM comes to power, they will made Madurai the second capital of the state. Responding to reporters in Madurai if he will form an alliance with Rajinikanth, he said, “Alliances will break and alliances will be forged. I can only say this now.”MNM members were recently in the capital to support the protesting farmers who want the three new farm bills repealed. Haasan, who launched the MNM in 2018 in Madurai, fought the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and got a 3.7% vote share. The party is expecting to improve its performance in the assembly elections where it has positioned itself as a third force. The fledgling party will be fighting Dravidian rivals -- the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) --- and their national partners, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party, respectively. Haasan’s former co-star and friend, Rajinikanth, will also be launching his political party to contest all 234 assembly constituencies. Several former bureaucrats and social activists have joined hands with Haasan’s party. Earlier this month, ex-IAS officer, Santhosh Babu, who quit service in August, was appointed the party’s general secretary. Haasan is also the host of Big Boss Tamil-4, a platform which he often uses to convey his political thinking to the audience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-poll-campaign-launch-haasan-questions-pm-modi-on-new-parliament-building/story-KknG0DU8i8LJJ2U3BQRYLM.html
13-12-2020||India||No posters to be pasted outside residences of Covid-19 patients in Jodhpur||Even as the Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Rajasthan, the Jodhpur administration has decided not to paste any posters outside the residents of the Covid-19 patients who are under home isolation.“As per instructions of the government, Covid-19 patients will continue to remain under home isolation or quarantine for 14 days. As per the pasting of posters outside their residence is concerned, no poster will be pasted outside their residences as of now,”, Dr Balwant Manda, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Jodhpur said while speaking to ANI. As per the Union Government, the state has so far seen 2,91,306 confirmed cases. While 16, 821 cases continue to remain active in the state, 2,70,869 patients have recovered till now. As many as 2542 have lost their lives.With 30,254 new Covid-19 infections reported in the last 24 hours, India’s total cases have risen to 98,57,029, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).With 391 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the toll has mounted to 1,43,019.The total number of active cases is at 3,56,546 while the total discharged cases are at 93,57,464 with 33,136 new discharges in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-posters-to-be-pasted-outside-residences-of-covid-19-patients-in-jodhpur/story-U9fpwW3a5eiyNYuMjRChAK.html
13-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sharad Pawar sought amendment to farm law for benefit of farmers, says Sanjay Raut and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pawar sought amendment to farm law for farmers benefit: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday defended Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar for actively pushing States to amend the APMC Act when he was the Union agriculture minister under UPA-2 rule. Raut said Pawar’s intentions were then aligned with farmers’ welfare and claimed that in 2010, corporates had not entered farming in a big way. Read moreThere will be ‘Hindu raj’ in Bengal, says BJP MP Pragya Thakur, calls Mamata Banerjee ‘frustrated’Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pragya Thakur, while reacting to the attack on party chief JP Nadda’s convoy in West Bengal, said that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is “frustrated” because her rule is about to end. The controversial MP from Bhopal added that the BJP will win the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in West Bengal next year, and that ‘Hindu Raj’ will prevail in the state. Read moreTMC workers attack BSF jawan in Bengal, call him ‘insane’Workers of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district allegedly beat up a BSF jawan on Friday evening and branded him insane. The victim’s family lodged a police complaint; however, no one has been arrested till the reports came in last. Read moreSalman Khan attends bodyguard’s birthday celebrations, but refuses to eat cake. Watch videoActor Salman Khan participated in the birthday celebrations of one of his bodyguards on Saturday, and a video from the party is being widely shared online. The video showed the bodyguard, Jaggi, offering a piece of birthday cake to Salman, but the actor refusing to eat it. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Past glory does not matter to me, says Cheteshwar Pujara“Aren’t you bored of batting now?” Nathan Lyon’s dig at Cheteshwar Pujara sounded more like a plea when it was caught on the stump microphone. It wasn’t what you would expect from the premier off-spinner but this was an Australia team working on language skills on way to shedding the win-at-all-cost mentality. Read moreAnushka Sharma redefines maternity fashion in pink satin spaghetti strap dressMaternity fashion is no more about baggy clothes and ill-fitting outfits. Bollywood divas Anushka Sharma and Kareena Kapoor Khan are confirming the same to all the expecting mothers out there and telling everyone that it is okay to flaunt your baby bump in some of the most stunning ensembles. Read moreMaruti Suzuki set to re-enter diesel segment next year: SourcesThe country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) is looking to enter the diesel segment once again next year as the vertical continues to draw a lot of customers especially in the high selling SUV and multipurpose vehicle segments, as per industry sources. Read moreBetter late than never? Magazine due back in 1975 finally returned to Canadian libraryThere are two types of people in the world. Some set a reminder on all of their calendars to notify them about the return of anything they’ve borrowed from the library. Then there are some who only remember that they’ve borrowed something from the library for as long as they are reading, watching or listening to it. Read moreMahatma Gandhi’s statue defaced in US by Khalistanis in protest against farm laws||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sharad-pawar-sought-amendment-to-farm-law-for-benefit-of-farmers-says-sanjay-raut-and-all-the-latest-news/story-680tPMSAhZqB5GigbR3pwK.html
13-12-2020||India||5 killed after tipper lorry rams car in Hyderabad||Five people were killed when a tipper lorry rammed the car they were travelling in at Gachibowli area here on Sunday, police said.The mishap occurred when the car jumped a red traffic signal early this morning.The car took a right turn when the lorry coming from the opposite direction rammed it, killing four people on the spot, police said.Another man died without responding to treatment at a hospital.The lorry driver sustained simple injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-after-tipper-lorry-rams-car-in-hyderbad/story-7uQTxgFunHb57fr7lR684K.html
13-12-2020||India||‘May emerge as place of interest for world’: Bihar CM on archaeological site||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday said the archaeological site, discovered on the bank of Chanan river in Amarpur area of Banka district, might emerge as a place of interest for the entire world.The Chief Minister visited the archaeological site in Banka district on Saturday. “When I heard about the discovery of the site, I had a gut feeling that it might be of the period of Buddha. Later, I came to know that it was about 2,600 years old. I feel once the excavation is complete, the site will emerge as a place of interest for not just people of the state or the country, but the entire world,” Kumar said while talking to the media after his visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/archaeological-site-in-bihar-s-banka-may-emerge-as-place-of-interest-for-world-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar/story-WUKnrYADHYhdf5KDcVtzuO.html
13-12-2020||India||Pawar sought amendment to farm law for farmers’ benefit: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday defended Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar for actively pushing States to amend the APMC Act when he was the Union agriculture minister under UPA-2 rule. Raut said Pawar’s intentions were then aligned with farmers’ welfare and claimed that in 2010, corporates had not entered farming in a big way.Raut, in his weekly column RokhThok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, commented on the controversial farm laws passed by the Centre that have triggered the ongoing farmers’ protest on Delhi borders along Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Raut described the three laws, billed by the Centre as key reforms in the agricultural sector, as ‘dark’ laws that will turn ‘farms into graveyards’ and spell ‘death’ for farmers. Pawar, while he was the Union agriculture minister in the UPA dispensation, wrote to various chief ministers of states seeking amendment to the APMC Act, facilitating the entry of private sector. BJP, which has been claiming that the opposition parties were engaged in political mischief and misleading the farmers by fanning their protest, used Pawar’s letter in support of its allegation and slammed the NCP’s support to the farmers’ protest.Raut, in his column published on Sunday, defended Pawar and said, “Ten years ago when Sharad Pawar sought reforms in the agricultural sector it was in the interest of the farmers. Then Ambani-Adani had not entered this field. The expansion by the corporates in the field [of agri-marketing] came about in the last six years”.Also Read: ‘Reforms aimed at increasing competition’: TomarThe article further alleged that the BJP is spreading rumours that farmers’ protest does not reflect the mood of the farmers of the nation. However, the ‘successful’ Bharat Bandh called by the farmers had disproved the theory.“The three laws will turn farms into graveyards and mean death for farmers,” Raut wrote.He warned that if farming collapses, it’ll bring the economy down. “Ministers will come and go but if the farms are destroyed the country will suffer. A communist country like China and a capitalist country like America take care of their farmers then why the indifference by Indian government,” he asked in the column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pawar-sought-amendment-to-farm-law-for-farmers-benefit-sanjay-raut/story-PsizFbfG0K7q19Evqh8GeM.html
13-12-2020||India||Vice Prez, PM, Speaker, ministers pay tributes to Parliament attack heroes||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers and Opposition leaders on Sunday paid tributes at the Parliament complex to those who lost their lives in the 2001 Parliament attack.Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Leader of Opposition in the Upper House Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party and Rajiv Shukla of the Congress were among those who paid tributes at a brief ceremony held outside the Parliament building.Those present observed a moment of silence as a mark of respect for the martyrs.Nineteen years ago on December 13, terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) attacked the Parliament complex and opened fire.Five Delhi Police personnel, a woman Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper and two Parliament Watch and Ward Staff died taking on the terrorists. A gardener and a photojournalist also died.All five terrorists were shot dead by security forces in retaliatory action.Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind said the nation gratefully remembers the brave martyrs who laid down their lives defending Parliament on this day in 2001.“The nation gratefully remembers the brave martyrs who laid down their lives defending the Parliament on this day in 2001. While commemorating the great sacrifice of those defenders of the temple of our democracy, we strengthen our resolve to defeat the forces of terror,” Kovind tweeted.Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said India will never forget the cowardly attack on its Parliament.“We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament on this day in 2001. We recall the valour and sacrifice of those who lost their lives protecting our Parliament. India will always be thankful to them,” he said.The incident led to high level of tension between India and Pakistan and a massive upgrade in the security of the Parliament complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-prez-pm-speaker-ministers-pay-tributes-to-parliament-attack-heroes/story-xnpAdSsBhvfJTzqRwJ1JEL.html
13-12-2020||India||Need to find ‘swadeshi alternative’ to imports from China, says Nitin Gadkari||Noting the importance of ‘swadeshi alternative’ against imports from countries like China, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has emphasised on the need of research on the emerging technology like electric vehicles, without compromising the quality and cost of the goods or products. “You do research on (EV) parts we are making in India and what we are importing. We are importing many EV parts from China. We need to find out a swadeshi alternative to whatever we are importing, without compromising the quality and cost,” Gadkari said while addressing the virtual session during FICCI’s 93rd Annual General Convention on Saturday.The Union Minister said that we aim to create employment and aid village and small industries to grow. He also said that the government is taking a step towards recognising and facilitating rural entrepreneurs.“MSMEs contributes 30 per cent to India’s GDP, 48 per cent in export and till now, 11 crore jobs have been created by the MSME sector,” added Gadkari. “To make India Atmanirbhar, the focus will be to increase the share of the manufacturing sector from 24-26 per cent to 30 per cent of GDP.”Highlighting the special focus of the Centre on MSME sector, Gadkari stated that there is a plan to increase the total turnover of Indian rural industry to Rs 2 lakh crore from current Rs 80 thousand crores in the next two years.Speaking about rural industries and Khadi Gram Udyog, he said that the government is focusing on rural industries along with socially and economically backward areas. “We want to focus on rural industry for gaining and creating employment potential and growth which is a potential route to the eradication of poverty, is our mission.”“Concentrating on gaon, gareeb, majdoor and kisan is the highest priority of the government,” the Union Minister said.The event also witnessed the launch of the FICCI ‘MSME Took Kit’ by Mr Nitin Gadkari during the event. The kit aims to become an online platform where aspiring and existing entrepreneurs could learn about business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-find-swadeshi-alternative-to-imports-from-china-says-nitin-gadkari/story-oRWwRnbmjOaZAONQpq4lLP.html
13-12-2020||India||Two Maoists killed in Odisha encounter||A joint team of Special Operations Group (SOG) and District Voluntary Force (DVF) of Odisha Police killed two Maoists, including a woman cadre, in Malkangiri district early on Sunday morning.Director general of police Abhay said around 4.30am on Sunday a joint team of SOG and DVF were on a routine exercise near Singhavaram forest at Gajalmamudi village when they came under fire. “Our teams returned fire and the encounter went on for quite some time. After day broke and firing stopped, our team found two bodies including that of a woman. The male Maoist is an area commander-ranked cadre from Chhatisgarh while we are trying to identify the woman Maoist,” he said.One INSAS rifle, one SLR rifle,several rounds of bullets, Maoist literature and kit bags were recovered from the encounter spot, in the erstwhile red zone of “Swabhiman Anchal”.On October 28, police had seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition after an exchange of fire at Bhimaram Reserve forest of “Swabhiman Anchal” in the district.The DGP said the state was determined to cleanse the “Swabhiman Anchal” of Maoists. The area, which used to be a Maoist hotbed due to its proximity with Andhra Pradesh and inaccessibility, has slowly come under state control. Over last two years, the government has made deep inroads into the area erecting mobile towers, laying roads and starting a flurry of developmental schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-maoists-killed-in-odisha-encounter/story-UJzogIhWlTjLRYIDGr2NzM.html
13-12-2020||India||There will be ‘Hindu raj’ in Bengal, says BJP MP Pragya Thakur, calls Mamata Banerjee ‘frustrated’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pragya Thakur, while reacting to the attack on party chief JP Nadda’s convoy in West Bengal, said that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is “frustrated” because her rule is about to end. The controversial MP from Bhopal added that the BJP will win the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in West Bengal next year, and that ‘Hindu Raj’ will prevail in the state.“She (Mamata Banerjee) is frustrated because she has realised that her rule is about to end. The BJP will win the next Assembly election and there will be Hindu raj in West Bengal,” she said.Also Read: Not accountable to home minister: TMC hits out on summons over JP Nadda’s convoy attackThe BJP is seeking to unseat the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state, where the party, led by Banerjee, came to power in 2011 after ending the 34-year rule of the Left and extended its term in 2016. As part of BJP’s election campaign, it was decided last month that Amit Shah and J P Nadda will take turns in visiting Bengal every month and will be in the state for at least two days on each visit.It was during one such visit on December 10 that Nadda’s convoy was attacked when it was on its way to Diamond Harbour area in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district from Kolkata, triggering a series of sharp exchanges between the Centre and state government. Also Read: Centre calls 3 cops responsible for Nadda’s security back on central deputation from BengalWest Bengal’s chief secretary and director-general of police were summoned to Delhi over the attack. In response, Banerjee’s party TMC alleged that the Centre was resorting to coercive means to intimidate the state administration.“We want to inform you that law and order is within the domain of the state under 7th Schedule of the State list... How in respect of the law and order situation you can call both the officers for any sorts of discussion?” TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee said in a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday.“It appears that with a political motive and at the instance of your minister, who is a political person belonging to Bharatiya Janata Party, you have issued the said letter. You are trying to coerce the officers of West Bengal with political vindictiveness. It appears you are interfering with the federal structure,” Banerjee added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-raj-in-west-bengal-soon-bjp-mp-sadhvi-pragya-thakur/story-KYJqO8AALRlj0t9grcdRBO.html
13-12-2020||India||Leader of PFI’s student wing held in Kerala, Hathras funding link under scanner||Campus Front of India (CFI) general secretary Rauf Shareef was taken into custody at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Saturday. The action followed a lookout notice issued by the Uttar Pradesh police against him in connection with alleged funding to foment trouble after the Hathras gang rape case, additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said.The office-bearer of the students’ wing of Popular Front of India (PFI) was wanted over alleged funding to incite caste violence in the backdrop of the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman -- a crime suspected to have been carried out by upper caste men --- in Hathras earlier this year.Kumar said that Shareef, a resident of Kerala, was held when he reached the airport to move out of the country. He said the accused was planning to go to Muscat.A police team from the state will leave for Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday morning to take custody of Shareef and bring him to Uttar Pradesh to interrogate him. The lookout notice was issued against him on November 18 after his name surfaced for generating funds to incite violence in the state after four members of PFI were arrested from Mathura while going to Hathras on October 5. He said the FIR was lodged with Math police station of Mathura in the matter, the ADG said.He said the lookout notice was issued after investigations revealed that Rauf was in frequent touch with two of the four persons, Atiq-ur-Rehman and Masood, after the Hathras incident in September. He said Shareef provided funds as well as made other arrangements to incite violence.According to the ADG, the probe also hinted that Shareef has been involved in generating funds from abroad and using them to create tension and incite violence in the country.The Uttar Pradesh police’s special task force has been investigating the matter after taking over the case on October 22. STF officials have claimed that they had collected much evidence since then to unravel the entire conspiracy to incite caste violence with the intention to create a law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leader-of-pfi-s-student-wing-held-in-kerala-hathras-funding-link-under-scanner/story-aKSaBQ04hlxBVdOqHY1wsL.html
13-12-2020||India||Year on, Nagarik Samaj takes out candlelight march against CAA in Assam||After months of a lull because of the Covid-19 outbreak, the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019, once again erupted in Assam, one of the most vocal states against the law, on the first anniversary of its execution. The Act, which makes minority migrants from the neighbouring countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan who had entered India by December 31, 2014, eligible for citizenship, came into force after the Parliament of India cleared it on December 11, 2019, triggering a nationwide protest.With the CAA completing one year on Friday, All Assam Students’ Union ensued their protest demanding the scrapping of the CAA with immediate effect, with Nagrik Samaj joining the stir a day later.On Saturday, the Nagrik Samaj held a candlelight protest against the CAA outside Guwahati Club, saying they won’t accept the law.Protesters in Assam fear that the Act will dilute the ethnicity of the state, especially by granting citizenship to the immigrants from Bangladesh.The CAA grants citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Buddhists, and Christians facing religious persecution in Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh who came to India on or before December 31, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/year-on-nagarik-samaj-takes-out-candlelight-march-against-caa-in-assam/story-u4KvIrgTzoaPEWvsAoj8FO.html
13-12-2020||India||How state govts are preparing to administer Covid-19 vaccine doses: Latest developments||India’s coronavirus (Covid-19) tally is nearing the 9.9 million mark with 30,254 fresh cases and 391-related deaths added in the last 24 hours. Amid a downward trend in the active cases and surge in the number of people recovering from the disease, states and union territories (UTs) are gearing up to inoculate the people once a vaccine is approved by the central government. With first priority given to healthcare, frontline workers and those highly vulnerable to the infection, states and UTs are also ensuring that vaccines to the remaining population can be given at the earliest.Here are the updates on how states are preparing for vaccinating their residents: 1. Haryana: Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Saturday said that the state government had written to the Centre to have public representatives including MLAs and MPs listed among the priority groups for vaccination once it begins. He added that the government was making all preparations such as building a database of priority groups, cold chain infrastructure and training of vaccinators for rolling out the Covid-19 vaccine.2. Kerala: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced on Saturday that vaccines to combat the coronavirus disease will be given free of cost to Kerala’s population adding that the government will take care of all expenses. Vijayan also pointed out that vaccines would be first administered to the frontline health workers.3. Telangana: As the country is gearing up for distributing the coronavirus vaccine, the Telangana government has formed committees at the state, district and mandal levels for planning and executing the distribution with first priority to high risk groups followed by other people. According to a government order, the committees would also undertake a structured review of all factors related to the preparedness and implementation of vaccines.Also Read: 30,254 fresh Covid-19 cases, 391 fatalities take India’s infection tally to 9.85 million4. Uttar Pradesh: The BJP-led government in Uttar Pradesh has started training vaccinators for injected vaccine doses before the vaccine is available. Two batches from the state had participated in an online session ‘training-of-trainers’, which was conducted by the Union health ministry. The state will have 35,000 vaccination centres and vaccinators will record the data of people who are administered doses on an online platform.5. Chandigarh: While the Chandigarh administration is already identifying health care workers for vaccination, residents willing to receive doses will have to register in advance on the CoWin-20 mobile app. The health department of the Union Territory would be giving doses to healthcare workers first, followed by people over 50 years of age and those having comorbidities.Also Read| Less than 500 daily deaths in India for 8 straight days: Covid data6. Maharashtra: Being one of the worst hit states from Covid-19 in the country, the Maharashtra government is preparing to vaccinate over 30 million residents over three phases in six months. The first phase will be focused on administering doses to health care workers. Frontline workers would be vaccinated in the second phase while people above the age of 50 and having comorbidities will be given vaccine shots in the third and final phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-state-govts-are-preparing-to-administer-covid-19-vaccine-doses-latest-developments/story-624WNI3Ex8pidP54RqQETI.html
13-12-2020||India||TRP manipulation case: Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani arrested in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police on Sunday arrested Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani in connection with its probe into the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam.Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police (crime) confirmed the arrest. Khanchandani will be produced in the court today. He was previously questioned by the investigators two times.During the crime branch’s probe, it was revealed that some cable operators had used dual LCN (Landing Channel Number) technology which allowed viewing of one channel on two channel numbers at a time.The Republic TV officials also contacted cable operators to fix LCN and LCN promotion. Khanchandani knew everything as he was part of Republic’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions about LCN and Promotion LCN discussions took place, police sources said.The fake TRP scam came to light in October when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels.Republic TV has denied wrongdoing.Another of channel’s employee - western region distribution head Ghanshyam Singh - was arrested last month in connection with the alleged scam. He was granted bail earlier this month.The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Mumbai Police has arrested a total of 13 persons in the case so far.Meanwhile, Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami moved the Bombay high court last week seeking a stay to further investigation by the Mumbai Police in the TRP manipulation scam.The petition, filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier Media which owns Republic TV, also alleged that one of the employees of the firm was tortured by the police in custody.It sought protection for all employees from the “malicious witch hunt” allegedly being carried out by the Maharashtra authorities.The Supreme Court had last Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which owns the Republic Media network, seeking protection for the group and its employees in the cases lodged against them in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-republic-tv-ceo-vikas-khanchandani-arrested-in-mumbai/story-D2aRARk39yPFlEabLzOWTK.html
13-12-2020||India||Dense fog engulfs Delhi, Skymet warns of flight disruptions||Heavy smog enveloped parts of the national Capital on Sunday morning, leading to decreased visibility. People were advised to check and confirm their flight statuses before leaving for the airport as visibility dropped drastically due to the dense fog.“At 08:00 hours, Palam Airport visibility dropped to 100 meters due to dense fog. Runway 29 is 125 and runway is 28 is 150 meters. Flight delay and flight diversion is possible. Kindly confirm flight status before leaving,” tweeted Mahesh Palawat, vice president (Meteorology and Climate Change) at SkymetWeather, on Sunday morning.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also warned of very dense fog in isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Uattarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, and New Delhi.“Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets very likely over UP next 5 days and over Uttarakhand next 3 days. Dense fog in isolated pockets over plains of HP, north Rajasthan, north MP next 2 days and over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi next 3 days,” IMD tweeted.Meanwhile, due to the rainfall in parts of Delhi on Saturday, air became heavy with moisture, increasing pollution levels. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 361 at 7am on Sunday, which is categorised as “very poor”. On Saturday, the AQI was recorded at 356, a deterioration from Friday’s 295, and also in the “very poor” zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-engulfs-delhi-skymet-warns-of-flight-disruptions/story-pLPNldMyrCpnTxjKdL9twI.html
13-12-2020||India||Less than 500 daily deaths in India for 8 straight days: Covid data||Fewer patients are dying of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India and less than 500 daily deaths have been reported from across the country now for eight consecutive days.With 393 new deaths having been reported on Saturday, the total number of patients having succumbed to the viral infection in the country so far has reached 143,073.“India’s trajectory of active cases continues to follow a steadily dipping path. The total active caseload has dropped below 3.6 lakh (359,819) on Sunday. This has been made possible by the trend of recoveries exceeding new cases and low number of fatalities per day which have ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload,” said the Union health ministry in a statement.Ten states and Union Territories account for 78.05% of new deaths. Maharashtra has seen the maximum casualties (80). Delhi and West Bengal follow with 47 and 44 daily deaths, respectively. The other seven states are Kerala (29), Punjab (29), Haryana (23), Himachal Pradesh (20), Tamil Nadu (17), Karnataka (17), and Uttar Pradesh (14).“India’s Covid-19 death rate has been among the lowest in the world. Even though there was a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in between, we managed to the keep the death rate low all throughout. The maximum it went up to about 3%, which was around June, and now it has dropped to about 1.4%,” said a senior health ministry official who did not wish to be identified. India has set a target of achieving 1% or below case fatality rate (CFR) due to Covid-19.Two key interventions that have lead to the low death rate have been increased in Covid-19 testing, and standardizing clinical management of patients.India’s tests per million population recently crossed the 100,000 mark, with the country performing at least one million tests daily in more than 2,000 Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approved laboratories across the country. “We now know a lot more about the disease than we knew at the beginning of the outbreak. Government guidelines have been updated keeping in view the changing treatment trends. This has helped significantly in managing patients, and which is why we are losing fewer patients to the disease now,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, senior consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.Also, India’s present active caseload consists of just 3.66% of total positive cases, according to the government data. The new recoveries of 33,494 reported on Sunday have led to a net decline of 3,930 in the total active cases.About 75% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories.Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 4,748 newly recovered cases. And 2,873 people recovered in West Bengal followed by 2,774 in Maharashtra.Apart from these three other states with high case recoveries are Rajasthan (2,768), Chhattisgarh (2,477), Delhi (2,402), Uttar Pradesh (1,875), Haryana (1,812), Karnataka (1,807), and Gujarat (1,403).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-500-daily-deaths-in-india-for-8-straight-days-covid-data/story-yOuMkh40QwQfnvYNmbxDhL.html
13-12-2020||India||30,254 fresh Covid-19 cases, 391 fatalities take India’s infection tally to 9.85 million||India on Sunday recorded 30,254 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally up to 98,57,029, according to Union health ministry update at 8 am.The number of active cases went down further to 3,56,546, while 9357464 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals.The country also recorded 391 new fatalities, which pushed the death toll to 1,43,019, according to health ministry figures.The number of active cases in the country gave been declining, and are at its lowest in more than 145 days. The total active cases were 3,58,692 on July 18.The health ministry had said on Saturday that this has been made possible by the trend of recoveries exceeding new cases and a low number of fatalities per day which have ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload.India’s present active caseload consists of just 3.66 per cent of the country’s total positive cases. Meanwhile, the recovery rate has reached 94.89 per cent.The rolling average for the past week shows the sustained decline in the daily cases for the six most affected states.The daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases registered since the last 15 days. There is also a steady decline in daily deaths from the past many days. In the past week, daily fatalities have been below the 500-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-254-fresh-covid-19-cases-391-fatalities-take-india-s-infection-tally-to-9-85-million/story-bkHjKxGR9qS8cxlYQMEG2J.html
13-12-2020||India||Polling begins for 31 seats in the 6th phase of DDC elections in J&K||Amid tight security arrangements, polling began in 31 district development council (DDC) constituencies on Sunday morning in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides 31 constituencies of the DDC, voting is also taking place for 334 Panch and 77 Sarpanch seats.The polling in the first five phases has remained largely peaceful except a couple of grenade attacks and an attack on Apni Party’s DDC candidate in South Kashmir, in which he received two bullet wounds. On Saturday night, two civilians were injured in a grenade attack in Sopore.State election commissioner (SEC), K K Sharma said 14 of the 31 DDC constituencies going to polls in the sixth phase on Sunday were from the Kashmir division and 17 were from the Jammu division.“Against the 14 DDC constituencies of Kashmir division, there are 124 candidates in fray including 47 females. In Jammu division, there are 121 candidates in fray for the 17 DDC constituencies including 53 females.748,301 electors (390,432 male and 357,869 female voters) are going to elect their representatives in all 31 DDC constituencies,” Sharma said.Also Read: Pak using heavier artillery for LoC violations: Army vice chiefHe further said that 2071 polling stations have been set up, including 1208 in Kashmir division and 863 in Jammu division.“Of 127 Sarpanch vacancies notified in the 6th phase, 37 have been elected unopposed. There shall be a contest on 77 seats and 229 candidates including 65 females are in fray,” he said, adding that out of the total 1,548 Panch vacancies notified in this phase, 334 constituencies will go for elections.These polls are crucial for the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an amalgam of mostly regional political parties, the BJP and the newly formed Apni Party. The BJP has been running a high octane campaign with more than 10 top national leaders of the party participating.This is also the first election for the Apni party, formed in March by former J&K minister Altaf Bukhari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-begins-for-31-seats-in-the-6th-phase-of-ddc-elections-in-j-k/story-LeEXDmHXV0DQSnHoRdnSbI.html
13-12-2020||India||Voting underway for sixth phase of DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir||Polling is underway for the sixth phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections in which over 7.48 lakh voters in 31 DDC constituencies will cast their votes today, in the first-ever DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir. Braving the cold weather conditions, voters arrived at a polling booth in RS Pura here. Necessary Covid-19 protocols were been followed at the booth including temperature check and social distancing. As many as 7,48,301 electors, including 3,90,432 male and 3,57,869 female voters, will decide the fate of 124 candidates in the Kashmir division for 14 seats, and 121 in the Jammu division for 17 seats. 334 Panch and 77 Sarpanch seats will also witness voting across the union territory. A total of 2,071 polling stations have been designated with 1,208 in the Kashmir division and 863 in the Jammu division, State Election Commissioner (SEC), KK Sharma said at a press conference here. Of 127 sarpanch vacancies notified in the sixth phase, 37 have been elected unopposed. There will be a contest in 77 constituencies and 229 candidates including 65 females are in the fray.Out of the total 1,548 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 334 constituencies will go for elections with 740 candidates contesting the elections including 180 female candidates.All necessary arrangements including election material, security arrangements and manpower have been put in poll-going areas. Arrangements have also been put in place to ensure the safety of all stakeholders including the voters coming to vote at the polling stations in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-underway-for-sixth-phase-of-ddc-polls-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-GiXmSoewcho6trN8VcG1ZN.html
13-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: SC judge says, classify social media as news media, question their ‘neutrality’, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Classify social media as news media, subject them to journalistic standards, says SC judgeTo curb dissemination of fake news and bots in the digital age, there is a need to classify social media platforms as news media and subject them to the same journalistic standards, Supreme Court judge S Ravindra Bhat said on Saturday. Read moreFarmers to intensify protest, threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highway todayThe farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws have threatened to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway on Sunday, intensifying their stir. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two weeks, demanding repeal of the new farm laws. The farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana are likely to march towards the national capital as part of their protest, on National Highway 48 (Delhi-Jaipur road), which was earlier known as NH-8. Read moreUP, Centre move top court against Kafeel’s releaseThe Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government have appealed in the Supreme Court against quashing of Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention order under the National Security Act (NSA). Khan, a paediatrician whose brush with controversy began with the 2017 Gorakhpur hospital tragedy in which more than a hundred children died reportedly due to shortage of oxygen and he was suspended, was booked under the NSA last year over an allegedly inflammatory speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). Read moreDon’t think people of Bengal will forgive Mamata Banerjee: BJP’s Kailash VijayvargiyaThe big election in 2021 is in West Bengal where chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule is being challenged by the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP made significant inroads during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning for the first time, 18 of the 42 seats and reducing the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to 22 seats. Read moreThese luxury iPhones have pieces of Moon, Mercury and Mars stuck at the back; Guess the priceCaviar, one of the Russian companies that heavily customize iPhones with premium and exotic materials and cases, seems to have created a benchmark for itself. This time it has introduced iPhone 12 Pro and 12 Pro Max that have pieces of the Moon, Mars and Mercury in them. Read more‘Let’s be honest, they’re not far’: Aakash Chopra backs two dynamic batsmen to make debuts in England seriesThe Indian cricket team has a packed schedule ahead. Right after they finish playing the four-Test Border-Gavaskar Trophy, India head back home and ready themselves to host a confident England cricket team. The tour, which comprises four Tests, three ODIs and five T20Is will get underway from February 5, followed by the T20Is and then ODIs. Read moreSalman Khan attends bodyguard’s birthday celebrations, but refuses to eat cake. Watch videoActor Salman Khan participated in the birthday celebrations of one of his bodyguards on Saturday, and a video from the party is being widely shared online. The video showed the bodyguard, Jaggi, offering a piece of birthday cake to Salman, but the actor refusing to eat it. WatchGuest gets wedding food delivered at home, concept impresses peopleThe outbreak of the pandemic has changed the meaning of “normal” in our lives. What used to be acceptable and usual is not anymore. You must have seen the videos that show people getting married virtually or performing hat-ke haldi ceremony with the help of a paint roller. Now, there’s a latest inclusion to that list and it involves food for the wedding guests. Read more‘Farmers’ protest hijacked by Maoists and Naxalites’: Piyush GoyalUnion minister Piyush Goyal said that farmers’ protest has been infiltrated by Maoists. Goyal said he fully trusts the farmers and government is open for discussion. Goyal said the Narendra Modi government is working to increase farmers’ income and to provide employment opportunities to the youth. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-sc-judge-says-classify-social-media-as-news-media-question-their-neutrality-and-all-the-latest-news/story-URpTz7G3GOzjhyfbrR5wBP.html
13-12-2020||India||2001 Parliament attack: When terror struck India’s temple of democracy||Sunday, December 13, will mark 19 years since the deadly attack on Parliament by terrorist groups linked to Pakistan. Senior Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) leader LK Advani who was then the home minister called the attack “the most audacious, and also the most alarming, act of terrorism”.On this day in 2001, a five-member suicide squad comprising Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists attacked Parliament house, while the Lok Sabha was in session: the Houses were adjourned at the time of the attack, but several parliamentarians and staff were present inside the building.The attackers came in an Ambassador car, and were able to gain entry because of a forged government sticker. But as the car moved inside the Parliament complex, one of the staff members became suspicious. The vehicle was thus forced to turn back and in the course, hit then vice president Krishan Kant’s vehicle.Read more| We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament, tweets PM ModiThe gunmen, armed with AK-47s and grenades, then got down and opened fire. The attack lasted for about 30 minutes, and all the five terrorists were neutralised outside the building itself. However, five security personnel of Delhi Police, one woman constable of the CRPF and two security assistants of Parliament Watch and Ward section died preventing the entry of terrorists into Parliament House. A gardener and a photojournalist too lost their lives.BJP leader L K Advani said in the Lok Sabha that the attack “was executed jointly by Pakistan-based and supported terrorist outfits, namely, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. These two organisations are known to derive their support and patronage from Pak ISI.”Within days, four people were arrested and charged as masterminds of the attack. The case against the four - Mohammed Afzal Guru, Shaukat Hussain, Afsan Guru and SAR Geelani - went on for about a decade, with the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court eventually acquitting two, and upholding the death sentence of one.Geelani, a professor in Delhi University, was acquitted for “need of evidence” by the Delhi high court in 2003, a decision upheld by the Supreme Court in 2005. Afsan Guru, too, was cleared of charges and Hussain served jail time. Afzal Guru was hanged in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2001-parliament-attack-when-terror-struck-india-s-temple-of-democracy/story-8juWPlu7D7ox6mMyFSjcII.html
13-12-2020||India||TMC MP claims pulling out 3 IPS officers from Bengal akin to ‘indirect emergency’||Alleging political vendetta, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government a day after the Union home ministry called three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers back on central deputation. “The centre is indirectly trying to impose emergency and is keeping IAS and IPS officers under coercion. The three IPS officers were on duty that day (on December 10 when Nadda’s convoy was attacked) and yesterday. They received letters from the MHA. The vindictive attitude is clear,” said Kalyan Banerjee, senior advocate and the chief whip of the TMC in the Lok Sabha. The Union home ministry on Saturday called three IPS officers, responsible for Nadda’s security, back on central deputation from West Bengal. The move comes in the backdrop of a BJP convoy, including Nadda’s vehicle, being attacked in South 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. “The convoy of a person enjoying Z-category security has a pilot car and a tail car. If any other vehicle wants to enter that convoy the local police needs to be informed and permission needs to be taken. Here no permission was taken. There were 50 two-wheelers and as many cars ahead and behind Nadda’s convoy,” said Banerjee in a letter written to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla.Leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit hit back at Banerjee saying that he has no jurisdiction over the issue as it relates to the relation between the Centre and the state. “Who is Banerjee? Is he someone from the state government? No. Is he someone from the centre? No. He is an MP of the state’s ruling party. What is he trying to prove? Is it so that the chief minister has no answer and that’s why she is asking her MPs, who is not related to the matter, to respond? The letter might have been thrown into the dustbin by now. The Centre had on Friday asked chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and director general of police Virendra to appear before it on December 14. “Under no law, can the centre summon the officers. The executive powers of the Union government can only be exercised only in cases under the union list and concurrent list. Law and order is in the state list of the seventh schedule. The executive power can’t be exercised here,” Banerjee had said. The TMC MP has sent a letter to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla protesting the MHA’s letter which asked the state chief secretary to release three IPS officers for central deputation. He alleged that that the Union home secretary sought meeting with the state’s chief secretary and director general of police on the instructions of Union home minister Amit Shah. “It is shameful and dangerous that all laws have been thrown out in the river by your action at the instance of Amit Shah, BJP leader and home minister of India. Your every path suffers from mala fide exercise of power,” Banerjee wrote in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-claims-pulling-out-3-ips-officers-from-bengal-akin-to-indirect-emergency/story-hbXAVQUcgmEiBBG5VKlXYL.html
13-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan to launch election campaign for 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly elections||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) party president Kamal Haasan will launch his campaign for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections from December 13, the party said. During his four-day schedule, Haasan will visit Madurai, Theni, Dindugul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanniyakumari districts. Earlier last month, Haasan had said that his party would emerge as the “third front” in Tamil Nadu. With Tamil Nadu set to go to polls early next year, the political climate in the state is heating up. The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) have announced that their alliance shall continue. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Congress are on track to fight the elections together. On December 3, Tamil superstar Rajinikanth also said on Twitter that he will launch his political party in January next year, adding that announcement about it will be made on December 31. The 69-year-old actor-turned-politician’s entry in politics had been speculated for over 25 years and his decision came three days after he held a meeting with the office-bearers and members of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), a platform created three years ago to facilitate his entry into active politics. In 2017, Rajinikanth had announced that his party would contest on its own. On November 3, Kamal Haasan also declared that the party’s alliance is with the people, ruling out any partnership with AIADMK or the DMK. Haasan launched MNM in February 2018 but the party did create a stir in last year’s Lok Sabha elections. Although, the actor-politician has always managed to stay in the headlines. He recently slammed Tamil Nadu’s ruling party, the AIADMK, for supporting the three controversial farm bills and stressed the bills “attack the state’s autonomy”, and create a “dangerous situation wherein a state can do nothing amid scarcity or price rise”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-to-launch-election-campaign-for-2021-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections/story-aQnxAeRHo243RPhfwJcEMJ.html
13-12-2020||India||We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the country will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament in 2001. He also paid tributes to soldiers who died protecting lives during the attack“We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament on this day in 2001. We recall the valour and sacrifice of those who lost their lives protecting our Parliament. India will always be thankful to them,” PM Modi said on Twitter.On this day 19 years ago, a five-member suicide squad comprising Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists attacked the Indian Parliament, while the Lok Sabha was in session. The Houses were adjourned at the time of the attack, but several parliamentarians and staff were present inside the building. We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament on this day in 2001. We recall the valour and sacrifice of those who lost their lives protecting our Parliament. India will always be thankful to them.Five security personnel of Delhi Police, one woman constable of the CRPF and two security assistants of Parliament Watch and Ward section had died preventing the entry of terrorists into Parliament House. A gardener and a photojournalist too lost their lives.Although all five terrorists involved in the attack were killed during the gunfire with security personnel on December 13 itself, four persons were arrested and charged as masterminds within days. The case against the four - Mohammed Afzal Guru, Shaukat Hussain, Afsan Guru and SAR Geelani - went on for about a decade, with the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court eventually acquitting two, and upholding the death sentence of one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-never-forget-the-cowardly-attack-on-our-parliament-tweets-pm-modi/story-8pLDxED7Ud6GpJD6GEZ0TN.html
13-12-2020||India||AIMIM setting up election machinery in Bengal; BJP, TMC play down threat||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) will soon set up its election machinery in West Bengal ahead of the crucial 2021 assembly polls, party leaders said after a meeting with party head Asaduddin Owaisi in Hyderabad on Saturday, party leaders said. AIMIM, after winning five seats in recently held Bihar polls, had announced that it would contest the West Bengal assembly elections. A delegation of West Bengal unit of AIMIM, comprising leaders from all 23 districts, held a meeting with Owaisi in Hyderabad, where discussions to prepare the party’s poll strategy for the upcoming polls were held. “Owaisi is expected to come to West Bengal very soon. We would be contesting the elections in West Bengal. The state election committee would be formed soon. Owaisi is expected to announce the election committee and numbers of seats we would contest, during his visit,” said Asim Waqar, AIMIM spokesperson and the party’s Bengal coordinator. Muslims accounted for West Bengal’s 27.01% population as per the 2011 census and the community plays a decisive role in 120 out of 294 assembly seats in the state, according to surveys by the BJP and election strategist Prashant Kishor’s I-Pac. Even though Owaisi’s critics say AIMIM will end up splitting the votes and thus help the BJP, which is eyeing for around 200 out of the 294 seats in the state assembly, both the TMC and the BJP, however, said that the AIMIM won’t be a factor. Also Read: CAA will be implemented in Bengal soon: Kailash Vijayvargiya“Owaisi belongs to Hyderabad. He has some influence in some of the bordering districts in Bihar as there are some Urdu-speaking people. He is an assistant of the BJP and is used to split the non-BJP votes. It also happened in Bihar. We are not concerned with Owaisi. Many people from AIMIM are joining the TMC because he has been unmasked,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP. AIMIM will not be able to make any difference in Bengal. Here the fight is between the TMC and the BJP. People want to get rid of the TMC and BJP will come to power,” said Samik Bhattacharya, spokesperson of the BJP’s state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-setting-up-election-machinery-in-bengal-bjp-tmc-play-down-threat/story-jsbSNbLZ7BJTzhuB0QqGNL.html
13-12-2020||India||Farmers to intensify protest, threaten to block Delhi-Jaipur highway today||The farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws have threatened to block the Jaipur-Delhi highway on Sunday, intensifying their stir. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two weeks, demanding repeal of the new farm laws.The farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana are likely to march towards the national capital as part of their protest, on National Highway 48 (Delhi-Jaipur road), which was earlier known as NH-8.“Farmer groups from Rajasthan are coming towards Haryana. We will join them and gather at Shahjahanpur in Alwar near the Haryana-Rajasthan border by Saturday night and proceed towards Delhi on Sunday,” said Azad Khan, Haryana vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).He added that the farmers would strive to march peacefully. Their march towards Delhi is expected to begin at 11 am.Also Read: Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh TomarThe protesters said that major highways linking the national capital will be blocked from Sunday and they will sit on a hunger strike on December 14, when they have called for a nationwide protest.Adequate security arrangements have made by the Delhi Police, including multi-layered barricades and deployment of extra personnel. The Delhi Traffic Police has also deployed its personnel across important border points to ensure commuters do not face difficulties and is also constantly updating people about open and closed routes on its Twitter handle.The police in Gurugram, where the Delhi-Jaipur highway passes from, too have prepared route diversion plans. THe important points have been identified on National Highway 48, like Sirhaul toll plaza, Iffcco Chowk, Bilaspur Chowk, and the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway.Overall, more than 2,000 police officials have been deployed across different parts of the city for managing law and order as well as traffic at key points.The police said they were prepared to take measures for any untoward incident and were standing along the highway with barricades, batons and shields, to take immediate action.Meanwhile, Union minister Som Prakash, who is among the government representatives negotiating with the farmers protesting against three new farm laws, on Saturday said efforts are being made to call the next round of meeting with the leaders of the agitation soon to end the stalemate.Also Read: Farmers feel the chill at bordersAsserting that the government is ready for discussions anytime, Prakash, the minister of state for commerce and industries and an MP from Punjab, said the Centre is “concerned” about the protesting farmers and urged them to come to the discussion table.The farmer leaders, however, said they are ready to hold talks with the government, but will first discuss repealing the three new farm laws.At least five rounds of formal talks have taken place between the Centre and representatives of farmers, but the deadlock has continued with the unions sticking to their main demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-intensify-protest-threaten-to-block-delhi-jaipur-highway-today/story-B1OplgZMzqHFK10RwXivpN.html
13-12-2020||India||‘Reforms aimed at increasing competition’: Tomar||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar says the government is committed to reforming farm markets, and hopes that recalcitrant farm unions will eventually see the benefits of the three laws passed in September and join a dialogue with the Narendra Modi administration. Protesting farmers have rejected the amendments offered by the government to the three laws, saying they would settle for nothing less than the repeal of the Acts, but Tomar said in an interview with Hindustan Times that their essence remains. “The reforms will continue. Take for instance contract farming, it is aimed at ensuring a guaranteed price for their {farmers’} produce, security of their farming land, increase private investment, and addresses the issue of globally followed agricultural practices,” Tomar said.Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh TomarThe government has done whatever it could to address the concerns of the farmers, Tomar said. “We have made that attempt through the amendments. It is also our duty to do so. The reforms were aimed at increasing competition; so far only licensed traders could buy in the mandis, now everyone can. As competition increases, the farmers will get better remuneration. It is also natural that when the farmers are protesting and there are some concerns that they have, it is our duty to allay their fears and address their concerns.”Tomar described as “baseless” the concern that corporate entities may grab farmers’ land. “So far in states such as Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka contract farming is already being practised...no one’s land has been grabbed. In the act we have made a provision that the farmer can opt out of the contract, but the buyers cannot; they cannot renege on the contract and if they do, then they have to pay a penalty of 150%.”Asked whether the BJP was worried about the electoral impact of the farm laws, Tomar replied: “It is imperative that when we go out to do something good there is a period of struggle and pain. Itihaas wohi banate hai jo itihaas se aage nikal jaate hai (those who move ahead of times make history) and those who believe in status quo cannot make history.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reforms-aimed-at-increasing-competition-tomar/story-AtYDG00G0KspGiXCzjh17H.html
13-12-2020||India||New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday strongly defended three laws enacted by his government to open up agricultural trade that he said would attract investment and technology, open up alternative markets and boost farm incomes, as farmers massed at the borders of Delhi vowed to step up protests against the legislation.In a speech at the annual meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Modi said the farm sector reforms enacted in September were part of government efforts to remove roadblocks impeding agriculture, pledging his commitment to protecting the interest and welfare of farmers. “Reforms will help draw investment in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers,” the PM said by video link.“The aim of all government reforms is to make farmers prosperous. The new legislation, which was approved in the previous Parliament session, gives farmers an additional option outside of the designated mandis to buy or sell their crops.” The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. Modi attempted to allay such concerns, which have brought farmers from Punjab and other parts of northern India to the doorsteps of Delhi, blocking key highways .Farmers’ unions have vowed to expand their protests unless the government scraps the new farm laws. “Farmers have now options to sell their crops in mandis as well as to outside parties,” the prime minister said. “While mandis are being modernised, a digital platform is also available to farmers to buy and sell their produce.”“All these efforts are directed towards improving the farmers’ income so that they become prosperous. When farmers prosper, the country will prosper,” he added. “After the implementation of recent reforms, farmers will get new markets and new opportunities and they will get help of technology. The country’s cold storage infrastructure will become modern,” the PM added. “From all these, there will be higher investment in the agriculture sector. The maximum benefit of these reforms would be to small and marginal farmers who earn their living from small holdings of land.” Modi said economic growth in the 21st century would be supported by villages and small towns and so entrepreneurs should look to invest in these places. “They should not miss the opportunity. The investment made by you will open new avenues for people in the villages. Policies of the government are designed to promote rural, agriculture-based economy.”Even as Modi held out an olive branch to the farmers, minister for railways, commerce and industry and food and consumer affairs Piyush Goyal alleged that the protests no longer remain a farmers’ movement. He said Leftist and Maoist elements had infiltrated the campaign and were demanding the release of those jailed for anti-national activities. This, he said, was clearly aimed at derailing the agricultural reforms introduced by the government. “We now realise that the so-called farmers’ agitation hardly remains a farmers’ agitation. It has almost got infiltrated by Leftist and Maoist elements, a flavour of which we saw over the last two days when there were extraneous demands to release people who have been put behind bars for anti-national...activities,” Goyal said at the FICCI meeting. “I would urge all well-meaning business leaders and all well-meaning intellectuals who are involved with FICCI, who are on this webcast, to talk about the benefits of these farm laws, to understand the laws. Should you have any apprehension, please talk to us,” Goyal said. Responding to Goyal’s remarks, former Ficci president and vice-chairman of Bharti Enterprises Rajan Bharti Mittal said: “Clearly, you can see when you do the tough reforms like the farm bills, please don’t step back. The industry will back you.” The opposition Congress on Saturday accused the Modi government of branding every person opposing it a Maoist and an anti-national, and urged the Centre to accept the demands of the protesting farmers.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Mr. Modi, autocracy has no place in democracy. Yours and your ministers’ policy is to declare every opponent a Maoist and an anti-national.” “Apologise to the farmers who are on a sit-in braving the fierce cold and rains, and accede to their rightful demands immediately,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Farmers picketed toll plazas in Haryana, not allowing people manning the booths to collect fees from motorists. More than 100 farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Malkit Singh and Manish Chaudhry gathered at a toll plaza on the Ambala-Hisar highway, around 15 kilometers from Ambala city. In Punjab, toll charges are not being collected from commuters as farmers have been staging sit-ins at toll plazas since October 1. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is suffering a loss of ₹3 crore per day on account of farmers’ protest at toll plazas in the state. There are 25 toll plazas on national highways in Punjab. Meanwhile, Delhi police on Saturday increased deployment of its men and placed more concrete barriers on border points; farmers have announced that they will intensify their protests by blocking the Delhi-Jaipur highway and the Yamuna Expressway. Social activist Yogendra Yadav, who is part of the ongoing protests, said farmers from areas in Rajasthan and Haryana were assembling on Saturday and their “Delhi Chalo” march would begin on Sunday. “Farmers’ ‘Delhi march’ on Jaipur-Delhi highway will not start today and it will begin from Shahjahanpur border tomorrow. Today, farmers from Rajasthan and Haryana will congregate in Kotputli and Behror,” Yadav tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-laws-meant-to-make-farmers-prosperous-modi/story-mcMQlbiooPj2fAoo0eaVTI.html
13-12-2020||India||Central schemes help country fare better on wellness index: Survey||The Swachh Bharat Mission and the Ujjwala Yojna have paid back dividends and the number of households using clean fuel and improved sanitation facilities has substantially increased across states, according to Phase-1 results of the National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-2020), the most definitive report card of the health and quality of life of the country’s population. Most states have recorded significant improvements in sexual and reproductive health indicators, including mother and child health, universal immunization, use of contraceptives and other family planning methods compared to NFHS-4 (2015-16), shows data on from 17 states and five union territories released on Saturday. ‘Reforms aimed at increasing competition’: TomarWomen are more empowered than they were in 2015-16, with all states recording a marked increase in the number of women with a bank or savings account that they use. Among large states, in Bihar the women with bank and savings accounts trebled in five years, from 26.4% in 2015-16 to 76.7% in 2019-20. In Maharashtra, it rose from 45.3% to 72.8%, in West Bengal from 43.5% to 76.5% in corresponding period. “Phase-1 results include data on 131 indictors and covers roughly half of the total 7 lakh households surveyed using the computer-assisted personal interviewing (CAPI) software, which ensures quality data collection and ensures there is no ambiguity in the results,” said Professor KS James, director, International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, which is the nodal authority for conducting the survey. Heart patients, diabetics may get doses on priority“The final report is likely to come out in May 2021 as we had to suspend data-collection because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in the end of March. But it has restarted now and the fact sheet with data of around 400 indicators from all states and UTS {Union territories} will be ready by May,” said Professor James. Most states registered a decline in the number of women who had experienced spousal violence (domestic violence) or sexual violence before the age of 18 in the 18-29 age group, found the survey. India, however, continues to struggle to improve the nutritional status of children and adults. “The findings from previous NFHS rounds were instrumental in framing several policies to tackle various issues in maternal and child health, adolescent health, child protection etc,” said Vandana Gurnani, additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, and mission director, National Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-schemes-help-country-fare-better-on-wellness-index-survey/story-EjahPgJCJql5k0oEvWIceK.html
13-12-2020||India||Classify social media as news media, subject them to journalistic standards, says SC judge||To curb dissemination of fake news and bots in the digital age, there is a need to classify social media platforms as news media and subject them to the same journalistic standards, Supreme Court judge S Ravindra Bhat said on Saturday.Justice Bhat even questioned the neutrality maintained by such platforms in claiming no responsibility for content shared by users on these platforms. Singhu border: Farmers protest by day, watch religious films by night“In reality, as systems that mediate between users, social media platforms can never be neutral. Algorithms shape how people communicate and what information is presented to what participants in what manner and at what time,” he said. Justice Bhat was delivering the sixth justice VR Krishna Iyer memorial lecture on the topic Rule of Law in the Digital Age – A Constitutional Framework organized by the Sarada Krishna Sadgamaya Foundation for Law and Justice.Expanding his thoughts on the broad spectrum of digital platform and the need for digital constitutional governance, justice Bhat rued the fact that as more digital information was getting transacted, the dependence for news on social media platforms has increased. Farm to Facebook: Stir at borders gets online push“People source news from social media. By itself, it is not bad. But news disseminated (on these platforms) is not factual…..Fake news and planting bots have triggered riots that leads to public mischief.”In the US, almost 50% of the population sources news from social media. In India too, the social media is getting significantly relevant. “Minimally a consensus is emerging that these social media platforms be re-classified as news media and held to the same journalistic standards of truth while publicly disclosing their advertisers, political funders and conflicts of interest.”The judge remarked that these “data-fuelled giants” have business models that rely on selling their users’ personal information to advertisers. A move to identify the advertisers behind the social media has been initiated recently by Australia.The judge also spoke on another area of concern in the digital sector with growing decentralization of government services to private players. With the growth of e-commerce market spaces, payment interfaces, and online apps, consumers are subjected to terms and conditions with no judicial oversight. “This assertion that digital platforms are fully private spaces needs to be questioned in the present context where they play a significant role in governing everyday life and take over the provision of services and sectors that have been serviced by the government and now are the only players for long years,” justice Bhat said. On these platforms, there is no protection for users from unilateral changes in rules, inadequate privacy safeguards, and lack of appeal against grievance redressal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/classify-social-media-as-news-media-subject-them-to-journalistic-standards-says-sc-judge/story-M1DmbTYY652EUittMuUx0I.html
13-12-2020||India||Heart patients, diabetics may get doses on priority||Indians with heart ailments, hypertension or diabetes are likely to be classified as those with comorbidities and will be put on the list of those who will get a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine on a priority basis, officials involved in the vaccine plan said on Saturday. The officials added that there will also be a door-to-door survey across the country and existing government databases will be used to identify such people. The household surveys will also be for those above 50. People who fall in these two categories have been identified by the government as those from the general public who will get access to a vaccine first, besides health workers and frontline service staff such as police and municipal employees. Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine can be available in 1st half of next year: Official“The voter list already provides us the age-wise profile of the people in a locality. We have to conduct a door-to-door survey to reconfirm the names and also find out comorbidities. Anganwadi workers and Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) would be tapped for this purpose,” said one of these officials, asking not to be named. The three categories of people will together account for roughly 300 million of India’s population of 1.3 billion people, the government estimates. The comorbidities identified include a clutch of diseases that raise the likelihood of a patient having a serious or even a fatal outcome if he or she contract the coronavirus disease.“The list is being worked on by a panel headed by Dr Randeep Guleria, the head of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to finalise which ailments would be included in the list of comorbidities,” the person quoted above said. Americans will receive Pfizer vaccine for Covid-19 from Monday: OfficialAccording to the National Family Health Survey-4, at least 5.8% of women and 8% men across India are projected to have high blood sugar, which raises their risk of becoming diabetic. The survey also found the prevalence of hypertension to be around 13.6% among the male population and 8.8% among the female population. In terms of heart diseases, a 2018 study published in The Lancet journal found that cardiovascular disease caused more than 2.1 million deaths in India in 2015 at all ages, reflecting the widespread prevalence of heart ailments. According to the officials quoted above, the process of identifying people with comorbidities through surveys will be in addition to multiple government databases where such information is also recorded. At present, these include records under the Ayushman Bharat policy, those collected during Covid-19 testing and household surveys and the self-reported information from the Aarogya Setu mobile application.People who have had any Covid-19 test have been required to declare their Aadhaar numbers as well as details of whether they suffer from any comorbid conditions – this data will also be taken into account, the person quoted above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heart-patients-diabetics-may-get-doses-on-priority/story-iwAXliWji2XDdZgDjDE9zL.html
13-12-2020||India||Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh Tomar||The government’s offer to make amendments to the new farm laws has not resulted in a breakthrough with the protesting farmers, but agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said he is hopeful that farmers will recognise the benefits of the reforms. The government has said it was ready for talks and hopes that genuine farmers’ unions will step forward to find a solution through dialogue, Tomar said in an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran. Edited excerpts:Amendments proposed by the government dilute the reforms, which are necessary for growth of agriculture. You are also ready to bring an amendment to allow states to levy a cess on private markets. Since you have yielded so much, why not repeal the laws?The essence of the laws is still there. But whatever we could do to find ways to resolve the concerns of farmers has been done. We have made that attempt through the amendments. The reforms were aimed at increasing competition; so far only licensed traders could buy in the mandis, now everyone can. As competition increases, the farmers will get better remuneration. Security up as farmers’ stir likely to intensifyThe reforms will continue. Take for instance contract farming, it is aimed at ensuring a guaranteed price for their produce, security of their farming land, increase private investment, and addresses the issue of globally followed agricultural practices. WATCH | Farmers intensify protests as PM Modi hails farm laws againFarmers fear that the reforms benefit corporate entities more.The fear that it will take away their land is baseless. So far in states such as Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka contract farming is already being practised. So far no one’s land has been grabbed. In the act we have made a provision that the farmer can opt out of the contract, but the buyers cannot and if they do, then they have to pay a penalty of 150%. Do you blame the Congress for instigating the farmers?I have always said this about the Congress that they have to leave behind their dual-faced politics. They spoke about these reforms in their election manifesto; when the UPA {United Progressive Alliance} was in power they made attempts to introduce these reforms, but could not because of dabav and prabhav (pressure and influence) (of allies). PM [Narendra] Modi Ji does not give in to pressure or influence. Either the Congress party was trying to mislead the country when they mentioned these reforms in their manifesto or they are trying to mislead the country now by opposing them. New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: ModiOpposition parties wanted the farm laws to be debated more and sent to a select committee. Why was the government reluctant? The government did not shy away from discussions, but there was no need to send it to the select committee. A select committee is not above Parliament. Four hours were spent debating these laws in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. All parties put forth their views. It was passed in Lok Sabha and in Rajya Sabha; when I rose to speak, some opposition MPs created a ruckus in the house and put a blot on the democratic process. What were they doing for four hours if they were not discussing it? They could have sat and heard the discussions and when voting took place they could’ve voted against it — that is how democracy works. It is a myth that there was no discussion...The farmers have demanded setting up of dedicated agri courts. Farmers are worried they might not be able to fight big corporate entities. There is no issue of dedicated courts. The Act provides for SDM {sub-divisional magistrate} to resolve problems within 30 days and there are no decisions that can be given against the farmer. They think the SDM will not be able to give justice, therefore, they should be given permission to go to court. If somebody wants to go to court, they can do so, but we want resolution to happen at the SDM’s level, quickly and without problems. The government does not have any ego in this. How would you describe the discussions held so far? Has there been any breakthrough? We have been successful in putting forth what we have to say. The unions have not been able to reach a decision because there is no consensus among them. I want to thank the media… in the last few days they have put out news which is very shocking… that there are many Left-affiliated elements that have infiltrated these protests. There are those who are seeking the release of those who are anti-national. These elements are not allowing the talks to come to fruition. Are those raising slogans for Sharjeel Imam farmers? These are Leftists who oppose every reform announced by Narendra Modi...It has become a fashion for them to oppose whatever good is being proposed to strengthen the country. Anti-Farm law activists deface Mahatma Gandhi statue in Washington; ‘Khalistani’ flags sightedThe anti CAA protests were called off after the court’s intervention. Do you think that is how you will be able to end this stalemate? I feel the genuine farmers’ unions will step forward and will take a decision in favour of the farmers. I have hope that they will do so. Is the BJP worried about the electoral impact this agitation will have?It is imperative that when we go out to do something good there is a period of struggle and pain. Itihaas wohi banate hai jo itihaas se aage nikal jaate hai (those who move ahead of times make history) and those who believe in status quo cannot create history. Even the UPA wanted to make these reforms but they couldn’t||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-believe-in-status-quo-can-t-make-history-narendra-singh-tomar/story-E7woezjUoao5LS70vjhaQJ.html
13-12-2020||India||Non-farmers play a part in farm agitation too||They may not be directly engaged in farming themselves, but have emerged as prominent faces in the movement against three farm laws enacted by the government in September to open up trade in agriculture. They also have espoused the cause of cultivators over the years and are in the farmers’ fight purely out of a sense of activism. Take for instance Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, who has been an activist and election expert and has dabbled in politics. On Saturday, Yadav was in Rajasthan to mobilise farmers of the state to join the protest.“I am here at the Rajasthan side of the border with Haryana to oversee arrangements for our programme to demonstrate on the Delhi-Jaipur highway. Thousands of more farmers will join, now that the wedding season and Rajasthan panchayat polls are over,” Yadav told HT.The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could leave them at the mercy of private buyers.The solution to the protest at Delhi’s borders, where thousands have massed for almost three weeks, lies in repealing the laws, Yadav said, adding: “Agriculture needs reforms, but these are reforms that farmers have not sought.”Activist Kavitha Kuruganti, associated with the Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), is equally firm that the laws are aimed more at promoting corporate interests. “The crux of the matter is that these laws are centered around big corporations, against the interests of farmers and consumers, both,” she said.Kiranjeet Singh Sekhon of the Kul Hind Kisan Federation said: “We demand repeal of anti-farmer laws,” adding, “All farmer unions have decided that we will fight till these farm laws are scrapped.”Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Dakaunda faction, claims that he has joined the farmers’ movement because the “new agricultural laws will ruin Punjab’s farmers and {farm} labourers.”“I want to stand by the working class as these laws have been made for the benefit of corporate houses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-farmers-play-a-part-in-farm-agitation-too/story-cRp6Q21ltduBgnhPzi90SJ.html
13-12-2020||India||Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine can be available in 1st half of next year: Official||Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine can be available in the country as early as the first half of next year, AstraZeneca Country President Gagandeep Singh said on Saturday.Speaking at the 93rd annual convention of industry chamber FICCI, he said that in the current pandemic the vaccine has to be made available broadly, equitably as well as in a timely manner.Pune-based Serum Institute of India is conducting clinical trials of Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covishield in India.“We started working in April with Oxford University and currently we are hoping to get emergency use authorisation approved and that can potentially mean that we could have something which is available as early as the first half of 2021,” Singh said.In order to make the vaccine available in a time manner the entity has signed close to 3 billion dosages supply agreements across the world encompassing close to 160 countries, he noted.“On top of that due to the viral vector platform which is used to produce our vaccine, it can be manufactured on a relatively large scale and we are fortunate to partner with Serum which has one of the largest manufacturing capacities,” Singh said.More importantly, this vaccine can be stored, transported and handled at comfortable refrigerated conditions (2 to 8 degrees) which is very comfortable to handle, meaning it can be administered very rapidly across the country, he added.“That’s what we are hoping to do when we get approval from the authorities in India,” he added.Pfizer, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute have currently applied with the DCGI for emergency authorization of their vaccines in the country.Speaking at the event, Cadila Healthcare Chairman Pankaj R Patel said the phase two trial of the company’s vaccine has begun and the results have been encouraging.He said that the vaccine is stable and may not require very cold temperatures. Patel also said that the company would like to complete phase three trials before applying for the emergency authorisation. He noted that the company’s vaccine has been developed on a DNA platform so if the virus mutates, it should be able to come out with a new vaccine in a very short period of time.Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella said that it has been crucial for the companies to protect the volunteers.He further said that the trials are completely transparent, and all data are enclosed. Ella noted that the company is conducting first kind of efficacy trial on its vaccine in the developing world. “We have long experience in vaccines. Covaxin can be given to a six-month baby as well to someone who is 65 years old. Safety profile of the vaccine will be extremely good and we have filed for an emergency authorisation and left it to the government to review all those things. We are giving whatever data they want. We have done everything according to international standards.” Earlier speaking at the same event, NITI Aayog Member VK Paul said there will be no pressure on the drug regulator on the Covid-19 vaccine approval and the final call on allowing its emergency use approval will be made on scientific principles. He also urged FICCI to work with the state governments to increase healthcare spending, enhance the human resources in healthcare by optimising the training in the private sector.He also asked the industry body to work towards building mental health capacities in the country and called for higher private sector participation in ramping up health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxford-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-can-be-available-in-1st-half-of-next-year-official/story-wT77rKJLMGkm3rOl3WO4AK.html
13-12-2020||India||Efforts being made to call next round of meeting with farmer leaders soon: Union minister||Union minister Som Prakash, who is among the government representatives negotiating with the farmers protesting against three new farm laws, on Saturday said efforts are being made to call the next round of meeting with the leaders of the agitation soon to end the stalemate.After holding discussions with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the farmer agitation, Prakash told PTI, “We are trying to call a meeting early.... We are discussing. The date has not been finalised.” “Ultimately, we have to resolve this issue through dialogue. There is no other way out. They (farmers) also know about it, we also know,” he added.Asserting that the government is ready for discussions anytime, Prakash, the minister of state for commerce and industries and an MP from Punjab, said the Centre is “concerned” about the protesting farmers and urged them to come to the discussion table.Thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting at various borders of Delhi for 16 days now, seeking a repeal of the three farm laws that they claim are “pro-corporates”.The last six rounds of talks between the Centre and 40 farmers’ union leaders have remained inconclusive. The government has sent a draft proposal to the farmer leaders for consideration. But the farmer leaders have rejected the government’s proposal and intensified their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-being-made-to-call-next-round-of-meeting-with-farmer-leaders-soon-union-minister/story-SM7hPyQ7QQrGepLWts4NPK.html
13-12-2020||India||Maharashtra-registered car found abandoned in ditch in UP’s Hardoi with dummy in driver’s seat||A car bearing a number plate with registration from Maharashtra was found on Saturday lying in a ditch here under suspicious circumstances with a dummy in the driver’s seat, police said. The car which is said to be owned by a youth in Mumbai was found from the ditch on Shahjahanpur highway under Shahabad Kotwali area, police said, adding that a dummy made out of a blanket with a cap and socks was found from the driver’s seat. It looks as if an attempt had been made to set the car on fire, police said. According to ASP Kapil Dev Singh, the car’s registration number is from Maharashtra and belongs to one Vishal of Navi Mumbai who had informed the police about the disappearance of the the car along with his brother. A forensic team has been rushed to the spot for a thorough investigation and all angles are being looked into the probe, the ASP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registered-car-found-abandoned-in-ditch-in-up-s-hardoi-with-dummy-in-driver-s-seat/story-6wvJckY9BD4GhYyTNfENQO.html
13-12-2020||India||‘India will achieve targets, exceed expectations’: PM Modi at UN Climate Ambition Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday pledged that by 2047, centennial India will exceed the world’s expectations in implementing actions to counter climate change.In his speech at the UN Climate Ambition Summit, he said that on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement - the most ambitious step in fight against climate change - the world shouldn’t lose sight of historical emissions. He called for a review of actions taken by all countries based on the commitments they had made under the agreement.“Today, as we are looking to set our sights even higher, we must also not lose sight of the past. We must not only revise our ambitions but also review our achievements against targets already set. Only then can our voices be credible for future generations. India is not only on track to achieve Paris targets but to exceed them beyond your expectations,” he said.Watch | ‘India on track to exceed Paris Agreement targets beyond expectations’: PM Modi The prime minister added that “India has reduced its emission intensity by 21 per cent over 2005 levels. Our solar capacity has grown from 2.63 GigaWatts in 2014 to 36 GigaWatts in 2020. Our renewable energy capacity is the fourth largest in the world. It will reach 175 GigaWatts before 2022. And, we have an even more ambitious target now - 450 GigaWatts of renewable energy capacity by 2030.”Also read: ‘Use election-like process for Covid-19 vaccination drive’ - Centre tells statesIn his pledge, PM Modi said, “In 2047, India will celebrate 100 years as a modern, independent nation. To all my fellow residents of this planet, I make a solemn pledge today. Centennial India will not only meet its own targets but will also exceed your expectations.”The Climate Ambition Summit is hosted by the United Nations and the United Kingdom to mark the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Paris Agreement.The Paris Agreement is a legally binding international treaty on climate change which was adopted by 196 parties at 21st Conference of Parties in Paris, on December 12 2015, and entered into force on November 4, 2016. The important virtual summit being co-hosted by France in partnership with Chile and Italy will allow governments to present their commitment and compliance with the Paris Agreement.Ahead of the conference, India had underlined that it has been responsible to the commitments under the Paris Agreement but most of the developed world which is responsible for historical emissions hasn’t shown much progress. Financial commitment by developed countries to the tune of 11 trillion dollars to help the world mitigate and adapt to climate change hasn’t come through yet, Prakash Javadekar, Union environment minister had said on Friday.“Five years after Paris we are still not going in the right direction. Paris promised to limit global temperature which rose to as close to 1.5 degrees as possible. The commitments made under Paris were far from enough to get there and even now those commitments are not being met. Today, we are 1.2 degrees hotter than we were before the industrial revolution. If we don’t change course, we may be headed for a catastrophic temperature rise of more than 3 degrees C this century. Can we still deny we are facing a climate emergency?” UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres asked at the Summit.“We are not doomed to fail. Covid-19 recovery presents an opportunity to set our economies and societies on a green path… the members of G20 are spending 50 per cent or more of their stimulus on sectors linked to fossil fuel consumption than on low carbon energy. This is unacceptable. This is a moral test. We cannot use trillions of dollars needed for covid recovery to lock in policies that burden future generations with a mounting debt on a broken planet. So the central objective by 2021 is to build a truly global coalition for carbon neutrality by the middle of the century. To make it a reality we need meaningful cuts now,” Guterres added.The occasion was marked by some important announcements like UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said UK will provide 11.6 billion pounds of our overseas aid to support green technology. I call on leaders worldwide to declare a State of Climate Emergency in their countries until carbon neutrality is reached.Five years after the #ParisAgreement, we are still not going in the right direction.Let’s make the promise of a net zero world a reality. pic.twitter.com/pspktHxQc4Also read: Israel, Bhutan establish formal diplomatic relations“When I was a child of six, UK depended on coal for 70 per cent of our needs now that is down to 3 per cent. Since 1990 UK has cut CO2 to emissions by 43 per cent more than any other G20 economy and yet our economy has grown by 75 per cent and today we are putting our foot to the accelerator. We want to turn the UK to Saudi Arabia of wind power by 2030… we are liberating the potential for hydrogen; on vehicles, we are going to ban new internal combustion engines by 2030, we will continue to develop new nuclear power,” he said.Italy announced 30 million Euros for climate adaptation. China called for raising of ambition and fostering a new architecture of climate governance where every party does their part. “I had announced in September that we will enhance our NDCs. We will peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. Today we are making further announcements…” said Chinese President Xi Jinping.China would cut CO2 per unit of GDP by 65 per cent by 2030, from 2005 levels and boost the share of non-fossil fuel energy to 25 per cent of primary energy demand by 2030. “China always honours commitments,” he said.Reacting to India’s steps to achieve Paris Agreement goals, Ulka Kelkar, director, climate program, World Resources Institute India said, “While many countries have announced net-zero pledges, developed countries need to urgently provide the promised $100 billions of climate finance, especially for building resilience and adapting to climate impacts. Every dollar invested in adaptation can yield up to $10 in economic benefits. In the ongoing pandemic, economic stimulus packages are providing only $2 to clean energy for every $3 to fossil fuels – this needs to be urgently reconsidered and greater support provided to building low carbon infrastructure,” she said.“India needs to continue prioritizing measures like early warning systems, disaster-resilient infrastructure, improved dryland agriculture, mangrove protection, and water conservation,” she added.In a statement delivered on Saturday, incoming US president Joe Biden said the US will increase its domestic emissions reduction target and commit to a 2050 net-zero goal, building on new climate plans by the EU and UK this week. Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan announced his country will not construct any new coal power plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-achieve-targets-exceed-expectations-pm-modi-at-un-climate-ambition-summit/story-HcCMw1iA9oZYNUDretWLaJ.html
13-12-2020||India||10 dead after 2 vehicles collide in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh||At least seven people were killed and several others injured on Saturday in a collision involving a jeep and a trailer truck in Rajasthan’s Chittorgarh district, police said.The accident occurred near Sadulkhera on Udaipur-Nimbahera highway, they said.“Seven people were killed and several others injured in the accident. The injured have been rushed to different hospitals,” Chittorgarh District Collector Kishore Kumar Sharma told PTI.Chittorgarh Superintendent of Police Deepak Bhargav said four people died on the spot, while three others succumbed to injuries later.He said nine others were injured in the accident and taken to different hospitals. Two of them are critical, the SP said.Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has expressed grief over the incident.“Saddened to know of a road accident in Nikumbh, Chittorgarh, in which many people have lost lives. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May they find strength. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured,” Gehlot tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-dead-after-2-vehicles-collide-in-rajasthan-s-chittorgarh/story-HIk6wJ3KfdzVBehmc6EUDN.html
