14-12-2020||India||We are not terrorists, but are fighting for our rights, say protesting farmers||Farmers who were on a day-long hunger strike at the Singhu border as part of their protest against Centre’s farm laws broke their fast on Monday evening and said they are not Aatankwadi (terrorists) but Hakwadi (fighting for rights).“It was a day-long hunger strike against the allegation made by the central government that we are terrorists. Through this fast we want to say that we are not Aatankwadi but Hakwadi,” said Punjab Kisan Union member Kuldeep Singh.“Our message to the centre government is that due to its policies the ‘annadatas’ had to observe fast today. The government should repeal the three farm laws.” said Manjeet Singh, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president DoabaAs many as 40 farmer leaders of United Farmers Front observed a hunger strike on Monday at various border points near Delhi against the Centre’s newly enacted farm laws between 8 am and 5 pm.Farmers protest has entered the 18th day. Since November 26 hundreds of farmers are protesting on the outskirts of DelhiMeanwhile, 10 organisations from various states such as Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana associated with All India Kisan Coordination Committee met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday to extend their support on three farm laws enacted by the government in September. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-terrorists-but-are-fighting-for-our-rights-say-protesting-farmers/story-G1NkfhCJBOa3sYpM79fcPP.html
14-12-2020||India||People of Goa showed faith in PM Modi’s development politics: BJP on landslide victory in zilla panchayat polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday thanked the people of Goa for its landslide victory in zilla panchayat elections in the coastal state. The party also congratulated its party workers in Goa on the win. The BJP won 32 seats out of 49 seats, leaving independents with seven, Congress with four, Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) with three, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) with one each.“We thank the people of Goa for their resounding endorsement of the politics of development envisioned by PM Shri @narendramodi. We also congratulate every BJP karyakarta in Goa on this landslide victory in Zilla Panchayat Polls,” the BJP tweeted. We thank the people of Goa for their resounding endorsement of the politics of development envisioned by PM Shri @narendramodi.We also congratulate every BJP karyakarta in Goa on this landslide victory in Zilla Panchayat Polls. pic.twitter.com/ewK7KUNNYGBJP president JP Nadda too paid his gratitude for the win in the elections and said that the results showed the faith of farmers, labourers, women and youth in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the policies of the party in Goa.“Congrats to CM @DrPramodPSawant ji, State President @ShetSadanand ji & @BJP4Goa unit for a remarkable victory in the Goa Zila Panchayat elections. This result shows the faith of Farmers, Labour, Women & Youth in the leadership of @narendramodi ji & policies of BJP govt in State,” Nadda tweeted.The voting for zilla panchayat took place on December 12 for 48 constituencies with a total of 50 seats. The BJP easily took away 49 seats, however, death of a candidate led to countermanding of the election in another constituency.Also Read | ‘Let us shape glorious Goa,” tweets Goa CM as BJP sweeps zilla panchayat pollsThe elections, which were to be held in March this year, were postponed on account of the Covid-19 lockdown and were finally held on December 12 but suffered from a poor voter turnout on account of fear of the pandemic as well as disillusionment among voters.According to poll officials, there was 56.82% voter turnout as 450,000 of the 792,000 voters eligible for voting cast their vote. This was more than 10% lower than the voting percentage at the previous zilla panchayat elections held five years ago, they added.The BJP fielded 43 candidates on 48 seats, the Congress fielded 38, while the AAP and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party had 17 candidates each in the fray. Seventy-nine people contested as independent candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-goa-showed-faith-in-pm-modi-s-development-politics-bjp-on-landslide-victory-in-zilla-panchayat-polls/story-ooM3hv7fnXfCviRITJ5kBJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Health ministry approves data management policy to digitise healthcare ecosystem||Union health and family welfare minister, Dr Harsh Vardhan, on Monday approved the health data management policy of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) that intends to digitise the entire healthcare ecosystem of India by creating digital health records and creating and maintaining registries for healthcare professionals and health facilities. The moves comes in a bid to ensure a smooth interoperable framework for the multiple partners associated with healthcare delivery to individuals in the country.The National Health Authority (NHA), which is the implementing agency, has also notified the final approved policy.The NHA had placed the draft of the policy in the public domain between August 20 and September 21, to seek feedback and suggestions from citizens and stakeholders soon after the launch of the NDHM by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi.After extensive stakeholder consultations and feedback, the policy was further modified based on inputs received from the public.Also read: Don’t go during the pandemic - AIIMS appeals as nurses’ union threaten strike“After over a month of soliciting feedback from various stakeholders and the general public, we received 910 comments and suggestions via 6,983 emails and through the website. Many of these inputs and suggestions were found to be quite pertinent and deserving more attention. We incorporated them to revise the draft policy and sent it to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for final review and approval. We are happy that the policy has been approved by the health minister and we can now start the field preparations for the roll-out of the NDHM across India,” said Indu Bhushan, CEO, NHA.The policy acts as a guidance document across the National Digital Health Ecosystem (NDHE) and sets out the minimum standard for data privacy protection that should be followed across the board to ensure compliance with relevant and applicable laws, rules and regulations.Participation of an individual in the NDHE will be on a voluntary basis. Those who wish to participate will be issued a unique health ID after verification through a valid government document, including the Aadhaar card.However, use of Aadhaar card for verification will also be voluntary, and failure or refusal to make use of Aadhaar would not result in the denial of access to any health facility or service under the policy.The National Digital Health Blueprint, 2019, recommends that a federated architecture be adopted, instead of a centralised architecture, for the management of digital health data to ensure interoperability, technological flexibility and independence across the NDHE.Government will now work on the guidelines for the implementation of the policy that is likely to be updated from time to time to make it more relevant in the current times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-approves-data-management-policy-to-digitise-healthcare-ecosystem/story-iDznpSynCwyo1nRt8Qo3zO.html
14-12-2020||India||Don’t go during the pandemic: AIIMS appeals as nurses’ union threaten strike||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Monday sought cooperation from its nurses and appealed to their union to not to go on an indefinite strike during the coronavirus pandemic, news agency ANI reported. The premier hospital’s administration has also asked the nurses to return to patient care immediately in a bid to fight the viral contagion.Why are the nurses striking?Around 5,000 nurses announced an indefinite strike, helmed by the nurses’ union, starting Monday, over redressal of their demands, including that related to 6th Central Pay Commission. In a letter to AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, the nurses’ union has blamed the “callous attitude of the administrations towards nurses” behind the call for the strike, which seeks a solution towards pay for the nurses falling under the 6th Central Pay Commission. The demand has been turned down by the administration, the letter to the hospital chief states. Delhi: AIIMS Nurses Union announces an indefinite strike from today over redressal of their demands, including that related to 6th Central Pay Commission. pic.twitter.com/9zOvs6rb4Z‘Unfortunate’: AIIMS Delhi chief on strikeGuleria rued the call for the strike and urged the frontline workers to help the hospital fight the pandemic. “It’s unfortunate the union has gone on a strike now, only a few months from when a vaccine will provide the solution. I appeal to all nurses, nursing officers to not go on strike and come back, work and help us get through the pandemic,” Guleria said, according to ANI.Guleria said the nurses’ union had put in 23 demands and almost all of them have been met by the AIIMS administration and the government.Also Watch | Nurses at Delhi’s AIIMS go on indefinite strike, Dr Guleria appeals against itWhat does AIIMS Delhi administration say?The administration countered the allegation and said that the strike is in contravention of Delhi High Court’s directions. “Their demands stand discussed with them for resolution. Union abandoned critically patients on demand of perceived anomaly of fixation of initial pay related to 6th CPC of 2006,” ANI quoted AIIMS’ statement.“Nurses’ Union was apprised that their interpretation is not covered under existing instructions of the Finance Ministry. Because nurses were looking for a hike in salary, the Ministry of Health has considered it sympathetically as a fresh demand for consideration,” the statement read.Health ministry intervenes, warns with actionIn a bid to prevent a major breakdown in medical facilities due to the strike, the health ministry late Monday evening stepped in and demanded that there should be no disruption of nursing function at AIIMS Delhi.“It’s hereby directed that AlIMS Delhi should ensure that directions of Delhi High Court are strictly complied with without fail & there should be no cessation or disruption of Nursing functions in AllMS nor such an action aided or abetted,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Bhushan has also cautioned the nurses that non-compliance by the frontline workers will be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act read with the Indian Penal Code and action will be taken accordingly against defaulting authorities and employees.The coronavirus disease has infected 9,884,100 people and claimed 143,355 lives so far in the country, according to the health ministry’s data on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-go-during-the-pandemic-aiims-appeals-as-nurses-union-threaten-strike/story-cA3VDovzw8McoRGcOAH2tL.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Concerns over delays in decisions in SC on important constitutional matters’: Congress leader||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Monday said there are concerns over delays in decisions in the Supreme Court on important constitutional matters, saying the people’s faith in the top court must remain intact as it has a constitutional duty and mandate to uphold the Constitution. Citing the example of the United States and how the Supreme Court there had taken charge after bitter elections, Sharma argued for a similar role in India as well and urged the country’s top court to intervene wherever required to ensure that justice is done. “We have recently seen elections in a large democracy and major power of the world, the United States of America. We saw the narrative too. Yes, it was bitter and that is how the elections are but once these are over, the institutions take charge and slowly people get over acrimony and the bitterness of elections. Here, I would admire the American institutions too, the way their Supreme Court has been functioning,” Sharma said, addressing the annual FICCI AGM. Sharma, a former union minister, said the judiciary in India is independent and the Supreme Court has a constitutional duty and mandate to uphold the Constitution. Also read: Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks - Rajnath Singh amid protest“There are concerns when there are delays on important constitutional matters and the bucket is kicked down the road. As the old saying goes, justice delayed is justice denied. When justice is to be done and when interventions are required, my urge to you would be that it is the expectation of you lords that you should do that. We all have faith in you and that faith must be intact,” he added. About the economy, Sharma said the country and the world have been confronted with an extraordinary crisis due to the pandemic which has created enormous destruction. “India was not thrown off-balance like many other countries. We have witnessed major upheavals in our economy and there was a contraction,” he added. The senior Congress leader said there have been huge losses, including 10 million in the organised sector and 40 million in the unorganised sector. Also read: ‘Hospital beds to fall short’ - Bengal BJP chief vows revenge on Trinamool“It is debatable whether the recovery is V-shaped or K-shaped as deposit of salaries below Rs 25,000 in banks has gone down by 20 per cent and is a cause of worry,” he added. “We need to be more generous. We need not look at this year, which is exceptional, for fiscal deficit and FRBM numbers and we have to breach the limits, even if we have to go towards partial monetisation to give more stimulus to the industry including wage support and guarantees. But as of now, it appears the North Block is clueless about this crisis which we may face in the next financial year,” Sharma claimed. “Perhaps there is room to do more and that is why I urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government to do so,” he said, adding the stimulus was far less than the 10 per cent of the GDP and will take another year to come back to 2019-20 levels. The former union minister also called upon the government to involve chief ministers in resolving the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three new agricultural laws, saying any reform needs to be backed by national consensus. “Today, what we are seeing is turbulence and protests on the farm laws. Reforms must be participatory, not arbitrary. There must be consultations. Nothing should be rushed through or done without building a consensus. That results in what we are seeing - agitation, conflict and the loss of trust,” he said. “I personally feel that through dialogue, negotiations and persuasion, everything can be resolved. We have chief ministers of states and they must be involved and let’s get over this crisis too, together as a nation,” Sharma added. The Congress leader said he is a votary of reforms but they have always been backed by national consensus that gives predictability and confidence to partner countries and investors. “What worries me today is the binary of ‘we versus you’. This is dangerous and it should not happen in our country. We all Indians are patriots,” he said. Sharma said in a democracy the opposition is needed. “The chariot of democracy must have the government as well as a robust, effective and responsible opposition,” he added.He also credited people, society and the government for responding to the Covid-19 pandemic together as a nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/concerns-over-delays-in-decisions-in-sc-on-important-constitutional-matters-congress-leader/story-Gz4uxb5cw4LppE8ZmTlf6L.html
14-12-2020||India||Nationwide campaign to apprise people of Ram Mandir’s history to begin from Jan 15||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will launch a nationwide campaign to apprise people of Ram Mandir’s history and the long struggle that finally led to its construction in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. The campaign will begin from January 15.The Trust plans to reach out to half of the country’s population, even in the remotest areas of the country. The seven North-Eastern states and West Bengal will be on priority. Other priority areas on the Trust’s list are Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Andaman and Nicobar and Rann of Kutch. “We want to apprise the present generation of the country about Ram Mandir and history associated with it. We will try to reach out to at least half of the country’s population in this campaign,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the trust. “The campaign will start on the auspicious occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 15 and will end on Maghi Purnima on February 27,” Rai added. Also read: Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks - Rajnath Singh amid protestIn a bid to ensure everyone’s participation in temple’s construction, the Trust has also printed coupons of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 denominations. They will be used in collecting fund for the construction of the temple.Lord Ram’s posters and calendars will also be distributed to each household that will be covered during the campaign. Frontal organisations of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), including the VHP, will play a prominent role in the campaign. The VHP is likely to convene a meeting in Varanasi to plan out the successful execution of the campaign. According to political observers, the campaign will be crucial in the North-Eastern states and West Bengal. Assembly elections are due in Assam next year where the BJP is in power. Another important state for the BJP which goes to poll next year is West Bengal. “Construction of Ram Mandir is an achievement for the BJP. The campaign will help the party convey this point to the masses,” said a BJP leader, not willing to be quoted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had presided over ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya on August 5. At present, the testing work of foundation pillars of the temple is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nationwide-campaign-to-apprise-people-of-ram-mandir-s-history-to-begin-from-jan-15/story-IMqbeZJUXbCXpEPoOIhQIK.html
14-12-2020||India||Sri Lankan navy apprehends 47 Indian fishermen||As many as 47 Indian fishermen were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on Monday for allegedly fishing in that country’s waters, officials here said. Those apprehended by the Lankan navy hailed from Rameswaram and Puthukottai, even as seven boats were also seized, they added. The fishermen were picked up by the island nation’s navy while they were fishing near Neduntheevu there, a senior Fisheries department official said. While 27 fishermen hailed from Rameswaram, the others were from Puthukottai. They are likely to be produced before a Sri Lankan court on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the local fisheries authorities refused fishing permits to 23 Indian boats for allegedly damaging the nets of their Sri Lankan counterparts recently. The Sri Lankan authorities had taken up the matter with Indian officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lankan-navy-apprehends-47-indian-fishermen/story-qpchm3Vtt9r6JdTrEL93jN.html
14-12-2020||India||China’s PLA carrying out development work in Tibet; India ready for any eventuality, says CDS Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat stated on Monday that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is carrying out development activities in Tibet Autonomous Region of China, amid the Sino-Indian standoff at Ladakh.He also said that Indian forces are well-equipped to deal with any eventuality, and similar activities are being undertaken in the country.“We are locked in a stand-off in Ladakh. There is some development activity which has been going on in Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Every nation will continue to make preparations to boost its security based on its strategic interests.“I don’t think there should be much concern in that because we, on our side, are also carrying out similar activities,” Rawat told reporters after the launch of indigenously built state-of-the-art stealth frigate ‘Himgiri’ at Defence PSU Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers here.Indian Armed forces will leave no stone unturned to safeguard the country’s frontiers, he insisted.“China’s attempt to change the status quo on the Line of Actual Control along the northern borders amidst the Covid-19 pandemic necessitated high levels of preparation on land, sea and in the air,” the CDS said.The Indian Army, following the Doklam stand-off in 2017, has taken measures to ensure that the situation does not escalate there any further, he maintained.Indian forces are carefully watching the activities of the PLA at Doklam, where the armies of the two most populous countries in the world were engaged in a 73-day eyeball-to- eyeball stand-off in 2017.Also Read | ‘High levels of preparation underway on land, sea and air’: CDS Bipin Rawat amid standoff with China“We have taken necessary action to counter anything that would be a cause of concern to our national security,” he said, when asked about possible Chinese misadventures in the eastern sector, in the midst of the Ladakh impasse.The CDS further said that the Indian Armed forces have adequate strength and reserves to counter any threat, and is looking to equip themselves with more cutting-edge technology.“Time has come now to look at the future of war fighting, imbibing technology into our systems,” he said.Talking about the continuous ceasefire violation by Pakistan, he said India is fully prepared to deal with it and that it is the other side which should be more concerned about carrying out such activities.Asked whether India should have more submarines or procure another aircraft carrier, Rawat said both have their advantages and disadvantages.“Submarines have a separate place in naval warfare, in domination of the seas, and so does an aircraft carrier,” he said, maintaining that the Navy needs an air wing.The country needs to utilise its large number of island territories for strengthening security along the sea lanes of communication, Rawat said.He also said that islands can be an option for launching naval strike aircraft.“Once we have studied all that and understood in detail, we will take a call,” he asserted.Rawat said that the three forces -- Army, Navy and Air Force -- will be integrated, while retaining the niche capabilities of each service.“We strongly believe that no single force or no single service can succeed in any conflict situation if we are to face conflict with our adversaries anywhere -- whether it is land, air or sea,” he said.The integration will ensure synergised application of the country’s combat potentials, the CDS said.“We have successfully overcome some of the misconceptions about force restructuring by allowing space to each force to develop niche capabilities based on their strengths, and thus enhance our overall combat power,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-carrying-out-development-work-in-tibet-india-ready-for-any-eventuality-says-cds-rawat/story-0iKns97x0LKpBuXNJwmZGJ.html
14-12-2020||India||North India braces for further dip in mercury; Himachal’s Keylong shivers at -11°C||Several locations in Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh witnessed subzero minimum temperatures on Monday, while severe cold conditions prevailed in other northern states, as the region braced for still colder days with the IMD forecasting the mercury to slide further. In the national capital, which was swept by cold winds, the minimum temperature dropped to single-digit to settle at 8.4 degrees Celsius, down from 11.5 degrees Celsius Sunday. The maximum temperature also dropped to 19.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, and the lowest so far this month.The India Meteorological Department in a bulletin said minimum temperatures over most parts of northwest India are expected to fall by three to five notches during the next four days, leading to colder weather conditions still.Large parts of north India are already witnessing foggy conditions. However, no significant change has been forecast over most parts of Central and East India during the next two-three days, but it can fall by up to four notches thereafter, the IMD said.The weather department also said severe cold day conditions were observed on Monday in many pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, the epicenter of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new agriculture-related laws.In Jammu and Kashmir, as the minimum temperature at most places across the Valley settled below the freezing point on Monday, the ski-resort of Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the union territory at minus nine degrees Celsius. Jammu recorded the coldest day of the season on Monday with the maximum temperature dipping to 11.6 degrees Celsius -- 9.8 degrees below normal during this time of the season.Most places in the Kashmir valley, with the exception of Qazigund town in the south, recorded subzero night temperature owing to a clear sky, the Meteorological department said.They said Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded a minimum of 0.3 degrees Celsius. Srinagar, the summer capital of the union territory, recorded a low of minus 1.4 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara in the north, registered a low of minus 1.3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag in the south, recorded minus 1.1 degrees Celsius, the officials said. In Himachal Pradesh, Keylong, Kalpa and Manali shivered at subzero temperatures, despite dry weather since Sunday. Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong was the coldest place in the state at minus 11 degrees Celsius.Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Manali in Kullu recorded a low of minus 3.7 and minus 1.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. The minimum temperature in Dalhousie and Kufri was recorded at 2 and 3.3 degrees Celsius, respectively.Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh witnessed dry weather conditions with cold day conditions and fog in few places of the state.State capital Lucknow recorded a minimum temperature of 10.9 degrees Celsius, while Allahabad recorded a low of 15 degrees Celsius.Bareilly, Aligarh and Muzaffarnagar recorded a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius each, while Banda recorded 9.4 degrees Celsius. Najijababad and Bahraich saw the mercury falling to 9.0 degrees Celsius, while Etawah witnessed minimum temperature dipping to 8.6 degrees Celsius.Meerut was the coldest place in the state, where the mercury touched 8.0 degrees Celsius.Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with Hisar (Haryana) recording a low of 6.2 degrees Celsius, while Narnaul too experienced a cold night at 6 degrees Celsius.Bhiwani recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius while Rohtak’s low settled at 8 degrees Celsius.However, minimum temperatures at Karnal and Ambala hovered slightly above normal limits at 10.8 degrees Celsius and 9.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar experienced a cold night at 5.6 degrees Celsius. Gurdaspur and Bathinda, too, experienced the chill recording respective minimums of 7.2 degrees Celsius and 8.6 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana and Patiala, however, recorded slightly above normal minimums at 10.2 degrees Celsius and 10.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Mercury dipped below the freezing point in Mount Abu, the sole hill station of Rajasthan, where the night temperature was 0.4 degrees Celsius.In the plains, Sikar was the coldest place with a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological department here on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-india-braces-for-further-dip-in-mercury-himachal-s-keylong-shivers-at-11-c/story-ahCIYXPBi067WNUyHC8WSN.html
14-12-2020||India||India, Iran, Uzbekistan hold first meeting on joint use of Chabahar port||India, Iran and Uzbekistan on Monday discussed the joint use of Chabahar port to enhance regional connectivity as the three countries held their first trilateral meeting focused on the strategic trade and transit facility in the Gulf of Oman. The first virtual meeting of the trilateral working group was a follow-up to a suggestion by Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev during a summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday that the three countries should jointly promote Chabahar port. “During the meeting, the participants discussed joint use of Chabahar port for trade and transit purposes and enhanced regional connectivity. All sides also noted the significant role played by Chabahar port for the region to deliver humanitarian assistance during the Covid pandemic,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. The statement didn’t give further details on whether the three sides had proposed any measures regarding the joint use of the port. The meeting was jointly chaired by India’s secretary (shipping) Sanjeev Ranjan, Uzbekistan’s deputy transport minister D Dehkanov and Iran’s deputy transport minister Shahram Adamnejad. All the countries welcomed India’s proposal to hold a “Chabahar Day” on the margins of the International Maritime Summit to be hosted by New Delhi in January next year. India currently operates one of the terminals of Chabahar port that it has developed. The strategic project has been given a waiver from sanctions imposed by the US on Iran in view of its importance in shipping cargo and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. The prospects of Chabahar took a hit after US President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from the nuclear deal with Iran in 2018 and re-imposed crippling sanctions as part of a “maximum pressure” campaign. However, president-elect Joe Biden has said he will offer Iran a “credible path back to diplomacy” since dealing with Tehran’s nuclear programme is the best way to achieve stability in the region. These developments had resulted in renewed interest in Chabahar, and the external affairs ministry said last week it welcomes Uzbekistan’s interest in using the port as a transit facility. “This would open up economic opportunities for the traders and business community of the region. Besides Uzbekistan, other Central Asian countries have also shown interest in using the port. India seeks to cooperate closely with regional countries on this issue,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-iran-uzbekistan-hold-first-meeting-on-joint-use-of-chabahar-port/story-YWtef36CdFdY1yz8kqIvAM.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Hospital beds to fall short’: Bengal BJP chief vows revenge on Trinamool||With at least two Bharatiya Janata Party workers allegedly killed in political clashes since Saturday, the BJP’s Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh warned the ruling Trinamool of revenge on Monday. “Till date we have broken the law to hold rallies. Now we would violate the law to thrash you. Every single strike will hit the target. Hospital beds would fall short. I am warning you. We can do it,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of the BJP’s Bengal unit. Ghosh was speaking at a Cha Chakra (tea party) at Gangarampur in north Bengal’s South Dinajpur district. “The people of Bengal should see how indecent a leader of a national political party can be and should isolate them (BJP). He is not speaking a political language. This is the language of goons,” said Saugata Roy, Trinamool MP. This is not the first time that the BJP has issued such a dire warning. A day after the attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy on Thursday in South 24 Parganas, Ghosh had said he was “noting everything”.“Thrash us. But thrash us only to that extent which you can take back. I am noting down everything in a red diary. We will return everything with interest. There would be change as well as revenge,” Dilip Ghosh had tweeted. The BJP has also floated a slogan “There would be change as well as revenge”. The slogan is there on the party’s social media account. The slogan is being seen as a reply to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee’s slogan “We need change, not revenge” before the historic 2011 polls in which she overthrew the 34-year-old Left government. The BJP has alleged that more than 100 party workers have been killed and around 1,500 are languishing in jails after being implicated in false cases during the TMC regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospital-beds-to-fall-short-bengal-bjp-chief-vows-revenge-on-trinamool/story-ynfUUgIUi6NdnhYI4ywwxK.html
14-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9pm: Defence minister Rajnath Singh says farmers’ best interests in mind, govt open for talks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks: Rajnath Singh amid protestAs farmers leaders in various parts of the country participated in the day-long fast on Monday to protest against the new agriculture sector reforms, further upping their agitation, defence minister Rajnath Singh hailed agriculture as “mother sector” and also underlined that the government is always open to discussion and dialogue. Read moreIndia’s retail inflation eases in November, is still above RBI’s 4% benchmarkIndia’s retail inflation eased slightly in November to stand at 6.93 per cent from a year ago, after a six-year high of 7.61 per cent in October, a reading that is still well above the Reserve Bank of India’s acceptable limit of 4 per cent (+/-2) for the eighth straight month, data released on Monday by the ministry of statistics showed. Read moreGoogle’s worldwide outage: Similar disruptions faced by the company in 2020Google users worldwide were briefly unable to access their Gmail accounts, watch YouTube videos or get to their online documents during an outage on Monday. Tens of thousands of complaints popped up as the vast majority of people, about 90%, could not log in, according to the site DownDetector which tracks website outages. Read moreBest smartphones under ₹15,000 in India: Check price, specs hereWhen looking for a smartphone, the price range of ₹15,000, appears like a sweet spot between budget smartphones that cost up to ₹10,000 and mid-budget smartphones that cost between ₹20,000 to ₹35,000. Smartphones in this range not only look good but they also come with powerful features that make them ideal for people who are looking for a powerful smartphone that is light on the pocket. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘No bigger opportunity,’ Shubman Gill ‘looking forward’ to play Tests Down UnderIndia will be up be playing a four-match Test series against Australia starting from December 17th. The first Test will be a Day/Night affair in Adelaide and it will be India’s first Pink ball Test away from home. It will only be the only Test in which skipper virat Kohli will be playing as he has been granted paternity leave by the BCCI - with he and his wife and Bollywood superstar Anushka Sharma expecting their first child. Read more#GoogleDown trends as Google, Gmail and YouTube crash, memes flood the InternetDo you remember the last time you wanted to know about a specific incident or person and looked it up in an Encyclopaedia? Or do you remember opening an Atlas to locate a place? Well, that’s how life was before Google came into our lives. See hereAnti-Pakistan protest in US; demand apology for 1971 Bangladesh genocideA US based Bangladeshi organisation held protests outside the Pakistan embassy in Washington demanding an apology for the 1971 genocide. Protesters had gathered with placards and posters and were heard raising anti-Pakistan slogans outside the embassy premises. On March 25, 1971, at midnight under the name Operation Searchlight, seen by many as the first step in the Bengali genocide, Pakistan Army killed about 100,000 Bengalis in a single night. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9pm-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-says-farmers-best-interests-in-mind-govt-open-for-talks-and-all-the-latest-news/story-oajQ8mft0DJ9gVXg3vHloI.html
14-12-2020||India||Development projects to top agenda for India-Bangladesh summit on Dec 17||Connectivity and cross-border development projects are expected to top the agenda for a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina on December 17.The meeting will also focus on giving impetus to bilateral relations after they were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and Bangladesh’s misgivings about the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The two prime ministers will hold “comprehensive discussions on the entire spectrum of the bilateral relationship, including further strengthening cooperation in the post-Covid era”, the external affairs ministry said on Monday.As first reported by HT last month, the two sides are expected to sign four memorandums of understanding (MoUs) during the virtual summit. The Chilahati-Haldibari rail link, which was closed during the 1965 war with Pakistan, will be revived during the summit and some more projects will be inaugurated by the two leaders, Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen told reporters in Dhaka on Sunday. This will be the fifth rail link between the two countries.Momen said the “Swadhinata Sarak”, a road linking India with Mujibnagar, the town in Bangladesh’s Meherpur district where the provisional government was formed in 1971, will be opened on March 26 next year to mark 50 years of the country’s independence and to boost people-to-people ties.PM Modi, who had to call off a visit to Bangladesh this year due to the pandemic, is expected to attend the independence day celebrations next year.Momen said the Bangladesh side will raise all issues, including sharing of river waters, at the upcoming summit. Describing India as a “time-tested friend of Bangladesh”, Momen said it was necessary to acknowledge former Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi’s contributions to the country’s independence.The Bangladesh side is expected to raise the issue of sharing the waters of the Teesta river. The two sides completed negotiations on a water-sharing deal on the Teesta in 2011, but the agreement has been held up since then due to opposition from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Ahead of the virtual summit, Indian envoy Vikram Doraiswami met Hasina on December 10 and informed her of the Indian prime minister’s desire to take forward ties. A planned visit to New Delhi on December 8 by Bangladesh foreign secretary Masud Bin Momen couldn’t go ahead as he tested positive for Covid-19.With China stepping up development aid for Bangladesh, New Delhi has worked to remove irritants in ties with Dhaka and sped up work on connectivity and transit projects. In July, India provided 10 railway locomotives to Bangladesh, days after the first container train made its way to the Bangladeshi side and the first shipment of goods was sent from Kolkata to Tripura via Chattogram port. The ground-breaking ceremony for the 130-km India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline, which will supply fuel from Numaligarh Refinery in Assam to a depot at Dinajpur in Bangladesh, was held on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/development-projects-to-top-agenda-for-india-bangladesh-summit-on-dec-17/story-atGTGfLqczpbOhA1CdwxUK.html
14-12-2020||India||Centre for new tribunal for Krishna water sharing between Andhra, Telangana||Union Jal Sakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in his letter to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday indicated that the Centre is considering setting up a new tribunal to decide the sharing of Krishna river water between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.Alternatively, the Centre will refer the matter to the existing second Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT-II), after obtaining legal opinion, he said.The KWDT-II, headed by Justice Brijesh Kumar, in its judgment on December 30, 2010, allocated a total share of 1,001 tmc ft (thousand million cubic feet) to Andhra Pradesh, 911 tmc ft to Karnataka and 666 tmc ft to Maharashtra in Krishna river water.However, after the bifurcation of the combined state of Andhra Pradesh in June 2014, Telangana has been demanding revised allocation of Krishna water to the two Telugu states since they were separated. The Centre referred the matter to KWDT-II again under Section 89 of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, asking for project-wise allocation of the Krishna water, but the tribunal did not take it up, on the ground that its terms of reference did not permit the same.Telangana chief minister in his letter to the Centre on October 2 this year requested that the matter be referred to a new tribunal or again to KWDT-II under Inter-State River Water Disputes Act of 1956 so that fresh allocations be made to the two states.KCR reminded that the Telangana government had made similar representations to the Centre in 2014 and 2018 as well.In his latest letter to the Telangana CM, Shekawat, however, said the publication of KWDT-II award given in 2010 was stayed by the Supreme Court in 2011 based on a petition by filed the then combined Andhra Pradesh government and after bifurcation of the state, Telangana, too, impleaded in it.He also reminded that Telangana had gone to Supreme Court in 2015 seeking setting up of a new tribunal or re-mandate KWDT-II under Section-3 of the ISRWD-1956 for reallocation of water between the two Telugu states. “This matter is still pending in SC and so, the matter being sub-Judice, the Centre can act only after hearing from SC. But now, Telangana has agreed to withdraw its petition in the SC and therefore, the Centre will consider establishment of a new tribunal or alternatively refer the matter to the KWDT-II, after obtaining legal opinion,” the Union minister said.On the complaint lodged by the Telangana government over the alleged unauthorised expansion of Pothireddypadu Head Regulator project and construction of Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme on Krishna river in the backwaters of Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh government, the Union minister said any new project on the river would not be allowed.He reminded that his ministry as well as Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) had written many times to the Andhra government not to go ahead with the Pothireddypadu or Rayalaseema lift projects until they were technically appraised and cleared by Central Water Commission and sanctioned by the apex council.At the same time, Shekawat reminded that the expansion of Kaleshwaram lift irrigation scheme on Godavari river by the Telangana government seeking to draw another three tmc ft water per day from the river was also unauthorised and should not be taken up.“As per the agreement at the apex council meeting held on October 6, both the states should submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of new projects to the respective boards on Krishna and Godavari rivers immediately for appraisal and subsequent sanction by the apex council,” he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-for-new-tribunal-for-krishna-water-sharing-between-andhra-telangana/story-4KDodqPuiSEL2HQCj68ubN.html
14-12-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 42,000 crore to states towards GST compensation shortfall||The Union finance ministry announced on Monday the central government has borrowed Rs 42,000 crore since October to meet the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states. In its statement, the finance ministry said that Rs 6,000 crore has been released on Monday, the latest in a series of weekly instalments, of which Rs 5516.60 crore has been released to 23 states and Rs 483.40 crore has been released to three Union territories of Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Puducherry. Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim are the five remaining states with no gap in revenue, the ministry added.A shortfall of Rs 1.10 lakh crore in revenue was estimated on account of implementation of GST following which a special borrowing window was enabled in October this year. The government would borrow through this special window on behalf of the states and UTs. Seven rounds of borrowing have been done since October and the amount borrowed in these rounds were released to the states on October 23, November 2, November 9, November 23, December 1, December 7, and December 14.“The amount released this week was the 7th instalment of such funds provided to the States. The amount has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 5.1348%. So far, an amount of Rs.42,000 crore has been borrowed by the Central Government through the special borrowing window at an average interest rate of 4.7712%,” the statement read.Apart from the funds released through this special borrowing, states that pick option 1 to meet the GST compensation shortfall are also allowed to borrow funds equivalent to 0.5 per cent of their Gross States Domestic Product (GSDP). Also, the entire additional amount of Rs 106,830 crore (0.50 per cent of GSDP) could also be borrowed by the states under this provision, the statement said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-42-000-crore-to-states-towards-gst-compensation-shortfall/story-cAi7AsdgmG0ofZL8Rc6nVN.html
14-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee in north Bengal to boost party’s morale, counter BJP||A fortnight after Trinamool congress heavyweight and MLA from Cooch Behar (South) Mihir Goswami switched over to the BJP, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived in north Bengal on Monday to boost morale of party workers and stem out any further erosion in its ranks ahead of the crucial state elections next year.Goswami described his decision to join BJP as a “crusade against immoral and incorrect happenings” in the state, especially against “injustice” in north Bengal, a saffron stronghold.CM Banerjee is scheduled to hold a rally in Cooch Behar (south) on Wednesday. “This is her second district tour this month. Earlier this month she had camped in West Midnapore, West Burdwan and North 24 Parganas. Banerjee, who reached Jalpaiguri on Monday, is expected to meet party leaders of Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts and hold rallies with party workers over the next two days,” said a TMC leader. That the TMC is jittery with north Bengal was also evident when the party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee, CM Banerjee’s nephew, and election strategist Prashant Kishor rushed to north Bengal in October to iron out differences in the ranks. North Bengal is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP after the latter wrested seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the region in 2019 and managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight seats in north Bengal, the BJP is ahead of the TMC in 35. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats. “She [Mamata Banerjee] has asked party leaders in the north Bengal districts to arrange for rallies with at least 20 workers from each booth. She is likely to send out some message to rebel leaders and boost the morale of booth level workers,” said a TMC worker. Back in Kolkata, the BJP upped its ante against the ruling party in the state, publishing a brochure titled ‘TMC Fail Card’ to highlight the alleged failures and corruption of the Mamata Banerjee administration. “Till date we have broken the law to hold rallies. Now we would violate the law to thrash you. Hospital beds would fall short,” said Dilip Ghosh, the BJP’s head in West Bengal. The BJP has alleged that at least two of its party workers were killed in North Parganas and East Burdwan since Saturday. A few days back, the TMC had launched a report card to highlight achievements of the Mamata Banerjee government in the last 10 years. The TMC also launched a massive outreach program where leaders and workers would be visiting 10 million households with the report card. “We need not say anything. Our achievements have been acknowledged by the union government. We have topped in providing 100-days of work. The centre has said that we have laid down the maximum village roads. We have ranked first in building houses for poor people in rural Bengal. In MSME sector we are also the topper, So what would they (BJP) tell in their failure card and how will they explain,” said Sovandeb Chatterjee, state power minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-in-north-bengal-to-boost-party-s-morale-counter-bjp/story-e5LzMqBb1Y8GxKzjjdwbFJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare writes to agri minister, says will start hunger strike if farmers issues not resolved||Social activist Anna Hazare on Monday wrote to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning “resumption of a hunger strike” against the Centre’s “failure” to fulfil his demands including the implementation of the recommendations made by M S Swaminathan Commission.Hazare’s other demand include granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP).The anti-graft activist had sat on fast in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra in February, 2019.He called off the fast on February 5, 2019 after receiving a written assurance from then Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh that the Centre would form a high- powered committee to discuss the suggestions made by the Swaminathan Commission and other agriculture-related demands.In his letter to Tomar, copies of which were shared with reporters, Hazare has enclosed the letter of Radha Mohan Singh assuring that the high-powered committee will prepare its report and submit it by October 30, 2019.“The Centre had assured that it would take appropriate action on the demands on the basis of the committee’s report.Since nothing has been done till date to that effect, I am thinking to resume the hunger strike which was called off on February 5, 2019,” Hazare wrote in his letter to Tomar.The octogenarian said the Centre would be soon apprised of the date and venue of the fast.Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the Centre’s three agri laws.He had warned of an agitation if the government fails to grant autonomy to the CACP and implement recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anna-hazare-writes-to-union-farm-minister-says-will-start-hunger-strike-if-farmers-issues-not-resolved-reports-ani/story-mShRA1gHXZ8oNw83GEAazL.html
14-12-2020||India||Drama continues after BTC polls results in Assam; lone Cong winner joins BJP||Results of the election to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) were announced on Saturday, but the political drama continues in Assam. With no party emerging as the clear winner in the 40-member council, which administers Kokrajhar, Udalguri, Baksa and Chirang districts (collectively called the Bodoland Territorial Region), parties are trying to keep their elected members together for fear of poaching. Though Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) won 17 seats, the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), which won 12 seats, joined hands with the BJP (9) and Gana Surakha Party (1) to cross the 21-figure mark needed to stake claim to power. On Sunday, Governor Jagadish Mukhi, who was administering the BTR since March after election was deferred due to Covid-19, accepted the claim made by the UPPL, the BJP and the GSP to form the new executive council in BTC. But wary of the BPF (which was in power in BTC for 17 years since 2003 till the promulgation of Governor’s rule this March), of poaching their members, the BJP-UPPL-GSP combine kept their newly elected members at hotel in Guwahati since Saturday night while keeping a tab on their phone calls. Also read: India’s retail inflation eases in November, is still above RBI’s 4% benchmarkDespite being dumped by the BJP, its partner in the Assam’s ruling coalition, the BPF is said to be trying to win over some members from the UPPL or the BJP to form the next executive council in the BTC. The party needs just 4 members to reach 21. “The BPF is trying to get in touch with our members and offering cash incentives to switch, but that’s not going to happen. Instead, many of their elected members are in touch with us and may join us soon,” UPPL chief and designated chief executive member (CEM) of BTC, Pramod Boro, told journalists on Monday. Boro will take oath of office at Kokrajhar on Tuesday along with a few other members. The ceremony will be attended by Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and other dignitaries. “Five members will take oath on Tuesday. Two of them will be from UPPL-a CEM and deputy CEM, two from BJP and one from GSP. The BJP is not staking claim to either the CEM or deputy CEM’s posts,” said state education and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. In a related development, the lone Congress winner Sajal Kumar Singha, who won from the Srirampur seat, switched sides and joined the BJP on Monday in presence of Sarma and other senior party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drama-continues-after-btc-polls-results-in-assam-lone-cong-winner-joins-bjp/story-ypEOgQCzPgGDG6jN19zuyJ.html
14-12-2020||India||To encourage participation, PM Modi interacts with key industries leaders, startups from space sector||Months after the formation of Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) seeking to open up space infrastructure to the private sector, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday interacted with key industries, startups and academia from the sector to encourage their participation, Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. “Union Cabinet led by the PM Modi took the historic decision in June 2020 to open up Space sector and enable participation of the Indian private sector in the entire gamut of space activities,” the PMO said.The statement said that several ventures have submitted proposals with IN-SPACe under the department of space. “The proposals pertain to a vast range of activities including satellite constellation, small satellite launch vehicles, ground station, geospatial services, propulsion systems and application products,” it added.During the meeting, PM Modi thanked the participants for providing feedback on the latest reforms. “The decision to unlock India’s potential in the Space sector has heralded a new age of public-private partnership in this sector,” he said. The Prime Minister also noted the pans of companies to make rockets and satellites as he assured complete and wholehearted support from the government.He also said that private investment in the sector will lead to the creation of hi-tech jobs, which will provide a host of opportunities to the talent pool in Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), National Institute of Technology (NIT) and other technical institutions. “Just like Indian talent has been able to attain worldwide fame in the IT sector, it will be able to do so in the Space sector as well, as per the official statement,” the statement quoted the PM as saying.In June, the government opened the space sector to private participation in far-reaching reforms. Hailing it as “historic”, the government had said the move will free up the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) to focus on research and development while providing opportunities to expand India’s space exploration and technology through private participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-encourage-participation-pm-modi-interacts-with-key-industries-leaders-startups-from-space-sector/story-K5c5GlkxE9cMrh76w1zY2O.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Let us shape glorious Goa,” tweets Goa CM as BJP sweeps zilla panchayat polls||The BJP has swept the elections in two zilla parishad constituencies in Goa, winning a simple majority in each of the two district panchayats and leaving the principal opposition party the Congress behind. The Congress is still feeling the effects of losing more than two-thirds of its MLAs to the BJP just a little more than a year ago.The BJP has won 32 of the 48 seats that went to the polls winning both the district panchayats comfortably while independent candidates won seven seats, the Congress four, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party three, and the Nationalist Congress Party won one. One BJP candidate was elected unopposed.The Aam Aadmi Party opened its account in the state for the first time winning a single seat.The party has claimed that the victory is a vindication of the leadership of Pramod Sawant as the chief minister who has faced criticism both from within his party as well as from the opposition for the handling of the lockdown, the pandemic as well as for his pushing through a controversial railway double-tracking project. Also read: Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks: Rajnath Singh amid protest I humbly bow down before the people of Goa for the trust they have reposed onto the Bharatiya Janata Party as well as the Govt of Goa working under my leadership. Let us shape a glorious and Swayampurna (Self Reliant) Goa by taking ahead the same trust and confidence!“I humbly bow down before the people of Goa for the trust they have reposed onto the Bharatiya Janata Party as well as the Govt of Goa working under my leadership. Let us shape a glorious and Swayampurna (Self Reliant) Goa by taking ahead the same trust and confidence!” Sawant tweeted soon after the party emerged victorious. “The rural areas in Goa have supported the BJP. Social media agitations, Tamnar project, double tracking, coal IIT... all NGOs, political parties started these agitations and tried to defame the government on social media. This result is a slap on their faces and a certificate for the good work done by the BJP,” state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, said. As the results began to trickle in, the BJP went ahead in early trends and never looked back. The party, however, in a crucial match, lost seats to the opposition candidates in areas where the MLAs have defected from the Congress to the BJP.The result is a significant improvement on the party’s 2015 tally wherein it had won 18 seats while the independents grabbed a lion’s share, winning 15 seats. The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party had not participated in the 2015 zilla panchayat polls, instead fielded its candidates as independents. The result has also indicated that the BJP has managed to, for now, win back the support of the politically significant Bahujan Samaj in Goa which had deserted the party in the 2017 assembly elections resulting in the BJP being reduced to a paltry share of 13 seats in the 40-member Goa Legislative Assembly. The elections which were to be held in March this year were postponed on account of the Covid-19 lockdown and were finally held on December 12 but suffered from a poor voter turnout on account of fear of the pandemic as well as disillusionment among voters.The state witnessed a voter turnout of 56.82 per cent with 4.50 lakh of the 7.92 lakh voters eligible for voting having cast their vote, which was more than 10 per cent lower than the voting percentage at the previous zilla panchayat elections held five years ago.The BJP fielded 43 candidates on 48 seats, the Congress fielded 38, while the Aam Aadmi Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party had 17 candidates each in the fray. Seventy-nine people contested as independent candidates.The ruling BJP has a commanding majority among the MLAs, who often sponsor their own candidates for the district panchayat polls with 27 of the 40 MLAs owing allegiance to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party after 12 of the 17 Congress MLAs elected on party tickets back in 2017 having moved to the BJP.The party has however lost crucial seats where candidates sponsored by its MLAs have been defeated by independent candidates or by opposition Congress MLAs including in Santa Cruz, Nuvem and Colvale constituencies where the Congress or the independents have managed to win the seat despite having lost their MLAs to the BJP.With the zilla panchayat bodies performing only a nominal role, the polls are seen more as a preliminary test for political parties ahead of the state assembly elections a little more than a year away in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-us-shape-glorious-goa-tweets-goa-cm-as-bjp-sweeps-zilla-panchayat-polls/story-EQj6oN5kXWtBBKVNZmvM8L.html
14-12-2020||India||Process begins for reopening of places of worship in Odisha||After being closed for about nine months due to Covid-19 outbreak, the Odisha government on Monday said the process for reopening religious institutions has started, a top official said.Following decline in single-day Covid-19 positive cases, the authorities are now mulling reopening of religious places for devotees, he said.While the number of daily Covid-19 cases was 644 on November 14, it has almost halved to 322 on December 14. District collectors have been empowered to take a decision to open the religious places in their respective districts after discussing with stakeholders and putting standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy informed in a tweet.There was a state-wide demand to reopen temples, churches and mosques after the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) initiated measures to throw open the 12th century shrine in Puri for devotees from December 23. All public places of worship are closed since March March 22 following the outbreak of Covid-19. The State Endowments Commission has recommended to the state government to reopen temples across Odisha with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol, said Endowment Commissioner Chittaranjam Mohapatra. Meanwhile, the SJTA has sought the state government’s approval for reopening the Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri in a graded manner from December 23, an official said. While the local residents of Puri will get the first opportunity to enter the temple in the first five days of its reopening, the temple will remain closed on January 1 and 2 in view of the possibility of the rush of devotees to the pilgrim town on New Year’s Day.From January 3 onwards, the temple is likely to be kept open for all.Bhubaneshwar, the ‘city of temples’, still preserves 700 temples, around which the religious life of the city revolves. The state capital is not only a major destination for tourists but also for pilgrims. Shree Lingaraj Temple, Ananta Vasudeva Temple, Mukteshwar Temple, Brahmeshwar Temple, Rajarani Temple in the state capital are among the well known religious sites for Hindus.There are above 8,000 temples which are more than 100 years old across Odisha, says Anil Dhir, a history researcher and project co-ordinator of INTACH.The Christian community is also anxiously waiting for reopening of churches as Christmas is approaching. “We have to take permission from the district collector before reopening churches on the occasion of Christmas,” said a senior church leader. The Oriya Baptist Church in Cuttack, Church of Christ in Bhubaneswar, Kritangiya Miracle Church at Kandhamal are some of the places of worship of the Christians.All India Christian Council, Odisha Chapter leader P R Parichha said, there are about 3,000 churches in the state.The number of mosques in Odisha is estimated to be more than 2,000.Madrasa Masjid in Bhubaneswar, Kadam Rasul Masjid and Shahi Mosque in Cuttack are the prominent mosques in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/process-begins-for-reopening-of-places-of-worship-in-odisha/story-wRMk4c0qKOT7BefZZwu8aO.html
14-12-2020||India||WhatsApp refutes in SC claims of ‘unsecure’ payment services system, says ‘Absolutely baseless’,||Messaging service WhatsApp on Monday refuted before the Supreme Court the claims that it’s payment services system was not secure and reliable and can be hacked by Israeli spy software ‘Pegasus’.The ‘Pegasus’ issue was referred by senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal, appearing for Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam, who has filed a plea alleging breach of financial data security of Indians using ‘Unified Payments Interface’ (UPI) services by Amazon Pay, GooglePay and others.A bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde referred to Venugopal’s submission and told senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who was appearing for WhatsApp, that a serious allegation was made against WhatsApp that it can be hacked.“Krishnan Venugopal has made a serious allegation that your system (WhatsApp) can be hacked by something called ‘Pegasus’,” the bench said.Sibal, while denying the allegations, said, “Absolutely baseless. There is no such pleading (in the writ petition). It is just an oral submission made across the bar without basis.”Venugopal also asserted that another issue in the case was data localisation.“Problem with WhatsApp, Amazon and Google is that when they allow payment to happen and data goes abroad. Critical financial data is allowed to be accessed by companies abroad and RBI justifies it. This is a violation of privacy judgment as my data is being grossly misused as these companies then collect this data and use it for advertisement purposes,” Venugopal said.He added that all the data is being shared with the parent companies in violation of the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) guidelines.“The data is being processed by the infrastructure of the parent company. The RBI has allowed WhatsApp, even when the case is pending before the court, to go ahead and share this data with companies like Google, Amazon, Facebook, etc without any circular or formal regulation,” Venugopal further argued.After a brief hearing, the apex court posted the matter for further hearing in January.The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Viswam, a Communist Party of India (CPI) leader, who has alleged breach of financial data security of Indians using UPI services offered by big players like Amazon Pay, GooglePay and challenging the permission to WhatsApp to start UPI services.The plea also sought directions to the Reserve Bank of India for framing regulation to ensure that data collected on UPI platforms are not “exploited” or used in any manner other than for processing payments.On October 15, the apex court had sought responses from the Central government, RBI, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and others including Google Inc, Facebook Inc, WhatsApp and Amazon Inc on the plea.Viswam has sought directions to the RBI and the NPCI to ensure that the data collected on UPI platforms is not shared with their parent company or any other third party under any circumstances.“In India, the UPI payments system is being regulated and supervised by RBI and NPCI, however, the RBI and the NPCI instead of fulfilling their statutory obligations and protecting and securing the sensitive data of users are compromising the interest of the Indian users by allowing the non-compliant foreign entities to operate its payment services,” the plea said.“The RBI and NPCI have permitted the three members of “Big Four Tech Giants’, Amazon, Google and Facebook/WhatsApp (Beta phase) to participate in the UPI ecosystem without much scrutiny and in spite of blatant violations of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations,” it added.The plea claimed that this conduct of RBI and NPCI put the sensitive financial data of Indian users at huge risks, especially when these entities have been “continuously accused of abusing dominance and compromising data”, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-refutes-in-sc-claims-of-unsecure-payment-services-system-says-absolutely-baseless/story-aTDoqFB6cWdIwAmzTPsMBK.html
14-12-2020||India||Anna Hazare warns Centre of fast over agri-related demands||Social activist Anna Hazare on Monday wrote to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning “resumption of a hunger strike” against the Centre’s “failure” to fulfil his demands including the implementation of the recommendations made by M S Swaminathan Commission.Hazare’s other demand include granting autonomy to the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP).The anti-graft activist had sat on fast in his Ralegaon Siddhi village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra in February, 2019.He called off the fast on February 5, 2019 after receiving a written assurance from then Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh that the Centre would form a high- powered committee to discuss the suggestions made by the Swaminathan Commission and other agriculture-related demands.In his letter to Tomar, copies of which were shared with reporters, Hazare has enclosed the letter of Radha Mohan Singh assuring that the high-powered committee will prepare its report and submit it by October 30, 2019.“The Centre had assured that it would take appropriate action on the demands on the basis of the committee’s report.Since nothing has been done till date to that effect, I am thinking to resume the hunger strike which was called off on February 5, 2019,” Hazare wrote in his letter to Tomar.The octogenarian said the Centre would be soon apprised of the date and venue of the fast.Hazare observed a fast on December 8 in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the Centre’s three agri laws.He had warned of an agitation if the government fails to grant autonomy to the CACP and implement recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anna-hazare-warns-centre-of-fast-over-agri-related-demands/story-a6eSD93KoPYo7UiOpcN6HP.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers’ best interests in mind, open for talks: Rajnath Singh amid protest||As farmers leaders in various parts of the country participated in the day-long fast on Monday to protest against the new agriculture sector reforms, further upping their agitation, defence minister Rajnath Singh hailed agriculture as “mother sector” and also underlined that the government is always open to discussion and dialogue.“There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind,” he said, hours before agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government’s request to farmers to have dialogue with the government.“The hunger strike call given by farmer leaders was successful,” said Baldev Singh, a farmer leader at Singhu border of Delhi and Haryana, where tens of thousands of farmers have gathered since November 27.Elsewhere, a large group of farmers on Monday tried to block the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, but were prevented from doing so by the police. At Gazipur, on Delhi-Noida border, the traffic was blocked for some time by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Takait) faction for some time. Rakesh Takait said that the traffic was blocked to tell the administration that they can block the traffic but were not doing it so that people are not inconvenienced. Farmers raised slogans outside the offices of district commissioners and took out protest marches in Punjab and Haryana on Monday, following a nationwide call given by their unions against the new central laws. The Haryana police closed the Ambala-Patiala highway after protesters gathered at the Shambhu border point adjoining Punjab. Many of these farmers were on their way to Singhu border, which has become the epicenter of farmer protests against the three farm laws.The ruling Congress also held protests in Punjab, with the state unit chief Sunil Jakhar participating in one near the Shambhu border. Shiromani Akali Dal workers protested in Amritsar. In Punjab, farmers protested in several districts including Ludhiana, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran.“Farmers held protests outside the offices of deputy commissioners at several places in Punjab,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. This farmer union had not participated in the day-long hunger strike saying they were not consulted.In Haryana, the farmers came out in large numbers and took out protest marches before holding day-long demonstrations outside the offices of deputy commissioners (DCs) as the agitation against Centre’s three farm laws evoked massive response on Monday. Not only the opposition parties but also different employees associations such as Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh and Asha workers association extended support to the peasants protests. The protests remained peaceful. The farmers held protests outside the offices of DCs in Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, Fatehabad and other districts and took out protest march after a nationwide call given by their unions. “Everybody should come forward to join this fight for the future of the farming community. We are happy with the support from different sections and sectors,” said Ratan Mann, Haryana BKU (Tikait) state president.In Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi Party workers clashed with police at various places as they were prevented from marching towards collectors’ offices. Clashes were reported from Lucknow, Hardoi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Etawah and some other districts. In Agra, the police used mild force to disperse protesting Samajwadi Party workers.“Samajwadi Party supports farmers’ demands. Its sympathy lies with farmers. The ‘kisan yatra’ was started by the SP on December 7. The party workers are holding dharna at all the district headquarters in the state today. I have been arrested in Sandila and many party leaders are under house arrest,” said SP law-maker Rajpal Kashyap.Reports also came from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala of protests being organised by farmer bodies at district headquarters. In support of farmers, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues and his Punjab counterpart observed a day-long fast and appealed to the Central government to listen to farmers. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also asked the Centre to repeal the farm laws as being demanded by 32 farmer organisations protesting at the Delhi-Haryana border.As farmers intensified their protests against the newly enacted farm laws, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday asserted that agriculture was a “mother sector” and there was no question of taking any “retrograde steps” against it ever. He also said that government is always open to discussion and dialogue.“There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind,” he said, hours before agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated the government’s request to farmers to have dialogue with the government.In view of the nationwide protest, the Delhi Police had enhanced security at city border points. Containers, multi-layered cemented barriers, barbed wires and additional police force was deployed at various borders, where the farmers have been protesting. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are currently staying put at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-best-interests-in-mind-open-for-talks-rajnath-singh-amid-protest/story-aL5d8eoiMuZ8eIX3FBr9iK.html
14-12-2020||India||Remdesivir may be highly effective against coronavirus, case study finds||Remdesivir may be a highly effective antiviral against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, according to a new single-patient study that contradicts previous research which found the drug had no impact on death rates from the disease. The researchers from the University of Cambridge in the UK who gave the drug to a patient with Covid-19 and a rare immune disorder, observed a dramatic improvement in his symptoms and the disappearance of the virus. Scientists had previously pinned hope on remdesivir which was originally developed to treat hepatitis C and subsequently tested against Ebola. However, results from large clinical trials have been inconclusive, and the World Health Organization (WHO) announced in October that the drug did not significantly reduce mortality rates. The new study, published in the journal Nature Communications, used a different approach to determine the effects of the drug on Covid-19 in a closely monitored patient. “There have been different studies supporting or questioning remdesivir’s effectiveness, but some of those conducted during the first wave of infection may not be optimal for assessing its antiviral properties,” James Thaventhiran from the University of Cambridge said. The researchers examined the case of a 31-year-old man with XLA, a rare genetic condition that affects the body’s ability to produce antibodies and hence fight infection. The patient’s illness began with fever, cough, nausea and vomiting, and on day 19 he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. His symptoms persisted and on day 30 he was admitted to hospital, where he was given supplemental oxygen due to breathing difficulties. The man’s fever and inflammation of the lungs persisted for longer than 30 days, but without causing severe breathing problems or spreading to other organs. The researchers said this may have been due to his inability to produce antibodies -- although antibodies fight infection, they can also cause damage to the body and even lead to severe disease. At first, the patient was treated with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, which had little effect, and the treatments were stopped on day 34, they said. The patient then commenced a ten-day course of remdesivir. The researchers found that within 36 hours, his fever and shortness of breath had improved and his nausea and vomiting ceased, adding that rising oxygen saturation allowed him to be taken off supplemental oxygen. This dramatic clinical response was accompanied by a progressive decrease in levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), a substance produced by the liver in response to inflammation, according to the researchers. Doctors also saw an increase in the number of his immune cells known as lymphocytes, and chest scans showed that his lung inflammation was clearing, they said. The patient was discharged on day 43. A week after discharge, the patient’s fever, shortness of breath and nausea returned. The man was readmitted to hospital on day 54 and given supplemental oxygen. He again tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, was found to have lung inflammation, and his CRP levels had increased and his lymphocyte count fallen. On day 61, the patient began treatment with a further ten-day course of remdesivir, according to the resaerchers. The study found that, once again, his symptoms improved rapidly, his fever dropped and he was taken off supplemental oxygen. His CRP and lymphocyte count normalised. Following additional treatment with convalescent plasma on days 69 and 70, he was discharged three days later and is no longer symptomatic. The team found that the patient’s virus levels fell progressively during his first course of remdesivir, corresponding with the improvement in his symptoms. His virus levels increased again, as did his symptoms, when the first course of the treatment ceased, but the effect of the second course of remdesivir was even more rapid and complete. By day 64, he no longer tested positive for the coronavirus. “Our patient’s unusual condition gave us a rare insight into the effectiveness of remdesivir as a treatment for coronavirus infection,” said Nicholas Matheson from the University of Cambridge. “The dramatic response to the drug -- on repeated challenge -- suggests that it can be a highly effective treatment, at least for some patients,” Matheson added. The researchers suspect that remdesvir is likely to be most beneficial when administered early in infection, before the virus is able to trigger a potentially catastrophic immune response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-may-be-highly-effective-against-coronavirus-case-study-finds/story-8JhuEdJmpV1CiuY3clPp2L.html
14-12-2020||India||National Energy Conservation Day today: What is the day all about||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) under the Union ministry of power annually celebrates December 14 as the National Energy Conservation Day to showcase India’s contribution to energy conservation and steps taken towards becoming an energy-efficient nation.BEE uses the occasion to spread awareness amongst the masses regarding energy efficiency and the need to go green. The bureau asked everyone to be energy conscious and advocate energy conservation by being vigilant in our surroundings.This #NationalEnergyConservationDay, let’s advocate #EnergyEfficiency at our homes, offices and in our surroundings and vow towards making #energyconservation, an integral part of our lives. #EnergyConservationDay2020 #BEECelebratesEC #NEC2020 #SaveEnergy pic.twitter.com/EoMUYGTB4SBEE is an agency established in March 2002 operating under the jurisdiction of the Government of India after the formulation of the Energy Conservation Act in India in 2001. BEE forms policies pertaining to energy conservation and works to aware the general public around the same issue. The Energy Conservation Act 2001 came into existence to monitor and measure energy efficiency in the private and public sector at all levels.Many ministers and organisations took to social media to mark the occasion for awareness around energy efficiency and conservation in the era where climate change is as real as Covid-19. Netizens too joined the trend and shared the message for sustainability widely.“On National Energy Conservation Day let us take a pledge to adopt energy conservation in our everyday lives,” Union minister for housing and urban affairs of India Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.“On this #NationalEnergyConservationDay, let’s all pledge to use energy judiciously in everyday life, ensure zero wastage and spread awareness about the importance of energy conservation for a healthy environment and sustainable future,” Naveen Patnaik, chief minister of Odisha, also said. On Energy Conservation Day, we pledge to spread awareness about climate change and global warming and make efforts towards saving energy resources and switching to sustainable means. pic.twitter.com/vgSwSwz8stOn National Energy Conservation Day let us take a pledge to adopt energy conservation in our everyday lives. pic.twitter.com/Kqu9xI8nRuLast year, BEE had also organised national energy conservation awards at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi to recognize and reward organizations and industrial units for achieving energy utilization and conservation targets.The awards recognised organisations from 56 subcategories across industrial sectors and institutions like thermal power stations, office and BPO buildings, hotels, hospitals, shopping malls, zonal railways, railway workshops and stations, municipalities, State designated agencies and manufacturers of BEE star labelled appliances/equipment and electricity distribution companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-energy-conservation-day-today-what-is-the-day-all-about/story-u1pDv4HLOPW0j36K779AeL.html
14-12-2020||India||Statements by BJP leaders on farmers’ protest ‘most unfortunate’, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday slammed remarks made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on farmers’ protest, calling it “most unfortunate and condemnable”. Taking to Twitter, the senior Congress leader also urged the Centre to find mutual ground and address the issues raised by the protesting farmers.“The statements issued by BJP leaders decrying farmers’ protest are most unfortunate and condemnable. The government must find an amicable solution and address the grievances of farmers sympathetically instead of blaming gangs, anti-national elements for these protests,” Gehlot tweeted.The Congress leader’s comment comes amid ongoing protests being carried out by farmers in and around the borders of Delhi against the three farm laws that were implemented by the Centre in September.The chief minister also slammed the government for ignoring the concerns raised by the farmers. Gehlot also demanded that the farm laws be taken back. “Farmers are protesting in a peaceful manner. Their protest is for their most genuine concerns, which the government is ignoring. The farm laws that are not in the interest of the farming community must be taken back,” Gehlot said.Earlier in the day, hundreds of protesting farmers from Rajasthan blocked the Delhi-Jaipur national highway in Alwar district after they were stopped by police from marching towards the national capital. While one-way traffic moving from Delhi to Jaipur is open, the Jaipur-Delhi traffic is blocked due to the agitation, according to PTI.As the protest against the farm laws intensifies, thousands of farmers have gathered around and are camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The farmers have expressed strong apprehension towards Centre’s new agriculture laws, saying that it will take away the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders.However, the government has maintained its stand that the agriculture laws will bring major reforms in the farming sector that will help eliminate the middlemen from the equation, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statements-by-bjp-leaders-on-farmers-protest-most-unfortunate-says-ashok-gehlot/story-aE3yCfnCntSphkm0KIDgeO.html
14-12-2020||India||Now, tribals threaten stir, set Dec 31 deadline for separate religion code||At least three tribal organizations will bring out 200 Sarna Dharma Sagars (Raths) in the five eastern states – Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Assam – between December 20 and 31 to demand separate religion code for Sarna followers from the Narendra Modi government.A fresh deadline of December 31 was also set by Janata Dal United (JD-U) Jharkhand president and Adivasi Sengel Abhiyan (ASA) founder president, Salkhan Murmu.“ASA, Kendriya Sarna Samiti (KSS) and Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP) will be compelled to hold rail-roko and road jam across the country – particularly in the above-mentioned five states – again on January 31 if the Central government fails to accord separate religion code for Sarna Dharma in Census-2021 by December 31,” Salkhan said at Jamshedpur on Monday.He said the second phase of the movement for separate Sarna religion code would start with 200 Sarna Dharma Sagars (Raths) and public awareness campaigns in all these five states from December 20 till December 31. ASA national convenor Sumitra Murmu, KSS national president Phurlchand Tirkey and ABAVP national president Satyanarayn Lakra will be present in the public meetings.“Dharna and demonstrations at the district headquarters in these five states on January 21 and charter of demands will be submitted to the President of India through DCs and DMs. Public rallies will be held at Degagora (Nawadih block) under Bokaro district on December 17 and at Chandil under Seraikela-Kharsawan district on December 18,” added Salkhan.He declared that the rail-roko and road blockade held in five states on December 6 was a great success, claiming trains were blocked at 15 stations and 40 roads and highways were blocked in Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bihar, Assam and Odisha.“This movement has been going on for past 16 years and we hope the government of India will honour the rightful demand of 15 crore tribals. JD(U), in spite of being NDA alliance partner at the Centre, has been putting pressure on the Central government for this but the state government has been playing to the galleries,” Salkhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-tribals-threaten-stir-set-dec-31-deadline-for-separate-religion-code/story-mFrBoctpwJgZ7Xenctrh1J.html
14-12-2020||India||In remarkable market debut, Burger King India shares jump nearly 131%||In a remarkable market debut, shares of Burger King India on Monday zoomed nearly 131 per cent against its issue price of Rs 60. The stock opened at Rs 115.35, a huge premium of 92.25 per cent against the issue price on the BSE. It later closed at Rs 138.40, a gain of 130.66 per cent. On the NSE, it jumped 125 per cent to close at Rs 135 after opening at Rs 112.50, up 87.5 per cent. The company’s market valuation was at Rs 5,282.10 crore on the BSE at the close of trade. On traded volume terms, 191.55 lakh shares were traded at the BSE and over 18.67 crore units on the NSE during the day. Burger King India’s share sale was subscribed a massive 156.65 times earlier this month. The price range for the Rs 810-crore initial public offering (IPO) was fixed at Rs 59-60 per share. The quick-service restaurant chain currently operates 268 stores in India and out of them, eight are franchises, mainly located at airports, while the rest is owned by the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-remarkable-market-debut-burger-king-india-shares-jump-nearly-131/story-waJG9Sfa2iigbxcKeXSNXM.html
14-12-2020||India||Google, YouTube and Gmail back after massive worldwide outage||Google services, including Gmail, YouTube and Google search, came back online on Monday after being down for millions of users across the world. DownDetector, a website which collates user-reported errors on websites, mobile networks and other platforms, had confirmed the outage saying that the issues started at around 11:56 GMT, and are affecting users worldwide.“We are aware that many of you are having issues accessing YouTube right now – our team is aware and looking into it. We’ll update you here as soon as we have more news: Team YouTube,” YouTube said, according to news agency ANI.DownDetector said almost all the Google services, including Google Drive, Hangouts, Meet, Play and Duo, were affected. While Google Docs users saw the message “Google Docs encountered and error. Please try reloading this page, or coming back to it in a few minutes,” YouTube just showed its error page with a monkey and stated ‘Something went wrong’ along with a search bar. For Gmail user, the page said ‘We’re sorry, but your account is temporarily unavailable. We apologise for the inconvenience and suggest trying again in a few minutes. You can view the G Suite Status Dashboard for the current status of the service.’Google is yet to comment on the issues.However, of those who reported issues with YouTube, 54% said they couldn’t access the website, 42% couldn’t watch videos and 3% were struggling to log-in. And of those who reported problems with Gmail, 75% couldn’t log-in, 15% couldn’t access the website, and 8% were not receiving messages. DownDetector showed over 9,000 reported cases from users having issues accessing YouTube. The similar outage was reported on Gmail and YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-youtube-and-gmail-down-users-facing-issues-accessing-google-services-including-gmail-and-youtube/story-E0nPAAMKFOpvkbEC08thEI.html
14-12-2020||India||For first time since 1800s, no Khagyad Chaam in Sikkim monasteries due to pandemic||For the first time since the 1800s, Buddhist monasteries of Nynmapa and Khagyu sects in Sikkim will not organise the famed Khagyad Chaam, a traditional mask dance, this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The mask dances, performed by monks, are held every year in various monasteries in the state during the Bhutia festival of Losoong (New Year), and are visited by thousands of devotees as well as tourists from all over the world.Every year pujas and dances are held over ten days but this time the rituals will be performed for three days, during which Guru Thakmar pujas will be offered for global peace, and protection of the world against the Covid-19 pandemic, said Norbu G Bhutia, the former administrator of Gangtok’s Enchey monastery, which is considered to be one of the holiest sites by the Buddhists.In the wake of the pandemic, the state government has suggested to cut down on the festivities, which are attended by thousands every year, said Sonam Lama, the current in- charge of the Enchey monastery.“This year, the mask dances, which is an important tradition in Sikkim, will not be held due to the pandemic.There is some disappointment among the devotees but keeping in view the guidelines of social distancing we have taken the decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-first-time-since-1800s-no-khagyad-chaam-in-sikkim-monasteries-due-to-pandemic/story-IIyUKg67IQ1STRIjlFj8qN.html
14-12-2020||India||India to establish regional climate centre for Himalayas, to benefit country, neighbours: IMD chief||India is planning to establish a regional climate centre for the Himalayan mountain region which will not only provide weather-related advices within the country but also to its neighbours, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Monday.   Mohapatra said the work for establishing such a centre has already begun and talks are also on with the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO).China is also building a similar regional climate centre on its side of the Himalayas, he said.    Addressing a webinar on ‘Weather and Climate Services over Mountains Region’, Mohapatra said India has the eastern ghats, western ghats along the east and the west coast and the Myanmar hills in the northeast. Considering the size of Himalayas and its role in India’s hydrology, meteorology, disaster management, ecosystem and many other activities, the world has correctly recognised it as the ‘third pole of the world’, he noted.As a part of the ecosystem, as a part of the land, ocean, atmosphere system, the mountains, including the Himalayas and all other hill ranges play a significant role, Mohapatra stressed. Being a data sparse region, the relative observational network is limited as compared to the plain ranges of the country, Mohapatra observed.   He said there is a scope to improve further the physical understanding of various processes occurring in these mountains regions, their modelling and hence the forecasting and warning services.“At the same time, we have to develop the climate applications scenarios, especially with respect to water sector, industries, tourism, agriculture, specifically in these mountains regions.“We are planning to establish a regional climate centre for the mountains region and it will be providing advices not only to India but also to the entire region in the Himalayas,” he said.The RCC is likely to come up in Delhi, Mohapatra later told the PTI. The RCC will provide weather-related services specially for the farmers and tribes residing there. He added that Himansh, the country’s remote and high altitude research centre, established in 2016, will also undertake weather research activities in the Himalayas.   Mohapatra said a lot of initiatives have been taken by the Ministry of Earth Sciences and IMD for augmentation of observational network with deployment of doppler radars and automated weather stations and with the development of region specific numerical models and application activities with improvement in forecast activities and warning services. He said the disasters in the mountainous regions play a dominant role in deciding socio-economic activities.Mohapatra said natural calamities in Himalayas like the earthquakes are well-recognised --- the heavy rainfall leading to cloud bursts and also many other phenomena that affect the local agriculture, local industry, local bio-system, local lives. “We also have various types of disaster phenomenon in other hill ranges like western and eastern ghats. In the recent times, we all have witnessed that because of the monsoon rains, how the landslides, which have generally realised in the Himalayan ranges or the northeast states... how disastrous landslides have been realised in Karnataka and Kerala states,” Mohapatra said.He added that similar landslides have taken place when cyclones have crossed Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-establish-regional-climate-centre-for-himalayas-to-benefit-country-neighbours-imd-chief/story-ubkJq95x7qprIusS6NUCdJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Fourth group of farmers extend support to farm laws, say they welcome them||At least 10 organisations representing farmers in several states met Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to lend support to the three farm laws on Monday, on a day as many as 40 farmer leaders of the United Farmers Front began their day-long hunger strike at various border points near Delhi against the Centre’s newly-enacted legislation. This is the fourth group of farmers who have extended support to the laws in the last fortnight.According to news agency ANI, the 10 organisations from various states like Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana, associated with All India Kisan Coordination Committee, submitted a memorandum to the Union agriculture minister. “Members of All India Kisan Coordination Committee had come from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra and Bihar. They supported farm laws and gave us a letter on the same. They said that the Modi government has done this for the welfare of farmers and that they welcome and support it,” Tomar was quoted as saying by ANI.Earlier in the day, the agriculture minister said that the government is engaging with farmers’ leaders to decide on the next date of talks. The government is ready for discussion anytime and the farmers’ leaders have to “decide and convey” when they are ready for the next meeting, he added. “The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers,” Tomar told PTI.Also read | ‘Progressive’ Haryana farmers submitted memorandum backing new farm laws: TomarOn Sunday, a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had extended their support to the laws. Before that, a delegation of 29 farmers from Haryana met Tomar on Saturday to extend their support to the new legislations and threatened to stage a protest if those are repealed. The delegation, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (Mann) Haryana state leader Guni Prakash, submitted a “letter of support” to Tomar on the farm laws passed by Parliament in September and demanded the government to continue with these legislations.Last week, farmers, representing Har Kisan, an organisation of 116 farmer-owned agricultural enterprises known as farmer producer organisations, met the agriculture minister and asked for a separate meeting with him with more members. The farmers’ group from Haryana said they were not opposed to any amendments that the government may be considering but they want to the laws to be in force.Also read | Several border points in Delhi remain closed for traffic as farmers’ stir escalatesThousands of farmers, largely from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the farm laws and vowed to intensify their agitation if the government did not repeal the laws. There have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and representatives of 40 farmers’ unions so far and they have remained inconclusive. The sixth round was scrapped after they rejected the government’s draft proposal to amend certain provisions of the farm laws and declined to participate in the meeting. The government has made it clear that it is ready for discussion anytime. But the farmer unions have said they would come for talks only if the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-group-of-farmers-extend-support-to-farm-laws-say-they-welcome-them/story-m9k8x3dVjU7laEEGoMP0TL.html
14-12-2020||India||Odisha: Girl’s uncle arrested for killing her, hiding her body||Hours after the body of a seven-year-old girl in Odisha’s Balasore district was found near a pond on Monday morning, police said her 21-year-old uncle and his sister-in-law had murdered the minor as she had seen them in a compromising position multiple times.On Sunday evening, the girl’s family had lodged a police complaint regarding her disappearance. On Monday morning, local people found the girl’s body near a pond.The police said they have arrested a 21-year-old man, a distant uncle of the girl, with whom she stayed for her education. Also read | Two brothers, nephew attacked with sharp weapons in Chandigarh, three booked“The girl had reportedly seen the man and his sister-in-law in a compromising position several times. They used to bribe her with money. However, the duo was scared the child may reveal their secret so they hatched a plan to get rid of her. On December 11 morning, the man lured his niece out of the house with the promise of making her a cricket bat out of dried coconut stem and then slit her throat at a desolate place. He then buried the body near the pond. There is no evidence to suggest a sexual assault on the girl,” an officer said.The woman has been detained and would be arrested.Meanwhile, the girl’s family demanded stringent action against the killers. “I want strict action against those who had killed my child,” said her mother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-girl-s-uncle-arrested-for-killing-her-hiding-her-body/story-MKjvazns5h9tlneXARQYNK.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Transition from cute to babe was toughest!’||From the girl-next-door to playing a negative role, then turning seductive and now a ‘lady don’, actor Garima Jain loves exploring different genres. “Though it’s challenging, I have always broken the mould throughout my career. From a cute girl (‘Yeh Hai Mohabbatein’), docile Dushala in ‘Mahabharat’, negative in ‘Shakti’ I then took a bold step of trying the web with ‘Gandii Baat-4’ and ‘Mastram’,” said the actor.She recently wrapped up her shoot of ‘The Prayag Raj’ in Lucknow where she plays a ‘Revolver Rani’-type character. “Strong, fierce, tomboyish and full of ‘tashan’, she is like a lady don! She is like a coconut, softer in terms of love (opposite Adhyayn Suman) and harder otherwise. I have never abused in my life and in this I have hurled ‘galiyan’ left, right and centre and fired umpteen rounds. Learning to shoot was fine but had to do a lot of retakes to get the abuses right,” she laughs. The actor feels that breaking away from an image is tough. “When you do, it looks very tough but once you have done it, it seems like it was nothing! You get ready for new challenges. If I look back, transition from cute to babe was more difficult. People had a set image about me which was challenging to break — convincing people in a way it does not look cheap yet appears sexy and classy! So, it was a complete transition maintaining that thin line.”She is dabbling in various projects. “In the unlock phase, I completed a web-film, ‘Afate-e-Ishq’, with Neha Sharma and Deepak Dobriyal. I shot for ‘Twisted-3’ which was released some time back. I am currently shooting for two projects simultaneously and I was scheduled to shoot for ‘Mitthu Singh Da Vyah’ with Rajpal Yadav but could not do it as the dates were clashing. Also, I have to do some patchwork of ‘Prayag Raj’ which we may do in Mumbai now,” said the actor, who has been in Lucknow before but as a singer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/transition-from-cute-to-babe-was-toughest/story-GrwwleArhln0lgHxLTkVOM.html
14-12-2020||India||‘I always try to add colours to my dark characters’||Actor Zakir Hussain is best known for his negative and comic roles and has done lots of popular films including ‘Sarkar’, ‘Singham Returns’ and ‘Andhadhun’. But, his tall performance as a hardcore-criminal in ‘Sarkar’ has left such a lasting impression that filmmakers cast him largely in negative roles. “Characters like corrupt official, politician or a gangster that’s when I come in mind of casting directors. Industry is such that makers don’t want to experiment with actors much, which makes it tough for actors like me to break the shell,” says the actor, who hails from Meerut. He recently did two schedules of ‘Satyamev Jayate-2’, starring John Abraham and directed by Milap Zaveri, in Lucknow. Zakir is currently shooting for web-series ‘Thulley’, a murder-mystery, in Manali. “In SJ2 also I play a corrupt politician. As an actor, I always try to add colours to my dark characters. In the given parameters and character sketches I do add variety. After ‘Johnny Gaddaar’ and ‘Singham Returns’ people have started adding flavour of comedy to my negative roles.” Zakir has done few character roles too. “I did comedy TV show ‘Beechwale – Bapu Dekh Raha Hai’. I also did OTT series ‘Chacha Vidhayak Hai Humare’ and its second season has also been shot. Personally, I want to do all types of roles but can do only what I am offered. Sometimes, after hearing script, I have even asked for other genre roles, but directors don’t want to experiment much with my characters. I hope someone would do soon…I am every ready to drive a film or web series.” The actor is dabbling well between OTT and films. “I have shot one schedule for ‘Kamal Haasan’s next ‘Indian-2’. In unlock phase, I have also shot for forthcoming OTT series ‘Sandwiched Forever’ which starts Aahana Kumra, Kunal Roy Kapoor and Atul Kulkarni.” Before SJ2, he has shot Sanjay Dutt’s ‘Prasthanam’ and other projects in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-always-try-to-add-colours-to-my-dark-characters/story-wPS4s2dFvQXOVr1OOEx3hO.html
14-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Speak for Maha farmers first’, says Fadnavis on Thackeray’s remarks on farm laws protests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Speak for Maha farmers first’: Fadnavis on Thackeray’s remarks on farmers’ protestsThe war of words between Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray and the former CM Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday after the Bharatiya Janata Party leader fired another shot. Read more‘High levels of preparation underway on land, sea and air’: CDS Bipin Rawat amid standoff with ChinaIndian armed forces will leave no stone unturned to safeguard the nation be it at land, air or the ocean, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Monday. The comments were made amid India’s standoff with the neighbouring China in Ladakh. Read moreBJP Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya’s security upgraded after Dec 10 attackSecurity of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) general secretary and West Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya has been upgraded and he has been given a bulletproof car, according to news agency PTI on Monday, days after his vehicle came under attack in the eastern state. Read moreIndia vs Australia - ‘He can hurt you’: Aussie great Matthew Hayden names Indian batsman who can cause trouble for AustraliaAustralia are all set for revenge as they get ready to take on India in a four-match Test series, beginning December 17 in Adelaide. Read moreSonam Kapoor Ahuja goes flower picking while high on winter fashion in Prada sweater, Fendi boots and Bhaane jacketAfter making heads turn with her smart layering game in all Bhaane ensembles, Bollywood fashionista Sonam Kapoor Ahuja raised the bar of casual fashion with comfort and luxury as she stepped out in London donning apparels from Prada, Fendi and Emilia Wickstead all-in-one look. Read moreYouTube’s look back at 2020 in video features CarryMinati, BB Ki Vines, Desi GamersThe year 2020 is coming to an end. Ahead of the New Year, YouTube has shared its annual ‘A look back at 2020 in video’ list, which features BB Ki Vines, Carry Minati, Desi Gamers and Make Joke Of among others. Read moreParts of South America set to experience total solar eclipse today, NASA shares postPictures and videos of a full solar eclipse can easily amaze one. This particular celestial event has fuelled the curiosity of humankind for a long time and is an incredible phenomenon to observe. Read more‘India’s economy likely to return to pre-Covid levels by..’: Rajnath SinghDefence Minister Rajnath Singh spoke at the 93rd FICCI Annual General Meeting and said that the Indian economy has bounced back considerably from the slowdown brought about by the Covid pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-speak-for-maha-farmers-first-says-fadnavis-on-thackeray-s-remarks-on-farm-laws-protests-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MA1CnEUInX23OY46kVWnnM.html
14-12-2020||India||2 employees of leading Odia TV channel held in rape case, Oppn alleges attack on press freedom||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) of the Odisha Police on Monday arrested four persons including two employees of leading Odia TV channel OTV, which is owned by Jagi Panda --- the wife of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vice-president Baijayant Panda --- in connection with the alleged gang rape of a 13-year-old girl earlier this year.The action prompted Opposition leaders to say the police in the Biju Janata Dal (BJD)-ruled state were targeting and harassing employees of OTV, which is critical of the state administration.CID officials said two security guards and two employees of OTV were those arrested, adding that the minor girl’s mother lodged a complaint against them in August.On August 30, the mother lodged the complaint in Bhubaneswar, alleging that her minor daughter was repeatedly gang-raped in the months of March and April. The mother worked with OTV as a receptionist for a few months. She also accused a police officer and his associates of raping the minor at gunpoint. The arrests came weeks after the Orissa high court asked the Odisha Police why no action was being taken in the case. Earlier, the DGP, in an affidavit before the HC, had mentioned that there were inconsistencies in the statements of the girl and others.Soon after the arrests, OTV said the organisation and its employees have always cooperated with the police. “There is no prima facie evidence against the arrested persons and so there was no reason for their arrest. On the other hand, police officials who have been accused in the case are yet to be arrested creating doubts about the fairness of the investigation,” the channel said.Senior Congress leader Suresh Routray said the arrests smacked of injustice and publicity stunt. “Why only OTV staff were arrested, and not the police personnel accused in the case? This case needs a proper investigation,” he said. Senior lawyer and BJP leader Pitambar Acharya said the arrest of OTV employees was more of a selective prosecution. “When one’s destruction is near, their brain stops working – this is what is happening with the Odisha government. Intentionally attacking the press freedom, which we term as malicious proceeding, is not a sign of a healthy democracy,” said Acharya.The police’s move come against the backdrop of similar actions --- arrests and interrogations --- of several OTV employees, including its journalists, in a number of cases over the past year. The BJD says all actions were taken according to law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-employees-of-leading-odia-tv-channel-held-in-rape-case-oppn-alleges-attack-on-press-freedom/story-YAVWrx1U1kP7MLktuLCb2K.html
14-12-2020||India||Centre’s telemedicine service crosses 1 million consultations||Union health ministry’s eSanjeevani telemedicine service crossed 1 million tele-consultations on Monday.The ministry had begun online out patient department (OPD) consultations in April this year during the nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre in March to manage coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in the country.The platform is currently used by patients in at least 550 districts, with the volume of consultations per day increasing to around 14,000, according to the government data.Telemedicine entails delivery of health services from a distance using internet and it not only extends the reach of health services but also improves quality of health services besides saving time and money.“The roll out of eSanjeevani in India is supposedly the first of its kind of digital transformation in the delivery of health services at national scale by a developing country. During the Covid-19 pandemic, eSanjeevani not only brought about a huge digital transformation in the delivery of health services but had also boosted the digital health ecosystem in the country,” said health ministry in a statement.The platform is serving in two streams in 28 states and Union Territories. The eSanjeevani Ayushman Bharat-Health and Wellness Centre (AB-HWC) enables doctor to doctor tele-consultations, and is being used at around 6,000 HWCs. These centres are being served by specialists and doctors in around 240 hubs which have been set up by states in district hospitals or medical colleges. At least 20,000 paramedics, doctors and specialists have been trained to use eSanjeevani AB-HWC.The second stream eSanjeevani OPD is for providing remote health services to patients within the confines of their homes. It enables contactless, risk-free, and safe consultations between a doctor and a patient. It received a huge reception by both the patients and the doctors, and the Centre facilitated training of around 8,000 doctors who are on board on eSanjeevani OPD. On an average, around 1,500 doctors practise telemedicine daily in around 225 online OPDs, of which 190 are speciality OPDs and about 30 are general OPDs.“Over 10% of the users of eSanjeevani are aged 60 and above. Close to around one-fourth of the total patients have used eSanjeevani more than once.This stands as a testimony to the fact that public has started preferring telemedicine over visiting hospital OPDs for consulting a doctor,” said the ministry statement.Considering the inherent potential and social impact of this emergent digital modality of delivery of health services, the states have designed innovative applications around eSanjeevani OPD.In Kerala, eSanjeevani OPD is being used for providing health services to the inmates of Palakkad District Jail, in Himachal Pradesh, it is being rolled out in old age homes. Quick adoption of eSanjeevani OPD services across the country has enabled launch of wide range of speciality and super-speciality OPDs including alternative medical systems such as Ayush and naturopathy.Kerala is already setting up OPDs on eSanjeevani for providing services of Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram – district early intervention centres for its populace. Each of these 14 online OPDs has a team comprising a psychologist, special educator, speech therapist and a physiotherapist who collectively address common issues pertaining to child development and their future health.Top 10 states with highest consultations through eSanjeevani and eSanjeevani OPD platforms are Tamil Nadu (319,507), Uttar Pradesh (268,889), Madhya Pradesh (70,838), Gujarat (63,601), Kerala (62,797), Himachal Pradesh (49,224), Andhra Pradesh (39,853), Karnataka (32,693), Uttarakhand (31,910), and Maharashtra (12,635).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-telemedicine-service-crosses-1-million-consultations/story-ipx35Bmr5wW5Jxoi6nX8WK.html
14-12-2020||India||After attack on Nadda convoy, BJP’s Vijayvargiya gets bullet-proof car||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was alloted a bullet-proof SUV by the Centre on Monday, days after the party’s national president JP Nadda’s convoy was stoned at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas district, an attack that left several national and state leaders injured. Vijayvargiya was among those who suffered cuts and bruises in the December 10 attack. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP have locked horns over the incident that took place in the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The pelting of stones on Nadda’s convoy marked the first such assault on BJP leaders in the poll-bound state. Since Nadda enjoys Z-category security cover, only he was travelling in a bullet-proof car by the state government. Vijayvargiya, who gets Y-category cover, was travelling in a normal SUV provided by the party. “I have been told by the Union home ministry not to travel in normal vehicles. I have not seen the bullet-proof car yet,” said Vijayvargiya, who will be travelling to South 24 Parganas on Monday afternoon to attend an outreach programme of the party. “There is no law and order in Bengal. Every day our workers are being killed,” he added. Several central leaders as well as top state leaders of the BJP are protected by security personnel provided by various central police forces. These people are armed with automatic weapons. Seven people have been arrested by the state police in connection with Thursday’s attack. Union home minister Amit Shah has expressed concern about law and order situation in Bengal. The home ministry has also written to the state, saying the three Indian Police Service officers who were on duty on December 10 be sent on central deputation. The TMC has opposed this. BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy and national secretary Anupam Hazra were also hurt by pieces of stones and shards of glass from the shattered windows and windshields of their cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-attack-on-nadda-convoy-bjp-s-vijayvargiya-gets-bullet-proof-car/story-Sv6ucdKocFbMxdV35nWyLO.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Engaging with farmers to decide on next date of talks’: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||The government is engaging with farmer leaders to decide on the next date of talks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, as unions intensified their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws and observed a day-long fast on Monday. “The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers,” Tomar told PTI. The government is ready for discussion anytime. The farmer leaders have to “decide and convey” when they are ready for the next meeting, he added. Tomar is leading the negotiations with 40 farmer unions, along with Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce and Industries Som Parkash. Previous five rounds of talks between the Centre and 40 farmer unions’ leaders have remained inconclusive. The government has sent a draft proposal along with written assurance of continuing the minimum support price (MSP) system to them for consideration, but farmer unions have rejected it and demanded repeal of the laws. Earlier in the day, Tomar met Home Minister Amit Shah and discussed about the way forward to end the deadlock. Later, the agriculture minister also met a delegation of farmers led by the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) which extended support to the farm laws. This is the fourth group of farmers who have extended support to the laws in last two weeks. Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. The farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders observed a day-long fast on Monday even as the agitation spread to different parts of the country with peasant unions staging demonstrations at district headquarters. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engaging-with-farmers-to-decide-on-next-date-of-talks-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar/story-qbUdVRTBt0701Zt4WekhxK.html
14-12-2020||India||Chandigarh bans hookah bars to contain coronavirus||In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Chandigarh on Monday imposed a ban on the operation of hookah bars in the Union Territory from December 14 to February 11.An order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated that no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels/restaurants/taverns/bars etc.“Under Section 144, hookah bars are banned to operate in Chandigarh with respect to their offering Hookahs to visitors from December 14, 2020, to February 11, 2021,” the order stated. Brar had earlier mentioned that hookahs are smoked or consumed by customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having a mouthpiece, which is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth contact of many people, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of Covid-19 infection here.Earlier the order to ban hookah bars was effective for a period of 60 days, from October 14 to December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandigarh-bans-hookah-bars-to-contain-coronavirus/story-KVbSLXxV4zjdokK73cZMMK.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Speak for Maha farmers first’: Fadnavis on Thackeray’s remarks on farmers’ protests||The war of words between Maharashtra chief minster Uddhav Thackeray and the former CM Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday after the Bharatiya Janata Party leader fired another shot. Reacting to Thackeray’s recent comments on farmers’ protest in Delhi, Fadnavis asked the chief minister to first speak about agriculturists in his own state.“The chief minister must speak of Maharashtra farmers first instead of commenting on protests in Delhi. Protesters are being beaten up in their homes here and the state government is talking of protesters’ rights in Delhi and calling it an emergency situation,” ANI quoted the BJP leader as saying.On Sunday, Thackeray had hit out at Fadnavis for his “undeclared Emergency in the state” remarks. “If there is an undeclared Emergency in Maharashtra, then is there a declared Emergency in the rest of the country given the manner in which the protesting farmers are being targeted on the outskirts of Delhi,” he had said.Thackeray had also questioned whether pouring water on farmers in cold weather is a sign of harmony. He had also slammed the BJP government for calling protesting farmers “anti-national”. “The BJP should decide whether protesters have support from Pakistan, China or Maoists. You bring sugar and onions from Pakistan. Now farmers are also coming from Pakistan,” the Shiv Sena leader had mocked, as quoted by PTI.The remarks from both the political leaders come amid ongoing protests in Delhi where thousands of farmers, majority of them from Haryana and Punjab, have gathered in and around the borders of the national capital to protest against the three farm laws.The farmers are seeking the repeal of the three laws -- Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- that were implemented by the Centre in September.So far, the Centre’s representatives and leaders of farmers’ unions have held as many as five rounds of talks to resolve the issues but they all have been inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speak-for-maharashtra-farmers-first-devendra-fadnavis-on-uddhav-thackeray-s-remarks-on-farmers-protests-in-delhi/story-ULWZVK2PsWCvCtH3HnZrmJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Lalu’s health condition deteriorates; kidney functioning at 25% capacity, says doctor||The health condition of incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, who is undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, has deteriorated as his kidney functioning at 25% capacity, hospital authority said on Monday.His ailment in stage-4, Yadav may have to go for dialysis very soon, said Dr Umesh Prasad, the doctor treating him. The senior physician said, “His conditions remains critical.His kidney is functioning at 25% capacity and he will have to go for dialysis in the near future but I can’t predict the exact date.” When asked if Yadav needs to be shifted to another medical facility, Dr Prasad said, “I have informed the authorities about his health condition. Now, they and the court will decide whether he should be shifted to some other medical facility or not.” He, however, said, “In my opinion, he should go to a highly specialised centre, as he is suffering from multiple ailments and comorbidities.” The former Bihar chief minister has been in jail since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in the fodder scam cases. After two months, he developed health complications and was shifted to RIMS and then to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. He was referred back to RIMS after AIIMS declared him fit in May, 2018. After his return to RIMS, Yadav got parole for three days on May 10 to attend his elder son’s wedding. Thereafter, he was then given provisional bail by the Jharkhand high court for advance treatment at a Mumbai-based hospital in June 2018.He returned to RIMS at the end of August that year. Since then, he is under treatment at RIMS.On August 5, he was shifted to RIMS director’s bungalow, also known as Kelly’s Bungalow, from RIMS’ ward in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases and shortage of beds at the hospital. However, he moved back to RIMS again on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-s-health-condition-deteriorates-kidney-functioning-at-25-capacity-says-doctor/story-gsFcJ2lXj1EUAHQYxrpsxJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Health of former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee improves||The condition of former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee,76, has improved, doctors attending on the veteran CPI(M) leader at a well-known private hospital in south Kolkata said on Monday afternoon. He is likely to be released soon. “He is on intermittent non-invasive ventilator. He is conscious, alert and communicating verbally,” said a medical bulleting issued by Dr Koushik Chakraborty and Dr Soutik Panda. Bhattacharjee has been suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) for more than a decade. Bhattacharjee had some soft diet orally, although supplementary calorie and nutrition are being given through ryles tube. The bulletin said the catheter was removed. Bhattacharjee’s blood pressure and pulse are stable and his urine output is satisfactory. “He slept well last night,” the bulletin said. Bhattacharjee was rushed to the hospital on December 9 with symptoms of breathlessness. He was first admitted in the emergency ward and later shifted to the intensive care unit (ICU). A four-member panel of doctors has been formed for his treatment. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern about Bhattacharya’s health and rushed to the hospital last Wednesday. In September last year, the CPI(M) leader was admitted at the same hospital after he complained of an acute breathing problem. His blood pressure was found to be quite low and his oxygen concentration had deteriorated. Bhattacharjee recovered in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-of-former-bengal-cm-buddhadeb-bhattacharjee-improves/story-qBVie8OYbwxtnUvEGRJApK.html
14-12-2020||India||BJP Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya’s security upgraded after Dec 10 attack||Security of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) general secretary and West Bengal in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya has been upgraded and he has been given a bulletproof car, according to news agency PTI on Monday, days after his vehicle came under attack in the eastern state. Vijayvargiya currently has Z-category security.“As per the order of the Union home ministry, I have been provided with a bulletproof vehicle,” Vijayvargiya, who is in Kolkata for a programme in Mathurapur in South 24 Parganas, said according to news agency PTI.The vehicle of the BJP general secretary, who was travelling along with party president JP Nadda, was attacked on December 10 when he was on his way to Diamond Harbour to meet party workers. The windscreen of his car was damaged in the attack.Vijayvargiya, who was not harmed in the incident, told reporters that when he was going to a local hospital to meet the injured party workers, his vehicle was damaged “by lathi- wielding TMC miscreants who along with policemen charged towards BJP workers.” According to BJP leaders, Vijayvargiya and vice-president Mukul Roy sustained injuries in the melee, reported PTI.The party’s Bengal in-charge had sought deployment of central forces in the state with immediate effect and alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee is ‘banking on violence’ to return to power.“Mamata Banerjee knows that the land under her feet has slipped and so she is trying to return to power in the state on the strength of violence. I urge the Election Commission to deploy central forces from now itself in order to put an end to the prevailing atmosphere of political violence and terror in the state,” Vijayvargiya had said on Sunday in Birbhum’s Santiniketan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bengal-in-charge-kailash-vijayvargiya-s-security-upgraded-after-dec-10-attack/story-cEEnaGtdH05QKz0wXskNFM.html
14-12-2020||India||High court seeks Centre, Delhi Police response on plea seeking ban on gambling sites||The Delhi high court on Monday sought the response of the Centre and the Delhi Police on a plea seeking directions to ban/ prohibit gambling, betting, wagering and gaming websites.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the ministry of finance and ministry of electronics and information technology on the petition by chartered accountant Avinash Mehrotra who has contended that gambling is illegal according to the laws of the country and most state legislations have expressly forbidden the same.The Public Interest Litigation (PIL), filed through advocate Awantika Manohar, said that despite various provisions under law, a large number of websites can be accessed in all the states through devices and a person is free to gamble with cards or bet on the outcome of sport results etc.The petitioner, also represented by advocates Siddharth Iyer and Prashant Kumar, said that “online gambling is a far worse evil than regular gambling” as the ease of access makes it easy for anyone to gamble their life savings away.“Additionally, it is submitted that the online gambling system in India today, in its unregulated state, is potentially a great place for carrying out hawala operations, laundering money, etc. In fact, it is submitted that Foreign Exchange laws, as well as Income Tax laws, are also likely being violated today by the online gambling websites,” the plea said.This petition has sought quashing of an order of October 21 issued by the Centre where it had stated that it does not have the competence to block gambling and betting websites in India.It submitted that the power to issue directions with respect to the internet is vested with the Centre under the Internet Technology Act and even though most state governments have held that betting and gambling activities are illegal, it still continues for the lack of appropriate directions.The matter would be now heard on January 29, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-seeks-centre-delhi-police-response-on-plea-seeking-ban-on-gambling-sites/story-wcnXRBDaG5OtDHOMvsaMRO.html
14-12-2020||India||Freezing cold: Mount Abu in Rajasthan shivers at 0.4 degree Celsius||Mercury dipped in Mount Abu, the sole hill station of Rajasthan, where the night temperature was 0.4 degrees Celsius.In the plains, Sikar was the coldest place with a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological department here on Monday.The night temperatures in Pilani, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Churu and Ganganagar were 6.4, 7.4, 7.6, 7.7 and 8.9 degrees Celsius respectively. Meanwhile, dense fog was witnessed in Bikaner, Ganganagar, Churu, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu and Sikar in the morning.On Sunday, the meteorological department had reported a drop of two to three degree Celsius in the maximum temperature in most places in Rajasthan.The drop in temperature was due to dense fog in north-western areas in the last two days along with a western disturbance and cloudy sky, Jaipur MeT Department Director R S Sharma said on Sunday evening.He said the maximum temperature will increase if fog clears in a couple of days, but the night temperature is likely to fall.He said dense fog enveloped Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Bikaner, Churu and adjoining districts in the northwestern areas of the state on Sunday. Ganganagar had recorded a maximum temperature of 12.9 degrees and a minimum of 9.5 degrees Celsius.The lowest night temperature in Rajasthan on Sunday was 4 degrees Celsius in the state’s only hill station of Mount Abu. It was 7.9 degrees Celsius in Churu, 7.7 degrees Celsius in Pilani, 8.6 degrees Celsius in Jaisalmer, 8.8 degrees Celsius in Sikar, 8.9 degrees Celsius in Bikaner, 9.5 degrees Celsius in Sriganganagar.The MeT Department official said in most major cities of the state, the maximum temperature was recorded between 19.6 degrees Celsius and 25.6 degrees Celsius.He said a further decrease in the maximum temperature in the state is unlikely in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-temperatures-in-rajasthan-mount-abu-freezes-at-0-4-deg-c/story-YQC0y8PiLi9aZDuiLhEkEJ.html
14-12-2020||India||SpiceHealth signs MoU with CCMB to launch faster, cheaper dry swab RT-PCR tests||SpiceHealth has signed a memorandum of understanding with premier research organisation CSIR-CCMB to launch dry swab RT-PCR tests in the company’s mobile testing labs, an official statement said on Monday.“The dry swab testing method will be a game-changer in testing during the Covid-19 pandemic. The method is safer, faster and cheaper than the current testing method without compromising the quality of test results,” Rakesh Mishra, Director, CSIR-CCMB was quoted as saying in a statement.The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) is a constituent lab of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR).“Over the past few weeks, SpiceHealth has launched five mobile testing laboratories across Delhi-National Capital Region, with 10 more labs in the pipeline for the next two weeks,” its CEO Avani Singh said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had last month approved the dry swab RT-PCR test developed by the CSIR-CCMB. “The dry swab method will reduce testing time by 1.5 hours, significantly reduce cost and further revolutionise RT-PCR testing. SpiceHealth is proud to be the first Indian laboratory to incorporate this method into its labs,” Singh stated, as per the statement.This MoU with CSIR-CCMB will help us quickly scale up operations and ensure affordable Covid-19 testing to as many Indians as possible, she added.SpiceHealth is a healthcare company founded by the promoters of SpiceJet and led by Avani Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicehealth-signs-mou-with-ccmb-to-launch-faster-cheaper-dry-swab-rt-pcr-tests/story-QG1LefrW6aI7gAGyeX11DK.html
14-12-2020||India||TMC mayor accuses Bengal govt of stopping development work for politics||Jitendra Tiwari, the outgoing mayor of Asansol in Bengal’s West Burdwan district, has accused the Trinamool Congress government of not letting the city receive funds to the tune of Rs2,000 crore from the Centre under the Smart City project because of political reasons. This has caused major embarrassment for the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in a region where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won two adjacent Lok Sabha seats in 2019. This sudden development has also stoked speculations that Tiwari, who is also the local legislator and a TMC heavyweight , may leave the party in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls due in about five months. The party has called Tiwari for an internal meeting on Tuesday evening and the latter has confirmed he will attend it.In his letter to urban development minister Firhad Hakin on Sunday, Tiwali wrote,“…I am very aggrieved to state that our city was chosen by the Ministry of urban development, Government of India, under Smart City Mission project which if allowed by you, could have received funds amounting Rs2,000 crore which would be very crucial for development of the city.” “… due to political reasons we were not allowed to get benefits of it by the state government,” Tiwari said in the letter which was marked confidential but got leaked to the media on Monday morning. HT has seen the letter. Tiwari also expressed his displeasure over funds not being provided for a number of local projects, such as Prince Dwaraknath Thakur Town Hall in Raniganj, renovation of the town hall at Jamuria and several roads in Asansol, Burnpur, Kulti, Jamuria and Raniganj. Also read | TMC talks to disgruntled minister Rajib Banerjee, expels rebel Suvendu Adhikari’s aide“Asansol was chosen under this (Smart City) project as a result of tremendous work effort of councillors and the entire team of AMC (Asansol Municipal Corporation) but due to political reasons, we were not allowed to get the benefits of this project,” he wrote. “It was promised that funds will be made available by the state government for overall development of this city but it was not done. Similarly, under the solid waste management project, Asansol city could have received another Rs1500 crore from the Centre...but you and your department have not allowed us to get the benefits of these Central Government funds due to which I feel that Injustice has been made to the City of Asansol,” wrote the outgoing mayor. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo is the MP from Asansol while the adjacent Bardhaman-Durgapur seat is represented by another Union minister of state, SS Ahluwalia. The region has a sizeable non-Bengali speaking as well as Muslim population. Asansol is the second biggest city in south Bengal after Kolkata. It is located in the state’s biggest industrial and coal mining belt. “Policies are decided by legislators and he (Tiwari) is one of them. He should have discussed the matter with me. Writing this letter was not the right thing to do. If he wants to leave the party he is free to do so. But I believe he will stay. The BJP is misguiding some people,” minister Hakim said in Kolkata. He claimed Tiwari was not available on the phone. “I called up Tiwari twice but could not reach him,” he added. On Asansol being picked for the Smart City project, MP Babul Supriyo told a local news channel, “I was the Union minister of state for urban development when I chose Asansol for the Smart City project because it is the second highest revenue generator after Kolkata. I wrote to Mamata Banerjee. She never replied.” He said Tiwari has shown courage by writing the letter. “I wrote many letters to Firhad Hakim on this issue. He, too, never replied to any of them. Asansol has been badly deprived. The only work the local civic body has is to put up hoardings of Mamata Banerjee,” he said. Tiwari, on his part, did not take kindly to his letter being leaked. “I have no idea how the letter got leaked. We have to live in Asansol and are answerable to the people. Hakim does not love Mamata Banerjee more than we do. I fight the BJP on the field every day. He should not be talking about the TMC’s doors being open for people to leave. This was a confidential letter. How was it leaked?” he asked. A BJP leader, on condition of anonymity, said, “Tiwari has expressed the grievance of common people. If he wants to join the BJP, we will welcome him. We also keep saying that Mamata Banerjee has deprived the state of Central funds worth thousands of crores of rupees.” Meanwhile, on Monday, Tiwari also wrote to the higher education department that he would like to resign from the governing body of two local colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mayor-accuses-bengal-govt-of-stopping-development-work-for-politics/story-erJOhADRm942Je2E54H3xM.html
14-12-2020||India||‘High levels of preparation underway on land, sea and air’: CDS Bipin Rawat amid standoff with China||Indian armed forces will leave no stone unturned to safeguard the nation be it at land, air or the ocean, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Monday. The comments were made amid India’s standoff with the neighbouring China in Ladakh.“We are in a standoff situation in Ladakh and based on that there is some development activity which has been ongoing in Tibet Autonomous Region of China. Every nation will continue to prepare for ensuring its security based on their strategic interest,” news agency ANI quoted Rawat as saying.Rawat also confirmed that “high levels of preparation” are underway on land, sea and air as “China attempts to change the status quo on Line of Actual Control (LAC) along the northern border.”Underlining the importance of technology in the armed forces, the Chief of Defence Staff said, “Time has come now to look at the future of warfighting imbibing technology into our systems. We have got adequate forces to counter any threat or challenges that we may face on northern borders.”The comments come as India authorised the defence forces to enhance their stocking of weapons and ammunition for a 15-day intense war as the country is in the middle of conflict with China over border row in eastern Ladakh, news agency ANI had reported on Sunday.The authorisation to increase the weapon and ammunition reserves to minimum 15-I levels from the earlier existing 10-day stocking is to prepare the defence forces for a two-front war with both China and Pakistan. The three services were also given the emergency financial powers to procure items worth Rs 300 crore to buy any equipment which they felt could be of use to them for fighting wars. The defence forces have been buying a number of spares, weapons, missiles and systems for effectively taking on the two adversaries.India has been engaged with China in the Eastern Ladakh sector since May where transgressions have been reported from the Chinese side at multiple locations along the LAC.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-levels-of-preparation-underway-on-land-sea-and-air-cds-bipin-rawat-amid-standoff-with-china/story-iDdi4kOkIiWKHwvZ6NdcwI.html
14-12-2020||India||HC asks AAP govt to increase testing in districts where Covid-19 infection numbers are high||The Delhi High Court on Monday said it expects the AAP government to increase the number of Covid-19 tests in those districts of the national capital where the infection numbers are high.A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad orally suggested to the Delhi government to find out in which districts of the city the infection numbers were increasing and said “we expect you to increase tests in those areas”.The suggestion came during the brief hearing of a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking increase in the Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results. As the matter could not be heard in detail due to paucity of time, the bench asked the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Satyakam, to file a fresh status report within a week indicating the updated figures of tests carried out, district-wise infection numbers in the city, number of containment zones.The court also asked the Delhi government whether it was planning a fifth round of sero survey now that the number of infections was coming down in the national capital.Satyakam said the government was waiting for the figures to stabilise before deciding whether to carry out another sero survey.The bench, thereafter listed the matter for hearing on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-asks-aap-govt-to-increase-testing-in-districts-where-covid-19-infection-numbers-are-high/story-SvXctM0xarlFSwaklniOsO.html
14-12-2020||India||SC asks for Centre’s views on plea seeking to declare Emergency as unconstitutional||The Supreme Court on Monday sought to know the view of Centre on whether the Emergency, imposed 45 years ago, could be declared unconstitutional due to the passage of time. A 94-year-old widow, Veera Sarin, has approached the top court with a prayer to declare the 1975 Emergency as unconstitutional, and demanded Rs 25 crore as compensation for the wrongs committed by authorities who detained her husband and caused her family to suffer mental trauma for several years. Sarin’s husband dealt with precious gems and artefacts and all his goods were confiscated but never returned, she said. The bench of Justices SK Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said: “We are not convinced that after 45 years we can go into something which happened in a particular period of time.”Sarin was represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, who argued that wrongs of history should be set right or else they could repeat. He said war crimes during the Holocaust and the second World War were still being looked into by war crime tribunals. He said that while the petitioner may not insist on compensation, she was entitled to a declaration that for 19 months fundamental rights of citizens were put under suspension which should not have happened in a democratic polity governed by a Constitution. The bench, after holding extensive discussion among themselves, found it hard to agree with Salve. “...We would be disinclined to reopen on such aspects, as there may have been wrongs done but with passage of 45 years, it may not be appropriate to reopen them.”Salve agreed that he was willing to forgo his prayer for compensation but remained firm on the first prayer. “It is too serious a matter to be left out. People of our generation could not do anything then. This lady has no political agenda. She has suffered and has come to court to seek a final closure on this issue. She would be happy to get a declaration that the Emergency declared was wrong.”It was then that the court said, “We would, however, not be disinclined to see whether such a declaration (by court) is feasible or desirable after such passage of time.” The court allowed Salve to file an amended writ petition, restructuring it keeping in mind what the court observed. The matter will be heard next on December 18.Emergency was proclaimed minutes before the midnight of June 25, 1975 by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The proclamation was revoked in March 1977.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-for-centre-s-views-on-plea-seeking-to-declare-emergency-as-unconstitutional/story-MUMLJe0QgzX3T9wAFDuEQJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) differs with other unions, not on hunger strike||Differences surfaced among farmers’ unions yet again on Monday after Punjab’s largest association, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), announced it would not observe the daylong hunger strike against three contentious central farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the decision was taken as the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, comprising 30 other farm organisations, did not consult it on the issue. “There is no plan to hold a hunger strike today or in the next few days,” said Kokrikalan, one of the key strategists of the union. “The joint forum kept our association out of the loop when 14 union leaders had an unscheduled meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah last week,” he said. “The joint forum (of farmer unions) is repeatedly not taking us on board before deciding on the course of the agitation. Our association is not bound by the programmes decided by other unions. Besides continuation of agitations at Tikri border in Delhi, activists of the Ugrahan faction are holding protest marches at the district headquarters in Punjab,” he said. The Left-leaning Ugrahan group had observed Human Rights Day on December 10 in Delhi where the demand for the release of activists, including Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Sudha Bharadwaj, and Varavara Rao, was raised. The function was held at Tikri border, where hundreds of Ugrahan supporters have been camping since November 27. The joint forum of farmers has disassociated itself from the demand of the release of the controversial activists. However, the leadership of Ugrahan, which has a following in south Punjab, said all unions have the freedom to choose subjects to oppose or support. “The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha was duly conveyed that the issue of release of detained activists should be included as a joint demand of farmers. Leaders of other unions may have overlooked the demand for reasons known to them but the BKU (Ugrahan) firmly believes that these activists should be freed immediately. It has been on our charter of demands,” said Kokrikalan. In three weeks, Ugrahan has differed on various occasions with 30 other farm unions of Punjab on the course of the agitation. On November 26, all farmer unions, barring the BKU (Ugrahan), undertook the Dilli Chalo protest, forcibly entering Haryana from Punjab after breaking barricades. The next day, the Ugrahan faction blamed the joint forum for breaching the understanding reached by national farmers’ unions that activists will undertake indefinite dharnas wherever the authorities stop them. On November 25, Ugrahan had criticised the two-month-long rail blockade by farmers’ organisations, saying it was a wrong move as it had hit the industrial and agricultural interests of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-bku-ekta-ugrahan-differs-with-other-unions-not-on-hunger-strike/story-mpKQrN5vegcPDxYJ2fGOBM.html
14-12-2020||India||BJP takes lead in early trends in Goa zilla panchayat polls||The BJP has taken the lead in early trends in the counting for the Goa zilla (district) panchayat elections in the state with the party winning 13 of the 21 seats that have been counted so far leaving the Congress a distant second with two seats while Independents have bagged five seats and one seat went to the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party.The party is also leading in another six seats for which counting has begun. The Aam Aadmi Party is yet to open its account.The elections, which were to be held in March, were postponed on account of the lockdown and were held on December 12 but suffered from a poor voter turnout on account of fear of the pandemic, as many opted not to step out of their homes to vote.The ruling BJP has a commanding majority among MLAs, who often sponsor their own candidates for the district panchayat polls with 27 of the 40 MLAs owing allegiance to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.The party has however lost crucial seats where candidates sponsored by its MLAs have been defeated by independent candidates or by opposition Congress MLAs including in Santa Cruz, Nuvem and Colvale constituencies, where the Congress or independents have managed to win the seat despite having lost their MLAs to the BJP.The BJP is expected to improve on its tally from the 2105 zilla panchayat polls in which the opposition parties including the Congress and the NCP didn’t take part and instead fielded their candidates as independents.In 2015 the Independents won 25 of the 50 seats, the BJP 18, the MGP which was then in an alliance with the BJP won five seats and the Goa Vikas Party, which has not taken part this time won two seats.Both the BJP and the Congress have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious at the hustings.With the zilla panchayat bodies performing only a nominal role, the polls are seen more as a preliminary test for political parties ahead of the state assembly elections a little more than a year away in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-takes-lead-in-early-trends-in-goa-zilla-panchayat-polls/story-O9NzzvcCvN6TTzuqLs8mVL.html
14-12-2020||India||India stood up to China’s ‘aggression’, forced PLA troops back: Rajnath Singh||India has stood up to China’s “unprovoked aggression” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and fought the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and forced its troops to go back, though Beijing’s assertion of power is creating uncertainty across the region, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. In unusually blunt remarks while addressing the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Singh said India is at a point in its history when it needs to stand up for itself and make it known that the country “can fight anyone” and take on any challenge to survive. Singh called on industry to step up to forge partnerships to provide the armed forces with the right technology and equipment for defending the country and also for driving the export of military hardware. “The unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how the world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in the Himalayas but across the Indo-Pacific, and how uncertain the future of the region and world could be in this backdrop,” he said during the online event. Also Watch | ‘India’s economy likely to return to pre-Covid levels by..’: Rajnath Singh “As you are aware, there is a big build-up of armed forces at the LAC in Ladakh. In these testing times, our forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude. They fought the PLA with utmost bravery and forced them to go back,” he added. The standoff between Indian and Chinese forces in Ladakh sector of the LAC is currently in its eighth month, and tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in for the winter after several rounds of military and diplomatic talks failed to make headway on disengagement and de-escalation at key friction points. Singh said: “There comes a point in a nation’s history, every now and then, when it needs to stand up for itself, tell that India can fight anyone, that it’s capable of taking any challenge, just to survive.” He further said coming generations will be proud of what the armed forces have managed to achieve this year. Pointing to the debate regarding the comparative military strengths of the two countries, he contended there was “no scope of ambiguity” that India is far ahead of China in leading the world with ideas and soft power. “Whenever there is a situation at the LAC, the most obvious outcome is a comparison between India and China’s military strength. There can be a serious debate on who owns more military might but when it comes to soft power there is no scope of ambiguity,” he said. Buddhism, he said, had a “monumental influence over China, to an extent that before the 1949 revolution, almost 80% of China’s population followed Buddhism”. Singh also quoted a Chinese scholar who had said that India “has culturally dominated and controlled China for more than 2,000 years without sending a single soldier across the border”. Singh also referred to the issue of terror emanating from Pakistan and said the world is only now acknowledging the issue though India grappled with it alone for years. “We have been victims of cross-border terrorism, yet have fought the scourge alone even when there was no one to support us but later, they understood we were right about Pakistan being the fountainhead of terrorism,” he said. Pointing to troops “in the forefront fighting icy winds to guard our borders”, Singh asked if the industry could stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the armed forces by using the country’s economic strength to its advantage and forging the right partnerships to provide the right technology and military products to the three services. “We have opened doors to the private sector, incentivised domestic production, are creating defence corridors and doing a lot more. We are also willing to engage in meaningful joint ventures and partnerships with other countries,” he said, adding the industry should produce defence hardware in India for the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stood-up-to-china-s-aggression-forced-pla-troops-back-rajnath-singh/story-40iHWwZIsSGhynnzXG5HUK.html
14-12-2020||India||Himachal Governor Bandaru Dattatreya escapes unhurt in road mishap in Telangana||Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya had a lucky escape after his car veered off the road on the national highway on Monday, police said.No one was injured in the incident, which happened at Choutuppal near here on National Highway-65 (Hyderabad- Vijayawada), a senior police official told P T I.As per preliminary information, the car’s steering suddenly turned left resulting in the driver losing control and the vehicle going off the road, the official said.The incident took place on NH 65 while the Governor was on his way to Nalgonda district for a programme from Hyderabad, police said, adding he later continued his journey in another vehicle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-escapes-unhurt-in-road-mishap-in-telangana/story-axX7huHwh9MDOmojFfBT3O.html
14-12-2020||India||In photos: Snowfall in northern India, subzero temperatures in parts of Jammu and Kashmir||Parts of northern India experienced snowfall on Sunday, leading to temperatures below 0 degrees Celsius in Jammu and Kashmir.The minimum temperatures is set to fall by over two to three degrees Celsius over Northwest India during the next three days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).While the IMD has said there is no significant change expected in minimum temperatures over Central and West India during the next two days, it will fall by two to four degrees Celsius after two days.The ski-resort of Gulmarg registered minus 7.6 degrees Celsius and was the coldest place in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, reported PTI. Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir recorded a low of minus 3.2 degrees Celsius, while the night temperature in Kokernag settled at minus 2.3 degrees Celsius.The meteorological office also issued a medium danger avalanche warning for the higher reaches of Kupwara and Bandipora districts, the news agency reported.A low-level avalanche alert has also been issued for the upper parts of Poonch, Ramban, Doda, Kishtwar, and Anantnag, Baramulla and Ganderbal districts of Jammu and Kashmir, and Kargil district of Ladakh, IMD officials said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-photos-snowfall-in-northern-india-subzero-temperatures-in-parts-of-jammu-and-kashmir/story-sC0j8XyMrdXQWhy1C6g8QP.html
14-12-2020||India||Apple investigating Wistron facility in India after violence||Apple Inc said it is investigating if its Taiwanese contractor Wistron Corp flouted supplier guidelines at a violence-hit iPhone manufacturing facility near Bengaluru, following violence at the plant.Wistron is one of Apple’s top global suppliers. In India, it makes iPhone 7 handsets and second-generation iPhone SE devices.Unidentified factory workers trashed the facility on the outskirts of Bengaluru over the weekend as employees demanded unpaid wages and better working hours, trade union representatives said.Videos made by employees inside the factory showed men breaking security cameras, windows and other equipment with rods and sticks. Also Watch | Karnataka: Violence at iPhone factory amid Wistron’s ₹1300 crore investment plan Police have arrested 149 people over the violence, a senior police officer said.Apple said it was dispatching additional staff and auditors to the facility.’“Our teams are in close touch with the local authorities and we’re offering our full support to their investigation,” the company said in a statement. Apple demands its suppliers provide safe working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, act fairly and ethically, and use environmentally responsible practices wherever they make products or perform services for the company.Wistron said it was “deeply shocked” by the violence, which it blamed on “unknown persons ... with unclear intentions”. “The company always abides by the law, and fully supports and is cooperating with relevant authorities and police investigations,” Wistron said in a statement to the Taiwan Stock Exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apple-investigating-wistron-facility-in-india-after-violence/story-C1UhKCDbxlEJsgOQ0QknFI.html
14-12-2020||India||Working to transform Guwahati as gateway to Southeast Asia: CM Sonowal||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal said on Monday that his government was working to transform Guwahati as a gateway to Southeast Asia.Speaking at the annual general meeting of the Indian Chamber of Commerce, Sonowal said the state is eyeing the ASEAN market, besides the BBIN (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal).“We are trying to develop Guwahati not as only a gateway to the Northeast, but also for Southeast Asia. The ASEAN block provides a large and lucrative market for Assam,” he said.At the global investors’ summit held in Assam in 2018, the state had received investment proposals worth Rs 79,000 crore, Sonowal said.“Of that, Rs 55,000 crore has already landed in the state,” he added.The chief minister said that his government has been able to bring benefits worth Rs 2,000 crore for the MSME sector from the Centre’s assistance programme, announced during the pandemic.Sonowal said that the focus area for the state is agriculture, and Israel has promised to provide the best technology for the development of the sector.The state is now sending vegetables by cargo flights to countries such as UK, Singapore and UAE, he noted.Sonowal claimed that the state has handled the Covid- 19 well, as seen from the low mortality rates.The government is now working to boost the health infrastructure, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-to-transform-guwahati-as-gateway-to-southeast-asia-cm-sonowal/story-a39OnPDfpM9AEszK3l5OtO.html
14-12-2020||India||Govt ready for talks, won’t take retrograde steps against farm sector: Rajnath||Recent farm reforms were undertaken with the best interests of farmers in mind and the government is always open to dialogue to allay the misgivings of the agricultural sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. Addressing the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) in the backdrop of a farmers’ protest against the agricultural reforms entering the 19th day, Singh said the government is “always willing to listen to our farmer brothers”. Describing agriculture as the “mother sector for all others”, he said, “There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind.” Singh added, “We are, however, always willing to listen to our farmer brothers, allay their misgivings and provide them with assurances we can provide. Our government is always open to discussion and dialogue.” Farmers have organised sit-in protests across the country and are observing a hunger strike from 8am to 5pm on Monday. The nationwide protests came a day after farmers blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway. More and more farmers have joined the protests at several entry points to the national Capital. The farmers have been protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The Centre has said these reforms will eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, but the protesters fear the new laws will allow big corporations to enter agriculture and further end the system of minimum support price. Union minister Kailash Choudhary said on Sunday the Centre will soon hold another round of talks with farmers, adding the government will find “some solution” to end the deadlock. Five rounds of talks have been held so far between the farmers and the Centre but they ended inconclusively. A further round couldn’t be held after protesters rejected the Centre’s offer to amend specific provisions of the new farm laws. Singh said agriculture was one sector that was able to the cope with the adverse effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and “come out the best”. He added, “Our produce and procurement have been plentiful and our warehouses are full.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-open-to-dialogues-says-rajnath-on-farmers-protest/story-U8qp7FqeSb9yfTpDl5XoBJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Brisk polling in third phase of local body polls in Kerala||After high voter turnouts in the first two phases, Kerala on Monday witnessed brisk polling in the initial hours of the third and final phase of the local body polls which got underway in four northern districts.Long queues of voters could be seen in many wards in Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod districts since the polling began at 7 AM.Among the early voters were Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Industries Minister E P Jayarajan, senior CPI(M) leader and Polit Bureau member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, Congress leader and former minister, Aryadan Mohammed, IUML state president Panakkad Hyderali Shihab Thangal and P K Kunhalikutty, MP.The Chief Minister cast his vote at a polling booth in Junior Basic School in Kannur district.Vijayan later expressed confidence about the impressive victory of the ruling Left Democratic Front in the crucial local body polls, which is considered a curtain raiser for the Assembly elections due next year.“The Left front is going to achieve an iconic victory in the polls. Those, who have voted so far, have given us great support,” Vijayan told reporters in Kannur.A total of 25.09 per cent voting was registered in the four district at 10 AM, according to official update.A total of 89,74,993 voters including 46,87,310 women and 86 transgenders were in the electoral roll in these districts to elect representatives in 6,867 wards in 354 local bodies including two Corporations and 31 municipalities.Among the total 10,842 polling stations, 1,105 were identified as sensitive and webcasting facility and special security arrangements were introduced there, State Election Commission (SEC) officials here said.Election has been postponed in two wards- Thillankery ward in Kannur district panchayat and Thathoor division in Mavoor Panchayat of Kozhikode-due to the death of candidates.As the entire election procedure was in compliance with Covid-19 protocols, masks, sanitising and social distancing norms were made mandatory at all polling stations.Polling has been generally peaceful so far in all the four districts, police sources said.Voters, who have tested positivefor the viral infection or those placed under quarantine after 3 PM on Sunday, would be allowed to cast votes in their respective booths in the evening after all the voters have exercised their franchise, SEC sources added.A total of 73.12 per cent voting was registered in the first phase polling held in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts, while76.78 per cent in the second phase held in Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts.The counting would be held on December 16||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brisk-polling-in-third-phase-of-local-body-polls-in-kerala/story-kiytCjLr6FDH6JbOhAD3VI.html
14-12-2020||India||Shot by terrorists, PDP leader’s personal security officer succumbs to injuries||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Jai Parvez Ahmad’s personal security officer was killed after two terrorists opened fire in Natipora, Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Monday. The security officer, Manzoor Ahmad, succumbed to his injuries which he sustained while protecting Parvez Ahmad during the incident.He breathed his last at Bone and Joints Hospital, Srinagar. “Jammu and Kashmir Police led by DGP Dilbag Singh salutes the martyr for sacrificing his life for the nation,” the police said in a statement.“Two unknown persons entered my house. My Personal Security Officer was injured during the fire exchange,” PDP leader said. “This is the third attempt of attack on me,” he also alleged.The area has been now cordoned off as more details regarding the attack are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-pdp-leader-s-personal-security-officer-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-with-terrorists/story-mNfvDqm2uxCLwxGVmN3GzL.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Unprovoked aggression a reminder of how world is changing’: Rajnath Singh on Ladakh standoff||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday talked about the standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and said that such “unprovoked aggression” is a reminder of how world is changing. He also hailed the courage shown by the Indian defence forces.“Unprovoked aggression on our Himalayan frontiers is a reminder of how world is changing, how existing agreements are being challenged, how power is being asserted not just in Himalayas but across Indo-Pacific,” Singh said while addressing the valedictory session of FICCI’s annual conclave.“There is big build-up of armed forces at the LAC in Ladakh. In these testing times, our forces have shown exemplary courage and remarkable fortitude. They fought the PLA with utmost bravery and forced them to go back,” he added.The defence minister said the future generations will be proud of what our forces have managed to achieve this year. “Our armed forces fought with them (Chinese military) with utmost bravery and forced them to go back,” Singh said.He also lashed out at Pakistan, calling it the fountainhead of terrorism. “We have been victims of cross-border terrorism, yet have fought the scourge alone even when there was no one to support us but later, they understood we were right about Pakistan being the fountainhead of terrorism,” said Singh.On Sunday, participating in an interactive session at the annual general meeting of the industry body FICCI, foreign minister S Jaishankar called the “events” along the LAC in eastern Ladakh “very disturbing”. He also said what has happened there was not in China’s interest as it is facing the prospect of losing goodwill in India that was developed carefully in the recent decades.The armies of India and China are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May. Both sides have held multiple rounds of military and diplomatic talks. However, no breakthrough has been achieved yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprovoked-aggression-a-reminder-of-how-world-is-changing-rajnath-singh-on-ladakh-standoff/story-kO12K6eSsjr1C2tMSOItwJ.html
14-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Terrorists open fire in J&K, kill PDP leader’s personal security officer and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.J&K: PDP leader’s personal security officer killed as two terrorists fire indiscriminatelyPeoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Jai Parvez Ahmad’s personal security officer was killed after two terrorists opened fire, police said on Monday. Read MoreCovid cluster at IIT Madras: 71 people test positive this monthA coronavirus cluster has emerged at IIT Madras where 71 people, including 66 students, have tested positive since December 1 up after the campus reopened for final year students. Sample collectors from the Greater Chennai Corporation are testing about 700 students on campus now. Read moreSeveral border points in Delhi remain closed for traffic as farmers’ stir escalatesThe Delhi Traffic Police said on Monday that multiple border points in the national capital such as Ghazipur, Singhu, Auchandi and others have been closed for traffic movement. Read MoreChinese debt defaults send investors into a tizzyDespite claims of an economic recovery, Chinese state-owned companies are defaulting on their debts. A string of missed debt repayments by major firms has shaken local as well as global markets. Read MoreAudi A4 2021 hits production lines, launch scheduled for early next yearAudi India is looking at making a stronger and deeper mark in the luxury car segment and one of its main weapons against fellow German rivals Mercedes-Benz and BMW is the latest A4 sedan. Read MoreHere’s how much it costs to become a Super Apple Fan; You can’t even guess the amountIn today’s world of gadgets and gizmos, it is really difficult to be a fan of a just one brand. However, we do have Super Fans of every brand across the globe. But being a Super Fan of Apple can be really pricey.  Read MoreToddler’s reaction after mom pretends to ‘eat’ her finger leaves netizens in splits. WatchIf you’re looking for content to brighten up your Monday morning, then you should definitely check out this clip of a kid reacting to her mom’s hilarious prank. The video shared by Instagram user @prairievillagemom shows the adorable reaction of the little girl. After watching the clip, you may find it hard to hold back your awws. WatchRaj Kapoor’s 96th birth anniversary: Kareena Kapoor, Karisma, Riddhima share childhood pics, Neetu shares pic from weddingMonday marks the 96th birth anniversary of showman Raj Kapoor and his actor grandkids and industry colleagues remembered him on the occasion with some rare pictures and heartfelt memories. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-71-people-test-positive-for-covid-this-month-as-cluster-emerges-at-iit-madras-and-all-the-latest-news/story-MKb1xWST96AmPYDtsXw7eL.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Indian economy likely to return to pre-Covid levels by end of this fiscal year’: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said that India proved the predictions of many doomsayers wrong, bouncing back from the adverse impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) much sooner than expected. Addressing the valedictory session of FICCI’s annual conclave, Singh highlighted how the proactive approach of the Narendra Modi government led this turnaround.“The Covid-19 pandemic is a massive challenge that impacted the entire world. The pandemic brought along with it a great amount of uncertainty and adversely affected the global economy. India too was impacted by it,” said Singh.The defence minister also said that when the Covid-19 outbreak was first reported, the government’s utmost priority was to save the lives of the people of the country. He said that the government was always certain that “we would bounce back”.“Today, India is back on track with a new vigour in our fight against Covid-19. The role of citizens in successful implementation of the lockdown is no mean achievement,” said Singh. He then went on to describe the steps taken by the Centre to check the spread of the infection and how it became successful with the help of the citizens.Talking about the defence forces, Singh said the armed forces were valiantly defending our borders while the world was fighting coronavirus. “No virus could deter our armed forces from their duty,” he added.“Doomsayers started making prophecies that it will take India two-three years to get back on the track. But we proved them wrong. India bounced back in no time. In Q2, India recorded 7.9% contraction in its GDP. It was a significant improvement in the 23.9% contraction that we witnessed in first quarter,” said the defence minister.He added that Indian economy is likely to return to pre-Covid levels by the end of the current fiscal year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-economy-likely-to-return-to-pre-covid-levels-by-end-of-this-fiscal-year-rajnath-singh/story-kKZdIy5qyUfxep7bIu9NHJ.html
14-12-2020||India||India’s tally of active Covid-19 cases lowest after 149 days, says health ministry||The Union health ministry on Monday said India’s present caseload of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was the lowest in 149 days, since July 18. The ministry further said daily new recoveries were outnumbering new cases from the last 17 days.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“India’s active Covid-19 caseload further contracts to 3.52 lakhs, lowest in 149 days. Total active cases were 3,58,692 on 18th July. Daily new recoveries outnumber daily new cases from last 17 days. With 93.88 lakh total recoveries, the recovery rate nears 95%,” the ministry shared on its official Twitter handle. #Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s Active Caseload further contracts to 3.52 Lakhs; lowest in 149 days.The share of Active Cases in the total Positive Cases has further shrunk to 3.57%. https://t.co/UKIh7YBlQH pic.twitter.com/EvV8eUNdu6The ministry’s dashboard on Monday showed India had logged 27,071 new Covid-19 cases in the preceding 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 9,884,100. In the same duration, 30,695 recoveries-more than new infections-were also recorded, taking the total number of recovered cases to 9,388,159 or 94.98% of the total cases. As a result of this, the ministry said, there was a net decline of 3,960 in active cases, resulting in these dipping further to 352,586 or 3.57% of the overall caseload.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 count drops to 27,071, active cases go down furtherThe gap between recovered and active cases, the data showed, stands at 9,035,573. Death toll, meanwhile, rose to 143,355 with 336 fatalities in the last 24 hours, thus contributing 1.45% of the total cases.India continues to be the second worst-affected country after the United States, whose active cases are at more than 6.7 million out of the country’s total tally of nearly 17 million, data from worldometers showed. This data also shows that Brazil, the third worst-hit, has more than 737,000 active cases out of a national tally of nearly 7 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-tally-of-active-covid-19-cases-lowest-after-149-days-says-health-ministry/story-AQWFLYe1kfUwkeaCytMkQP.html
14-12-2020||India||Covid cluster at IIT Madras: 104 people test positive this month||A coronavirus cluster has emerged at IIT-Madras, where 104 people have turned positive --- 87 of them students --- from December 1 till Monday after campuses reopened to final-year students. Sixty-six students are being treated at Chennai’s King Institute of Preventive Medicine & Research. “The students are all stable and the situation is under control,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On December 2, two cases were reported from campus. On December 8, the cases increased to 4, prompting the health department to intervene and begin contact testing. The health department has disinfected the campus and the all residents are being tested. Sample collectors from the Greater Chennai Corporation are testing as many as 700 students and staff on campus. They have been quarantined inside hostel rooms. Also read | India records one of lowest daily Covid cases in 7 days, shows govt dataUntil Sunday, 71 people on campus were positive, out of which 66 were students and the remaining were staff. On Monday 33 more turned positive. So far, 444 samples have been collected, including swabs from 398 students. Out of this, 104 have come back positive, including that of 87 students, 16 staff from the mess and one resident. It is suspected that the virus spread rapidly at the mess where students gathered and couldn’t wear masks while eating. The mess has been shut now and food is being sent to students to their rooms. The institution has temporarily shut down its academic departments and research labs. “We instructed only one person to sit per table, but though we put standard operating procedures in place, everyone gathers together to eat,” said IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi. “If students follow all protocols and precautions strictly, colleges can continue to function.”The institute, in a statement, said that it has been functioning on limited capacity with only 10% students in the hostels. “IIT Madras has been permitting research scholars who need to do experimental work to return to campus in a cautious manner --- with a 14-day quarantine and testing of each returnee,” their statement read. “Our capacity to quarantine (with room service) is limited, and this limits the rate at which we can bring back scholars to the hostels.”As of Sunday evening, a total of 798,888 people have been infected with Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu which has killed 11,895 people and 7,76,878 people have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cluster-at-iit-madras-71-people-test-positive-this-month/story-YCK2iPThuaC8ZzCg06gcsJ.html
14-12-2020||India||UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab’s India visit begins today; bilateral cooperation in focus||British foreign secretary Dominic Raab will visit India during December 14-17 to take forward ties with India, especially in trade and security, against the backdrop of the UK’s troubled exit from the European Union (EU). Raab will hold talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi on December 15 on bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest. He will meet environment minister Prakash Javadekar and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. As part of the visit, Raab will travel to Bengaluru where he will meet Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on December 17. India and the UK have had a strategic partnership since 2004 that has been marked by regular high-level exchanges and growing cooperation in diverse areas, the external affairs ministry said while announcing Raab’s visit on Monday. Raab’s visit will “pave the way for further strengthening of the partnership across trade, defence, climate, migration and mobility, education and health sectors in the post-Covid, post-Brexit context”, the ministry said. During their meeting, Raab and Jaishankar are expected to review efforts to forge a 10-year road map for the India-UK relationship and discuss a defence logistics agreement. Both countries have also been working closely on climate change, including the India-led Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure. India is also understood to have invited UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations. The UK has stepped up efforts to forge stronger trade ties with key countries amid problems in forging a post-Brexit trade agreement with the EU. Britain and the EU are set to return to the negotiating table on Monday after agreeing to abandon a make-or-break deadline for such a trade pact. EU chief Ursula von der Leyen and Prime Minister Johnson said last week they would decide whether an agreement was possible by the end of December 13, but later agreed to “go the extra mile”. Von der Leyen and Johnson didn’t set a new deadline but Conservative Party MP Mark Harper suggested the talks could go right to the wire, with less than three weeks until Britain leaves the single European market at the end of December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-foreign-secretary-dominic-raab-s-india-visit-begins-today-bilateral-cooperation-in-focus/story-KDSiLjBMJNd7rngcgEH3bN.html
14-12-2020||India||Missing Odisha girl found dead; body recovered near pond||Even as the Opposition BJP in Odisha has taken to streets demanding CBI probe into the disappearance and subsequent murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh district, police in coastal Balasore district on Monday recovered the body of another missing seven-year-old girl in a bush.Balasore SP SS Mishra said the minor, who stayed with her maternal uncle in a neighbouring village, was on her way to his house on December 11 morning when she went missing. Though the girl’s family launched a search, she could not be traced anywhere.On Monday morning, her body was found near a pond. Police have sent the body for post-mortem and have detained a man.Also read | Two brothers, nephew attacked with sharp weapons in Chandigarh, three bookedThe girl’s death comes in the wake of a massive uproar over the alleged abduction and murder of a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh district in July. The child was playing outside her house before she went missing. Later, her skeletal remains were found from the backyard of her house. The incident triggered a political storm in the state after her parents attempted immolation in front of the state Assembly last month, accusing a minister of shielding the prime suspect in the case.As per the National Crime Records Bureau report of 2019, Odisha has the lowest recovery rate of missing children at 27%. Till 2019-end, 5,503 children were missing in the state. Kerala reported highest recovery rate of 94% among all states.The National Human Rights Commission, in a series of recommendation in 2014, had said that each case of missing children should be treated as cognizable offence and a First Information Report (FIR) be lodged instead of just a station diary. Though investigation of a crime commences with the registration of an FIR in a police station, in case of a missing child, there is no system of registering an FIR across the country. Complaints of missing children, by and large, are treated as any other non-cognizable offence and only an entry is made in the General Station Diary that is followed by an enquiry.It also said every police station should have special squad/missing persons desk to trace missing children and recommended that state police headquarters should evolve a system in which all incidents of missing children are reported to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights within 24 hours of occurrence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-odisha-girl-found-dead-body-recovered-near-pond/story-McQHBrcmBRzc4VbqbImgxL.html
14-12-2020||India||India aims to surpass China in mobile manufacturing: Ravi Shankar Prasad||India is now aiming to surpass China in the field of mobile manufacturing with the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme attracting global majors in this segment to the country, telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Monday. He said that the government is looking to make India a hub of other electronic products as well with the expansion of the PLI scheme to other sectors.Also Read: ‘World’s faith in India built over 6 years, strengthened in past months’: PM Modi at FICCI’s AGM “We wanted India to become the second largest mobile manufacturer in the world. Now I am pushing India to surpass China. That’s my goal and I am very clearly defining it,” Prasad said at the annual general meeting of industry chamber FICCI. India became the second largest mobile manufacturing country in 2017. The National Policy on Electronics 2019 (NPE) envisages electronic manufacturing turnover of more than Rs 26 lakh crore by 2025, out of which Rs 13 lakh crore is expected to come from the mobile phone segment. PLI is designed to propel India’s stature and ease of doing business under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to showcase India as an alternate manufacturing destination, Prasad said. “PLI is designed to enable global champion companies to come to India and make Indian companies national champion,” he noted.Also Read: Startups are going to be backbone of new India: Piyush Goyal The government has started a PLI scheme under which eligible companies can get sops of around Rs 48,000 crore. The government has cleared 16 proposals from domestic and international companies entailing investment of Rs 11,000 crore under the PLI scheme to manufacture mobile phones worth Rs 10.5 lakh crore over the next five years. The companies include iPhone maker Apple’s contract manufacturers Foxconn Hon Hai, Wistron and Pegatron, apart from Samsung and Rising Star. Domestic companies whose proposals have been approved include Lava, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics (Dixon Technologies), UTL Neolyncs and Optiemus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-to-surpass-china-in-mobile-manufacturing-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-0iCf6dlKvu6uoflydSEm4O.html
14-12-2020||India||Expert committee to review Ram temple foundation work||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has constituted an expert committee of engineers headed by a former director of IIT-Delhi to review the Ram temple foundation work in Ayodhya and give its recommendations. Prof VS Raju, former director of IIT-Delhi, is chairman of this eight-member committee. Prof N Gopala Krishnan, director, Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, has been appointed the convenor of this committee. Other members are Prof SR Gandhi, director, NIT, Surat; Prof TG Sitharam, director, IIT Guwahati; Prof B Bhattacharjee, Prof Emeritus, IIT Delhi; AP Mull, consultant, Tata Consultant Engineers; Prof Manu Santhanam, IIT Mumbai; and Prof Pradipta Banerji, IIT Mumbai. This committee will be provided all details and reports available with the Trust, Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consultant Engineers. These details include architectural and structural design, soil testing and piling test reports among others. The committee is also authorized to have discussion and dialogue with design team of the Larsen and Toubro, design review team of TCE, CBRI-Roorkee and IIT-Madras and seek details, data and documents in connection with their work. The committee is likely to submit its report and recommendations to the Trust by December 15. However, this date may be extended. “A committee has been constituted to review foundation work related with Ram temple and to suggest effective measures required for the temple’s foundation,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Objectives of the committee include: * Review soil investigations carried out by Larsen and Toubro. * Evaluation of the possibility of liquefaction of soil under seismic hazards and suggestions for safeguards. * Review of precedents of similar structures constructed in the recent past in either India or abroad and whether the methodology adopted is appropriate for the Ram temple/ * Review of foundation system proposed by Larsen and Toubro, keeping in view the quality of construction and longevity of the temple considering sub-soil conditions, including toxic chemicals present in the sub-soil, environmental factors, superimposed dead and live loads, seismic loads and underground water currents on account of the temple’s proximity to river Saryu. * Review choice of construction material proposed by Larsen and Toubro keeping in view the desired service quality of construction and its longevity. * Ageing of concrete in foundations and its deterioration due to sulphate attack, leaching, thawing-freezing / wetting-drying cycles etc. * Consideration of proposed materials to be used in foundation and construction of Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-committee-to-review-ram-temple-foundation-work/story-OLAF1dGslAi6yZV0LlFTSJ.html
14-12-2020||India||CoBRA deputy commandant wounded in Bastar IED blast dies||A deputy commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) unit , who was injured in an IED blast in Sukma district of Bastar region on Sunday, died due to his injuries in Raipur on Monday.Sunderaj P, inspector general of police ( IG), Bastar range ,told Hindustan Times that the deputy commandant, Vikas Kumar, who was with CoBRA’ 208th battalion, sustained serious injuries in the explosion. The improvised explosive device (IED) was planted by Maoists. It exploded when he, along with a team, was out for anti-Maoist operations on Sunday.“The incident took place at around 10 am on Sunday at Kasaram Nala under Kishtaram Police station area . Vikas was airlifted and was admitted to private hospital in Raipur. At around 1am on Monday, Vikas died in the hospital during treatment,” the IG said.Police said that the body of the deceased officer will be sent to Delhi in the afternoon.On November 29, an Assistant Commandant of CoBRA was killed and eight others were injured in an IED blast triggered by Maoists in Talmetala area of Sukma district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cobra-deputy-commandant-wounded-in-bastar-ied-blast-dies/story-STPpsdS7a5rjmbVDLC3YDI.html
14-12-2020||India||‘For our farmer brothers’: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday urged people to observe a one-day fast in solidarity with farmers protesting against the farm laws. He himself is doing so in response to a call given by the farmers protesting at the Singhu border near Delhi. “Fasting is sacred. Wherever you are, fast for our farmer brothers. Pray to God for the success of their struggle,” Kejriwal wrote in a tweet in Hindi. “In the end, farmers will definitely win,” he also said.उपवास पवित्र होता है। आप जहां हैं, वहीं हमारे किसान भाइयों के लिए उपवास कीजिए। प्रभु से उनके संघर्ष की सफलता की प्रार्थना कीजिए। अंत में किसानों की अवश्य जीत होगी।Farmers from various parts of the country are holding protests against the three contentious farm laws that were passed by Parliament in September. The three laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.Also Read | Supreme Court to hear plea seeking immediate removal of farmers protesting at Delhi’s bordersThe protest entered 19th day on Monday as the agitating farmers staged sit-ins and hunger strike in nationwide protest on Monday. The fast on Monday is being observed from 8 am to 5 pm in demand to repeal the laws. It comes a day after farmers had blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Shahjahanpur. More and more farmers have been joining the agitation at several border points in the national capital. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the Centre have taken place, but it has so far failed to resolve the deadlock. The farmers are firm on their demand of complete withdrawal of the three laws while the government has offered to make amendments in the laws, which has been rejected by the farmers.Also Read | Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifiesFarmers’ unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price. The Centre claims that the laws will remove the role of the middlemen, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Meanwhile, a meeting was held between agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash and Union home minister Amit Shah to solve the impasse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-our-farmer-brothers-kejriwal-requests-people-to-observe-one-day-fast/story-oywNNd345hzTlPpBwS5GsI.html
14-12-2020||India||Maharashtra: Two-day winter session starts today; likely to be stormy amid contentious issues||The two-day winter session of the Maharashtra legislature starting from Monday is expected to be stormy as the Opposition has vowed to corner the state government on various issues, including reservation to Marathas, relief to farmers, development projects, and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government, on the other hand, has scheduled to table a few key bills, including one proposed for stricter punishment for crimes against women and will also pass budgetary allocation for the newly incurred expenditure on Covid-19 pandemic.The winter session has been curtailed to two days from its tradition two-week duration in view of the pandemic. It is also being held in Mumbai this time instead of Nagpur, where it is held every year. The main Opposition party in the state, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accused the government of running away from the debate on the contentious issues by keeping the winter session short. It also boycotted the customary tea party organised by the government on the eve of the session on Sunday.Alleging that the government does not want to face them, Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “Farmers are in trouble in the absence of compensation for the crop losses due to the unseasonal rains; Marathas are deprived of reservation as the state government failed to protect their quota; women and children are subjected to rising crimes; government retracted on its promise of waiver to the inflated bills… the issues are aplenty but the government does not want to face them on the floor of the House. Instead, they have been suppressing freedom of speech by taking action against those talking against them. This is nothing but undeclared emergency. We will continue the fight on the street in the public interest even if we did not get a chance to raise them in the Houses,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who asked if the use of power against the protesting farmers on the borders of the Delhi was also a “declared emergency”, does not seem to be defensive. The three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – of the MVA alliance made their intent clear by attacking the BJP-led Centre on various issues.The MVA has been supporting the farmers’ protest and have announced that the farm laws passed by Parliament in September will not be implemented.The state government is expected to table Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law, 2020, the two bills for special law for stricter action in crimes against women and children. The state government is also expected to table supplementary demands for the budgetary allocation of expenditure on Covid-19-related services for the next three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-two-day-winter-session-starts-today-likely-to-be-stormy-amid-contentious-issues/story-KZxAljt9vNsK6onCrQllYK.html
14-12-2020||India||BJP sets up separate cells to tap target groups ahead of Bengal polls||Ahead of the crucial West Bengal assembly polls in 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has come up with separate cells that would maintain liaison with certain target groups. Central leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda, among others, who would be camping in the state in the run-up to the elections, would meet the members of these groups. While Nadda met members of the fishermen community in South 24-Parganas on Thursday during his two day visit to the state, Shah had lunch with a Matua family in Bengal in early-November. Shah is expected to visit Bengal again next week and is likely to visit Bongaon in North 24-Parganas district, which houses the headquarters of the Matuas, a Dalit refugee group with origins in Bangladesh and spread over 50 assembly seats in the state. Multiple cells have been formed to work with and maintain liaison with various target groups including teachers, doctors, traders, ex-servicemen, sportsmen and fishermen, among others. Each cell would have one convener and between one to six co-converners. Also read | 3 held in Bengal for BJP worker’s murder; internal feud, claims TMC“As each community has its own set of issues and problems. Each cell working with a particular community would be well-versed with the developments in that community. When our central leaders come to Bengal and meet and interact with these communities these cells will maintain the liaison,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting anonymity.Shah and Nadda are expected to visit the state separately every month till the assembly elections are over. Shah who is expected to visit the state next week could also visit Santiniketan. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections where the BJP won 40% of the vote share in Bengal and bagged 18 out of the 42 seats in the state, the party is now eyeing for the state assembly. Shah wants the BJP to bag at least 200 of 294 seats in the House. Top state office-bearers of the party with knowledge of the development said 294 BJP leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit for polls. They would be part of a 45-member team to be set up for each constituency; existing district committees will assist these teams, the office-bearers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sets-up-separate-cells-to-tap-target-groups-ahead-of-bengal-polls/story-ClG6QWfhJIgq7KtzlBr9fP.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Anti-Modi elements part of protests, not farmers’: Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that there is a deadlock with farmers because some “anti-Modi” elements have joined the protest. In an interview with Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan, he said that there is a delay because of the rumours being spread about the nature of the bills.“The government has successfully initiated dialogue but the farmers’ union have not been able to reach at a unanimous decision. The news which have emerged in the last two days are astounding. Those who believe in the Left ideology are influencing these protests. Attempts are being made to release traitors. This is condemnable and these elements are stopping the movement from arriving at a verdict. And these elements are not farmers, but those who are against Modi,” he told Hindustan.Also Read:Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifiesThe Union minister reiterated the government’s stand and clarified that the laws were implemented for the farmers’ benefit. “The government intends for the farmers to get maximum price for their produce and enable them to buy licenses in the market, eliminating the role of middlemen. This would result in increased competition and more profit for the farmers,” he said. On being asked why the country’s farmers are protesting against the laws if they were for their benefit, Tomar said it was only the farmers of Punjab and Haryana who were protesting. “The mandi systems in Punjab and Haryana are very strong and decentralised and farmers in these states fear that the laws will alter them. Farmers in other states have welcomed the laws, they even wanted to come to Delhi to show their support but we stopped them in the hope that dialogue will solve the current deadlock,” he said.Also Read: In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri lawsTomar also targeted the Congress party and said it is being ‘hypocritical’. “On December 8, farmers were not on the roads. Workers of Congress were seen supporting the bandh. Congress is practising politics of doublespeak as it had mentioned these laws in its manifesto and had tried to introduce them when in power, but couldn’t do that due to other pressures,” he said.Meanwhile, farmers have begun their one-day hunger strike at various border points near Delhi. “We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. Twenty five of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-end-to-deadlock-as-anti-modi-elements-are-part-of-protests-not-farmers-says-agriculture-minister/story-CDpEyB6G5xM782pJDjcYRM.html
14-12-2020||India||Supreme Court to hear plea seeking immediate removal of farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders||Supreme Court will hear on December 16 a plea seeking a direction to authorities to immediately remove the farmers who are protesting at several border points of Delhi against three new farm laws.As per Supreme Court website a Bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian will hear the plea filed by law student Rishabh Sharma who says that commuters are facing hardships due to the road blockades and the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-immediate-removal-of-farmers-protesting-at-delhi-s-borders/story-ijJOnCnJp6g28LIHCmtKFK.html
14-12-2020||India||Kerala local body elections: Final phase today; 9 million voters to exercise their franchise||Four north Kerala districts are going to the poll today in the final round of a fiercely contested local body election in the state. The election assumes much significance as it being held four months before the assembly elections due in April-May. Nearly 9 million voters will exercise their franchise to elect 354 local bodies and two corporations, Kozhikode and Kannur. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan cast his vote at junior basic school in Pinarayi village along with his family. After exercising his vote, the CM said the ruling Left Democratic Front will better its tally this time as people will give a befitting reply to a malicious campaign unleashed by Opposition Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). There is a strict vigil in some of polling booths in Kannur and Kasaragod districts as they are notorious for bogus voting and impersonation. Last week, the high court had ordered the two district administrations to ensure smooth polling. The state election commission has deputed 52,285 officials for the polling duty and installed CCTVs in sensitive polling stations. The main fight is between CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and Congress-controlled United Democratic Front but the BJP-led National Development Front is posing a serious challenge to both fronts in certain pockets. The Left parties usually perform well in local body elections but this time, the situation is not so easy for them as the government is mired in a number of controversies. CM’s former secretary M Sivasankar is in jail in connection with the gold smuggling case and CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri is in Bengaluru jail in connection with a money laundering case related to narcotics drug haul. Counting of the all three phases will be held on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-elections-final-phase-today-9-million-voters-to-exercise-their-franchise/story-AS8IOz0UvwWvQr5T5DOXaI.html
14-12-2020||India||Bihar BJP launches counter offensive in support of farm laws with mega outreach||Amid the ongoing farmers’ stir, Bihar BJP on Sunday launched a 13 day outreach campaign to dispel farmers’ concerns over the new farm laws with Union minister for law Ravi Shankar Prasad and state president Sanjay Jaiswal holding a meeting in Patna to stress that the three heavily-contested laws were beneficial for farmers and would cut the middlemen system in the sale of agricultural produce. Prasad said that Bihar, having scrapped the agricultural marketing boards in 2006, was witness to transformation in the farm sector with farmers getting higher income with the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the state.The farmers in the state were now also producing pineapples, strawberries and litchis in bigger quantities, he said. “I want to clarify that farmers would not have to mortgage their land or sell their land. Under the laws, if a company enters into a contract with any farmers to buy a certain product, the company would provide the farmers better agricultural techniques and seeds. What is wrong in it?” he asked. He stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always wanted farmers to become prosperous.“What is wrong if a farmer has the freedom to sell his produce anywhere in the country instead of just having the option of selling it at Mandis?” he reasoned.Prasad also alleged that the “tukdey tukdey” gang was rallying behind the farm protests and added the government would not allow them to succeed. “ I do not want to name these people. Police have filed charge sheets against them for indulging in Delhi riots and they are unable to get bail. There are now voices being raised to free such so-called intellectuals,” he said, apparently referring to the posters put up at Tikri border for release of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, Varavara Rao and Sudha Bharadwaj and others booked under Unlawful Activities ( Prevention) Act.Prasad said that only one section of farmers opposing the laws are in the favour of selling produce only in markets of agricultural marketing boards. Prasad added that the Congress, which was now backing farmer agitation, had promised to scrap the practice of marketing boards in its manifesto in 2019. Bihar BJP president, Jaiswal, said that the ongoing farmers stir was being backed by forces who believe in dividing the country. He claimed that only farmers from Punjab were against the farm laws and accused them of being supporters of a ‘middleman system’ in the sale of agricultural produce. “The farmers wanted an assured minimum support price (MSP). The central government agreed to give a written undertaking. But now, they want repeal of the laws. This is all a conspiracy by anti-India forces. Voices are being raised in support of Omar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, who are facing grave charges of making statements against the country. This shows anti- national elements are behind the protests,” Jaiswal said.Also Read: In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri lawsThe BJP’s campaign will run in all the 243 Assembly constituencies spanning the 38 districts, where party leaders and workers will hold corner meetings with farmers. All the union ministers from the state will participate in the events.“The protesting farmers are behaving in such a manner as if they represent the entire farming community in the country. That’s why the state BJP has decided to launch the campaign in support of the new laws,” Jaiswal said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting against the new farm laws which they claim will dilute the minimum support price system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by corporates and hurt their income. Also Read: Want to wake government up, says farm union leader as day-long fast against farm laws beginsThey are protesting against the three new laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The CPI-ML( liberation) has meanwhile announced the launch of Kisan Sangharsh yatra across the state to drum up support against the newly enacted three farm laws and to corner the BJP led NDA government over the issue. The Left party has also decided to support a march of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bjp-launches-counter-offensive-in-support-of-farm-laws-with-mega-outreach/story-4OKRJaQwOTRzrXMLZmZBaI.html
14-12-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count drops to 27,071, active cases go down further||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally reached 9,884,100 on Monday after 27,071 new cases of the infection was recorded int he last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry.The number of active cases went down to 3,52,586 and 93,88,159 patients have been cured or discharged.The fatality count reached 1,43,355 after 336 new deaths were reported due to the infection, as per the health ministry’s figures.India infection tally crossed 9.8 million-mark on Sunday. But a major milestone was achieved when the country reported more daily recoveries than the daily new cases during the past 24 hours. The recovery rate stands at 94.93 per cent. The active caseload has fallen to 3.62 per cent of the total cases, the health ministry said on Sunday.It also said that India reported one of the lowest cases per million population in the world (158) in the last seven days on Sunday; much lower than many other countries of the Western Hemisphere.Meanwhile, the total number of people who have lost their lives to the viral infection in Delhi crossed the 10,000 mark - becoming only the fourth state in the country to do so.As of Sunday, the infection has killed a total of 10,014 people from the 607,454 people infected so far, according to government health bulletin.The grim landmark, however, comes at the time when the outbreak in the city appears to be under control for the third time. Sunday’s new deaths were the lowest single-day fatalities reported in Delhi in 45 days, or since October 29, when 27 new deaths were reported.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), meanwhile, said on Monday that a total of 15,45,66,990 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to December 13. Of these, 8,55,157 samples were tested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-drops-to-27-071-active-cases-go-down-further/story-4MxdfVnf9p04kgwWeeaDIK.html
14-12-2020||India||Want to wake government up, says farm union leader as day-long fast against farm laws begins||As farm union leaders observe a day-long fast against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws on Monday, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Punjab, said the leaders want to “wake the government up.” He further said a total of 40 farmer leaders of the “United Farmers Front” are observing the hunger strike.Also Read | Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifies“We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders between 8am-5pm. 25 of them will sit at the Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, BKU (Punjab) told news agency ANI. We want to wake the govt up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. 25 of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border & 5 at UP border: Harinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secy, BKU (Punjab) pic.twitter.com/khQ9VNMC1OMonday marks day 19 of the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and will also witness Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and workers of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) observe a hunger strike in solidarity with the protesting farmers. Last Tuesday, the farmers had observed a peaceful Bharat Bandh against the legislations. On Friday, toll plazas across the country were made free by the farmers while on Sunday, farmers moving towards the national capital from Rajasthan sat down on the Delhi-Jaipur highway after being blocked by the police.Farmers have been protesting against what they call the three “black laws” since September, the month these were passed. Initially, they blocked railway tracks in Punjab and have been protesting on the borders of Delhi since November 26. The protesters say they want nothing short of a repeal and have repeatedly warned of “being prepared for the long haul.”Total five rounds of talks have taken place between the government and farm union leaders, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5. The sixth round of talks, scheduled for December 9, were called off after an “informal” meeting between Union home minister Amit Shah and farm union leaders, which took place the night before, remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-wake-government-up-says-farm-union-leader-as-day-long-fast-against-farm-laws-begins/story-KXZK1aw8X1CRsjjsVGrcPL.html
14-12-2020||India||Sensitise public, police about rights of LGBTQI+ community: NHRC tells Centre||The National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC’s) Core Group on LGBTQI+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex) communities has given various recommendations to the government on how to sensitise the general public, law enforcement agencies and the medical community about the Supreme Court judgements and recently passed laws so that the rights of these communities are safeguarded. The Core Group, which met last month for the third time since its formation in June 2018, has recommended to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment that to reduce the stigma of the LGBTQI+ communities, it must spread awareness and popularise the directions given in NALSA 2014 (National Legal Services Authority) and Navtej Singh Johar 2018 judgements, which recognised transgender as the third gender and decriminalised consensual gay sex respectively. Also read | National Council for Transgender Persons formedSubsequently, it said, there is a need to sensitise law enforcement agencies towards people belonging to LGBTQ+ community. “Proper advocacy and sensitisation programmes should be organised in ministries, both at Central and state level, including national and state human rights commission, to have better understanding of the issues which this community faces,” according to minutes of meetings of Core Group discussion, reviewed by HT. It further asks ministries of social justice, labour and skill development to create employment opportunities for transgender community. Several members of the Core Group pointed out during the meeting that acts of violence, extortion and blackmail against the LGBTQI+ community had increased after the abrogation of Section 377 of Indian Penal Code (the 158-year-old colonial law which criminalised consensual gay sex) by the Supreme Court in 2018. The members discussed that even though Section 18 of the Transgender Person (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 provides for penal offences, it clubs acts ranging from discrimination, coercion, boycott, abuse and physical violence in one group. “The provision appears to confuse distinct civil and penal offences, namely, discrimination, domestic violence, sexual harassment, sexual violence, and none of these offences are defined in the law,” according to the minutes of the Core Group discussion. It has been recommended that Transgender Person Act “must not resort to merely extend the application of the existing penal provision but define the atrocities meted out against them with specific and equal punishments as enumerated in Section 3 of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.” “Strict and mandatory laws against forced sex reassignment surgery and conversion therapy should be formulated. Introduce horizontal reservations within caste, tribe and other categories of reservation for transgender persons in furtherance of the NALSA judgement,” the Core Group suggested. For ministry of health, it was recommended that Indian Medical Association (IMA) should train medical practitioners for medical examination of transgender persons and sensitise them regarding sex, gender, sexuality and self-identity. It asked that an advisory to all medical students be issued to train them about health issues of these communities. Issues pertaining to unavailability of shelter homes, food and housing facilities and violence against transgender both outside and inside the community; serious lack of understanding of LGBTQI+ community among the general population; lack of education; and lack of understanding with regards to community’s varied range of health and mental health also came up during the discussion. NHRC’s Core Group on LGBTQI includes Ashok Row Kavi (chairman founder, The Humsafar Trust), Laxmi Narayan Tripathi (trangender rights activist), Dr. Piyush Saxena (founder, Salvation of the Oppressed Eunuchs), Harish Iyer (advisory board, MINGLE), Anjali Gopalan (founder & executive director, Naz Foundation), Anand Grover (senior advocate, Supreme Court of India), and Rudrani Chettri (Mitr Trust).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensitise-public-police-about-rights-of-lgbtqi-community-nhrc-tells-centre/story-2HLbZ6mLCjoFGdRldab9bK.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers begin day-long hunger strike as protest against farm laws intensifies||The farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by the Centre began their hunger strike at various border points near Delhi. The farmer unions have also said that protests will also be held in other parts of the country.“We want to wake the government up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. Twenty five of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and five at UP border,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union or BKU in Punjab.The protesters who are at the Ghazipur border in Delhi say they are prepared for the day-long fast. “When we take our sugarcane trolleys to mills, it happens that we skip meals for 24 hours. We are prepared for fast,” news agency ANI quoted a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri as saying.The protest has been going on for nearly 20 days, with the farmer demanding the repeal of the three laws passed by Parliament in September. On Sunday, the protests continued across Delhi borders with more farmers joining the stir at Singhu (Haryana border).The protesters have been shouting slogans against the government, singing songs, taking out marches with posters and banners, and attending speeches delivered from the stage.One farmer even celebrated the first birthday of his daughter by cutting cakes with fellow demonstrators at Tikri border on Sunday. The farmers decorated the protest site with colourful balloons and posters, wishing the little girl a very happy birthday. The poster also displays a picture of the girl with her family.“My daughter is celebrating back home with her mother and our relatives. When we left our homes, we had vowed not to return before our victory. I am fighting for my daughter’s generation and to secure their land rights,” said the farmer Jagat Singh.The government has so far held five rounds of talks with farmers’ organisations including a meeting called by Union home minister Amit Shah offering changes to the laws and written assurances but the stalemate has been continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-begin-day-long-hunger-strike-as-protest-against-farm-laws-intensifies/story-ShnAQFiqKDNzRLUOvgjgLP.html
14-12-2020||India||Goa Zilla Panchayat results a bellwether for Assembly polls, counting begins||Counting of votes for the 48 zilla (district) panchayat polls in Goa has begun with the fate of 200 candidates from the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress and regional parties like the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Aam Aadmi Party hanging in balance. Voting passed off peacefully on Saturday but witnessed a sluggish turnout as the fear of the pandemic, the huge gap between the campaign and the actual voting as well as a general disillusionment left its impact. The state witnessed a voter turnout of 56.82% with 4.50 lakh of the 7.92 lakh eligible voters having cast their vote, which was more than 10% less than the voting percentage at the previous zilla panchayat elections held five years ago. The BJP has fielded 43 candidates in the 48 seats, the Congress has fielded 38, while the Aam Aadmi Party and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party has fielded 17 candidates each while 79 persons have contested as independent. The district administration has issued prohibitive orders around the counting centres in a bid to prevent any law and order problems and large gatherings of persons that often results in clashes outside counting centres between supporters of rival political parties and candidates. The polls were set to be held on March 22 and all preparations were in place and campaigning had concluded when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the one day ‘Janta curfew’-- a day long stay at home request-- which forced the Goa government to postpone polls, initially for two days, then indefinitely. The polls are also seen as a test of Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the ongoing protests against coal, the failure to restart mining and related issues. Both the BJP and the Congress have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious at the hustings.With the zilla panchayat bodies performing only a nominal role, the polls are seen more as a preliminary test for political parties ahead of the state assembly elections, which are likely to be held a little more than a year later in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-zilla-panchayat-results-a-bellwether-for-assembly-polls-counting-begins/story-YGo2XhpxESvBgl8KyoZ7ZI.html
14-12-2020||India||India records one of lowest daily Covid cases in 7 days, shows govt data||India has recorded one of the lowest daily cases and daily deaths due to Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) per million population in the past seven days, shows government data.“India reported one of the lowest cases per million population in the world (158) in the last 7 days; much lower than many other countries of the Western Hemisphere,” said Union health ministry in a statement.New cases reported per million population in the world in the past seven days were 553. France reported 1,252 cases, Russia had 1,330, Brazil reported 1,387, United Kingdom with 1,753, Italy had 1,934, and USA reported 4,310 Covid-19 cases per million population during the same period.When compared globally, India recorded one of the lowest new case fatalities per million population in the past seven days (2), according to the government data.Catch Covid vaccine updates hereThe world reported ten new deaths due to Covid-19 per million population during the past seven days. With 75 deaths, Italy has reported maximum Covid-19 deaths, followed by USA (49 deaths), France and UK with 43 deaths each, 26 deaths in Russia, and 23 deaths reported from Brazil.Steadily following the trend set over the past few weeks, India’s active caseload currently has fallen to 3.62% of the total cases. India has reported more daily recoveries than the daily new cases on Sunday.“The trend of more daily recoveries than the daily cases has led to a continuous contraction of India’s active caseload which presently stands at 356,546. While 30,254 persons were found to be Covid positive in the country in the past 24 hours (on Sunday), 33,136 new recoveries were registered during the same period. This has led to a net decline of 3,273 cases from the total active caseload…,” said health ministry statement.As on Sunday, the total recovered cases stand at 9,357,464. The gap between recovered cases and active cases is steadily increasing and it crossed nine million (9,000,918) on Sunday. The recovery rate has improved to touch 95% (94.93%) in the country.“75.23% of the new recovered cases are contributed by ten states/UTs.Kerala leads with 5,268 persons recovering from Covid while Maharashtra recorded 3,949 recoveries. Delhi registered another 3,191 daily recoveries,” said the health ministry statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-one-of-lowest-daily-covid-cases-in-7-days-shows-govt-data/story-yNfzVYoQlaFknHpdTIYviN.html
14-12-2020||India||In UP, BJP plans outreach meet with farmers amid protests against agri laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh has decided to hold a series of meetings with farmers to counter opposition parties that have backed the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three contentious farm reform laws. Beginning with the ones in Ayodhya and Basti on Monday, the meets would be held till December 18. At these meetings, senior leaders and ministers will explain why the three contentious laws will eventually be beneficial for the farmers. Nearly all opposition parties in the state, including the Samajwadi Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Congress and others, have extended their support to the ongoing farmers’ stir demanding the repeal of the legislations. The BJP government at the Centre has indicated that the laws won’t be withdrawn, though it is ready to introduce key amendments to address farmers’ concerns.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and ministers as well as senior BJP leaders, including state chief Swatantra Dev and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, who was the agriculture minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first government, would also address these farmers’ meetings, party leaders said. “On Monday, the UP BJP in-charge would launch these farmers’ meetings from Basti and Ayodhya,” said state general secretary Govind Narayan Shukla. While deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya would address a farmers’ meeting in Varanasi on Tuesday, ministers Mahendra Singh (Moradabad), Mukut Bihari Verma (Amethi) and Neelkanth Tiwari (Pratapgarh) would be in different parts of the state for the same reason. The UP BJP chief will address farmers’ rallies in Bareilly, Shahjahanpur and Badaun on Monday followed by a meeting in Gonda on Tuesday. “The opposition is misleading the people on the issue of farm laws. Such political parties, who cheated and exploited the farmers for decades, are now acting as the biggest well-wishers of theirs,” Swatantra Dev Singh said. He said the BJP would expose the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-up-bjp-plans-outreach-programme-for-farmers-amid-protests-against-agri-laws/story-CVPJ4UGazmxdLXA92ckuWP.html
14-12-2020||India||Night, early morning temperatures to drop over NW India in next three days||Minimum temperatures are likely to fall by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius over northwest India during the next 3 days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). There is likely to be a fall in minimum temperature by 2 to 4 degrees C also over central and west India from Tuesday.In northwest India, the shift in temperatures is both climatological and because of the passing of two western disturbances that have brought widespread snowfall to the Western Himalayas.On Monday until 6.10am, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 8.4 degrees C compared to 11.1 degrees C on Sunday. Maximum, or day temperatures, have already fallen over Delhi and many other parts of the region. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 20.7 degrees C on Sunday, 3 degrees C below normal.On Sunday, Karnal recorded a maximum temperature of 20.2 degree C, 3 degrees below normal; Rohtak recorded 19.5 degrees C, 5.5 degrees below normal.Most cities and towns in northwest India recorded moderate to poor category air on Monday morning. Delhi recorded an air quality index of 175 in the moderate category. The improvement is associated with northwesterly winds which have picked speed and were blowing at 10 to 12 kmph since Sunday.There is also likely to be dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, northwest Rajasthan today and over Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Moderate to dense fog is likely over parts of Delhi on Monday and Tuesday. .Under the influence of strengthening of the easterly wave, isolated to scattered rain/thundershowers over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala and Mahe and adjoining sub-divisions with possibility of heavy rain over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal on Wednesday and Thursday, IMD said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-early-morning-temperatures-to-drop-over-nw-india-in-next-three-days/story-E8ad8KIso0gTNFnG9L5ujM.html
14-12-2020||India||UP Police on alert over farmers’ protest||The state Uttar Pradesh Police have sounded an alert over yet another protest called by farmers’ unions on Monday, said police officials. The police headquarters issued directives to all district police chiefs to make necessary arrangements to avert any law and of order problem. Commissioner of police (Lucknow) DK Thakur held a late night meeting with police officers to issue directives regarding arrangements to ensure peace during the farmers’ protests. A senior police official said the protests on Monday could be more widespread after farmers failed to leave their mark on two previous occasions on Saturday and December 8 (Bharat Bandh call). The Bharat Bandh, called by various farmer unions against three central agricultural laws, drew a mixed response in UP on Tuesday even as about 1,300 people were detained by police to avert law and trouble. Markets and offices remained largely open while Samajwadi Party, Congress, RLD and Left parties’ workers and some other unions held protests in several districts and even held up a train in Prayagraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-on-alert-over-farmers-protest/story-SNxIz3OkfvT8zjRGQnSiSP.html
14-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand allows festive bath for all on Somvati Amavasya before Mahakumbh||After eight months, pilgrims from other states can take sacred Ganga dip in Haridwar on a major festive bathe since Covid-19 restrictions came into effect in mid-March. Somvati Amavasya festive bathe which falls on December 14 will witness both participation of pilgrims from within the state and other states. Local priests, trader fraternity and seers had resented the blanket ban on Kartik Poornima festive bath on November 30 for pilgrims after which, the local administration allowed Haridwar residents to take Ganga dip but pilgrims from other states were not allowed. This time, with permissions in place, many pilgrims from other states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Kumaon region were seen arriving on Sunday evening itself with many rest houses and hotels already reporting bookings from these states. While there is no blanket ban on the arrival of pilgrims from other states for Somvati Amavasya, restrictions and preventive measures as per standard operating procedures and guidelines for Covid-19 containment will be in place for the festive bath. “But in case there is a huge influx of pilgrims from other states, then we might now allow more pilgrims to enter the state to check overcrowding here,” said Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar. Administrative and police officials have been directed to ensure strict implementation of social distancing norms and wearing of face masks and to encourage devotees to avoid coming to Haridwar for the occasion. “Anyone found violating the guidelines will be dealt sternly under Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and Disaster Management Act-2005,” said the Haridwar DM. Also Read: Haridwar teachers to be Uttarakhand govt’s Corona warriors for Mahakumbh 2021 Ganga Sabha, which manages affairs of the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, has welcomed the decision to allow pilgrims in a restrictive manner for Somwati Amawasya. “Ganga Sabha is ready to cooperate with the local and mela administration in ensuring pilgrim management. Somwati Amawasya will be the last festive bath before Mahakumbh so it assumes more importance for administration too. People come for Somvati Amavasya bath with immense faith, though everyone needs to abide by social distancing norms while coming for a bath at Ganga ghats,” said Ganga Sabha president Praveen Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-allows-festive-bath-for-all-on-somvati-amavasya-before-mahakumbh/story-gwr8gEgz20i8PgmqgQl8CL.html
14-12-2020||India||Chinese debt defaults send investors into a tizzy||Despite claims of an economic recovery, Chinese state-owned companies are defaulting on their debts. A string of missed debt repayments by major firms has shaken local as well as global markets. State firms defaulted on a record $6.1 billion worth of bonds between January and October, according to Fitch Ratings. That’s about as much as the last two years combined. The development has rattled China’s nearly $4 trillion corporate debt market, of which state-owned enterprises are estimated to account for more than half. At least 20 firms suspended plans for new debt issues totalling $2.4 billion, all citing recent market turmoil. The mounting non-payment of debt payments is getting worse in recent weeks. A slew of major companies, including German automaker BMW’s Chinese partner Brilliance Auto Group, top smartphone chipmaker Tsinghua Unigroup, and Yongcheng Coal and Electricity declared bankruptcy or defaulted on their loans in November. This was enough to send shock waves through debt market. Bond prices nosedived sharply, interest rates soared and the turmoil even spilt over into the stock market, with shares of state-owned firms plummeting.ALSO WATCH | How India & US can tame aggressive China: Senator Mark Warner #HTLS2020 The defaults have angered global investors, who say their faith in the firms’ top-notch ratings, seemingly sound finances and implicit state backing has been violated. There is a panic among investors who believed that the close relationships between these companies and Chinese governments make them safe bets in times of trouble. But investors are a worried lot as the state is no longer willing to support these companies; investments have suddenly become much riskier propositions.“The credibility of government guarantees has been the most important bulwark against financial crisis so far. Now we are seeing signs that this credibility is eroding,” according to Logan Wright, director of China markets research at Rhodium Group, CNN reported.According to Reuters, the Huachen Automotive Group Holdings Co, the parent of German automaker BMW’s Chinese joint venture partner, defaulted late last month exemplifying opaque risks, underdeveloped pricing mechanisms and investor naivety in China’s corporate bond market. “If the company had told investors it was in great trouble, I wouldn’t have bought and held the bonds,” said Shanghai-based hedge fund manager Vincent Jin, who bought Huachen bonds early this year. Huachen boasted an AAA issuer rating when it launched its 1 billion yuan ($151.93 million) three-year, privately placed bond in October 2017. It comes from one of China’s poorer provinces, Liaoning, but as recently as April told bondholders it had adequate cash, lots of land and state backing. Creditors were therefore stunned when Huachen not only defaulted but was also dragged to court by a creditor for bankruptcy restructuring. Moreover, one month before its bond delinquency, Huachen transferred its prized 30 per cent stake in Hong Kong-listed Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd to a subsidiary, leaving bondholders with no access to those assets.Chinese companies have been piling on debt for at least a decade, ever since the government responded to the 2008 crisis by going on a borrowing binge. That kept China’s economy moving but at a cost. The corporate debt-to-GDP ratio surged to a record 160 per cent at the end of 2017, from 101 per cent 10 years earlier. The present dispensation under Xi Jinping tried to rein it in, issuing directives on how money was to be loaned and managed. A particular goal has been to curb China’s $10 trillion ecosystems of shadow banking. So-called local government financing vehicles, which were established to fund infrastructure projects, have already defaulted on many trust loans which were part of that shadow system.China watchers say allowing too many defaults could jeopardise the financial stability and near-term recovery. Analysts at Goldman Sachs recently pointed out that widespread failures in the sector could spill over into the banking system, causing banks to cut back on lending more broadly, or increase interest rates, the latter of which is already starting to happen. But, analysts have also noted that rescuing some state-owned firms from collapse is probably a dead end, given how financially cumbersome the sector can be.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-debt-defaults-send-investors-into-a-tizzy/story-afMgA0xOGHEZ0jHpyyNJSJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE Updates: ‘Ready for talks... want discussions to be held clause by clause,’ says Agri min Tomar||As the protest against the central government’s agricultural reforms enters day 19, farmers are holding sit-in protests across the country today and are also observing a hunger strike from 8am to 5pm. These nationwide protests come a day after farmers had blocked the Delhi-Jaipur highway at Shahjahanpur. More and more farmers have been joining the agitation at several border points in the national capital. They were seen shouting anti-government slogans, singing songs, taking out marches with posters and banners and attending speeches at the borders. Also Read| Farm leader: Shah agreed not consulting farmers a mistakeThe farmers have been protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. While the Centre has assured that these reforms would eliminate middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce in commercial markets, protesters fear the new laws will allow big corporations to enter the agricultural sector and further end the system of minimum support price (MSP).Also Read: Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’Union minister Kailash Choudhary on Sunday said that the Centre would soon hold another round of talks with farmers adding that the government will find ‘some solution’ to end the deadlock. So far, five rounds of talks have taken place between the farmers and the Centre which remained inconclusive. The sixth round of talks did not take place after protesters rejected the Centre’s provision to amend specific provisions of the new farm reforms. The government on several occasions has made it clear that is ready for a dialogue. But, farmer groups said that they would engage in talks only if the reforms are repealed. Follow live updates on Day 19 of farmers’ agitation:Government should repeal farm laws, says former MoS agriculture Akhilesh Prasad SinghCongress MP and former minister of state for agriculture Akhilesh Prasad Singh said the government should repeal the three farm laws and the agitating farmers should be called for talks again. The government should go by their opinion, he also said. After observing one day hunger strike, farmers break their fast at Singhu borderWant discussions to be held clause by clause: Tomar“We have said that we are ready for the talks. Government will definitely do it if their (farmer unions’) proposal comes...We want the discussions to be held clause by clause. They’ll give their opinion on our proposal, we’ll definitely hold further talks,” says Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar.“Members of All India Kisan Coordination Committee had come from Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Maharashtra, Bihar. They supported farm bills and gave us a letter on the same. They said that the Modi government has done this for the welfare of farmers and they welcome and support it,” Tomar also said. Our farmers are in peril these days: Kejriwal“Our farmers are in peril these days. Those who should be tilling their fields are sitting in the biting cold. But I’m happy people in the country including army, lawyers, actors, doctors, are with them. We are with farmers too,” says Kejriwal at hunger strike in Delhi.Entire country standing in solidarity with farmers: Kejriwal“The entire country is standing in solidarity with the farmers,” says Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi chief minister.Next round of discussions to be held soon: Haryana Deputy CM “Agriculture Minister and Home Minister are continuously discussing the issue. Next round of discussions to be held soon. I hope 40 unions who came for talks earlier, will also join the next round of talks as well and come to a conclusion,” Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.AP leaders hold hunger strike in support of protesting farmersMinisters and MLAs of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are holding a hunger strike in support of the farmers protesting against the central government’s farm reforms. Top leaders such as Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, environment minister Gopal Rai and party spokesperson are present. Earlier, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had urged people to observe a one-day fast to express solidarity with the protesting farmers.  Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Ministers and MLAs hold 'hunger strike' in support of farmers who are protesting against Centre's #FarmLaws. Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, ministers Satyendar Jain, Gopal Rai and party leader Aatishi Marlena are present. pic.twitter.com/oEBoEof0MI10 groups meet Tomar to extend support on farm lawsAs many as 10 organisations from states such Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana, associated with All India Kisan Coordination committee, are meeting Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, to extend their support on the farm reforms. 10 organisations from various states like Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana, associated with All India Kisan Coordination committee, are meeting Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, to extend their support on 3 Farm Bills. pic.twitter.com/FMnzpoO2c1Centre misleading everyone on MSP, says BKU Haryana chiefGurnam Singh Chaduni, President of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Haryana) said that the central government is misleading everyone on regarding the Minimum Support Price (MSP). “One thing the BJP is spreading that MSP will be given. Its ministers are repeatedly saying. The government is misleading everyone on MSP. Home Minister Amit Shah replied to us during 8th December meet that they can’t buy all 23 crops at MSP as its costs Rs 17 lakhs crores,” Chaduni told news agency ANI. Appeal to farmers to sit and resolve issues: Union minister Kailash ChoudharyUnion minister Kailash Choudhary appealed to the farmers to sit with the Centre and resolve issues related to the farm laws adding that sitting together leads to a solution. “If farmers want to get something added to these bills, it’s very much possible but it can’t be an absolute Yes or No’, the minister said while speaking to ANI. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Shah’s residenceUnion Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has reached Union home minister Amit Shah’s residence, news agency ANI reported.  Delhi: Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar reaches Home Minister Amit Shah's residence. pic.twitter.com/CuSj7i09grGhazipur, Singhu borders closed for traffic movementThe Delhi Traffic Police on Monday said that Ghazipur, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh border points have been closed for traffic movement due to farmers protest. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44, it added.  Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers' protests. People are advised to take an alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara & Bhopra borders: Delhi Traffic Police40 leaders of United Farmers Front to sit on hunger strikeHarinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secretary of the BKU told news agency ANI that 40 leaders of the United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. 25 of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border and 5 at UP border, he added.  We want to wake the govt up. So, 40 farmer leaders of our United Farmers Front will sit on hunger strike today at all borders points between 8 am-5 pm. 25 of them will sit at Singhu border, 10 at Tikri border & 5 at UP border: Harinder Singh Lakhowal, General Secy, BKU (Punjab) pic.twitter.com/khQ9VNMC1ODelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to observe fast in support of protesting farmersChief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a one-day fast in support of the farmers’ ongoing agitation today. he also urged his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers, supporters as well as the people of the country to join the protests.Punjab CM calls Kejriwal ‘shameless liar’, slams him for exploiting protestsPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh hit out at his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for exploiting the ongoing agitation against the new farm reforms and went on to call him a shameless liar. Amarinder further said that Kejriwal and his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are busy playing politics while farmers are sitting outside Delhi for the past 17 days to seek justice.  Protesting farmers send back group of Jamia students from UP Gate Police officials on Sunday said that protesting farmers refused to allow a group of Jamia Millia Islamia students to join their agitation at the UP Gate (Ghaziabad)-Ghazipur (Delhi) border. The group of six students had arrived there to render support to the farmers by singing and playing ‘dafli’, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-dec-14-2020/story-kAmaMNK0i8DANs8CdrFxyO.html
14-12-2020||India||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to fast in support of farmers today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a one-day fast on Monday in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws in the national capital. The CM also urged the members and supporters of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to join him.“I request all party (AAP) supporters and people across the country to observe fast for a day tomorrow (Monday) in solidarity with protesting farmers. I shall be observing a day’s fast too… Let’s support our farmers from our homes. I understand that it is not possible for many of us to be physically present in the (state) border points where the protesting farmer groups have gathered,” the chief minister said in a press briefing on Monday.Also Read: Farmers to fast for a day, gathering at Singhu swellsKejriwal also demanded that the three contentious farm laws, implemented by the government in September, be rolled back and a new bill be introduced to ensure minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers.The Parliament passed the three laws - The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 - amid large scale protests from the Opposition and farmer unions.Also Read: Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’While the government claims the laws will remove the role of the middlemen, allowing the farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country, farmers say they will take away the safety cushion of MSP and mandi system, due to which they will have to be at the mercy of corporate leaders.A meeting was held between agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash and Union home minister Amit Shah to solve the impasse that entered its 19th day on Monday. The farmers’ union leader said that they will sit on fast from 8am to 5pm on December 14 at Singhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-fast-in-support-of-farmers-today/story-IqVBIGUP0OOf17PoGGI06K.html
14-12-2020||India||Punjab CM calls Kejriwal ‘shameless liar’, slams him for exploiting farmers’ stir||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh targeted his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for exploiting the ongoing agitation of the farmers to further the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) petty electoral agenda in Punjab with “blatant lies and brazenly false propaganda”.Cornering Kejriwal, the Punjab chief minister went on to call the AAP chief a “shameless liar”.“In sharp contrast to the Kejriwal government in Delhi, which had been thriving on Ambani crumbs and had been touting its power reforms under the Reliance-run BSES as its biggest achievement, the Punjab government had neither signed any agreement with Adani Power nor was even aware of the private players bidding for power purchase in the state,” Captain Amarinder said in an official release.Responding to Kejriwal’s announcement that he will hold a one-day fast in support of farmers, the Punjab chief minister quipped: “In fact, the Kejriwal government that was shamelessly notifying one of the “black farm laws” on November 23, at a time when farmers were preparing to march to Delhi to protest these very farm laws. And now they are indulging in theatrics by announcing that they would be sitting on fast in support of the farmers’ hunger strike on Monday.”He further alleged that Kejriwal and his party are “busy playing politics” while farmers are sitting outside the national capital for the past 17 days to seek justice.“Do you have no shame? At a time when our farmers are braving the winter cold on the roads outside your city, and many of them are dying fighting for their rights, all you can think of is how to make the most of the opportunity to promote your political interests,” he said.Pointing out that Punjab had been purchasing additional power to support farmers during the sowing season for years, Captain Amarinder said it was obvious that Kejriwal and his party “neither knew nor cared about what goes into sowing or what the needs of the farmers are”.“From backstabbing the farmers by implementing one of the black farm laws, to trying to dump them in a corner of Delhi, Kejriwal had proved time and again that he was no friend of the farmers,” he added.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on the outskirts of Delhi since late November 26 demanding the government to repeal the newly enacted farm laws. However, the government has held six rounds of talks with farmers’ organisations including the meeting called by Union Home Minister Amit Shah offering changes to the laws and written assurances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-calls-kejriwal-shameless-liar-slams-him-for-exploiting-farmers-stir/story-yNxeI33cgoIXJOXdTWXrNO.html
14-12-2020||India||No rule flouted in election to RS from Gujarat: Jaishankar to SC||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has in the Supreme Court defended his election to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat last year, stating that the procedure of voting adopted by the election commission did not flout any law or constitutional provision. Submitting his affidavit in response to a petition by defeated Congress party candidate Gaurav Hemantbhai Pandya, the minister accused Pandya of “misusing the process of law” by filing several election petitions before the top court. Jaishankar also emphasised that the Congress leader’s appeal against the Gujarat high court’s order is based on “misrepresentation of facts and incorrect understanding of law”. Greater integration between foreign and military policies key to cope with challenges: JaishankarWhat lies at the centre of controversy is the election commission’s decision to hold separate polls for the two RS seats vacated by Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani in May 2019. The polls were conducted on the same day but through separate voting and both seats were won by the candidates put up by the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) – Jaishankar and Jugal M Lokhandwala. The Congress had hoped to bag at least one RS seat on the basis of single transferable vote had the elections for both seats happened together. Defeated Congress candidates, including Pandya, had thus moved high court, which declined to entertain their petitions. Subsequently, they filed their appeals in the Supreme Court. On November 18, an SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, issued a notice to Jaishankar. At that time, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Pandya, asserted that the petition raised important legal issues about the election commission’s power to conduct separate voting for casual vacancies that arise simultaneously. The SC will take up Jaishankar’s response on Monday when the matter comes up for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-rule-flouted-in-election-to-rs-from-gujarat-jaishankar-to-sc/story-WKLkgIOq4nZHJU1IX7yTaI.html
14-12-2020||India||SC irked at delays in releasing orders||A silence of around 10 months, creating confusion around a judgment, has prompted the Supreme Court to criticise delays by high courts in releasing detailed orders with reasons. A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Sanjay K Kaul termed it “unacceptable” that the top court was repeatedly finding itself constrained to investigate how, when and where a judgment was delivered and then released on the websites. “It is an unacceptable situation. How can an order remain unpronounced for months together? Judicial discipline requires promptness in delivery of judgments,” rued the bench when it came across one such appeal in a motor accident claim case during a hearing on Friday. The controversy in this matter was about the actual date when the judgment was delivered by the Delhi high court. Oriental Insurance, the petitioner before the Supreme Court, claimed that this case was last heard by the high court on July 31, 2019. They next heard about it only in May 2020 when the judgment was already released on the high court’s website, without any notice to them. But this judgment was dated July 31, 2019 and not May 2020. Focus on people, not the population | HT EditorialMoving the SC in appeal, the insurance company complained how this judgment could date back to July 31, 2019 when there was neither any order dictated by the judge in the open court on that date nor was the company’s lawyer told that the ruling was in favour of the other side. This contention compelled the SC to seek a report from the registrar general of the Delhi high court. The high court official was asked to report about the dates when this case was heard; when the judgment was reserved; when the judgment was finally received from the office of the high court judge; and when it was finally released on the website. The report from the high court registrar, however, presented a sorry state of affairs. Cannot cure all ills of system, says top courtThe top court, read out from the registrar’s report that although the case was heard by the high court judge on July 31, 2019, it was only on May 15, 2020 that the file was sent to the branch concerned to release the judgment. “We are talking about the period between July 31, 2019 to May, 2020. This is unacceptable. On this ground alone, this order has to go. We will have to set it aside on the very reason of delay in pronouncing the judgment,” said the bench. It also took exception to a part of the registrar’s report which said that the final order was “indicated” by the high court judge when he heard this matter on July 31, 2019. 2001 Parliament attack: When terror struck India’s temple of democracy“Hence, it appears that even concluding paragraph was not penned down. The judgment is stated not to have been reserved. The file was, however, sent back to the registry after nine-and-half months, on May 15, 2020 and the judgment is uploaded on the same date,” noted the bench in its order. Even as the SC acknowledged that the high court judge appeared to be in some personal difficulty for some time, it lamented that the process, which was required to be followed, was not followed. “If a judgment cannot be delivered on the same date or immediately thereafter, the judgment ought to be reserved to facilitate the judge to pen down the order. Result of not doing so is that the appellant (Oriental Insurance), being the aggrieved party, is not able to avail of legal remedies,” added the SC order as it set aside the high court judgment. Classify social media as news media, subject them to journalistic standards, says SC judgeEarlier, in October this year, the apex court had to seek a similar report from the registrar general of the Bombay high court after it noted that while the petition in this matter was dismissed in January, a detailed order recording the reasons was yet to be released. At that time too, the SC had passed a judgment, holding: “Judicial discipline requires promptness in delivery of judgments – an aspect repeatedly emphasised by this Court. The problem is compounded where the result is known but not the reasons. This deprives any aggrieved party of the opportunity to seek further judicial redressal in the next tier of judicial scrutiny.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-irked-at-delays-in-releasing-orders/story-uUIFbzfMzSBTrFzH5CN4eP.html
14-12-2020||India||How chronic air pollution may trigger more Covid deaths in the country||Global research points out that exposure to chronic air pollution increases chances of succumbing to Covid-19. Oxides of Nitrogen were one culprit. Remember, NOx can be both the uber dangerous PM2.5 in terms of size plus result in ozone when reacting with pollutants like Volatile Organic Compounds – found in some paints and for cleaning.Why bird feeding should stopToday is a good time to discuss the Covid-19 and air pollution link. It has been five years since the Paris Agreement, and we’ve lost a million lives, apart from losing the year. We’ve also seen it’s possible to control air pollution in India. If we didn’t have such high levels of air pollution, would fewer Indians have died of Covid-19?Possible, but let’s look ahead. In India, fuel and industries emit the most NOx. We must rejig our cities for more public transport and make it easier to use non-motorised transport. As far as industry goes, there is no option but to invest in clean production. Both sources are also significant contributors to climate change. Clearly, we know where the dreadful twain of air pollution and climate change meet. Clamping down on Glyphosate availability first step to curb useNow, in 2020, Covid-19, too, has come to roost here. The pandemic might be a freak event, or not. But we can be sure other pandemics lie ahead. In the past, they’ve all hit our respiratory system, so let’s expect the same ahead. History shows us that prevention is the only real cure. To stay safe, we must treat air pollution as the emergency it is-this is key to being both pandemic and climate resilience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-chronic-air-pollution-may-trigger-more-covid-deaths-in-the-country/story-IvtYnwFwQAlovUb1ChuvPP.html
14-12-2020||India||Congress seeks local leaders’ advice on state heads||In a bid to build consensus over the appointments of party chiefs in many states, the Congress is seeking suggestions from block- and district-level leaders on suitable candidates for the top posts, people familiar with the developments said.The move is largely aimed at checking infighting in states and uniting warring factions, a Congress functionary said on condition of anonymity. The Congress leadership has asked the state incharges to start the consensus-building exercise across the country, he added. The process has kicked off in many states, including Telangana and Maharashtra.In Telangana, All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge Manickam Tagore has so far met 160 leaders, including former Union and state ministers, members of Parliament and legislators, to discuss the names for the new state chief and also the party’s revival strategy. “In the next few days, I am going to meet 500 leaders from block to district and state level leaders,” Tagore said. He said the broad-based consultation process has been initiated to evolve a consensus on the state leadership issue and also to formulate the party’s revival plan ahead of the 2023 assembly elections.Congress ahead of BJP in Rajasthan civic body pollsTelangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy resigned from the post soon after the assembly elections in 2018 but was asked to continue till a replacement was found. The Congress managed to win 19 seats in 2018, two fewer than its 2014 tally in the state. The party suffered successive electoral setbacks despite being instrumental in carving out Telangana by bifurcating Andhra Pradesh just before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.The party fought the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Telangana and the just-concluded Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls under Reddy’s leadership and fared badly in both. While the Congress won three seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party bagged just two seats in the GHMC polls.Shashi Tharoor joins protesting MPs at Jantar Mantar, says govt failed nation and farmers Soon after, Reddy again submitted his resignation, prompting the party leadership to look for his replacement. Similarly, the Congress has started the consultation process in Maharashtra and Mumbai units, according to the person quoted above. Maharashtra Congress unit Balasaheb Thorat is holding a ministerial post in the state. Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole and the Congress party’s Gujarat incharge Rajeev Satav are front runners to replace Thorat.Political analysts say the Congress is facing a leadership crisis in Telangana and over the past 7-8 years, its organisational structure has also collapsed.Hyderabad-based political analyst C Narasimha Rao said the Congress needs to strengthen the organisational structure at the block and the district levels. “Unlike the Bhartiya Janata Party, the Congress has cadre and structure in rural areas. But it is missing the dedicated leaders there. The party should immediately appoint office bearers at block and district levels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-local-leaders-advice-on-state-heads/story-mEqRtAGbxLt6I4vIJfa7qO.html
14-12-2020||India||Farm leader: Shah agreed not consulting farmers a mistake||Farm union leader Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakaji has said that Union home minister Amit Shah during talks on December 8 had urged farmers to deliberate on the government’s proposal, saying the Centre had made the mistake of not consulting farmers. Kakaji, who previously led a large-scale farmers’ protest in Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur in 2016, said: “The home minister requested us to take part in talks. He said the government made a mistake in not holding consultations with farmers prior to the talks.” Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’Kakaji, giving details of what transpired between the farmers and the minister a day ahead of a breakdown in negotiations, said Shah told them that the government was sensitive to the points raised by the farmers and the government would send a formal document of proposals suggesting amendments. “We told the home minister we were not interested in amendments but seek a repeal of all three laws,” Kakaji told reporters. There was no response to a query sent to the home ministry on Kakaji’s comments till the time of going to press.Amid the prevailing deadlock between farmers and the central government over the new farm laws, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Parkash met home minister Amit Shah on Sunday. Farmers to step up stir, plan sit-in across country todayMeanwhile, the farmers’ agitation in and around Delhi entered its 18th day on Sunday, with farmers blocking the Delhi-Jaipur highway and sticking to their demand for a repeal of the new agriculture laws that they say were designed to benefit large corporations at the cost of cultivators’ interests, even as the government has maintained it would benefit the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-leader-shah-agreed-not-consulting-farmers-a-mistake/story-oxGKsO5imkQgezFx51s7FP.html
14-12-2020||India||Key farmer leader favours talks, says ‘goalposts shifted’||A key leader of the ongoing protests against three new agriculture laws has expressed dissatisfaction with the agitation, breaking ranks with his colleagues in the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a platform leading the protests. Sardar VM Singh, convener of the AIKSCC, told HT that the agitation was “not going right” and farm unions should not make scrapping of the laws a precondition for talks with government or shut the door on negotiations. If the government were to accede to the farmers’ demand for a law stipulating that no buyer shall purchase farm produce below state-set minimum support prices, then the government should be free to push reforms to modernise the farm sector, Singh said. Farmers to step up stir, plan sit-in across country todayHowever, Yogendra Yadav, a prominent member of the AIKSCC, said the organisation neither agreed with what Singh said nor was he authorised to speak on behalf of the platform. Several leaders of the AIKSCC said they dissociated themselves from Singh’s stand. “The national working group of the AIKSCC condemns and disassociates itself from the statement made by VM Singh. The statement was neither authorised by AIKSCC nor did it follow the protocols of decision making by the working group,” Yadav, along with 13 senior leaders of the AIKSCC, said. Singh, on the other hand, said the farm unions had “shifted goalposts”. “Our initial demand was about legislating a private member’s bill in Parliament to guarantee MSP.” Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway in RewariSingh’s organisation, which holds sway over cane and paddy growers from Uttar Pradesh, looks keen to carry on negotiations with the government, a stand that will help give the Prime Minister Narendra Modi administration a window of opportunity to restart stalled negotiations. On Saturday, 15 farm producer organisations met farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar demanding the government continue with the reforms. “If the government brings a law to guarantee MSP, then farmers shouldn’t care about whether Adani or Ambani is buying (produce),” Singh said. Fifth NFHS shows malnutrition and obesity on the riseFarm unions on protest have alleged the reforms will give a free run to agribusinesses owned by tycoons Gautam Adani and Mukesh Ambani. Singh leads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangh. He was behind a landmark suit in the Supreme Court in 2000, whose verdict resulted in better prices for cane growers. Some economists say a law on making MSP binding makes little economic sense. “If private traders don’t find it profitable to buy at MSP when demand is low, they will simply exit the market,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Singh said the government was wrong to focus mainly on Punjab-based farmers for the talks. “I demand that the government talk to us and farmers from UP and other states. It is up to the government to invite us,” he said, expressing willingness to engage with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-farmer-leader-favours-talks-says-goalposts-shifted/story-0ZvaWESZozItBYB8kkVFDL.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers to step up stir, plan sit-in across country today||Farmers will hold sit-in protests at all district headquarters in the country and some of their leaders will go on a hunger strike from 8am to 5pm on Monday, representatives of several farm unions said on Sunday as they planned to escalate their agitation against new agriculture laws, with thousands of more farmers having begun their journey to the Capital from villages in Rajasthan.Earlier, the farmers blocked the Jaipur-Delhi highway at Shahjahanpur in Rajasthan, while police in Haryana, which falls along the way, halted large groups from proceeding to Delhi, raising the likelihood of more access routes to the national capital being blocked.The farmers’ protests, which began with a large group from Punjab that has now camped at the Singhu border, began 17 days ago and have evolved into a larger political controversy, with the members from the ruling government blaming opposition parties for the confrontation.Chila border: Delhi-Noida road reopened after farmers clear outOn Sunday, Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Parkash met Union home minister Amit Shah along with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Punjab. It is not clear what was discussed at the meeting. Later in the day, Tomar, while meeting a delegation of farmers from Uttarakhand, said the backlash against the new laws was being created by “people who just oppose and weaken the country”.Opposition leaders reiterated their support for the farmers and called on the government to heed to their demands. “I want to appeal to the central government to put an end to their ego. The governments are formed by the public, the public is not formed by the governments. The three farm laws should be immediately repealed and a bill should be brought to guarantee MSP to farmers,” said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.At Delhi’s Singhu border, where the largest of the gatherings of the protesters has camped, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and other union heads held a press conference and said they will observe a one-day hunger strike between 8 am to 5pm on Monday as part of a plan to intensify their agitation. “Also dharnas will be staged at all district headquarters across the country. The protest will go on as usual,” he told reporters.Farmers to fast for a day, gathering at Singhu swellsThe leader also spoke about certain other farmer union members who appeared to break ranks with the protesting groups. “There are groups that are ending protest and saying they are in favour of laws passed by the government. We want to clarify that they are not associated with us. They have been hand-in-glove with the government; they conspired to sabotage our protest. The government is hatching a conspiracy to derail the ongoing farmers’ protest,” added Chaduni.Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said: “Government agencies have been stopping farmers from reaching Delhi, but the protest will continue till their demands are met. Our stand is clear; we want the three farm laws repealed. All farmer unions participating in this movement are together.”‘Opposition trying to destabilize nation through farmers’ stir’: Yogi AdityanathAnother farmer leader, Rakesh Tikait, said: “If the government gives another proposal for talks, our committee will decide on it. We appeal to all to maintain peace during protest.”Including the one at Singhu, seven border points in the national capital continue to remain closed. The farmers’ rebellion was set off by three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.The government has proposed to amend some provisions for greater oversight but farm unions say they won’t call off their agitation until the laws are fully repealed.Ludhiana as cold as Shimla, undeterred farmers march onFollowing a prolonged stand-off after talks failed last week, the farmers plan to intensify their movement in the coming period. Amid the ongoing demonstration, farmers protesting near Jaisinghpur Kheda area in Rewari at the Rajasthan-Haryana border are waiting for more farmers to arrive, for their march towards Delhi.“Today more people and unions are coming from Rajasthan at the border area. After gathering the crowd, we will move towards Delhi. Among other things, we want the three laws to be repealed. We are standing with the farmers of Punjab and Haryana. We don’t have any separate demands. We are with our union leaders,” said Banwari Lal from Jaipur, who is convener of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-step-up-stir-plan-sit-in-across-country-today/story-YrltUF3UqlvXrxBol7KJZI.html
14-12-2020||India||BJP chief Nadda tests Covid-positive, in isolation||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has gone into home isolation on the advice of doctors.In a tweet, he said he had undergone a test after showing symptoms of Covid-19, and was found to be positive.“My condition is alright and I am following all instructions after going for home isolation on the advice of doctors. I request everyone who got in touch with me in the last few days to isolate themselves and undergo test,” he said.The BJP president had been maintaining an active schedule and had visited states such as Uttarakhand and West Bengal recently.Nadda’s recent visit to West Bengal had gotten much attention after his convoy was allegedly attacked by members of the Trinamool Congress (TMC).Among those who wished Nadda a speedy recovery and good health was West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Heard about BJP National President Shri JP Nadda testing positive for COVID-19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and good health. My prayers are with him and his family during this time,” she tweetedMany other political leaders, including Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, also wished for the BJP chief to recover soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-nadda-tests-covid-positive-in-isolation/story-egWpspc16oB0olRlhndpIJ.html
14-12-2020||India||Railways troubleshooters to help fight cybersecurity breaches||Following a directive by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to all government departments to pick personnel with a technical aptitude for the job and train them in cyber security, Indian Railways has begun identifying troubleshooters to tackle online security breaches. The Prime Minister’s directive followed an alarming increase in the number of breaches and attempted breaches of government computer systems. In an order sent to all general managers in Indian Railways, the Railway Board noted that the national transporter had shifted the bulk of its operations to an Information & Communication Technology (ICT) platform and stressed the need to safeguard critical information.Railways innovates, makes side berths comfortable“It has been observed that, in recent times, an alarming increase has been seen in the number of breaches/attempted breaches to ICT infrastructure of Govt Organisations. The Government of India, at the highest level, is also seized of the need for adequately and appropriately securing the ICT infrastructure,” the Railway Board said in the order, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.“It has, therefore, been decided that certain strength of officials from each Railway Unit with aptitude in ICT hardware, software, networking and compliances may be identified for forming the group for that Unit, to begin with. This group would work under the overall supervision of the nominated CISO (chief information security officer) of the Railway Unit,” the order stated. Southern Railway extends travel relaxation for women passengers in Chennai suburban trainsThe PM, during a presentation on the National Cyber Security Strategy 2020 on September 1, said: “Every ministry has some personnel with technical aptitudes. These are to be identified and trained in cyber security courses within six months. These should then form the cyber security nucleus of that ministry.”In recent times, the railways has had to deal with a slew of cases in which illegal applications were used to book tickets, bypassing the railway firewall. While many such rackets have been busted by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) , newer technology replace those.In November, a meeting was convened by the secretary (Security) in the Cabinet secretariat to firm up the roadmap for implementation of the PM’s directive, the order from the Railway Board stated.According to the minutes of the meeting on the National Cyber Security Strategy 2020, reviewed by HT, these officials will be trained in both practical and theoretical aspects of cyber security through a course prepared by the ministry of electronics and information technology of around six to eight hours. For advanced training, officers who are technically qualified or and have a requisite aptitude for cyber security or information technology will be identified.The training according to the note should enable officers to “troubleshoot”.The Railway Board has also allotted nominations for each railway unit. While the zonal railways have been assigned eight such officers each for generic training and four for the advanced courses, railway public sector undertakings have four each nominated for its regular training courses and two for advanced ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-troubleshooters-to-help-fight-cybersecurity-breaches/story-VAoin5KqG4Fv2oqYI8cx3H.html
14-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||A crowded outdoor vegetable market in Chennai, the HQ of a Muslim missionary group in Delhi, Onam celebrations in Kerala, Ganesh Chaturthi festivities in Mumbai — all ended up being super-spreader events by causing a subsequent spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in their respective cities. Indeed, in every country in the world, events and gatherings of this nature — from parties to a large motorcycle rally to even a biotech conference — have all been super-spreader events. Yet, over the past two months, India has bucked the trend. Govt made record payments under MGNREGS this yearThe elections in Bihar, a state with a population of at least 120 million, witnessed several large rallies and meetings. A review of video footage of these meetings and rallies shows poor Covid-19 safety protocols — not everyone is seen wearing masks, and there is no social distancing. Scenes from some of the large rallies by popular political leaders show tens of thousands of people crowding together, displaying behaviour that is all social and no distancing. Yet, Bihar did not see a spike after these meetings. Sure, the state continues to rely almost exclusively on rapid antigen tests — these are unreliable — but there has been no spike in deaths that points to a corresponding surge in unrecorded cases.As on December 12, Bihar had seen 1,317 deaths and recorded 242,748 cases. That translates into a case fatality rate of 0.54%. The corresponding numbers at the national level were 143,073 and 9,857,345, for a case fatality rate of 1.45%. If Bihar’s fatality rate were the same as the country’s, it would have seen 3,520 deaths to date — and 2,203 deaths are not easily hidden even in a state like Bihar. And anecdotally, there hasn’t been enough evidence of this happening in the state.Fifth NFHS shows malnutrition and obesity on the riseSure, given patchy record keeping in most parts of India, it will be months before data on overall deaths in 2020 can be compared with that in 2019 (or a long-term average) to see whether there is an unexplained spike from unknown reasons. These deaths can then be attributed to Covid-19. This is how, early in the pandemic, The New York Times and the Financial Times found an under-reporting in deaths in many countries. A similar study in India will have to wait. It’s very likely there has been an under-reporting of deaths in most Indian states, but we have no way of knowing the magnitude of this (right now), except to recognise that this has not been significant enough to show up in death records (however patchy these are) or be noticed from a spike in burials or cremations.Cases are a different issue. I have reasoned in past installments of the column that India’s infection death rate (number of deaths to total number of infections) could be 0.1%, which would mean that the country has seen 143 million coronavirus disease infections to date, with Bihar seeing 1.3 million of them.Returning to the issue of super-spreader events, the elections in Bihar are not the only ones to have bucked the trend. So have Durga Puja and Diwali. Centre plans awareness drive for vaccine doubtersThis is something that definitely merits further study — it’s the kind of thing the Indian Council of Medical Research must be doing — because it could shed light on the current and, more importantly, future trajectory of the coronavirus disease in the country.Equally study-worthy (and I have written about this before) are the reasons behind Bihar and Uttar Pradesh’s low Covid-19 numbers, something that can’t be entirely explained by the adequacy of testing, the kind of tests used (UP does far more RT-PCR tests than Bihar and many other states), or poor documentation. Experts believe that Africa’s low Covid-19 numbers can be attributed to a younger demography and exposure to their infectious diseases (including those caused by other coronaviruses). That could be true of UP and Bihar as well — both their populations had a median age of just around 21 in 2011, almost the same as Kenya’s currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-RRa2fyNDkzpdaZ3rw58xKL.html
14-12-2020||India||Govt made record payments under MGNREGS this year||In the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre has made a record payment to workers enrolled in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in the first eight months of the current financial year, leaving it with just 10% of he money allocated for it to spend in the final four months.The rural development ministry, which administers the world’s biggest job guarantee scheme, was allocated Rs 84,900 crore in two instalments to fund MGNREGS in the year ending in March 2021. Of this amount, it had spent Rs 76,800 crore in April-November. The amount spent in the same period last year was about Rs 50,000 crore. Central schemes help country fare better on wellness index: Survey In fact, the ministry has spent 12 percentage points more than the allocation made in the budget and has the highest expenditure rate among all Central government ministries, shows the Controller General of Accounts website. As the expenditure report shows, a finance ministry official privy to the matter said, there would be no shortage of funds for MGNREGS and additional money will be provided to it as and when needed.Demand for work under the scheme, which mandates at least 100 days of manual work a year for at least one member of every rural household, surged in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic and the following lockdown, which triggered an exodus of workers from the cities to the countryside.A MGNREGS tracker released on Thursday said the expenditure on the scheme was on account of 10 million more households getting work this year (until November), a 243% increase in person days (work) generated and higher wages paid to workers as compared to the previous year.“The total active job cards this year was 90.2 million and of them 83.09% sought work,” the tracker prepared by People Action for Employment Guarantee, a network of NGOs, said. Finance ministry report says economy witnessing V-shaped recoveryAlthough the demand peaked in May, it slowed in the subsequent months as workers from poorer states such as Odisha, Bihar and Jharkhand started returning to cities. The tracker said the average work provided to individual households was less than in the previous years. Till November end, an average household got 41.59 days of work as compared to 48.4 in 2019-20 and 50.88 in 2018-19. Only 1.9 million households got work for the 100 days mandated under the law compared to 4.06 million last year. Of them, 210,000 were in Rajasthan and 350,000 in Andhra Pradesh, which also dipped into their own funds to ensure NREGA workers received money on time. The number of households getting 100 days of work was the lowest in Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu among all Indian states. The report also said that around 13% of the 75 million households who demanded work under the scheme got none. “The data shows that there was surge for NREGA work demand due to pandemic and the government failed to meet the demand,” the report said. Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand were the two states where one-fourth of households demanding work were not engaged in manual work even for a single day, the data showed. Rajasthan and West Bengal did well to keep the unmet demand lower than the national average. Jharkhand’s rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik said the state was one of the best performers. “We have been stagnating around 70 million man days for past three years. But, we have achieved 77.7 million man days against the target of 80 million,” she said. What the Indian markets don’t tell you | AnalysisRajasthan’s MGNREGS commissioner PC Kishan said the scheme’s implementation in the state is demand-driven, hence unmet demand was less and employment provided higher than the previous years. Nikhil Dey, a former member of the MGNREGS Council, said, “We would have been happy if more people would have got at least 100 days of work.... That did not happen and it proves government inefficiency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-made-record-payments-under-mgnregs-this-year/story-njnNUnJmcyDsPG356cBaJM.html
14-12-2020||India||‘Regional language reform has been long-awaited’: Union education minister tells HT||The move to impart technical education in regional languages from 2021 is aimed at ensuring equity, especially with rural students in mind, but “there will not be any compromise on the quality of the IITs”, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told HT’s Amandeep Shukla in an email interview. Acknowledging that there were concerns from some quarters, Pokhriyal emphasised that the decisions will evolve from a consultative process and only implemented in those IITs that are ready. Here are the excerpts from the interview.Q) You have formed a task force on the teaching of technical engineering in regional languages. Are Indian institutions prepared for such a change?A) I believe that the reform has been long-awaited by the higher education institutes and students who study in regional languages. Our vision emanates from the National Education Policy (NEP) which recommends that “More HEIs, and more programmes in higher education, will use the mother tongue/local language as a medium of instruction, and/or offer programmes bilingually”. The Official Language Commission, Emotional Integration Committee, National Education Policy (1968), National Education Policy (1986/1992) -- each report, while recommending the use of Indian language as the medium of instruction, also pronounced that Indian languages are a sine qua non (something that is essential if you want to achieve a particular thing) for the educational and cultural development of our nation, enunciating the notion of ‘Equity in Education’.Education minister asks school leaders to make efforts for effective implementation of NEPI am very encouraged with the support of many leading thinkers, intellectuals and even certain directors of IITs and NITs towards the initiative. We have also decided to conduct the JEE exam in the regional languages so that students will not be at a disadvantage because of language.This reform will assist talented students from rural areas in studying in their languages without being alienated. This policy initiative will positively benefit students from rural areas and far-flung areas.Many IITs such as IIT Kharagpur and IIT Roorkee have already undertaken steps to promote the use of regional languages in their teaching in the first year. IIT Kharagpur has started with the development of a policy framework for regional language education not only at schools but also in technical institutes so that language does not become a barrier to learning.Also read: Date for next round of talks with farmers soon - Union ministerQ) Some heads of leading institutions have expressed doubts, reservations or even caution against the move. How do you plan to move ahead?A) One of the main concerns is regarding rankings and quality of the IITs. I would reiterate that “there will not be any compromise with the quality of the IITs”. We want to make IITs world-class. We have declared many IITs as Institutes of Eminence (IOE).Till now, the ministry of education has adopted the approach that all implementation modalities will be taken through a consultative process. The implementation modalities of this decision will also be taken after proper deliberations and consultations. I have taken the lead by holding the first meeting to seek suggestions and understand the issues involved. In this meeting, it was decided to set up a task force to examine all the issues threadbare. Now that the task force is set up, there should not be any apprehensions.Q) Many of our institutions have made a name for themselves globally by teaching in English. How will you ensure this value remains intact? That there is no dilution of standards.A) We are creating an enabling environment for students who are studying in regional languages to excel in technical courses. I think the overall quality will improve because when students understand concepts in their mother tongue, they can think better. We never said English would go away, and we are only saying that in addition to English, an environment should be created in higher education institutes where students from regional languages can also excel.Multiple JEE (Main) in a year could be possibleMany countries have excellent educational systems, and they do not use English as a medium of instruction. If we can educate our students in the mother tongue also, along with English, we will ensure that we can make global citizens who at the same time will be vocal for local.Q) Is it possible that such a step can be taken from the next session itself? Which are the languages in which courses can commence?A) The implementation of regional language in the technical courses will happen in a phase-wise manner, starting from the year 2021. This initiative will be implemented in those IITs which are ready. We understand that there are a lot of issues starting with quality of textbooks, reference material, training the faculty to teach in their mother tongue, using technology to connect various institutes where faculty are available to teach in mother tongue, etc. The task force will outlay the detailed implementation plan of the same.Q) There has been a demand to hold the Common Admission Test (CAT) exam in Hindi and other languages as well. What are your views on it?Also read: ‘Will enforce only CAA,’ says Vijayvargiya as BJP takes U-turn on NRC in BengalA) I am glad that IIMs have already taken the lead by starting a deliberation on conducting the CAT exam in Schedule VIII languages. I believe that CAT applicants will appreciate the language option when made available.Q) The academic session 2020-21 has been badly affected by the pandemic. How are you planning the next academic session? What would the next year of school or college be like for students?A) I have been conducting rigorous, participative and inclusive consultation with students, teachers and parents. I have invited their suggestion and concerns and will be answering them on 17th December.Pokhriyal, UAE counterpart discuss bilateral cooperation in education sectorQ) Is it possible that in the coming years, there can be purely online schools?A) No proposal at present is under examination for pure online schools. Digital or online learning cannot replace the classroom teaching-learning process, particularly at foundational and primary levels. However, blended learning will be the new normal.Q) A group of ministers headed by your cabinet colleague Dharmendra Pradhan has recently suggested distributing devices to students to overcome the digital divide. Is it possible that the Centre will come to the aid of students who are facing difficulties?A) The GoM is examining various issues related to e-learning. The Ministry of Education will be strengthening the ICT facilities in upper primary, secondary and sr. secondary government schools following the recommendations of the NEP. We are making provision of Smart Board across the government secondary and senior secondary schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/regional-language-reform-has-been-long-awaited-union-education-minister-tells-ht/story-x3nhqBhnIxK4X0YMe82gxO.html
14-12-2020||India||Date for next round of talks with protesting farmers soon: Union minister||The government will soon call farmers’ leaders for the next round of talks to end the deadlock over the farm laws, Union minister Kailash Choudhary said on Sunday as agitators intensified their protest against the central legislation with road blockades and a plan for a one-day hunger strike on Monday. There have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and representatives of 40 farmers’ unions so far and they have remained inconclusive.The sixth round was cancelled after farmers’ leaders rejected the government’s draft proposal to amend certain provisions of the farm laws and declined to participate in the meeting. The government has made it clear that it is ready for discussion anytime. But the farmer unions have said they would come for talks only if the laws are repealed.“The meeting will be called soon. We are ready for discussion. But the date has not been finalised,” Chaudhary, the minister of state for agriculture, told PTI. “We have full confidence. In the next meeting, the issue will be resolved,” he said and added that the government will find “some solution” to end the impasse.Also Watch | Tomar meets Uttarakhand farmers; Shashi Tharoor joins protesting MPs Also read | Some just oppose, weaken the country: Tomar’s latest jab at oppn over farmers’ stirChaudhary said Union home minister Amit Shah and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who is leading negotiations with protesting farmers’ unions to break the deadlock over the farm laws, are holding discussions on the issue. Tomar had met Shah earlier in the day.Farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The central government has said that the three farm laws will bring in major reforms in the agriculture sector, will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. Also read | Modi govt to deal sternly with ‘Tukde Tukde gang’, says Union law ministerHowever, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that they will pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system and do away with the mandis or agricultural markets, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.Leaders of farmers’ unions also said on Sunday that protests will be held in all district headquarters to press their demand for the repeal of the new farm laws even as more protesters headed for Delhi with a large group blocking the key Delhi-Jaipur national highway when it was stopped by police on Haryana-Rajasthan border.Farmers’ leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said while addressing a press conference at the Singhu border that they will observe the hunger strike at their respective places between 8am to 5pm on Monday. “Also, dharnas will be staged at all district headquarters across the country. The protest will go on as usual,” he told reporters.Also read | Tharoor joins protesting MPs in Delhi, says govt failed nation and farmers“There are groups that are ending protest and saying they are in favour of laws passed by the government. We want to clarify that they are not associated with us. They have been hand-in-glove with the government, they conspired to sabotage our protest. The government is hatching a conspiracy to derail the ongoing farmers’ protest,” Chaduni said, according to PTI.Also read: The politics of farm protests | HT EditorialDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said he too will observe a day-long fast on Monday and appealed to the central government “to shun ego and scrap the legislation”.Earlier in the day, Union agriculture minister Tomar accused opposition parties of running a propaganda against the new farm laws and said these legislations “may cause difficulty for some in the short term” but will help farmers in the long run. Tomar made the comments while addressing a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand who extended their support to the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/date-for-next-round-of-talks-with-protesting-farmers-soon-union-minister/story-0DNnH2wNFOTwy3BkZZndqN.html
14-12-2020||India||Some just oppose, weaken the country: Tomar’s latest jab at oppn over farmers’ stir||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday accused opposition parties of running a propaganda against the new farm laws and said these legislations “may cause difficulty for some in the short term” but will help farmers in the long run. Tomar, who is leading negotiations with protesting farmers’ unions to break the deadlock over the laws, was addressing a delegation of more than 100 farmers from Uttarakhand who extended their support to the laws.Tomar said the government faced opposition when it revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. It also faced opposition when it brought the amended citizenship law as well as over the Ram Temple issue. “When the agricultural reforms were brought, there was opposition to this too... There are some people who just oppose and weaken the country. This has become their nature,” the agriculture minister said.Also Watch | Tomar meets Uttarakhand farmers; Shashi Tharoor joins protesting MPs Also read | Arvind Kejriwal says will fast in support of farmers on MondayThe minister said that discussion has been going on for many years on agricultural sector reforms. “Unfortunately, the previous governments who wanted to reform were not able to it. Since they could not try, they did get the credit,” he added. “Manmohan Singh Ji (former prime minister) tried many times but could not do. Today when it is implemented, propaganda is being spread,” Tomar said.Tomar stressed reforms are necessary for a new India. “When reforms are undertaken it will benefit farmers in the long run. But in the short run, some may face difficulty. We know we can achieve no gain without difficulties,” the minister said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi doesn’t bring reform or schemes for the sake of current impact alone but for long-term benefit, Tomar said. The Prime Minister, Tomar said, has fulfilled the long-pending demand of farmers. “Any good government or good leader is one who does such work that not only ensures the country’s safety for now but also boosts growth in the next hundred years,” he said.Also read | New laws meant to make farmers prosperous: ModiTomar, along with minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash, met Union home minister Amit Shah earlier in the day as the deadlock between the central government and protesting farmers on the three new farm laws continued for the 18th day and threatened to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The Delhi-Jaipur highway was partially opened post 2pm after it was blocked as farmers began a march from Shahjahanpur of Alwar district on the Rajasthan-Haryana border as part of their protests. Police in Haryana did not allow them to march to the national capital resulting in the highway blockade.Farmers’ unions, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, say that the new laws will lead to the dismantling of the MSP system under which government agencies buy their crop at an assured price. The Centre, in its proposal to farmers on Wednesday, had said it will give a written assurance that the MSP system will remain and also redress their other key concerns. The unions, however, are demanding complete rollback of the central laws and have threatened to intensify their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-just-oppose-weaken-the-country-tomar-s-latest-jab-at-oppn-over-farmers-stir/story-KAsYIpbgknDZ1N9aVoIoRK.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Updates: Tripura CM says PM Modi freed farmers, urges protesters to not be trapped by communists||The Delhi Police has tightened up security at several border points in the national capital by deploying more personnel and placing multi-layered barricades. The protests against the central government’s new agricultural reforms has entered day 18. Protesting farmers said that major highways linking Delhi will be blocked from today adding they would sit on a hunger strike on Monday. Farmers near the Jaisinghpur Kheda area in Rewari at the Rajasthan-Haryana border would begin their march towards Delhi as more and more protesters would join them. The following developments come after leaders of farmer groups rejected the Centre’s offer to amend the agriculture reforms and said they would settle for nothing less than the removal of reforms. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an interview to Hindustan Times said that Centre was ready for talks and hoped that genuine farmer unions would come forward to find a solution through dialogue. At least five rounds of talks have been held between the farmers and union ministers which remained inconclusive. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing the annual meet of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) on Saturday defended the reforms by saying that they would help draw investment in the agriculture sector and benefit farmers. The new legislation, which was approved in the previous Parliament session, gives farmers an additional option outside of the designated mandis to buy or sell their crops, he added. Follow live updates on Day 18 of farmers’ agitation: Women join farmers’ protest at Yamuna Expressway, block it brieflyA large number of women descended upon Yamuna Expressway on Sunday and blocked it near its 62-km milestone to extend support to farmer leaders protesting against the three new farm laws, police said, reports PTI.Tripura CM says PM Modi freed farmers, urges protesters to not be trapped by communistsIn 2018 PM Narendra Modi freed the farmers of Tripura. Today farmers here are moving towards doubling income & becoming self-dependent. I appeal protestors in Delhi to visit Tripura and speak to our farmers to know the real face of communists, said Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb, reports ANI.Punjabi actor Gurpreet Ghugi visits Singhu border to meet protesting farmers Delhi: Punjabi actor Gurpreet Ghuggi at Singhu border to meet protesting farmers. He says, "This fight is of the 'zameerdar' (one with a conscience) The three farm laws have been rejected by the farmers, so you (Centre) should also reject it now." pic.twitter.com/oVKQK2LwJWPeople with vested interest start such protests, says ex-Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta KumarSome middlemen, commission agents & political leaders are running this movement. Those with vested interests start such movements in the country. The farm laws are in favour of the farmers: BJP leader and former Himachal Pradesh CM Shanta Kumar on farmers' protest pic.twitter.com/ydso8MKSwVNCP asks PM to clarify remarks of Goyal, Danve on farmers’ stirThe NCP on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clarify on the claims of some Union ministers that the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new agri laws has the backing of Pakistan, China and Maoists, reports PTI.Farmers from Uttarakhand who met Tomar were brought by political leader: Farmers’ leader 90 people out of those who met Union Agriculture Minister today have nothing to do with farming. 10 farmers who were present in the meeting have other businesses too. They have been brought here from Uttarakhand by a political leader, said farmer leader Jasbir Singh, reports ANI. Agriculture minister Tomar expresses gratitude to farmers from Uttarakhand supporting new lawsToday farmers from Uttarakhand met me in support of the Farm Laws. I would like to thank the farmers who understood the laws, expressed their views and supported it, said Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports ANI.BKU leader asks to be vigilant to detect wrong elements among farmersWe need to keep an eye so that no wrong elements are among us. All our youngsters need to remain vigilant. If govt wants to talk then we will set a committee and take further decision said Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union at Singhu border, reports ANI.Working group of AIKSC reiterates its stance, stands with farmers against new lawsThe Working Group of AIKSCC reiterates that it firmly stands with the demands of the farmer organisations agitating in unison for the repeal of 3 anti-farmer acts and legal guarantee of Minimum Support Price: Statement https://t.co/JoYEnBd258Farmers to go on hunger strike tomorrow: Farmers’ leaderFarmers will be on one-day hunger strike from 8 am to 5 pm tomorrow. Dharnas will be held at all district headquarters said farmer leader Gurnaam Singh Chidoni at Singhu border, reports ANI.Uttarakhand farmers supporting new laws meet agriculture minister TomarFarmers from Uttarakhand meet Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, to extend their support to three farm laws. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury and Uttarakhand Education Minister Arvind Pandey also present, reports ANI.Arvind Kejriwal takes a jibe at BJP on calling farmers anti-national Some central govt ministers & BJP leaders are saying that farmers are anti-national. Many ex-servicemen, national & international players, singers, celebrities, doctors, traders are supporting the farmers. Want to ask BJP are all these people also anti-nationals?: Arvind KejriwalArvind Kejriwal says will fast in support of farmers tomorrow, urges AAP workers to do the sameI appeal to AAP workers and supporters and the public to observe one-day fast tomorrow in support of farmers. I will also fast tomorrow, said Delhi CM and Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind KejriwalPunjab DIG (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar says can’t support protest when on dutyFarmers have been protesting peacefully for long, nobody heard their problems. I’m from a disciplined force & as per rules, I can’t support a protest if am on duty. I’ve to decide about my job first then decide further course of action, said Punjab DIG (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar, reports ANI.Agriculture Minister Tomar meets Amit Shah amidst farmers’ stirUnion ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Som Parkash met Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday amidst farmers’ protests against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, officials said, reports PTI. Prominent people protesting farms laws for sake of opposing: Union minister Ravi Prasad Prominent people who're protesting farm laws today, are doing it just for the sake of opposing the laws. They themselves earlier recognised the need for these reforms. We will sensitize people on how the farm laws will be beneficial to farmers: Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union Law Min pic.twitter.com/fnm1bMxf7VUnion Minister of State for Agriculture Chaudhary expects meeting with farmers’ representatives soon हम किसानों और उनके प्रतिनिधियों के संपर्क में हैं और मुझे लगता है कि जल्द ही अगली बैठक होगी: केंद्रीय कृषि राज्य मंत्री कैलाश चौधरी #FarmLaws https://t.co/ke4ti6HqMDAAP workers to observe fast to protest against farm laws, says Gopal RaiDelhi’s AAP convenor and Cabinet minister Gopal Rai said on Sunday said that party workers would observe fast to protest against the farm reforms, according to news agency ANI.  Responding to the farmers' call Aam Admi Party (AAP) has decided that all party workers will observe fast to protest against the farm laws. At the party headquarters, in ITO, MLAs & councillors will keep a group fast from 10am-5pm: Gopal Rai, AAP leader & Delhi Minister pic.twitter.com/7vU90UhCdkPunjab DIG (Prisons) resigns in support of protestersPunjab Deputy Inspector General (Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar on Sunday said that he has resigned from service in support of the protesting farmers adding that he tendered his resignation to the Punjab government on Saturday.  Punjab DIG(Prisons) Lakhminder Singh Jakhar writes to State Principal Secy Home requesting 'to be treated as prematurely retired from service'; says "I'd like to inform you of my considered decision to stand with my farmer brothers who're peacefully protesting against Farm laws."Farmers at Rajasthan-Haryana border to begin march towards DelhiFarmers protesting near Jaisinghpur Kheda area in Rewari at the Rajasthan-Haryana border are waiting for more farmers to arrive in order to begin their march towards the national capital. “Today more people and unions are coming from Rajasthan at the border area. After gathering the crowd we will move towards Delhi. Among other things, we want the three laws to be repealed,” Banwari Lal, a Convener of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasabha told news agency ANI. Centre’s farm laws are suicide laws, says Cong leader Hanumantha RaoCongress leader V Hanumantha Rao on Sunday said that the three agricultural reforms introduced by the Central government are suicide laws adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is just trying to mislead the farmers sitting on strike. Climate activist Licypriya Kangujam comes out in support of farmers’ agitationLicypriya Kangujam, a nine-year-old climate activist came out in support of the farmers protesting against the agricultural reforms and said that millions of climate activists were with the farmers. “Our leaders must listen to the voice of the farmers. We want climate justice for our farmers and also should take out a permanent solution to solve the ongoing farmers’ crisis at the earliest,” she added. Amid protests, farmers open makeshift gym at Singhu borderProtesting farmers at the Singhu border in the national capital opened up a gymnasium and invited others as well to use the facility. “We have brought all the gym equipment and till the time central government does not agree on our demand, will do exercise at this location only,” Jaspreet Singh, a farmer told news agency ANI. Khalistan supporters vandalise Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in United StatesKhalistani supporters vandalised the statue of Mahatma Gandhi during a protest organised by Sikh-American youths in support of farmers who have been protesting against the farm reforms in India. The Indian Embassy condemned the “mischievous act” by hooligans masquerading as protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-dec-13-2020/story-3oUu3XORaTc4hnp9PXR05H.html
14-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest Updates: AAP to lay siege to district headquarters across Punjab on December 14||The farmers’ agitation against the Central government’s agricultural reforms has entered day 16. Farmer unions positioned at borders in the national capital have threatened to block railway tracks across the country if the reforms are not taken down. Unions also said that they would occupy toll plazas and block the Jaipur-Delhi Highway on Saturday and organise protests from December 14.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again appealed to the farmers to resume talks and said the government has no ego and will always be open for dialogue. “Any law is never entirely bad or good. Therefore, we have come out with amendments on provisions which during discussions the farmers had apprehensions about,” Tomar said. He added said the government remains committed to the well-being of farmers and had brought these reforms to increase incomes and raise the share of agriculture in the GDP. Meanwhile, the number of farmers at Delhi-Haryana borders is going up everyday with unions urging more and more famers to join the agitation in order to increase pressure on the government for removing the new reforms which were introduced in September. Follow live updates here: AAP to lay siege to district headquarters across Punjab on December 14In solidarity with the call given by farmers, AAP would lay siege to district headquarters across Punjab on December 14th against the new agrarian laws introduced by Modi government at the Centre: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)Farmers’ union moves Supreme Court, says new laws will make them vulnerable to corporate greedFarmers’ union moves Supreme Court against farm lawsBhartiya Kisan Union approaches the Supreme Court against the three farm laws passed by the Parliament, claiming the laws will make farmers “vulnerable to corporate greed.”Yet to receive a proposal of talks from farmers, says TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said that the Centre is yet to receive a proposal of talks from the protesting farmers.  We are yet to receive a proposal of talks from them. We are ready as soon as we receive a proposal from them: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/WZSFgE6NwW Repeal farm laws, don’t want amendments, says farmer leaderFarmer leader Baldev Singh on Friday told news agency ANI that farmers don’t want any amendments to farm laws and want them removed adding the reforms were introduced in interest of big corporations. “We don’t want amendments to farm laws. These laws are in the interest of big companies and they should be repealed. We are blocking the Delhi-Jaipur road on December 12,” Singh added. No relief for vehicular movement in Delhi as farmers’ stir enters Day 16The Delhi Traffic Police on Friday said that the Tikri and Dhansa borders would continue to remain closed for all traffic movement as the farmers’ agitation against the central government’s farm laws entered day 16. “Traffic Alert:Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrian movement,” it tweeted. Amritsar-based eatery offers meals to protesters at Ghazipur border An Amritsar based eatery is providing meals to the agitating farmers at the Ghazipur border. This comes after a free medical camp was set up at the Singhu border due to the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak in the country. Jagga, head of the eatery told news agency ANI food will be provided to the farmers till they are at the border. Two cops leading police force at Singhu border test Covid +veDelhi Police on Friday said that two IPS officers leading the police force at the Singhu border where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws have tested positive for the novel coronavirus (Covid-19). A DCP and an Additional DCP have also been diagnosed with the disease, it added.  Two IPS officers, who were leading police force at Singhu border where farmers are protesting against three farm laws, have tested positive for COVID-19. A DCP & an Additional DCP have also been diagnosed with the disease: Delhi PoliceSAD condemns Centre’s refusal to take back farm lawsShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the Centre’s stand of not taking back the three farm laws and that the press conference held by the Centre proved that it was against the country’s ‘annadatta’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-hNTJZOXD0KaaSVDAG0IqcN.html
