15-12-2020||India||Minor girl delivers baby, brother among 4 booked for rape in Raj||Jaipur: Police on Monday booked four people, including the victim’s brother, for allegedly raping a minor girl in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district. The matter came to light after the girl went to a hospital in Ajmer, where she gave birth to a child on Sunday night. “The girl is 14 years old and studying in Class 10. She is unmarried. The girl and her family reached the Zanana Hospital, where the doctors, after safely delivering her baby, informed us that the mother is a minor,” said Narotam Singh, station house officer of the Padukalan police station. Singh added that the minor and her child were under police and medical supervision. Based on the girl’s statements, her brother and three other villagers were booked under the stringent Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). “When the doctors and female police personnel talked to the minor about what happened, she was hesitant in revealing anything. But we took her into confidence, after which she told us that her brother, who is also minor, a boy living in her neighbourhood, and two other relatives, had raped her multiple times,” Singh added. The SHO added that the condition of the victim and her child is stable, and their DNA samples have been taken for further investigation. Another police official familiar with the probe said the parents were initially lying to the police about involvement of the alleged accused. The Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken cognisance of the case. Its chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal on Tuesday asked the Nagaur superintendent of police to share detail report of the incident and action taken against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-delivers-baby-brother-among-4-booked-for-rape-in-raj/story-IQhMqlYtlUNwKzwwbD8KuO.html
15-12-2020||India||TMC rebel Adhikari may join BJP during Shah’s Bengal visit||Kolkata: Former cabinet minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Suvendu Adhikari is likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Adhikari’s aides and BJP leaders said the decks were being cleared for his formal admission into the party. There has been strong speculation that he would switch over to the BJP since he challenged the TMC leadership last month and peace talks failed to bridge the differences. Shah will be in Bengal on December 19 and 20. He will address rallies in at least three districts, including East Midnapore where Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and hold an assembly seat. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown. Adhikari was elected to the assembly from the Nandigram seat. “It has been decided so far that neither Shah nor party president J P Nadda will hand over the party flag to Adhikari in public to induct him into the BJP. This formality will be done by either Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh or some senior national leader,” a senior state BJP leader told HT on Tuesday. BJP’s national vice-president Mukul Roy, who left the TMC in 2018 and was instrumental in making many ruling party leaders switch camps, said: “Suvendu will join the BJP. It is only a matter of time.” The party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya called up Adhikari to wish him on his birthday. “It was a courtesy call. I wish him a long life,” Vijayvargiya told the media. Several old leaders of the state BJP, however, sounded skeptical and said they would speak on Adhikari only after he joins the party. “Suvendu had already made a deal with the BJP before we started the talks. Probably he has been promised the chief minister’s chair. He is extremely ambitious. But let him win the election first. We are ready,” TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy, who engaged in reconciliatory talks with Adhikari, told HT on Tuesday night. The 50-year-old rebel leader, who resigned from the cabinet last month and relinquished two administrative posts, is planning to visit Delhi on Thursday to talk to the BJP national leadership. His aides said he may resign from the assembly before joining the BJP. Adhikari avoided the media. TMC leaders said he did not contact the assembly speaker till 8 pm on Tuesday. Senior TMC leaders said in private that Adhikari was specifically unhappy with Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in by the chief minister after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Adhikari made significant remarks at a non-political programme on Tuesday morning. “Those who insulted me will face the same fate as Anil Basu, Benoy Konar and Laxman Seth when people cast their votes in a few months,” said Adhikari. The three CPI(M) leaders he mentioned faced electoral defeat and disciplinary action as well. “We are Indians first and Bengalis later…. We need governance that will be for the people, of the people and by the people. It should not be for the party, of the party and by the party,” said Adhikari at a programme held in Haldia to pay homage to noted freedom fighter Satish Samanta. Though Adhikari did not take names it was apparent that his target was the TMC as Mamata Banerjee and other leaders have recently started calling the BJP’s national leaders “outsiders” and accusing the latter of being ignorant about Bengal’s culture and heritage. “One must remember that the land agitation at Nandigram was a people’s movement and not that of an individual or any party…. I do not care about plum posts. Take a look. So many people have come here today although I have left the cabinet, ” Adhikari added. This statement was significant because Adhikari took the lead in steering the agitation against the acquisition of farmland which started after 14 villagers were killed in police firing at Nandigram on March 14, 2007. The land movement, which was held under the banner of Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), a platform against land acquisition that even the Maoists supported covertly, helped Banerjee overthrow the Left Front government. The chief minister, who addressed rallies at Jalpaiguri and Cooch Behar in north Bengal on Tuesday, sent a signal to dissident leaders without naming Adhikari. “There is no place (in TMC) for those who seek opportunity in other camps after being in the government for a decade,” she said. Incidentally, Mihir Goswami, the TMC legislator from the Cooch Behar South constituency, joined the BJP in Delhi on November 27, the day Adhikari stepped down from the cabinet in which he held three departments, including transport. “Adhikari will announce himself when he will join the BJP. The TMC and Prashant Kishor will soon witness many more joining the saffron camp because of the policies being followed by the ruling party,” said Kanishka Panda, an Adhikari aide who was expelled from the TMC two days ago. He was the TMC’s general secretary in East Midnapore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-rebel-adhikari-may-join-bjp-during-shah-s-bengal-visit/story-C1jzYMT6GH0RGPdI2alX5M.html
15-12-2020||India||Pranab’s son, daughter at odds over his new memoir||NEW Delhi: Days after publishing house Rupa announced the planned launch next year of late former President Pranab Mukherjee’s final volume of memoirs, his son and former Lok Sabha member Abhijit Mukherjee has demanded that the publication be stopped until he approves it, triggering a war of words on Twitter with his younger sister Sharmishta Mukherjee , who supported the launch and mocked him for getting the title of the book wrong. In a series of tweets on Tuesday, Mukherjee said the excerpts from the book that were released by the publisher were “motivated” and the former President would not have approved of them.Hindustan Times reached out to executives at the publishing house, but they declined to comment publicly on the matter for now. On condition of anonymity, one executive told Hindustan Times that President Mukherjee had approved not just the final draft of the manuscript, but also the cover design a day before he was admitted to hospital.Mukherjee was admitted in hospital on August 10 for a surgery to remove a clot in his brain . A former Congress politician who served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017, he also tested positive for the coronavirus disease on being admitted to the hospital. Mukherjee died on August 31 at the age of 84.Rupa released some excerpts of The Presidential Years on Friday in which he blames Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for the party’s devastating loss in the 2014 general elections. In the book, he also writes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi employed an autocratic style of governance during his first term in power.“While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary,” he wrote in the book, according to the released excerpts. “Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government.”Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted: “I , the Son of the author of the Memoir “ The Presidential Memoirs “ request you to kindly stop the publication of the memoir as well as motivated excerpts which is already floating in certain media platforms without my written consent,” He addressed publisher Kapish Mehra to say: “Since my father is no more, I being his son want to go through the contents of the final copy of the book before its publication as I believe , had my father been alive today, he too would have done the same.He added: “request you to immediately stop its publication without my written consent till I go through its contents ! I have already sent you a detailed letter in this regard which will reach you soon.’’His sister also took to Twitter to support the launch of the memoirs, oppose his demand to stop its publication and mock hem gently.“I, daughter of the author of the memoir ‘The Presidential Years’, request my brother @ABHIJIT_LS not to create any unnecessary hurdles in publication of the last book written by our father,” she wrote on Twitter. “He completed the manuscript before he fell sick.The final draft contains my dad’s hand written notes & comments that have been strictly adhered to. The views expressed by him are his own & no one should try to stop it from being published for any cheap publicity. That would be the greatest disservice to our departed father ,’’ she wrote. ``Btw bro, the title of the book is ‘The Presidential Years’, not ‘The Presidential Memoirs’,’’ she concluded.A former official of Rashtrapati Bhawan who interacted with both during his presidency said the siblings shared “a difficult relationship’’. When her brother dismissed women protestors against the December 2012 gangrape and murder of a 23-year-old physiotherapy student as “dented and painted’’ women, Sharmishta Mukherjee was critical of him. And while Sharmishta Mukherjee stayed with her father in Rashtrapati Bhawan, Abhijeet Mukherjee would only visit the presidential residence, said the official, who didn’t want to be named..The book, due for publication early next year, is part four of Mukherjee’s memoirs, the first of which was published in 2014, when he was still in Rashtrapati Bhawan. The executive quoted above said the former President had first signed an agreement with Rupa in 2013. The latest book contract was signed in 2018, he said, adding: “Mr Abhijit Mukherjee was nowhere in the picture.”.Another officialwho worked with the former President confirmed to Hindustan Times that Mukherjee had approved the latest volume’s publication, adding that Sharmishta Mukherjee, who is also a Congress member, was much more in the loop on the contents of the book than her brother. The Congress Party has not responded so far to the published excerpts of the memoirs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-s-son-daughter-at-odds-over-his-new-memoir/story-GttIyQ1uc49DBCqWSqt93H.html
15-12-2020||India||Farmers misguided by Oppn, laws fulfil their demands: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday attacked opposition parties and farmers’ organisations spearheading protests against three new laws enacted by his government to open up trade in agriculture, saying farmers were being misled about the reforms.Modi expressed surprise at the protests triggered by the reforms his government introduced in September. Some opposition parties and farmers’ unions had all along demanded such measures, which couldn’t be implemented in the past, he said at Dhordo in Kutch, Gujarat. “The farmers are being misled about the agricultural reforms. They are being fooled into believing that others will occupy their lands,” Modi said in Hindi. “These reforms are exactly the same that farmers’ organisations and even the opposition have been asking over the years,” he added. A massive farmers’ protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8 after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. Farmers, mainly from north Indian states, have massed at the entry points to the national capital.Reacting to Modi’s comments, farmers’ unions camping on Delhi’s borders accused the government of lacking any sympathy for the farming community.“We elected the PM and gave him the power to speak and yet he didn’t speak for us in the past 20 days,” said Yudhvir Singh Sehrawat, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), Modi was in Kutch to lay the foundation stone for the world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a fully automated milk processing and packaging plant. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani accompanied him.In his speech, the Prime Minister said: “Those in the opposition and misleading farmers today were all for these very reforms during their rule, but they could not take a decision. Today, when the country has taken a historical step, they are misleading the farmers.” He added, “The government of India is always committed to the welfare of the farmers and we will keep on reassuring the farmers and addressing their concerns.” Modi interacted with local farmers, including Sikh cultivators who have been living near the Indo-Pakistan border in Kutch since Independence. Some 5,000 Sikh families live in and around the Lakhpat region. He also met representatives of a local self-help group. The Gujarat chief minister was also present. Asking researchers to look at Kutch as a case study, the Prime Minister recalled the devastating 2001 earthquake in the desert district and said the people had overcome the disaster to transform iit into one of the country’s fastest developing regions.“Everyone rose from the destruction caused by the quake and see where they have brought Kutch,” he said, and referred to the renewable energy park he launched. It is one of the world’s biggest renewable energy farms with a capacity to generate up to 30,000 MW of power. “Gujarat was among the earliest to work on strengthening solar energy capacities. Today, Kutch has the world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park. It is almost as big as Singapore and Bahrain. It is built on 70,000 hectares of land, larger than many big cities in the country,” the Prime Minister said.He added that India featured in the top three among 144 countries in the Clean Energy Investment rankings. Modi said: “The country has shown a path to the entire world and is leading the fight against climate change.”Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 70th death anniversary, the Prime Minister said Patel’s statue, built in Kevadia in Gujarat’s Narmada district, was a source of inspiration for the people of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-misguided-by-oppn-laws-fulfil-their-demands-pm/story-4Eh1a5UupHnJVF1vzljAFO.html
15-12-2020||India||India, UK discuss 10-yr roadmap to boost ties||New Delhi: India and the UK on Tuesday agreed on key elements of a 10-year roadmap to enhance their relationship and pledged to take forward talks on a free trade agreement against the backdrop of Britain looking to enhance its trade ties amid its troubled exit from the European Union (EU). During talks between visiting UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the two sides decided to work on common challenges and shared opportunities across the Indo-Pacific. Raab said Britain’s upcoming integrated strategic review will contain an “Indo-Pacific tilt” and there is “no stronger partner” in the East than India. The British side accepted the Indian government’s invitation to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations. Jaishankar said Johnson’s presence will symbolise a new phase of the relationship. This will be the sixth time a British leader will be the chief guest at the celebrations, and the honour was last extended to UK prime minister John Major in 1993. Tuesday’s four-hour-long discussions between the foreign ministers focused on enhanced cooperation in five areas – connecting people, trade, defence and security, climate change and health – and the two sides also discussed the situation in Afghanistan, evolution of the Indo-Pacific, developments in the Middle East and challenges posed by terrorism and radicalism. “We agreed on key elements of a 10-year UK-India roadmap so that we can deliver a step change in ambition for the relationship between our two countries. We look forward to taking this forward in 2021, including through UK’s presidency of the G7 and presidency of the UN climate change conference,” Raab said. People familiar with developments said the India-China border standoff figured during discussions on the regional security situation. With the UK seeking to build stronger trade ties around the world amid its messy exit from the EU and difficulties in forging a post-Brexit trade deal, Raab said the end of the transition period will allow Britain to regain control of the ability to strike free trade agreements with the rest of the world, especially in the Indo-Pacific. “What we recognise is the possibilities for a deeper trading relationship [with India and] we see a very powerful strategic case. So I think we will want to nudge our trade negotiators along and see what we can achieve,” Raab said, and his remarks were endorsed by Jaishankar. Jaishankar added the trade ministers of the two sides have already had discussions on a trade deal and “there is a serious intent to take our trade relationship forward”. Raab said bilateral trade was growing at 11% before the Covid-19 pandemic and investments by the two sides supported more than 500,000 jobs in both countries. The two sides will work towards an “enhanced trade partnership” next year with the hope that it will be a “stepping stone towards a free trade agreement”, he said. Referring to the Indo-Pacific as a region with growth opportunities for several decades, Raab – the first foreign minister to make a bilateral visit to India in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic – said both countries have shared interests and challenges in this region, including maritime security, vulnerability of supply chains and climate change. The UK’s integrated strategic review will point to an “Indo-Pacific tilt”, he said, adding: “There will be no stronger partner as we look further to the east than India.” Jaishankar added: “The Indo-Pacific is a reality because...it is an articulation of globalisation, the fact that you can’t deal with different theatres in a watertight way. The kind of challenges the world faces today – climate change, maritime security, terrorism [and] the opportunity to increase connectivity – all these require a larger arena and more coordinated efforts.” Raab also highlighted the UK’s desire to build a stronger defence and security partnership with India to tackle shared concerns such as terrorism and maritime security, and to focus on new challenges such as making the telecommunications and 5G networks “more secure and resilient”. The two sides also discussed ways to hasten post-Covid-19 economic recovery, including innovation and facilitating the flow of talent, and the equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Principal scientific advisor K VijayRaghavan, who coordinates India’s vaccine response, also participated in the meeting. The Serum Institute of India has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca to produce the University of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine for low-and-middle income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-discuss-10-yr-roadmap-to-boost-ties/story-MoFm01on3PyHcg5h2vS3sO.html
15-12-2020||India||Celebrating sunshine in a dimly lit world||On Human Rights day, every person is reminded of the basic rights, everyone is inherently entitled to as a human being irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, language, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. This year, Vartika Nanda organised the Tinka Tinka India Awards- 2020 on Human Rights Day, awards aimed at the contribution of jail inmates and staff. She says, “Due to the pandemic, everything was virtual. This is the first time that inmates joined live and shared their thoughts in the presence of senior jail officials.”This year, the theme was the one thing that has hijacked imaginations all over the world, ‘Corona in Jail.’ Vartika says, “ There were 3 categories this year, namely Painting, Special Mention and Prison Administration. 7 inmates received awards in the Painting category while 6 were chosen for their special contribution to prison life. Prison staff was awarded too.”40-year-old Amitabh Bachchan incarcerated in District Jail, Firozabad was chosen for his extraordinary work as a Health Warrior. He has been sanitizing the jail since the onset of Covid-19. And on the other hand, 53-year-old Ajay Chauhan from District Jail Mainpuri was chosen for his extraordinary work in Prison Jail radio, helping inmates fight depression during the pandemic. Ashok Kumar, logged in Model Jail, Chandigarh made the maximum number of masks during Covid-19. Vartika says,”Their hard work and efforts need to be respected and brought to light and these inmates received a special mention through the Tinka Tinka awards.”The prison officials were given the honour for their performance in reformative and rehabilitative activities being run for the welfare of inmates.The award was dedicated to Late Raj Kumar Tripathi who lost his life while doing his duty as Deputy Superintendent in District Jail, Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh. Aniraj Tripathi, his son, says, “Tinka Tinka is a novel initiative to value the sacrifice of prison staff, an area which is usually ignored. My dad is a corona warrior in the real sense. In such professions, interaction with the public is more and that is when he contracted the virus.”In a time like this, when the world needs to come together, more than ever before, this initiative brings together the wholesome efforts carried out for the sake of humanity and is a tribute to inmates and the jail staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celebrating-sunshine-in-a-dimly-lit-world/story-uPrCIR53FksrhFG845ocGK.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Over Rs 100 lakh cr worth infrastructure projects underway by 2024-25’: Gadkari||Government has launched the National infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) under which it has planned to invest Rs 111 lakh crores on infra projects by 2024-25, keeping Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of making India a $5 trillion economy in the next five years, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday.Gadkari was speaking at a special session on the CII Partnership Summit 2020, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in collaboration with the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT).Stating that the Centre is continually working towards upgrading infrastructure, Gadkari said, “The National infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) is a first of its kind exercise to provide world-class infrastructure across the country and improve the quality of life for all citizens”.Gadkari announced the government is targeting to invest Rs 25 lakh crore in the road sector. He added two major major highway projects – Amritsar-Ajmer and Delhi-Amritsar-Katra - worth Rs 65,000 crores were also being planned.Also read: PM Modi to ‘keep assuring farmers’, blames Opposition for misleading themGadkari also stated that while the pandemic has adversely affected the MSME sector, the Government has undertaken the right policy interventions, including the change in MSME definition, the Credit Guarantee Scheme, Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme and the MSME cluster development programme to make the sector self-reliant.“With the global realignment taking place, the MSMEs would play a great role in redefining their contribution to the Indian economy. The Government has plans to expand the contribution of the MSMEs from the current 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the GDP,” the minister further added.Underscoring the importance of aligning with Global Value Chains (GVCs), Gadkari added that as 80 per cent of global trade happens through the GVCs, and most enterprises involved in GVCs are medium enterprises, the government has taken several steps in this direction, including the adoption of technologies such as Artificial Intelligence and machine learning to strengthen the sector and also boost global exports.Gadkari also noted that reforms such as reduction of corporate tax rates, 100 per cent tax exemption to investors, and implementation of GST have positioned India as a competitive market in the world, particularly in terms of ease of paying taxes.The minister added that the government is committed to providing a favourable environment and a transparent policy framework for investors and that he is confident that India will become a major global investment destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-100-lakh-cr-worth-infrastructure-projects-underway-by-2024-25-gadkari/story-Q1kb0cEQHy2oUE83Vbz5VO.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Aged parents can’t resort to Senior Citizens Act to evict daughter-in-law’: SC||The right of a wife to a shared household under the Domestic Violence Act will prevail against a decree obtained by her aged in-laws under the Senior Citizens Act, ruled the Supreme Court on Tuesday.The order is expected to offer necessary insulation to wives battling court cases against hostile in-laws, providing them much-needed respite from getting evicted from husband’s home. This decision follows a judgment pronounced by the top court two months ago where the Court noted that even if the shared household is a joint family property where the husband has no legal right or share, the same shall still be treated as a shared household for the wife to continue staying put.The present case threw a rather interesting clash between two special laws – Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (PWDV) Act, 2005, which seeks to protect wives facing domestic violence, and the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007, created to protect senior citizens by providing a speedy and inexpensive remedy to secure their interests at an advanced stage of life.Also read: PM Oli races to get new anti-graft watchdog boss, heads for a showdown with PrachandaThe bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee analyzed both laws and found that Section 3 of the 2007 Act had an overriding effect over any other law. It was this argument that the aged parents of the husband used to obtain an eviction order against their daughter-in-law from their Bengaluru home. The Karnataka High Court had on September 17, 2019, upheld the order of eviction against the daughter-in-law who approached the Supreme Court in appeal.Coming to her rescue, the bench said, “Section 3 of the Senior Citizens Act, 2007 cannot be deployed to over-ride and nullify other protections in law particularly that of a woman’s right to a shared household under Section 17 of the PWDV Act 2005.”The bench observed that both pieces of legislation are intended to deal with salutary aspects of public welfare and interest. However, the definition of ‘shared household’ was exhaustive, the bench observed, quoting the October 2020 judgment passed by the top court while dealing with similar facts where the wife was sought to be evicted through a trial court decree by the aged in-laws who owned the house in question.Justice Chandrachud, writing the judgment for the bench, said, “The law protecting the interest of senior citizens is intended to ensure that they are not left destitute, or at the mercy of their children or relatives. Equally, the purpose of the PWDV Act 2005 cannot be ignored by a sleight of statutory interpretation. Both sets of legislations have to be harmoniously construed.”The bench protected the petitioner wife and ordered that neither the husband nor her in-laws would forcefully try to evict her from her shared household for one year till she avails her remedies under the PWDV Act.Also read: PM Modi to ‘keep assuring farmers’, blames Opposition for misleading themThe Court said that in similar situations where a wife obtains relief from a tribunal under the Senior Citizens Act, she shall be duty-bound to inform the Magistrate hearing her case under the PWDV Act.In the present case, as the appeal in divorce proceedings between the husband and wife is pending, the Court directed the restoration of electricity connection for non-payment of dues and asked the husband to continue paying the electricity charges. The residential house of the petitioner is situated at Hobli in Bengaluru North. The suit against the petitioner was instituted by her mother-in-law under the Senior Citizens Act in 2015. Prior to this, in December 2013, a trial court decreed divorce and in March 2014, the petitioner sought maintenance and even appealed before the High Court against the divorce decree which is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aged-parents-can-t-resort-to-senior-citizens-act-to-evict-daughter-in-law-sc/story-6GUuHvJW5aJzsYmnJvSZ4O.html
15-12-2020||India||Govt mulls reprinting of books by Subhash Chandra Bose on 125th anniversary celebrations||The government is considering reprinting some of the books written by Subhash Chandra Bose and starting fellowships for students to commemorate his 125th birth anniversary celebrations which would begin from January 23.It is also planning to invite veterans of INA to lead the Republic Day parade. These proposals were put forth during a meeting chaired by Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on the preparations for the event, according to a statement by the Culture Ministry. “Some of the suggestions made by the participants included reprinting of some of the books written by Netaji as well as INA members, short lectures in schools and colleges, promoting Netaji as a youth icon and champion of gender equality,” it said.The meeting was attended by Bose’s family members, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose INA Trust, educationists, historians, and representatives of various organisations associated with him.Addressing the participants, the culture minister said that the celebrations to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Bose will start from January 23, 2021.Patel said a large array of historical documents, clippings, photos, videos, memorabilia and other material is available with the families of Bose as well as those of INA members which should be brought together at one place for display and dissemination. He also said that a museum on Bose is proposed to be set up in Kolkata as a part of commemorations and that the current museum at Red Fort in New Delhi is also proposed to be expanded. He urged that a calendar of important dates associated with Bose and INA be drawn up for celebrations. He welcomed the suggestion that the commemorations should travel beyond Indian shores through our embassies and Indian High Commissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-reprinting-of-books-by-subhash-chandra-bose-on-125th-anniversary-celebrations/story-I1s22xTVSJ0UX80mTMdrfO.html
15-12-2020||India||Odisha CM announces Rs 289.42-crore package for MSMEs||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday approved a stimulus package of Rs 289.42 crore for MSMEs that have been facing stiff challenges amid the Covid-19 pandemic, official sources said.The package includes assistance measures such as interest subvention, top-up subsidy, reimbursement of state GST and waiver of annual institutional maintenance charges.The initiative will help entrepreneurs, mostly women and those from the weaker sections, to overcome unexpected challenges that came along with the pandemic, a senior official said.“In ECLGS (Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme), 1,70,000 MSME units will reap the benefit of interest subvention. A sum of Rs 108.29 crore is being released to help 40 per cent of all women-run MSMEs,” the official said.According to the recently amended industrial policy resolution (IPR) approved by the state cabinet, as many as 175 enterprises will be eligible for reimbursement of state GST for the period July 1, 2017 to March 31, 2020.The waiver of annual institutional maintenance charge, which is payable by MSMEs and comes to around Rs 5.83 crore annually, will be borne by Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation, the official said.Along with that, Covid-19 assistance package (CAP), launched by Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water Department, will also provide relief to nano and micro enterprises, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-announces-rs-289-42-crore-package-for-msmes/story-aqaWe8UWF5tYRnSJtIyYMO.html
15-12-2020||India||Delhi Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia launches reading portal for children||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday launched a portal where at least 30 crore children can read stories. Sisodia said it is very important to inculcate the habit of reading stories in children from an early age. Stories help children develop a mindset and enhance their reading ability, he said at the launch of Katha’s new reading portal.“This is why we have used stories to improve the level of reading in children in Delhi’s government schools through schemes like ‘Chunauti’ and ‘Mission Buniyaad’. The Katha Institute has contributed immensely in these efforts,” Sisodia said.“With this new e-portal launch, it’s important to note that it won’t just be available in India, but will be accessible for children all over the world. With children finding themselves stuck inside the walls of their homes, it’s even more integral that they have access to fun and meaningful stories, especially during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis,” he said at the virtual event. Sisodia also added that the Delhi government has used storytelling in Happiness and Entrepreneurship curriculums. “We are able to convey positive messages to children and make them understand the challenges of the country and the world through these stories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-deputy-chief-minister-manish-sisodia-launches-reading-portal-for-children/story-Ej0QVqwLq6CdtwH0jEFqOO.html
15-12-2020||India||BJP out to set Hindus against Sikhs in Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Launching a scathing attack on the BJP over farmers’ protest against the three central farm laws, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday dubbed the saffron party as “real tukde tukde gang” and accused it of setting Hindus against Sikhs in Punjab.Asserting that “the BJP first set Hindus against Muslims”, Badal said the party has “become the most powerful divisive force”, out to “replay its evil game in Punjab”.Asking his former ally to shun the “arrogant attitude” over the farm laws and accept what farmers want, Badal warned the BJP against any attempt to set Hindus against Sikhs.He said if one speaks in favour of the central government, he is called ‘Desh Bhakt’ and if he speaks out against it, he is branded as “tukde tukde gang”. “BJP is the real #TukdeTukdeGang in the country. It has smashed the national unity to pieces, shamelessly inciting Hindus against Muslims & now desperately setting peace-loving Punjabi Hindus against their Sikh brethren esp #farmers. They’re pushing patriotic Punjab into communal flames” Badal alleged in a tweet.The SAD had quit the National Democratic Alliance over the issue of farm laws. SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal had also resigned as Union minister.Later in a statement, Badal alleged that the BJP has been “splitting the country into pieces by setting one community against another.” “So desperate is it for the power that it has no scruples about taking the communal polarisation route and setting the country on communal flames,” he alleged. “The BJP first set Hindus against Muslims. Now, it is determined to replay the same evil game and re-enact the same tragedy in Punjab also,” he alleged.“It is conspiring to set our peace-loving Hindu brethren in Punjab against their Sikh brethren with whom they have shared strong bonds of blood for centuries. The BJP wants to replace those bonds of blood with bloodshed,” he further alleged.He warned the BJP against any attempt to incite “brothers” against each other.The SAD chief accused the saffron party of resorting to “dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the hard-earned atmosphere of peace and communal harmony just for the realisation of petty political goals.” “The BJP leadership must realise that their party today has become the most powerful divisive force. It has been resorting to dividing the country and its people by spreading hatred in the name of religion,” he alleged.The Shiromani Akali Dal chief asked the BJP-led Centre to shun its “arrogant attitude”.“Those who framed (farm) laws were never involved in farming activities. The central government acts on what its officers say,” he added.Referring to the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the three farm laws, Badal said, “The whole country except the BJP gratefully acknowledges the debt which we owe to our patriotic farmers and soldiers.” “The BJP is provoking the people to deny that debt. It believes only in emotionally exploiting farmers’ sacrifices but remains so ungrateful to them that it is painting them as anti-national. “Today it is against farmers. Nobody knows what the BJP might say even about soldiers tomorrow if it suits them. The farmers are hurt and angry against the BJP,” he alleged.Badal said it is shocking and unbelievable that a party which claimed to take pride in India’s heritage is determined to “destroy” the foundations of that very heritage.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting near various border points of Delhi including Singhu and Tikri for over a fortnight demanding the Centre repeal three new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-out-to-set-hindus-against-sikhs-in-punjab-sukhbir-badal/story-GSDeExx9JDH1cqqP3EbsbL.html
15-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 29,000 cold chain points, 41,000 deep freezers among govt’s storage plans for Covid-19 vaccine and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.29,000 cold chain points, 41,000 deep freezers among govt’s storage plans for Covid-19 vaccineThe Union ministry of health on Tuesday announced the Centre’s plans for cold storage chains as it prepares for a large-scale vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country. Read more‘Ready to welcome film city in state’: Madhya Pradesh home ministerMP home minister Narottam Mishra said the state government is ready to welcome film city in the state - a move that will not only give employment to people but will also give them an opportunity to show their talent. Read moreGold smuggling case: ED summons Kerala CM’s secy for fourth timeThe Enforcement Directorate has summoned Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran on Thursday for questioning in connection with the gold smuggling case. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Virat Kohli & co. engage in ‘fun drill’ ahead of pink-ball Test The stage is set for a thrilling bout of Test cricket when Virat Kohli-led Indian team face off against Australia in Adelaide in the pink-ball Test. It will be the first Test of the series and the only one in which skipper Kohli will be playing a part. Read more Shilpa Shinde says she is not following Bigg Boss 14, warns Twitter impersonators of legal actionTelevision actor Shilpa Shinde, who won Bigg Boss 11, said that she is not following the ongoing season of the reality show. She seems to be reacting to recent tweets on Rahul Vaidya’s re-entry in Bigg Boss 14 that were attributed to her by many. Read moreResponse in India has been exhilarating so far: Triller senior VP Abbos RoohparvarTriller launched back in 2015 but it gained traction only earlier this year. Triller downloads increased, and it even became the number one app in Apple’s App Store across 50 countries. Read moreDraped to perfection: Kangana Ranaut asks fans how she looks in yellow in Rs 1.25 lakh saree, wonders where Diljit Dosanjh isKangana Ranaut could be going through a storm, but she will do it fashionably. The Thalaivi and Tanu Weds Manu Returns actor who has recently always been in the news for one controversy or the other doesn’t let anything hamper her spirit it seems and is always going about business unfazed. Read moreNASA shares picture of snow-covered Himalayan mountains from space. It also captures Delhi’s bright city lightsIn her famous track titled Tennis Court, singer Lorde sang the poetic lyric, “I’ll see the veins of my city like they do in space”.If you’re a Delhite, then this statement may be the aptest description for what this image, shared on the official Instagram account of NASA, shows. Read moreChina factor in India’s next Budget: Link Legal’s Santosh Pai explainsSantosh Pai, Partner, Link Legal, explained how India’s tension with China might impact the 2021 Union Budget. He said that till 2019, the Modi government was for expanding economic cooperation with Beijing, but the policy stance was reversed in 2020, following Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-29-000-cold-chain-points-41-000-deep-freezers-among-govt-s-storage-plans-for-covid-19-vaccine-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Um2MufuRqNMMpx3jhb3bSP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘I always enjoy being in front of camera’||Actor Digangana Suryavanshi, who is known for her roles in films like ‘Jalebi’ and ‘FryDay,’ is super excited about her next film where she’ll be seen opposite actor Arjun Rampal. The youngster started her career as a child model. Now at 23, Digangana feels she has come a long way. “I have been very decisive individual. If I decide anything to do, I always give it a try and just don’t give up projects due to factors like age, lingo, run-time or be anything else. Life gives us a very few opportunities and I feel we as humans should give it our best shot always,” says the protagonist of the daily soap, ‘Ek Veer ki Ardas…Veera’ that gave her the first big break. Talking about her acting journey, Digangana said, “It has been a fulfilling stint where I did commercials, music albums, reality shows, daily soaps and films. I love acting and enjoy being in-front of the camera since childhood as I always wanted to be on TV, (laughs). For me seeing myself on TV was such a delight and then it also gave me instant recognition and upper hand among my age kids. I was 11 when my first major show as a child artiste, ‘Shakuntala,’ happened, followed by regional music albums and then more TV shows and films.”Digangana, who is busy with a number of interesting projects, said, “I’m busy with number of things but the most awaited one for me is, ‘The Battle of Bhima Koregaon. It’s a war drama film and I play the lead. I’m super excited as film is set for a 2021 release. Besides, Telugu films too have been keeping me busy and I enjoy acting irrespective of barriers like region, country or language.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/i-always-enjoy-being-in-front-of-camera/story-qFZrqs8mqlAdvEx8R5EscL.html
15-12-2020||India||29,000 cold chain points, 41,000 deep freezers among govt’s storage plans for Covid-19 vaccine||The Union ministry of health on Tuesday announced the Centre’s plans for cold storage chains as it prepares for a large-scale vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country. It includes 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators which will be available for vaccine storage, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.Bhushan said, during a press brief, that guidelines for estimation of electrical and non-electrical cold chain equipment and their strengthening have been issued to states by the Centre. The guidelines for management of cold chain at last cold chain points and session sites have also been issued, he said. “All these equipment have already been delivered to the states. Some other equipment is being supplied,” he said.Training modules for people handling the vaccinations like medical officers, vaccinator officers, alternative vaccinator officers, cold chain handlers, supervisors, data managers and ASHA coordinators have commenced both physically and via digital platforms. Moreover, the National and State Training of Trainers (ToTs) workshops have also been completed, he added.Bhushan also talked about adverse effects of the vaccine, especially in pregnant women and children. “Adverse events following immunisation is a critical issue. When we undertake a universal immunisation program, which has been done for decades, then some adverse effects are seen in children and pregnant women after vaccination,” he said.The health secretary advised states and Union territories to be prepared to handle such situations since these effects had already happened in the UK on the first day of their vaccination drive. He also said that 23 ministries and departments in the Centre and states have been identified and assigned roles like planning, implementation, social mobilisation, awareness generation, among others, for the vaccine roll-out.The announcement comes a few days after the Centre said that the vaccination drive was only a few months away. Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that initially only 100 people per day would get the shot but eventually everyone would be vaccinated. “We are going to start the process of sending necessary equipment for storage and handling of coronavirus vaccine to states. For now, only 100 people will be given the vaccine at a booth per day. Eventually, everyone will get the vaccine,” he said.The vaccine carriers, vaccine vials and ice packs are to be strictly kept out of direct sunlight as per the ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines’. “There may not be vaccine vial monitors (VVM) and Date of Expiry on the label of Covid-19 vaccine, this should not discourage vaccinators from using the vaccine. At the end of the session, the vaccine carrier with all ice packs and unopened vaccine vials should be sent back to the distributing cold chain point,” the guidelines stated.Officials have said that 36 states and Union territories have already concluded meetings of State Steering Committees and State Task Force and 633 districts have concluded those of District Task Force.According to the guidelines issued to states recently, the Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system--a digitalised platform--will be used to track enlisted beneficiaries for the vaccination and anti-coronavirus vaccines on a real-time basis.The vaccine will first be offered to all healthcare and frontline workers, and the people above the age of 50. For the elderly, there may be subdivisions like people between the ages of 50 and 60 and those above 60, with the priority being given to the more vulnerable as per the availability of the vaccine. The vaccination of 300 million people has been planned in the first stage of the drive. India currently has 9,906,165 confirmed coronavirus infections and 143,709 deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-000-cold-chain-points-41-000-deep-freezers-among-govt-s-storage-plans-for-covid-19-vaccine/story-OFXQG4fDwqOXGoYSh7iivM.html
15-12-2020||India||Vijay Diwas 2020: PM Modi to light ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh will attend the inaugural event of ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ programme on Wednesday, which celebrates 50 years of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The event will be held at the National War Memorial (NWM) in New Delhi, the government said in a statement.PM Modi will also light the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of the memorial. Four torches will be lit and carried to the cities and villages of the 1971 war heroes who had received the gallantry awards -- Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra. “Soil from the villages of these Awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the NWM,” the statement said.Various commemorative events will be conducted throughout the country where war veterans will be felicitated and events like band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclave and adventure activities are planned, the statement added.The chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the tri-service chiefs will also lay wreaths and pay respect to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty. The Eastern command of the Indian Army will pay homage to the valiant heroes of India and Bangladesh who took part in the Liberation War of 1971.December 16 is celebrated every year as Vijay Diwas to commemorate the victory of the Indian armed forces and the Mukti-Bahini over Pakistan. After Pakistan faced defeat in the 1971 war, the army chief of Pakistan general Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, along with his 93,000 troops surrendered. The historic military victory resulted in Pakistan ceding control of then East Pakistan, paving the way for the birth of the sovereign nation of Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-diwas-2020-pm-modi-to-light-swarnim-vijay-mashaal-tomorrow/story-0vAR3NUNVpAOjYRJFC69zH.html
15-12-2020||India||UK to become only country whose leaders have been chief guests at Republic Day on 6 occasions||UK prime minister Boris Johnson will be the sixth British leader to be chief guest at India’s Republic Day celebrations, and the honour was last extended to former prime minister John Major in 1993.The UK is also set to become the only country which has been accorded this honour six times. So far, the heads of state or government of only France and Britain have been the chief guests at the celebrations on five occasions. In 1956, UK chancellor of the exchequer Richard Austen Butler was the joint chief guest at the parade on January 26 along with Japan’s chief justice Kotaro Tanaka. Members of the British royal family were the chief guests in the 1950s and 1960s – Prince Philip in 1959, Queen Elizabeth in 1961 and Lord Louis Mountbatten in 1964. At the time, Mountbatten was the UK’s chief of defence staff.After a gap of almost three decades, prime minister John Major was the next British leader to be chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in 1993.Also read: India, UK to forge 10-year roadmap for ties, push talks on trade dealThe chief guest for the Republic Day celebrations is chosen in keeping with India’s strategic, diplomatic and economic interests, as well as New Delhi’s relations with the concerned country. The decision on the chief guest is usually locked in by late November, though the process this year was affected by the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The head of state or government of India usually intends to announce the invite in advance to get their concurrence before a formal invitation is extended through diplomatic channels.Visiting UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab confirmed, during a joint media interaction with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, on Tuesday that prime minister Johnson had accepted the Indian government’s invitation to be chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-to-become-only-country-whose-leaders-have-been-chief-guests-at-republic-day-on-6-occasions/story-CUxiNUC2WJ7lSnIdDz163J.html
15-12-2020||India||Indian Navy to acquire 38 extended range BrahMos missiles for new warships soon||In a bid to enhance the firepower of its warships, the Indian Navy has moved a proposal to acquire 38 extended range BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles which would be able to hit targets at around 450 kilometres.The missiles are to be fitted on the under-construction Vishakhapatnam class warships of the Indian Navy which are going to join active service in the near future.“A Rs 1,800 crore proposal for acquiring 38 extended range BrahMos supersonic cruise missile is with the Defence Ministry and is expected to be approved soon,” government sources told ANI.The BrahMos would be the main strike weapon of the warships and is already installed on several warships of the maritime force.The Indian Navy had also carried out the test firing of the Brahmos missile from its warship INS Chennai to showcase its capability to strike targets at ranges more than 400 km in high seas.India is also working on finding export markets for the supersonic cruise missile which has been indigenised to a large extent by the DRDO under its project PJ 10.After the launch of the joint venture between India and Russia in the late 90s, the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile has become a potent weapon for all three armed forces which are using them for different roles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-to-acquire-38-extended-range-brahmos-missiles-for-new-warships-soon/story-MUTG8uzcRywCWZwmsleYAM.html
15-12-2020||India||Govt for wider consultations before allowing postal ballots for NRIs||The government is yet to take a decision on allowing the use of postal ballots for eligible overseas Indians to cast their votes as the move will need wider consultations with all stakeholders before a final call is taken, sources said on Tuesday. They also said that the Election Commission’s proposal to amend election rules to allow the use of postal ballot by overseas Indians, whose names figure in electoral rolls in India, is still at a bureaucratic level and is yet to be discussed with the political executive. The EC has proposed to the government to extend the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) facility, so far available to service voters, to eligible overseas Indian voters. In a letter to the legislative secretary in Law Ministry on November 27, the Commission said with the successful execution of ETPBS in case of service voters, it is now “confident” that the facility can also be extended to the overseas electors. “The Commission is technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” the poll panel said. Elections in these states are due sometime in April-June next year. EC said it has been receiving several representations from Indian diaspora residing abroad to facilitate voting through postal ballots since such overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling area as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair and otherwise also they cannot leave the country of their residence owing to specific compulsions of employment, education or other engagements. “Due to protocols associated with Covid-19, the problem further gets compounded,” the letter to the Law Ministry said. The Commission observed that Section 62 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 envisages the right to vote for every citizen registered in the electoral roll who is not subject to disqualification for voting. “Therefore, it is necessary to explore all avenues to enable exercise of a franchise by all eligible electors,” it said. As of now, overseas Indians are free to cast their votes in constituencies they are registered. Unofficial data with the EC shows that only 10,000-12,000 overseas voters have exercised their franchise because they do not want to spend foreign currency to come to India and vote. Under ETPBS, the postal ballot is sent electronically to a service voter. The service voter downloads it and uses a specific envelope to return it to the returning officer of his constituency. The postal ballot should reach the returning officer by 8.00 am on the day of the counting. Counting of votes begins with the counting of postal ballots at 8.00 am. Personnel of armed forces posted outside their constituencies in forward areas, personnel of central armed police forces posted outside their constituencies, state police personnel posted on poll duty and embassy staff are considered as service voters. The EC has suggested amending the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 to extend ETPBS for overseas electors. The rules were amended in October 2016 to allow service voters to use ETPBS. ETPBS has nearly halved the time in sending and receiving postal ballots from far-flung areas. The Conduct of Election Rules was also changed to allow those who are 80 years of age or above and those with disabilities to use the postal ballot to cast vote. The same facility was extended for Covid-19 patients. But this postal ballot facility is different from ETPBS. For overseas electors, EC has said the voter will have to intimate the returning officer that he or she wants to use the postal ballot. The returning officer will then electronically transmit the ballot paper to the voter by means specified by the EC. The Commission has requested the government to make necessary amendments at the earliest “which will go a long way in not only facilitating the exercise of the right of overseas electors but also further  boosting the image of the country internationally.” A bill to extend the facility of proxy voting to overseas Indians had lapsed following the dissolution of the 16th Lok Sabha in 2019. The bill had proposed that overseas Indians, who are entitled to vote in India, can appoint a proxy voter to cast the ballot on their behalf. An expert committee of the Election Commission, working on the issue, had in 2015 forwarded the legal framework to the Law Ministry to amend the electoral laws to allow the overseas Indians to use proxy voting. The bill said the necessary provision of coming to India to cast a ballot caused hardship for overseas electors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-for-wider-consultations-before-allowing-postal-ballots-for-nris/story-26Hq9c8sokQx3V996OY5kK.html
15-12-2020||India||Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls likely in March 2021, says official||Elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) may be held in March 2021 ahead of the crucial state assembly polls, top officials of the West Bengal State Election Commission said. “As per the Supreme Court’s directive, the state government has sent a communication to us saying that the KMC polls may be held within four weeks after the final electoral roll is adopted by the SEC,” said a senior official of the poll panel.While the summary revision for the electoral roll is going on, the final roll would be published by the Election Commission of India on January 15, 2021. It would take around a month after that for the SEC to adopt the final roll. Polls may be held four weeks after the SEC’s adoption. Elections to more than 107 civic bodies, including KMC, have been pending for over a year and these bodies are currently being run by administrators appointed by the Mamata Banerjee-administration. “The Trinamool Congress (TMC) knows very well that it won’t be able to win the municipal elections and hence was delaying it. But now on the orders of the SC it has to declare the dates,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of BJP’s Bengal unit. While the Calcutta High Court had observed that the pending elections should be held as soon as possible, the state needs to inform the Supreme Court this week about its stand on conducting civic polls. “As the scope of the case is related to KMC elections, we have no communication from the state government yet as to when polls for the other municipal bodies would be held,” said the SEC official. The TMC party, however, sounded confident about winning the civic polls and said that the party is not afraid of exams.“We have worked throughout the year and hence we are not afraid of any exams. Let the polls be held at any time of the year,” said Bratya Basu, state minister and TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-municipal-corporation-polls-likely-in-march-2021-says-official/story-W2TVrrhuITOLNvpRf4R0xJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Industry, government have to partner for India to become USD 5 trillion economy by 2025: Goyal||The industry and government have to partner to achieve the target of India becoming a USD 5 trillion economy by 2025, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. The commerce and industry minister also expressed confidence in the capabilities of the business community as well as startups which can make India the top economy globally in the next 25-30 years.  “But the challenge is for us to accept. When we celebrate 100 years of Independence in 2047, can we all not resolve to be the number one economy in the world?,” Goyal said at a virtual conference organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. Today the world is looking at India as a trusted partner in its quest for resilient global supply chains, he pointed out.  “If we don’t grab this opportunity today, posterity will never ever forgive us. It is our duty. Each one of us has to take this opportunity, make Aatmanirbhar Bharat our mantra, our inspiration, our goal,” Goyal said.  The minister observed that by being ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant), India was not closing its engagement with the world, but on the contrary, expanding its participation globally. “We should import modern technology, equipment which can help us do the job better, produce to scale, better quality, better productivity standards, cost competitive manufacturing in India,” Goyal said.  By leveraging all this, India can become the “factory of the world, just like we are today recognised as the pharmacy of the world,” he added.  “We will all work as one, work as a team, industry and government have to partner to truly ensure that we reach our 5 trillion dollar economy target by 2025, 10 trillion dollar maybe in another seven-eight years after that,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/industry-government-have-to-partner-for-india-to-become-usd-5-trillion-economy-by-2025-goyal/story-mVPX0cHbbmUJTv7XRtKzdK.html
15-12-2020||India||Delhi roads to be redesigned on lines of European cities: CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government has appointed a consultant for redesigning of national capital roads on the lines of European cities and it is likely to be completed by early 2023, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday.Chairing a review meeting, the chief minister said the consultant should submit the detailed project report by February 2021 for rapid progress of the project. “The PWD should remove all hurdles in the redesigning of the city roads along the lines of European cities to complete the project within stipulated deadline,” he said.The consultant is responsible for preparing and submitting a detailed project report by February 2021 based on which tenders will be given and the operations will begin by June 2021, said a government statement.The Delhi government is working to redesign 540 km of 100-feet-wide roads on the built-operate-transfer (BOT) model and the construction company will take care of the maintenance for 15 years, it said.Public Works Department Minister Satyendar Jain, the secretary, engineer-in-chief and officials of the department were present in the meeting.Bottlenecks on roads cause traffic congestion at various points in the city, the statement said.The priority will be to remove these bottlenecks first for smooth flow of traffic and an organised lane system, it said. The second goal would be to increase the efficiency of the existing space on the roads, it said.There will be measured and planned spaces for vehicles, non-motorised vehicles, footpaths, and side-lanes. The footpaths will be widely mapped to an average of 10 feet for the convenience of pedestrians and will be redesigned and reconstructed as per a standard height for the convenience of the physically handicapped, it said.The project will also enhance greenery and address the issue of road dust.There will be separate spaces for the planting of trees on the sides of the footpaths, it said. The slope of the roads, as well as the drains, will be redesigned to tackle the problem of waterlogging on the roads.Rainwater harvesting structures will be built inside the drainage systems to store rainwater as groundwater, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-roads-to-be-redesigned-on-lines-of-european-cities-cm-kejriwal/story-E1poczHSSy1aqUH5XJS6bP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Just a phone call away’: Kamal Haasan on joining hands with Rajinikanth||Actor-turned-politician and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Tuesday signalled an amicable solution on being asked whether he would be ready for an alliance with actor Rajinikanth. “We are just a phone call away. If our ideology is similar and if it would benefit the people, we are ready to set aside our ego and co-operate with each other,” Haasan told reporters on being asked if he would join hands with Rajinikanth.Haasan had previously hinted at the realignment of political alliances in Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly elections next year while not ruling out a possible tie-up with actor Rajinikanth, who is set to float his party soon.The South-India origin actor launched his campaign for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly elections on December 13, embarking on his first phase of the campaign between December 13-16. During this four-day schedule, Haasan is expected to cover Madurai, Theni, Dindugul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanniyakumari districts.Haasan had launched MNM in February 2018 and the party had faced last year’s Lok Sabha elections but could not return any MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-a-phone-call-away-kamal-haasan-on-joining-hands-with-rajinikanth/story-6a43reH2PdqNm1YYC5alYP.html
15-12-2020||India||PM Modi to ‘keep assuring farmers’, blames Opposition for misleading them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday mounted a scathing attack on the Opposition parties and farmer organisations, asserting that there was a conspiracy being hatched “in and around Delhi” to confuse the agitating farmers.The PM said the opposition protesting against the very laws wanted to implement the same during their rule but could not.“(The agitating) farmers are being misled about the agriculture reforms. They are being fooled into believing that others will occupy their lands,” said the PM speaking in Hindi at Dhordo in Kutch in Gujarat after laying the foundation stone of the world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a fully automated milk processing and packing plant.The Prime Minister went on, without naming any party, “Those in the opposition and misleading farmers today were all for these very reforms during their rule, but they could not take a decision. Today when the country has taken a historical step, they are misleading the farmers.” He added, “The Government of India is always committed to the welfare of the farmers and we will keep on reassuring the farmers and addressing their concerns.” On the sidelines of the function, Modi also held an interaction with the local farmers, including Sikh cultivators who have been staying near the Indo-Pakistan border in Kutch since Independence. Some 5,000 Sikh families live in and around the Lakhpat region. He also met representatives of a local self-help group. The Gujarat Chief Minister was also present. Asking researchers to look at Kutch as a case study, the Prime Minister recalled the devastating 2001 earthquake in the desert district and said the people there had converted tragedy into hope. PM Modi counted Kutch among the country’s fastest developing regions.“Everyone rose from the destruction caused by the quake and see where they have brought Kutch,” he said, and referred to the renewable energy park he launched. This is one of the world’s biggest renewable farms with capacity to generate up to 30,000 MW of power. “Gujarat was among the earliest to work on strengthening solar energy capacities. Today Kutch has the world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park. It is almost as big as Singapore and Bahrain. It is built on 70,000 hectare land, larger than many big cities in the country,” the Prime Minister said.He added that India featured in the top three among 144 countries in the Clean Energy Investment rankings. PM Modi said, “The country has shown a path to the entire world and is leading the fight against climate change.”Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 70th death anniversary, the Prime Minister said Patel’s statue in Kevadia in Narmada district was a source of inspiration for the people of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-keep-assuring-farmers-blames-opposition-for-misleading-them/story-6wDpUYsHNyDWfgRocBULaL.html
15-12-2020||India||Rajasthan farmers continue blockade at Jaipur-Delhi highway||The Jaipur-Delhi national highway in Rajasthan’s Alwar district remained partially blocked on Tuesday as the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm laws entered the third day.The farmers were led by Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, CPIM legislator Balwan Poonia and former legislator Amra Ram.“We do not know why Haryana Police and government are stopping us. We are not demanding anything from them. This act of Haryana government is undemocratic,” Yadav told reporters.  Haryana Police has barricaded the entry on its border, preventing farmers to march towards Delhi. The farmers are squatting on the border to press for their demand to repeal the three farms laws.On Monday night, the protesting farmers had their food on the blocked national highway and they slept in tents and vehicles.Kisan Panchayat national president Rampal Chaudhary is also camping in Shahjahanpur demanding the withdrawal of the farm laws.  Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislations would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-farmers-continue-blockade-at-jaipur-delhi-highway/story-y1TTFazAlsaZ3EpfmGo8DI.html
15-12-2020||India||Rajasthan CM sanctions additional funds worth Rs 108 crore for MGNREGA scheme||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved an additional provision of nearly Rs 427 crore for various schemes of the state government, including Rs 108 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).Under this approval, an additional provision of Rs 33.10 crore has been approved in the Scooty distribution scheme to meritorious girl students with a view to promote girls’ education. With this, the two-wheelers will be distributed to eligible girl students for the year 2019-20, an official statement said on Tuesday. Similarly, the Chief Minister has approved an additional provision of Rs 16.13 crore for conducting various recruitment examinations to the Rajasthan Staff Selection Board. With this approval, the Patwar Direct Recruitment Examination, Clerk Recruitment Examination will be conducted in a timely manner and employment opportunities will be available to the youth. At the same time, under the Rajasthan Investment Promotion Scheme (RIPS), an additional provision of Rs 73 crore has been made for the payment of grants in the textile industry sector. Under MGNREGA scheme, an additional provision of Rs 108.25 crore has been approved to provide work in rural areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-sanctions-additional-funds-worth-rs-108-crore-for-mgnrega-scheme/story-CMxmsBpI1iLaxz0oi9ktnJ.html
15-12-2020||India||India, UK to forge 10-year roadmap for ties, push talks on trade deal||India and the UK on Tuesday agreed on key elements of a 10-year roadmap to enhance their relationship and pledged to fast track talks on a free trade agreement against the backdrop of Britain looking to enhance its trade ties amid its troubled exit from the European Union. During talks between visiting UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, the two sides decided to work on common challenges and shared opportunities across the Indo-Pacific. Raab said Britain’s upcoming integrated strategic review will contain an “Indo-Pacific tilt” and there is “no stronger partner” in the east than India. The British side accepted the Indian government’s invitation to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be the chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations. Jaishankar said Johnson’s presence will symbolise a new phase of the relationship. This will be the sixth time a British leader will be the chief guest at the celebrations, and the honour was last extended to UK prime minister John Major in 1993. Tuesday’s four-hour long discussions between the foreign ministers focused on enhanced cooperation in five areas – connecting people, trade, defence and security, climate change and health – and the two sides also discussed the situation in Afghanistan, evolution of the Indo-Pacific, developments in the Middle East and challenges posed by terrorism and radicalism. “We agreed on key elements of a 10-year UK-India roadmap so that we can deliver a step change in ambition for the relationship between our two countries. We look forward to taking this forward in 2021, including through the UK’s presidency of the G7 and presidency of the UN climate change conference,” Raab said. The two sides had agreed to prioritise the finalisation of an “ambitious, 360-degree roadmap” for upgrading relations that will be adopted during Johnson’s visit in January, the external affairs ministry said. People familiar with developments said the India-China border standoff figured during discussions on the regional security situation. With the UK seeking to build stronger trade ties around the world amid its messy exit from the European Union (EU) and difficulties in forging a post-Brexit trade deal, Raab said the end of the transition period will allow Britain to regain control of the ability to strike free trade agreements with the rest of the world, especially in the Indo-Pacific. “What we recognise is the possibilities for a deeper trading relationship [with India and] we see a very powerful strategic case. So I think we will want to nudge our trade negotiators along and see what we can achieve,” Raab said, and his remarks were endorsed by Jaishankar. Both sides, “recognised the importance of fast tracking the discussions on a trade deal” and concluding a comprehensive migration and mobility partnership agreement to facilitate movement of students and professionals, the external affairs ministry said. Jaishankar added that the trade ministers of the two sides have already had discussions on a trade deal and “there is a serious intent to take our trade relationship forward”. Raab said bilateral trade was growing at 11% before the Covid-19 pandemic and investments by the two sides supported more than 500,000 jobs in both countries. The two sides will work towards an “enhanced trade partnership” next year with the hope that it will be a “stepping stone towards a free trade agreement”, he said. Referring to the Indo-Pacific as a region with growth opportunities for several decades, Raab – the first foreign minister to make a bilateral visit to India in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic – said both countries have shared interests and challenges in this region, including maritime security, vulnerability of supply chains and climate change. The UK’s integrated strategic review will point to an “Indo-Pacific tilt”, he said, adding: “There will be no stronger partner as we look further to the east than India.” Jaishankar added: “The Indo-Pacific is a reality because...it is an articulation of globalisation, the fact that you can’t deal with different theatres in a watertight way. The kind of challenges the world faces today – climate change, maritime security, terrorism [and] the opportunity to increase connectivity – all these require a larger arena and more coordinated efforts.” Raab highlighted the UK’s desire to build a stronger defence and security partnership with India to tackle shared concerns such as terrorism and maritime security, and to focus on new challenges such as making the telecommunications and 5G networks “more secure and resilient”. The two sides also discussed ways to hasten post-Covid-19 economic recovery, including innovation and facilitating the flow of talent, and the equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Principal scientific advisor K VijayRaghavan, who coordinates India’s vaccine response, also participated in the meeting. The Serum Institute of India has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca to produce the University of Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine for low-and-middle income countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-to-forge-10-year-roadmap-for-ties-push-talks-on-trade-deal/story-c9Jb9Bwtkrv7VYJk1xEyYI.html
15-12-2020||India||DakPay: All about India Post Payments Bank digital payment app||Customers of the department of post (India Post) and the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) can now operate their banking service through a mobile application DakPay, which was unveiled by Union minister for communications, electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday. “Launch of DakPay adds up to the legacy of India Post, which is about reaching out to every household. This innovative service will not only give access to banking services and postal products online but also is a unique concept where one can order and avail postal financial services at doorsteps,” Prasad said while launching the app.Postal secretary and IPPB board chairperson Pradipta Kumar Bisoi said DakPay brings simplified payment solutions to all by offering all customers access to the banking and payments products and services either through an app or in assisted mode with the help of the trusted Postman. “Dak Pay is truly an Indian solution designed to address the financial needs of every Indian,” Bisoi said.Here’s everything you need to know about the DakPay app launched by IPPB:1. DakPay will provide digital financial and assisted banking services provided by India Post and IPPB through the postal network across the country.2. Through ‘DakPay’, customers can send money to others by implementing Domestic Money Transfers or DMT, scanning QR code as well as and making payment for services/merchants digitally through virtual debit card and with UPI.3. The app will help in enabling a cashless ecosystem through biometrics, providing interoperable banking services to the customers of any banks and Utility Bill Payment services.4. The department of post and India Post Payments Bank virtually unveiled the app. “The app is launched as part of its ongoing efforts to provide Digital Financial inclusion at the last mile across India,” IPPB said in a statement.5. “This innovative service will not only give access to banking services and postal products online but also is a unique concept where one can order and avail postal financial services at doorsteps. I strongly believe that this double strength of service offerings in the form of online payments and home delivery of financial services combined with a nationwide network of the postal department will be another big leap towards Prime Minister’s vision of a financially inclusive and an AatmaNirbhar Bharat,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dakpay-all-about-india-post-payments-bank-digital-payment-app/story-2AmYNcavxh0NKMkcyiTRbN.html
15-12-2020||India||Six Covid-19 vaccines currently undergoing clinical trials in India||Informing that the Drugs Controller General of India has granted clearance for the clinical trials of one more candidate vaccine from India, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul on Tuesday said six vaccines are currently undergoing clinical trials in the country.“This week, the Drugs Controller General of India granted clearance for clinical trials for one more candidate vaccine from India. Genoa company, with the help of Government of India’s research agency Department of Biotechnology, has developed a vaccine,” Dr Paul said while addressing a press conference here.He said the technology used in this is the same as the Pfizer vaccine.“Unlike Pfizer vaccine or some others, this vaccine -- if it comes into existence -- will be maintainable at normal cold chain conditions, in a normal fridge. At this time, six vaccines are undergoing clinical trials in this nation,” Dr Paul said.The NITI Aayog member also expressed concern over Covid-19 spread amid the ongoing farmers’ protest at the borders of the national capital. “We should take precautions, messages have been sent to them (farmers) from the government. Democracy process should continue but we should also continue to follow Covid-19 guidelines,” he said.Lauding the states and Union Territories who recently brought down the spike in Covid-19 cases, Dr Paul said they are happy to note that Delhi has made progress.“We congratulate the Government of Delhi as well as other governments who have done so well in contributing towards such a significant control in recent times. There are states where we still have concerns. We request the government and citizens of Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh that every effort be made to bring the situation under control,” Paul said.Health and Family Welfare Ministry Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, addressing the press conference, said the number of cases per million population in India continues to be amongst the lowest in the world.“29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used. All these equipment have already reached state governments,” Bhushan said.He said the number of COVID-19 cases in India is at 7,178 per million population, whereas the global average for the same is at 9,000. He also expressed concern over the adverse effects of immunisation and suggested the states and Union Territories to prepare for the same.“Adverse events following immunisation is a critical issue. When we undertake a universal immunisation programme, which has been done for decades, then some adverse effects are seen in children and pregnant women after vaccination,” Bhushan said.“So, we can’t deny chances of an adverse event when Covid vaccination begins. In countries, where immunisation has already begun, especially in the UK, adverse events took place on the very first day. So, it is essential that states and UTs prepare for this too,” he added.This comes as the total number of Covid-19 cases in India reached 99,06,165 with 22,065 new cases and 254 new death, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said earlier today. So far, a total number of 1,43,709 people have died due to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-covid-19-vaccines-currently-undergoing-clinical-trials-in-india/story-I3Rq3DwmWNkFpuVMJK6XGM.html
15-12-2020||India||Govt says Covid-19 cases, deaths declining in India; cautions against any laxity||Covid-19 cases and deaths are declining in India which is very reassuring, the Centre said on Tuesday but cautioned against any laxity saying an overwhelming proportion of the country’s population is still “very very susceptible” to the virus and the situation may escalate unexpectedly.While there is a continuous increasing trend in Covid-19 cases and deaths globally, particularly in America and Europe and the situation in the world is becoming worrisome, in contrast the scene in India is satisfying as the cases and deaths are declining, Dr V K Paul, member (health) at NITI Aayog, told a press conference here.“Mortality is declining and it is well below 400 per day. Cases have come down to almost 22,000. This is the kind of number we all experienced in July. So that is very reassuring. As a nation, we seem to be now doing very well.“We are saving lives. But remember, this cannot be taken for granted. An overwhelming proportion of our population is still very very susceptible to the virus. And the situation can escalate unexpectedly,” Paul said while cautioning against any laxity.He further said the reassuring thing is that people are saying the R0 has come below one which means the pandemic is shrinking. “So we should be happy about that but cautiously happy,” he said.Noting Delhi has made progress, he said, “We congratulate the government of Delhi as also all the other governments who have done so well in contributing towards such a significant control (in cases) in recent times.” Paul, however, expressed concern over the Covid-19 situation in some states like Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh and stated all efforts to control the spread are being made in collaboration with these governments. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that more than 15.55 crore tests have been conducted so far for detection of coronavirus infection in the country, and the cumulative positivity rate has come down to 6.37 while the average daily positivity rate during last week was 3.00 per cent.India’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) is also among the lowest in the world. At present, India’s CFR is 1.45 per cent, whereas globally it is 2.26 per cent, Bhushan said. Speaking about the preparation for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, Bhushan said guidelines for estimation of electrical and non-electrical cold chain equipment and their strengthening have been issued to states. Guidelines for management of cold chain at last cold chain points and session sites have been issued.At least 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used for the Covid-19 vaccination drive.States have been asked to identify at least one adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) management centre in each block.“Adverse events following immunisation is a critical aspect. Even during universal immunisation programmes, which have been going on for decades, some adverse effects are seen in children and pregnant women after vaccination. “So, we can’t deny the possibility of an adverse event when the Covid-19 vaccination begins. The countries where inocolution has already started, especially in the UK, adverse events took place on the very first day. So, it is essential that states and union territories prepare for this too,” Bhushan said.Detailed instructions on infection prevention and control practices during vaccination and management of minor, severe, serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been issued to states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-says-covid-19-cases-deaths-declining-in-india-cautions-against-any-laxity/story-G4IZ9RTW4NQ5Webnt3PsrO.html
15-12-2020||India||Green buildings movement should become people’s movement: Vice President Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday appealed to finance commissions and local bodies to encourage green buildings through various measures including tax incentives. He also wanted all states to create online portals to provide single-window clearance to green buildings. Virtually inaugurating the 12th GRIHA (Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment Summit) from Hyderabad, the vice president said India has the potential to lead the global green building movement and emphasised the need to promote green building concept by both the private sector and the government. Recognising that there is a lack of awareness among people about the green building concept, he also called for the launch of a mass media campaign on the advantages of building green homes. “Green buildings movement should become people’s movement,” the vice president said, according to an official statement. Quoting World Green Building Council data, Naidu said buildings and construction account for 39 per cent of energy-related CO2 emissions in the world and called for accelerating the process of total de-carbonisation of the built environment. Noting that the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’ envisions making India self-reliant in all spheres, the vice president emphasised the need for sustainable development and wanted awareness to be increased among the people. Calling buildings as one of the major contributors of greenhouse gas emissions, Naidu said there is a need for concerted and coordinated efforts from all stakeholders to ensure that the buildings are environment-friendly and energy and resource-efficient. “The construction material we use today should be sustainable -- it should not in any way jeopardise the ability of future generations to meet their needs,” he added. He expressed happiness over several government and private bodies committing to build their future buildings greener. The vice president wanted every future building to go green mandatorily and said that this should apply to all kinds of building. Not only new buildings, the existing buildings too have to be retrofitted to make them environment-friendly, he felt. Observing that ancient civilisational values teach us to live in harmony with nature, he called for revisiting traditional and nature-friendly house designs refined over thousands of years by ancestors. “Unfortunately, our modern structures are such that no sparrow can come and make a nest in our house. This is not our culture,” he pointed out. Warning that climate change is real and impacting people, Naidu called for a balance between economic development and environmental protection. Economy and ecology can coexist if one respects nature, he said. He said that the current year has been a tumultuous one due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a number of natural calamities in the form of floods, droughts and other extreme weather events. Thus, there is an absolute need to “reorient our approach to development as the decisions we make today will have repercussions far beyond our own lifetimes”, he warned. Noting that least half of the country’s population will live in towns and cities by 2050, the vice president said that this will create a lot of pressure on housing sector and green solutions will have to be developed to meet the emerging needs. Noting that roof cooling should be an area of priority for all, Naidu said in India, over 60 per cent of roofs are made from metal, asbestos, and concrete -- thus trapping heat inside buildings and contributing to heat island effect in urban areas. Observing that cool roofs offer a simple and cost-effective solution that can lower indoor temperatures by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius as compared to traditional roofs, the vice president said that these can be very effective for low-income households and slums in urban areas. Stating that need for air conditioners is expected to rise substantially with improvement in living standards and rise in temperatures due to global warming, he said that cool roofs can reduce the heat stress in homes and offices and bring down the dependence on air conditioners. Simple techniques such as lime-based paint, reflective coatings or membranes can reflect the sunlight and reduce heat absorption, he suggested. Emphasising the need to utilise light and air that is naturally available, Naidu said that the Covid-19 pandemic has taught the importance of good air circulation in the buildings reducing the infection rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-buildings-movement-should-become-people-s-movement-vice-president-naidu/story-UDmdgRgswXTH9k9PaM1cII.html
15-12-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee’s son does not want his book published. Daughter disagrees||Days after publishing house Rupa announced the launch next year of late President Pranab Mukherjee’s final volume of memoirs, a difference of opinion seems to have emerged between his children. His son and former Lok Sabha member Abhijit Mukherjee has demanded that the publication be stopped until he approves the final manuscript. His daughter and Congress spokesperson Sharmistha Mukherjee took to Twitter to declare that not only was the book approved by their father but that Abhijeet should refrain from “cheap publicity”.It all began on Tuesday afternoon when the former MP from Bengal addressed a series of tweets to the publisher of Rupa Books Kapish Mehra. Referring to the excerpts of the book that were released on Friday, Mukherjee said they were “motivated” and the former President would not have approved of them.Hindustan Times reached out to executives at the publishing house, but they declined to comment publicly on the matter for now. On condition of anonymity, one executive told Hindustan Times that President Mukherjee had approved not just the final draft of the manuscript, but also the cover design a day before he was admitted to hospital.Watch l Pranab Mukherjee’s son & daughter spar over former President’s memoir Mukherjee was admitted to hospital on August 10 for a surgery to remove a clot in his brain after he fell down at his Rajaji Marg residence in Delhi. A former Congress politician who served as the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017, he also tested positive for at the same time. Mukherjee died on August 31 at the age of 84.Rupa had released some excerpts of The Presidential Years on Friday, in which he blames Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for the party’s devastating loss in the 2014 general elections. In the book, he also writes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi employed an autocratic style of governance during his first term in power.“While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary,” he wrote in the book, according to the released excerpts. “Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government.”In his tweets on Tuesday, Abhijit Mukherjee addressed publisher Kapish Mehra to say: “Since my father is no more, I being his son want to go through the contents of the final copy of the book before its publication as I believe, had my father been alive today, he too would have done the same. He added “request you to immediately stop its publication without my written consent till I go through its contents ! I have already sent you a detailed letter in this regard which will reach you soon”.Even before Rupa had worked out how to respond to this, Pranab’s daughter countered her brother’s attempt to suppress the publication. “I, daughter of the author of the memoir ‘The Presidential Years’, request my brother @ABHIJIT_LS not to create any unnecessary hurdles in publication of the last book written by our father. He completed the manuscript before he fell sick. The final draft contains my dads’ hand written notes & comments that have been strictly adhered to. The views expressed by him are his own & no one should try to stop it from being published for any cheap publicity. That would be the greatest disservice to our departed father,” she wrote. “Btw bro, the title of the book is ‘The Presidential Years’, not ‘The Presidential Memoirs’,’’ she concluded.A former official of Rashtrapati Bhawan who interacted with both during his presidency said the siblings shared “a difficult relationship’’. In the past too, Sharmistha has not been afraid to criticise her brother when he dismissed women protesters of the December 2012 gangrape as “dented and painted’’. While Sharmishtha stayed with her father in the Rashtrapati Bhawan, Abhijit would visit, said the aide.The book, due for publication early next year, is part four of Mukherjee’s memoirs, the first of which was published in 2014, when he was still at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. The executive quoted above said the former President had first signed an agreement with Rupa in 2013. The latest book contract was signed in 2018, he said, adding: “Mr Abhijit Mukherjee was nowhere in the picture.”An official who worked with the former President confirmed to Hindustan Times that Mukherjee had approved the latest volume’s publication. He confirmed that Sharmishta was much more aware about the contents of the book than her brother, the official said. The Congress Party said that this issue had nothing to do with the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pranab-mukherjee-s-son-does-not-want-his-book-published-daughter-disagrees/story-qO4Ilf3oH3xUX5QGMzxhaP.html
15-12-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi has made progress, says health ministry; spotlight now on Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday Delhi has made progress in fighting the coronavirus disease but the spotlight will now shift to other states which are still battling the rises in Covid-19 cases. “We are happy to note that Delhi has made progress. We congratulate the government of Delhi as well as the other governments who have done so well in contributing towards such a significant control in the recent times,” Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog’s health member said. The health ministry said that there are states where they still have concerns. “We request the government and citizens of Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh that every effort be made to bring the situation under control,” Paul said.India on Tuesday recorded 22,065 fresh infections, pushing the tally of Covid-19 cases to 9,906,165. The country’s death toll has mounted to 143,709 after 354 new fatalities related to the viral infection. India’s national recovery rate stood at over 95 per cent on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-has-made-progress-says-health-ministry-spotlight-now-on-uttarakhand-nagaland-and-himachal-pradesh/story-wZiVaN7F8HZ5rfaPATKlAN.html
15-12-2020||India||UK foreign secretary holds talks with Indian counterpart||Britain’s foreign secretary and his Indian counterpart met on Tuesday in New Delhi in an effort to deepen ties between their countries.Dominic Raab and Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar held talks for about four hours and discussed a wide range of issues, including the post-pandemic world, defense, trade and the environment, the diplomats told reports after their meeting.“The focus has been on how to take our ties to a higher level,” Jaishankar said. He said he and Raab focused on five broad themes — connecting people, trade and prosperity, defense and security, climate change and health.The two sides also discussed the situation in Afghanistan, the evolution of the Indo-Pacific region and developments in the Middle East, Jaishankar said. “As democratic polities, market economies and pluralistic societies, we can, we should and we will make a difference to the realization of a rules-based global order,” he said.Raab, who arrived in India on Monday, said Britain wants to deepen its economic partnership with India. “We are committed to building a stronger defense and security partnership with India that will help us tackle shared issues related to terrorism and maritime security,” he said.He also said that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had accepted India’s Republic Day celebrations invitation on January 26.“As a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, India is an increasingly indispensable partner for the United Kingdom as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet,” Johnson said in a statement released by his office.India and Britain have enjoyed a strategic partnership since 2004, marked by regular high-level exchanges and cooperation in diverse areas. According to official statistics, India’s trade with Britain in 2017 and 2018 was worth $14.5 billion.Raab’s three-day visit to India comes at a time when Britain is ramping up trade with leading economies and also holding complex negotiations with the European Union on reaching a post-Brexit trade deal.“The foreign secretary comes at a very important time because we are looking at a post-Covid world and also looking at a post-Brexit world from the perspective of the UK,” Jaishankar said.Raab will also meet with Indian Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-foreign-secretary-holds-talks-with-indian-counterpart/story-aDHaIXUYwARNphPsti0PXN.html
15-12-2020||India||‘No proposal from BJP on ministers’: Nitish Kumar on cabinet expansion||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said that he has not received any proposal for the induction of new ministers from the BJP, adding that the cabinet expansion would be discussed whenever the proposal comes from the senior ally in the NDA.“We have not received any proposal of inducting new ministers from the BJP so far. Whenever it comes, the matter would be discussed and then a reshuffle would be done,” CM Kumar said to reporters after supervising the expansion project of a new airport at Bihta.There has been a buzz in political circles that the cabinet expansion had got delayed because of internal factors within the coalition with the BJP becoming the senior partner on the back of more MLAs. The JD(U) having 43 MLAs is now a junior ally in the NDA coalition.The CM’s statement today has given credence to the perception that the two big allies in the NDA government would only go for the next reshuffle only after the number of new ministers from each of the alliance partners is decided and the distribution of the portfolios is thrashed out.However, many feel, the cabinet expansion exercise getting delayed would impact governance and decision making process in administrative set up as a large number of departments at present are being headed by a single minister. Sources said many of the ministers are only doing routine jobs, shying away from taking big decisions in anticipation of a cabinet expansion.Right now, the state cabinet has only 14 ministers, including the chief minister, with the scope of induction of 21-22 ministers. The maximum number of ministers allowed in the state cabinet is 36. In the previous NDA government, there were 33 ministers with the JD(U) having more ministers than the BJP based on the numerical strength of the two parties in the lower house.There are chances the JD(U), having four ministers, could increase its strength to maximum 14, while the BJP, having seven ministers, could increase its strength of ministers to 18-20. The possibility of two smaller allies, Hindustani Awam Morcha( Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party ( VIP) getting one more ministerial berths each would depend on whether the JD(U) and BJP are agreeable to the proposition. At present, VIP and HAM(S) have one minister from each side.Meanwhile, BJP’s state spokesperson Sanjay Singh Tiger said the cabinet expansion would take place at an opportune time emphasising that the CM had rightly inferred that the inductions of new ministers would be done through discussions among allies. “It is a prerogative of the CM to take a call on cabinet expansion. It is pertinent the exercise would be done at an opportune time through consultations among partners. There is no dispute or friction of any sort among the allies in the NDA,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-from-bjp-on-ministers-nitish-kumar-on-cabinet-expansion/story-4lYO8ansQT9rF97g4Ix9yM.html
15-12-2020||India||Vehicles without HSRP, colour-coded stickers to be fined in Delhi: All you need to know||The Delhi transport department on Tuesday launched a drive to check vehicles driving without high-security registration plate (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers. During the drive, authorities will fine violators as much as Rs 10,000, which is compoundable to Rs 5,500 under the amended Motor Vehicle Act.As per the order by the court and government, affixation of HSRPs and colour-coded fuel stickers are mandatory in Delhi. Vehicles registered prior to April 1, 2019, must have the HSRPs and sticker installed while new vehicles registered after the date come equipped with both. However, vehicles that have already applied for HSRP and colour-coded stickers will not be fined on a condition to present the application slip, to be received after the registration. As of now, this is applicable to vehicles registered in Delhi only, other states are not included in this.What is HSRP number plate?HSRPs are chromium-based hologram plates made with a laser-branded permanent identification number, which cannot be copied. These are made by hot stamping on the number plates both at the front and back.How can you upgrade your registration plates?You can contact vehicle dealers authorised by the government. The lists are available on the state transport departments’ website. Or, one may book an appointment with the chosen dealer.What are colour coded fuel stickers?The colour-coded fuel stickers are meant to identify vehicles based on their fuel types. For examples, vehicles that run on CNG or petrol are required to affix blue stickers. While diesel vehicles will have orange stickers.The stickers also include details such as the registration number, the registering authority, a laser-branded PIN, and the engine and chassis numbers of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicles-without-hsrp-colour-coded-stickers-to-be-fined-in-delhi-all-you-need-to-know/story-SVGs2CvG4gGk5KewmNQkJP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Iron man of India’: Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, vice president Venkaiah Naidu and many leaders across India paid their tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, remembered as the ‘iron man of India,’ on Tuesday on his death anniversary. Patel was a leader of the Congress party, a lawyer by profession and as the first home minister and deputy prime minister of India, he is credited largely with the unification of the princely states in India after independence from the British.Here’s a look at his life and how India remembers him:• Born in Nadiad, Gujarat on October 31, 1875, Patel finished his schooling in his native city in the year 1897, following which he decided to pursue a course in Law.• He achieved significant success as a defence lawyer and his interest grew in the field and in 1910, he sailed for Britain to continue his studies as a Barrister.• Upon completion of his studies in Britain, Patel returned to Indian in 1913 and continued practising law in Ahmedabad in Gujarat, where he got initiated into the then political system in 1917, as the sanitation commissioner.• Patel was a prominent presence in all the protests and satyagrahas against the British, during which his association with Mahatma Gandhi began to grow. In his entire political career, Patel accepted the leadership and ways of Gandhi during the independence struggle.• Patel spearheaded many protests during peak Swarajya or the self-rule movement. He also presided over the 46th session of Congress in 1931.• Post Independence, Patel was handed the home ministry and also became the first deputy PM of India. His efforts in strengthening the Union by integrating multiple tiny and large princely states earned him the title ‘Iron man of India’ and for which he is remembered till date.• He also contributed largely to restoring peace and order in regions that were ravaged by communal violence and mass migrations during the India Pakistan partition.• His birthday on October 31 is celebrated as National Unity day or Ekta Diwas to honour his contributions in unifying India.• To mark his significance during the independence struggle and his contributions to independent India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Statue of Unity, a colossal statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on October 31, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iron-man-of-india-remembering-sardar-vallabhbhai-patel-on-his-death-anniversary/story-cCeGuUEFQT89YPebFwvlWL.html
15-12-2020||India||International group to hold red-list assessment of grasshopper species in Nilgiri biosphere reserve||A specialist group of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) would conduct a first of its kind red-list assessment of grasshopper species in Nilgiri biosphere reserve in south India followed by other parts of the country. The assessment, to be done by IUCN’s Species Survival Commission (SSC), Grasshoppers Specialist Group, would study the ecosystem by taking grasshoppers as its indicators, and also steps for their conservation. Dhaneesh Bhaskar, vice-chair, IUCN’s SSC, Grasshoppers Specialist Group, said the assessment will help in understanding the condition of the grasshopper’s ecosystem. “The grasshoppers are primarily considered as agricultural pest which is not true as they live in all sorts of environments except those covered in snow. They are basically the indicators of the ecosystem and environment which means their survival status explains a lot about the environment they are living in,” said Bhaskar. Also read | New grasshopper species discovered after 116 years, named after 28-year-old Indian biologistHe said the project will be started from the Nilgiri biosphere reserve spread in three states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “We have made a list of at least 30 species of grasshoppers which live in the forests of Nilgiri including the ones living on trees, ground and those which are semi-amphibious. We would study their present survival status and then chalk out actions for their conservation, if needed,” said Bhaskar. The project is funded by United Arab Emirates-based Mohammad Bin Zayed Species Conservation Fund, which works for the conservation of different species across the world. “The assessment project in Nilgiri biosphere reserve will be started in 2021 and will be completed in two years. Once we complete it in Nilgiri forests, we would extend it to the other parts of the country where grasshoppers are found,” said Bhaskar. Axel Hochkirch, chairman, IUCN SSC Invertebrate Conservation Committee and based in Trier University, Germany, who is also looking after the project, said the assessment will be “helpful in the conservation of grasshopper species”. Interacting over e-mail from Germany, he said, “Red list assessment is of fundamental importance for nature conservation as it helps to identify species with high extinction risk. Without this knowledge, it will not be possible to save species from conservation.” “For the IUCN red list of threatened species, which is the most widely accepted system for measuring extinction risk of species, we collect all information on the distribution, population, habitat preferences, threats and conservation activities. For many species, this information might not be readily available for which field studies are needed, like the one in Nilgiri,” said Hochkirch. He said that international body will follow the “Assess-Plan-Act principle” in the assessment. “The principle comprises assessing the conservation status of species and identifying major threats, planning necessary conservation action based on the red list assessments and implementing the conservation action,” said Hochkirch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-group-to-hold-red-list-assessment-of-grasshopper-species-in-nilgiri-biosphere-reserve/story-MoN6aUqQjs69h06uY2avEL.html
15-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: TMC legislator Suvendu Adhikari all set to join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visit, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari may join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visitFormer cabinet minister and heavyweight Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Suvendu Adhikari is all set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Read more‘Growing recognition, acceptance for idea of Indo-Pacific’, says External affairs minister S JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said it was a matter of satisfaction that there is a growing recognition and acceptance of the idea of Indo-Pacific. Jaishankar was speaking at the joint conference alongside UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab. Read moreDelhi HC restrains protesting nurses from continuing their strike at AIIMS, asks them to resume workDelhi High Court on Tuesday restrained thousands of protesting nurses of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) from continuing their strike over their long-pending demands and asked them to resume work. The court also issued a notice to the nurses’ union on the plea of the hospital. Read morePM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi have been misguided; blames OppositionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday blamed the opposition for the ongoing stir by thousands of farmers, who have been protesting the three new farm laws by camping near Delhi’s borders, saying they have been misled. Read moreMercedes pulsating with electric energy, 6 EVs to hit production in 2 yearsMercedes may be significantly behind the likes of Tesla when it comes to electrification of its products but there is just no shortage of intent to turn to battery power. The EQC was launched in India and in several global markets earlier this year and the German luxury car maker now plans to bring six more electric vehicles (EVs) to production line over the next two years. Read moreSteve Smith walks off practice session with injured back, compounds Australia’s troubles ahead of the 1st TestAustralia’s problems could well multiply ahead of the first day-night Test against India in Adelaide as their premier batsman Steve Smith walked out of the practice area without any batting practice. Smith reportedly left the ground shaking his left-arm and appeared to be in some discomfort. Read moreWW II grenade unknowingly brought home from beach explodes, mother and daughter escape major injuryIn a shocking event, a mother-daughter duo escaped a major accident after an 80-year-old grenade from the second world war exploded in their kitchen. Jodie Crews and her eight-year-old daughter Isabella picked up the odd-shaped item from a beach in Deal, England, not knowing that it was a grenade, and brought it home to experiment with it. Read more‘Open to talks with authorities’: AIIMS nurses’ union strike enters 2nd dayAIIMS-Delhi Nurses’ Union went on indefinite strike from Monday over their long pending demands. Their demands also include that of the Sixth Central Pay Commission’s. Nurses sat at the hospital premises shouting slogans, holding placards amid pandemic. The union health ministry has, meanwhile, instructed AIIMS director to ensure no disruption of nursing functions. From Monday afternoon, around 5,000 nurses went on strike, hampering patient care services. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-tmc-legislator-suvendu-adhikari-all-set-to-join-bjp-during-amit-shah-s-bengal-visit-and-all-the-latest-news/story-GC30kxOmkE7eflTmWvUcPM.html
15-12-2020||India||Loss of Rs 437.40 crore, 7,000 people booked: What we know so far about Wistron plant violence||Violence erupted at Taiwanese company Wistron Corporation’s plant in Karnataka’s Kolar where a swarm of workers went on a rampage over non-payment of salaries and pay cuts at around 6:30am during a shift change on Saturday. The workers pelted stones, smashed glass windows, damaged vehicles, furniture and other office equipment in the process.Karnataka’s deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan condemned the incident and the state’s minister for large and medium scale industries Jagadish Shettar said on Saturday that the state government will provide necessary protection to the company.Wistron is one of Apple’s global contractors and the company manufactures iPhone 7 handsets and second-generation iPhone SE devices in India.Here is what we know so far about the violence at Wistron:1. The company has claimed it suffered a loss worth Rs 437.40 crore. This included office equipment, mobile phones, production machinery and related equipment worth Rs 412.5 crore, infrastructure worth Rs 10 crore, Rs 60 lakh worth cars and golf carts, smartphones and other gadgets worth Rs 1.5 crore, as per company executive TD Prashanth.2. Wistron has filed a First Information Report (FIR) with against 7,000 people, including 5,000 of its contract workers and 2,000 that did not work there, the police said.3. The company had plans to hire up to 25,000 employees by the end of 2021 in a bid to expand their India operations but that does not seem likely. Currently, 12,000 people are employed by them of which 1,200 are permanent while the rest are contractual employees.4. Apple Inc is currently investigating into the violence and the claims of non-payment and slashing of employees’ salaries. The company demands its suppliers provide safe working conditions, treat workers with dignity and respect, act fairly and ethically, and use environmentally responsible practices wherever they make products or perform services for the company.5. “Our teams are in close touch with the local authorities and we’re offering our full support to their investigation,” the company said in a statement. Wistron issued a statement on the incident on the Taiwan Stock Exchange that said, “The company always abides by the law, and fully supports and is cooperating with relevant authorities and police investigations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-rs-437-40-crore-7-000-people-booked-what-we-know-so-far-about-wistron-plant-violence/story-enk6Daust8hJxt4CPiuGyO.html
15-12-2020||India||Kerala local body polls: Counting at 244 centres tomorrow||The counting of votes polled in the fiercely contested local body elections in Kerala, conducted four months before the assembly polls due in April-May, will be held at 244 counting centres across the state on Wednesday. Preparations have been completed for the smooth counting of votes in the local body elections, said state election commissioner (SEC) V Bhaskaran.Counting would be held according to Covid-19 protocols with all counting centres disinfected and counting officers advised to wear gloves, masks and face shields. Counting agents and candidates who reach the centres should wear masks and use sanitizers.Postal votes, including the special votes polled by Covid-19 patients, would be counted first. Counting of votes for the three-tier panchayats would be held at the block-level centres where the electronic voting machines (EVMs) have been kept in safe custody. Counting to municipalities and corporations would be held in the respective local bodies where the machines are kept.A counting supervisor and two counting assistants will be there for each table in panchayats and there will be a counting supervisor and counting assistant for municipalities. Gathering of people outside the centres will not be allowed.Of the 244 counting centres, 70 are in Wayanad, 28 in Ernakulam, 27 in Malappuram, 24 in Thrissur, 20 each in Kannur and Palakkad, 18 in Alappuzha, 17 in Kottayam, 16 each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, 12 in Pathanamthitta, 10 in Idukki and 9 in Kasaragod.Live update of the counting result would be available on the www.trend.kerala.gov.in. The website prepared by National Informatics Centre would provide detailed trends and results on a real-time basis.Kerala local body polls for panchayats, municipalities and corporations were conducted in three phases, the first phase was conducted on December 8, the second phase was on December 10 and the final phase was conducted on December 14.Kerala’s three political coalitions — CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) — are in the fray in these polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-local-body-polls-counting-at-244-centres-tomorrow/story-OOl1YI0lWSlqhFX4GIAUSN.html
15-12-2020||India||Why it is challenging to end British-era revenue policing in Uttarakhand’s hilly areas||Uttarakhand is the only the state in the country where nearly 60 % of the area is still under revenue police, a system introduced by the British in 1861, in which revenue officials act as cops with the right to arrest an accused and investigate cases. The system was brought in when crime in the hilly areas was low. However, the state continued with the system even after it was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000. But now, many feel that revenue police has become obsolete. The issue of bringing all the areas under regular police has come up again after state home secretary Nitesh Jha said a three-member committee has been formed to look into this matter. Jha spoke about it while announcing a series of reforms for modernisation of the state police department in the next few years. The committee comprises senior retired IAS officers Madhukar Gupta and Indu Pandey, and recently retired director general of police Anil Raturi. Though Jha said that a decision on the issue would be taken soon, keeping in mind the committee suggestions, police officers and experts claim it won’t be easy to end the system.A senior police officer at the state police headquarters in Dehradun, while advocating the need to end the revenue police system, said, “The Britishers had introduced the system because there used to be hardly any crime in the hilly areas. The situation remained the same till about a decade ago. But now, there have been serious crimes there also...revenue police fails to crack them and then, those cases go to regular police,” said the officer who didn’t wish to be named. “If cases have eventually to be given to regular police only, why not end the revenue police completely? The regular police is all prepared to take over the areas presently under revenue police,” he said. Another senior police officer claimed it is more of an IAS vs IPS issue. “The state police has told the government that it is prepared to take over the areas under revenue police. But there is an IAS vs IPS factor also. The IAS lobby thinks that with the revenue police system, the control of more than half the state is with them and not the police. But there should be a uniform policing system in the state,” he said. Aloke B Lal, retired director general of police Uttarakhand, however, said that, “More than the IAS vs IPS factor, it’s the lack of political will to end the revenue police system.” “In my opinion, there should be one police system in the whole state. But there is a lack of political will. It’s because many think the revenue police is somewhat easy to bend but not the regular one,” said Lal. He added, “The issue has even gone before the Uttarakhand high court which also stated that it is unfortunate that a large part of the state is deprived of a regular policing system due to the revenue police. The whole state has to come under the modern police.” On the three-member committee, he said, “One of its members, retired DGP Raturi, has studied the issue in detail and would surely make the other two members agree to end the revenue police system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-it-is-challenging-to-end-british-era-revenue-policing-in-uttarakhand-s-hilly-areas/story-OXyXnf0r3ghHgznL6rigEN.html
15-12-2020||India||In IIT-Madras Covid spike, positive cases rise to 183||IIT-Madras, which has turned into a Covid-19 hotspot, added 79 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the total number to cases to 183 in December. As many as 953 residents on campus have been tested. “With this testing has been completed,” said a spokesperson for the institution. “Next round of testing for everyone will be after ten days.”Until Monday, 104 people had tested positive - 87 are students, 16 staff from the mess and one resident. They were all being treated at King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research. “We had X-ray and CT-scan of RT-PCR positive patients (as of Monday) and they are all mild and stable,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan told HT. Incidentally, the health secretary’s family members were also treated for Covid-19 at the King’s Institute and discharged in August. He shared this with the students and residents who are under quarantine at the campus to allay their fears. “We decided to test everyone which may increase numbers but it will prevent the spread,” Radhakrishnan said. We have once again alerted all collectors and education institutions to be careful in closed spaces like hostels and common mess which seem to be a source of spread to avoid an IIT-like situation. Two fever cases have also been reported in Anna University.”Sporadic cases were reported in early December which eventually led to a spike. The food is now being sent to their rooms. The institution has temporarily shut down its academic departments and research labs. Nine hostels on campus have reported positive cases and a high number of cases were predominantly reported from two hostel units named Krishna and Jamuna. A postdoctoral student who has been in the campus hostel since March was one of the hundreds of students who was tested on Monday and she was awaiting her results. “I’ve not gone to the mess because it is overcrowded as only one mess was open. I’ve been ordering from outside,” the student said, not wishing to be named. “A second mess was opened after December 9. Another reason is that day scholars were coming into the campus from outside so there are possibilities that they were exposed.”On Monday, the Covid-19 positive cases crossed 8 lakh in Tamil Nadu. The virus has so far infected 8,00,029 people and killed 11,909. A total of 7,78,081 people have been discharged. In a statement issued late Sunday, the institute said that it has been functioning on limited capacity with only 10% students in the hostels. “IIT Madras has been permitting research scholars who need to do experimental work to return to campus in a cautious manner - with a 14-day quarantine and testing of each returnee,” their statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-iit-madras-covid-spike-positive-cases-rise-to-183/story-ktfBaiauPlx0FvGdKUApVP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Growing recognition, acceptance for idea of Indo-Pacific’, says External affairs minister S Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said it was a matter of satisfaction that there is a growing recognition and acceptance of the idea of Indo-Pacific. Jaishankar was speaking at the joint conference alongside UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab.“India has its own vision of Indo-Pacific. But I will also recognise that other country too. There could be overlaps in Indian and UK visions of Indo-Pacific. There could be big overlaps and there could be a few nuances. it is a matter of satisfaction that there is growing recognition and acceptance of the idea of Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar said.Indo-Pacific region is seen as an area comprising the Indian Ocean and the western and central Pacific Ocean, including the South China Sea.The external affairs minister further said that India has a serious intent to take trade relationship with UK forward. “India certainly welcomes a greater interest and attention that the UK is devoting to Indo-Pacific. We certainly look forward to working with you in different manifestations,” he added. Raab, who is in India for a four-day visit, referred to the UK’s “Indo-Pacific tilt” and said there is no stronger partner than India when UK looks to the east. He further said that UK wants closer defence and security partnership to deal with challenges such as terrorism and maritime security. The UK foreign secretary also mentioned that the sides can work on making 5G networks more secure and resilient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/growing-recognition-acceptance-for-idea-of-indo-pacific-says-eam-s-jaishankar/story-m0KNgRupnPoG0T4D6zt6BK.html
15-12-2020||India||Lorry crushes 4 children to death, leaves 12 others injured in Andhra’s Kurnool||Four children were killed and 12 others were injured, three of them seriously, when a lorry ran into a group of 40 Christians on a prayer walk in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district in the early hours of Tuesday, officials said. The incident occurred on Hyderabad-Kadapa national highway at Yerraguntla village of Sirivella block at around 5am. The deceased were between 8 and 15 years of age.Five of the injured, including two minor girls, who suffered multiple fractures and serious head injuries were shifted to government hospital Kurnool. The remaining injured, including six minors, are being treated at Nandyal government hospital, district collector G Veerapandian told reporters. He said a group of 40 Christians was walking on one side of the highway, singing carols as part of Christmas celebrations, when a lorry going from Hyderabad to Mydukuru (in Kadapa district) lost control and ran into them. “While three children died on the spot, the fourth one died within an hour of being admitted to Nandyal government hospital,” Veerapandian said. Even after the accident, the lorry driver did not stop the vehicle but the police, with the help of locals, gave him a chase and caught up with him at Bathaluru near Allagadda. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the accident and directed the district officials to ensure that all the injured get timely treatment. The collector said he had deputed his joint collector and Nandyala sub-collector to monitor the treatment and relief operations. Kurnool superintendent of police Fakeerappa Kagninelli said the Nandyal police were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lorry-crushes-4-children-to-death-leaves-12-others-injured-in-andhra-s-kurnool/story-E2gPGsl3bidLOlgUdk1iIJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Supreme Court refuses to transfer judge in Kerala actor Dileep’s case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to admit the Kerala government’s petition to transfer a judge in a trial court hearing the sexual assault case against cine star Dileep.A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar found no ground to hold bias against the judge for his comments. “You have picked up one statement of the judge to allege bias. What circumstances were created for making such statements…much depends on that. Where is the question of bias?” asked the bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the prosecution, told the court that in January the chargesheet was filed and a month later the prosecution moved an application for altering the charges. Till date, no decision has come on it. Further, he claimed that a fair trial is not possible in the present court as the eighth accused, actor Dileep, alias P Gopalakrishnan, moved a petition to send the cloned copy of the seized memory card for a second examination by the central forensic sciences laboratory (CFSL) without supplying the same to the prosecution or victim. The copy of the CFSL report was not shared with the prosecution prior to the cross-examination, the petition stated.“The procedure adopted by the presiding judge is to favour the eighth accused,” Kumar said, adding that on October 14 the presiding judge commented that what is happening in the court is not prosecution but ‘prostitution’. Before that, the judge ordered the prosecution witnesses not to meet the special public prosecutor. The prosecution further stated that the trial judge had remained a “mute spectator” when the victim was “harassed and intimidated” by the lawyers of the accused during cross-examination.The Supreme Court was not impressed by the allegations leveled by the state. “You are complicating your own case and creating pressure on the judge. Don’t make such allegations of bias. Let the courts function and judges do their job. As it is there is so much pressure and media hype created in this case and these allegations (of bias) will unnecessarily discourage the judge,” observed the bench.The state was given the option either to substitute the special public prosecutor or approach the high court if the application seeking alteration of charges against the accused is not taken up. “If the prosecutor is not comfortable, put someone else in his place but don’t make a grievance of bias against the judge,” said the court as it dismissed the appeal by the state government.The order, however, clarified that the dismissal of the state’s appeal will not come in the way of the state to pursue its pending application before the trial judge or seek redressal against the adverse comments made by the presiding judge. The state informed the apex court that it will require some time to replace the prosecutor appearing in the case.According to the prosecution, the incident took place in February 2017. The victim, who has worked in several South Indian films, was abducted and allegedly molested inside her car. The accused had forced their way into the car on the night of February 17, 2017 and even filmed the entire incident to blackmail the actor. In all, there were ten accused of which police arrested seven persons. Actor Dileep was subsequently arrested and joined as the eighth accused. He was released on bail in October 2017 after being incarcerated for close to three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-transfer-judge-in-kerala-actor-dileep-s-case/story-gZQAxzlOMKN3Fu2oemltIO.html
15-12-2020||India||PM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi have been misguided; blames Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday blamed the opposition for the ongoing stir by thousands of farmers, who have been protesting the three new farm laws by camping near Delhi’s borders, saying they have been misled.“People who are sitting in the Opposition and misleading farmers today were in the favour of these farm reforms during their government. They could not make a decision during their government. Today when the nation has taken a historical step then these people are misleading farmers,” PM Modi said.PM Modi was addressing the public after laying the foundation stone for a desalination plant and a milk processing and packaging plant in Gujarat’s Kutch.मैं किसान भाई-बहनों से फिर कह रहा हूं कि उनकी हर शंका के समाधान के लिए सरकार 24 घंटे तैयार है।किसानों का हित पहले दिन से हमारी सरकार की प्राथमिकता रहा है।- पीएम @narendramodi #KutchWelcomesPMModi pic.twitter.com/Y0akSWoCMm“The country is asking why small farmers who produce grains and pulses should not get the freedom to sell crops. Agricultural reforms were in demand for years. Many farmers’ organisations have also demanded in advance that they should be given an option to sell food grains anywhere,” PM Modi said backing the clauses from the recently-cleared laws by the government.“Today those who are confusing the farmers by sitting in the opposition, have supported these reforms in their time. They just kept giving false comfort to the farmers. When the country has taken these steps, they are now confusing the farmers,” he said.ALSO WATCH | Farmers’ protest: Top ministers warn ‘some elements’ trying to take advantage PM Modi said that a conspiracy is going on to confuse the farmers. “They are being scared that after new agrarian reforms, others will occupy the land of the farmers. You tell me, if a dairyman contracts to take milk from you, does he take your animal?” he asked.Extending support to the farmers via his address, PM Modi said, “I am again telling farmer brothers and sisters that the government is ready 24 hours to solve their every doubt. The interest of farmers has been the priority of our government since day one.”Thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting in and around the national capital demanding the repeal of three farm laws, alleging that it will reduce their earnings and will give larger control to the corporations.As the protests entered the 20th day, there have been no signs of a resolution to the standoff between the farmers’ unions and the government. So far, the government side - represented by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, food minister Piyush Goyal and minister of state for commerce and industries Som Prakash have engaged in five rounds of negotiations with 40 farmer unions without any resolution.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the many thousands of farmers protesting at Delhi borders have expressed apprehension that it will pave the way for eliminating the minimum support price (MSP) cushion and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-reforms-are-exactly-what-farmers-unions-oppn-have-been-asking-for-over-years-says-pm-modi/story-UcLzpoxv8cpM0N53j2yvvM.html
15-12-2020||India||TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari may join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visit||Former cabinet minister and heavyweight Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Suvendu Adhikari is all set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Adhikari’s aides and BJP leaders told HT that decks are being cleared for his formal joining. There were strong rumours that he would switch over to the saffron camp ever since he challenged the TMC leadership last month and peace talks failed to bridge the differences. Shah will be in Bengal on December 19 and 20. He will address rallies in at least three districts, including East Midnapore where Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and an assembly seat. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown. Adhikari is elected from the Nandigram seat. “It has been decided so far that neither Shah nor party president J P Nadda will hand over the party flag to Adhikari in public to induct him into the BJP. This formality will be done by either Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh or some senior national leader,” a senior state BJP leader told HT on Tuesday afternoon. Ghosh did not comment on the record on this. The 50-year-old rebel TMC leader, who resigned from the cabinet last month and relinquished two administrative posts, is planning to visit Delhi on Thursday to talk to the BJP national leadership. Senior TMC leaders said in private that Adhikari is specifically unhappy with Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in by the chief minister after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Adhikari made significant remarks at a non-political programme on Tuesday morning. “Those who insulted me will face the same fate as Anil Basu, Benoy Konar and Laxman Seth when people cast their votes in a few months,” said Adhikari. The three CPI(M) leaders he mentioned faced electoral defeat and disciplinary action as well. “One must remember that the land agitation at Nandigram was a people’s movement and not that of an individual or any party,” Adhikari said at the programme held to pay homage to noted freedom fighter Satish Samanta. Also Read: Mamata Banerjee in north Bengal to boost party’s morale, counter BJPHis statement was significant because it was Adhikari who steered the agitation against acquisition of land which started after 14 villagers were killed in police firing at Nandigram on March 14, 2007. The land movement, which was held under the banner of Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC), a platform against land acquisition that even the Maoists supported secretly, helped Banerjee overthrow the Left Front government. “Adhikari will announce himself when he will join the BJP. The TMC and Prashant Kishor will soon witness many more joining the saffron camp because of the policies being followed by the ruling party,” said Kanishka Panda, an Adhikari aide who was expelled from the TMC two days ago. He was the TMC’s general secretary in East Midnapore. Also Read: Government frees up hospital beds as Covid-19 cases drop in West BengalSuvendu Adhikari’s followers are elected from several assembly segments not only in East Midnapore but other districts as well. He was the TMC’s election observer in several districts including Murshidabad where Muslims are in majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-heavyweight-suvendu-adhikari-may-join-bjp-during-amit-shah-s-bengal-visit/story-kpfacjRw9lbkCWXFsjtHUP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Stop the memoir’: Pranab Mukherjee’s son to publishers of father’s book||Days after publishing house Rupa announced the launch of former President Pranab Mukherjee’s final volume of memoirs, his son and former Lok Sabha member of Parliament Abhijit Mukherjee has demanded that the publication be stopped till he gives his approval. In a series of tweets, Mukherjee said that the excerpts that were released were “motivated” and that the former President would not have approved.Hindustan Times reached out to the publishers but they have refused to comment for now. However, an official on condition of anonymity confirmed to Hindustan Times that President Pranab Mukherjee had approved not just the final draft of the manuscript but had also approved the cover a day before he was admitted to hospital.Rupa had released some excerpts of The Presidential Years on Friday in which he blames Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh for the party’s devastating loss in the 2014 general elections. The book also states his opinion that Prime Minister Narendra Modi employed an autocratic style of governance during his first term in power.“Since my father is no more, I being his son want to go through the contents of the final copy of the book before its publication as I believe, had my father been alive today, he too would have done the same,’’ Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted to publisher Kapish Mehra. He then added “request you to immediately stop its publication without my written consent till I go through its contents ! I have already sent you a detailed letter in this regard which will reach you soon.’’ @kapish_mehra @Rupa_Books I , the Son of the author of the Memoir " The Presidential Memoirs " request you to kindly stop the publication of the memoir as well as motivated excerpts which is already floating in certain media platforms without my written consent .1/3The book slated for publication early next year is part four of Pranab Mukherjee’s memoirs which first came out in 2014, when he was in Rashtrapati Bhawan. The official quoted above said that the former President had signed the first agreement with them in 2013 and the latest book contract was signed in 2018. “Mr Abhijit Mukherjee was nowhere in the picture,’’ said the official.Another official who worked with the former President confirmed to Hindustan Times that President Mukherjee had approved the latest volume’s publication. They also confirmed that his daughter Sharmishta Mukherjee, who is also a Congress member, was much more in the loop than her brother. Hindustan Times reached out to her for comment but she is yet to respond.“While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary,” Mukherjee wrote in the book, according to the released excerpts. “Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government.”The Congress Party has not responded to the details of the book or its disclosures till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-the-memoir-pranab-mukherjee-s-son-to-publishers-of-father-s-book/story-CK61xfk5fg8Z7W6AqniTEO.html
15-12-2020||India||Opposition behind farmers’ protest for their political survival, alleges Union Minister Giriraj Singh||Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Giriraj Singh on Tuesday alleged that opposition leaders are behind farmers’ protest for their political survivals. Speaking to ANI Union Minister Giriraj Singh said that the door of the government is open for the farmers and will remain open.“In a democracy, the solution is only through dialogue. But have you not seen on TV? not seen on channels? derogatory and objectionable comments against Prime Minister. Red flags have come which have nothing to do with farmers. The opposition is behind it for political survival. Those political parties who were in the ICU want to grab the farmers’ movement, want to usurp it. That is why they are not talking for the rights of the farmers,” Singh said.Union Minister hit out on Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh for doing “politics in the name of farmers” and said, “I want to ask the Chief Minister of Punjab, are private companies in your state not making contracts with farmers to grow potatoes? Did they usurp their land? Why did not you oppose this? Today Nestle is not taking milk from farmers in same Punjab? Our government intention is that farmers get better prices and opportunities.”The Minister said that the central government is committed for the betterment of the farmers.“I want to say that the Government of India is for the farmers. After independence, no Prime Minister has given Rs 6,000 to the farmers except PM Modi. The Government of India is devoted to farmers. The door of the government is always open for the farmers,” he added.Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Central government has held several rounds of talks with farmers’ organisations over the past few days in an effort to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-behind-farmers-protest-for-their-political-survival-alleges-union-minister-giriraj-singh/story-0QBzmRwaqPDInL9ZHMV7wL.html
15-12-2020||India||Congress opposes ‘extravagant’ Goa Liberation Day celebrations||The Congress on Tuesday boycotted a meeting called by Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to plan celebrations to mark the 60th year of Goa Liberation, saying the opposition party is against the “extravaganza”.The BJP government in the state already announced various programmes from December 19, 2020 to December 19, 2021 to mark the diamond jubilee of the Liberation Day and requested Rs 100 crore from the Centre.“I boycotted the meeting while respecting the sentiments of freedom fighters and Goans. I will not be part of any decision which promotes extravaganza in Goa Liberation Day celebrations,” Leader of Opposition and Congress leader Digambar Kamat told reporters.He demanded the chief minister cancel the tender of an event management agency and involve associations of freedom fighters, local artists and other groups, in the celebrations.Earlier, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai had announced that his party will not be part of the celebrations at a time when the state is reeling under financial crisis. The Goa Liberation Day is celebrated in commemoration of the Indian armed forces freeing Goa from the Portuguese rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-opposes-extravagant-goa-liberation-day-celebrations/story-EFzZiYunBGkHRVLqN38tKJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Worst employer of women under MGNREGS, UP aims a turnaround||Uttar Pradesh is the worst performer in employment of women under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the country. This year during the Covid pandemic, the state managed to employ a whopping 1.11 crore people under the scheme, but this workforce was dominated by men. Now, the state has decided to introduce all-women worksites and women-specific jobs. The state generated only 32.52% of women person-days of the 30.55 crore person-days of work generated this year. On 28th position, UP ranks lowest in the country with only J&K and Lakshadweep ranking even lower on women’s employment index under the MGNREGS. Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu are the top ranking states offering women work under MGNREGA with 91.41%, 87.04%, and 84.88% women person-days respectively. During these times of pandemic, with focus on maximising employment generation under MGNREGS, UP registered a whopping 87% increase in person-days generated against the previous year. But women’s share remained unchanged in the last five years. “Yes, over the last five years, women’s participation in the MGNREGS has consistently been low and lower than the national average,” said Yogesh Kumar, additional commissioner, MGNREGS, UP. The national average this year has been 52% women person-days and the MGNREGS UP headquarters has started working to address the issue. “We have zeroed in on some significant factors and have also prepared remedial strategies to attain 50-55% women participation in 2021-22,” said Kumar. He said: “Socio-cultural set-up and physical intensive works are inhibiting factors behind the low participation. Women do not like to work in men dominated worksites and on physically gruelling jobs. So, we have decided to introduce all-women worksites and women-specific works--such as plantation, gardening, nutrition gardens, nurseries or organic cultivations.” Also Read: AAP will contest 2022 UP assembly elections: KejriwalThe department is also going to make nearly 30,000 women MGNREGS mates for recording attendance, measurements of work done, and encouraging women to work. The department also intends convergence of some other schemes such as NRLM (national rural livelihood mission) into the MGNREGS. Also Read: Samajwadi Party will ally with smaller parties in next assembly polls, says Akhilesh Yadav“We will make cluster level federations of women self-help groups and give block development officers powers, including financial power that would also tide over the shortage of BDOs. They will promote horticulture, floriculture, vegetable cultivation, animal husbandry, and fisheries. Such jobs are not as physical intensive and are also of interest to women,” said Yogesh Kumar. Now, all the citizen information boards (CIBs) on worksites will be made by women. Women will also be made para-vets (for animal care), bagwani mitras (horticulture assistants), and krishi mitras (agriculture assistants) under MGNREGS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worst-employer-of-women-under-mgnregs-up-aims-a-turnaround/story-AjlKArAwjveycdzGQTMioK.html
15-12-2020||India||Two men arrested for carrying petrol during PDP rally in Kupwara||A day after a personal security officer (PSO) of PDP leader Haji Parvaiz was killed in Srinagar, two young men were arrested for carrying a bottle of petrol during a party rally in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Tuesday.PDP claimed that the duo were trying to hurl a petrol bomb on the rally. “Two miscreants tried to hurl a petrol bomb at PAGD candidate Tariq Majnon’s rally in Wavera, Kupwara. They were caught & handed over to the police,” said PDP president Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet, asking the police to initiate an inquiry. She also demanded stringent action against the arrested men.Police confirmed the two young men were arrested with a bottle of petrol during the rally and investigation has begun.On Monday, Manzoor Ahmad was hit when terrorists opened fire towards Haji Parvaiz’s house at Natipora in Srinagar.DGP Dilbag Singh told the media that Ahmad’s killing was a part of the attempts to disrupt the ongoing district development council (DDC) election process for which, he said, people were showing a lot of enthusiasm.“Very elaborate security arrangements have been made along the polling routes, and polling places but despite best of the arrangements, you can’t put 100% civil curfew where people are not allowed to move… So among the large scale movement of people, you have a hidden movement of an odd anti-national element coming to the city or any other place,” he said.Earlier, a candidate of Apni Party survived an attempt on his life at Kokernag in South Kashmir after he sustained two bullet injuries. Six phases of DDC polls have been completed and the last phase will be held on Saturday. Counting will be held across J&K on all 280 DDC seats on December 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-men-arrested-with-petrol-during-pdp-rally-in-kupwara/story-aLRPVJUUuZDXzVf11f5QkJ.html
15-12-2020||India||New equations, change of guard in BTC 17 years after its formation||Student leader-turned-politician Pramod Boro took charge as the chief executive member of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam on Tuesday, three days after the declaration of results of election to the council that administers four districts in the state. The 45-year- old leader of the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL), who was heading All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) till few months back, was administered oath of office and secrecy by Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua in the presence of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and other dignitaries in Kokrajhar. “Our government is here not for power, but to solve all issues pertaining to Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). Let’s forget the past and look ahead to a peaceful and developed BTR where everyone has equal rights,” Boro said in his inaugural address after swearing in. It has been a sharp rise to power for Boro, who quit the ABSU and joined the UPPL in February this year. He was made the party’s president soon after. He steered the party to secure win in 12 of the total 40 seats and joined hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (10) and the Gana Surakha Party (1) to assume power in BTC. On Tuesday, along with Boro, four other executive members of the council -- one from UPPL, two from the BJP and one from GSP -- took oath. The UPPL and the BJP’s rise has come at the cost of Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) and its president Hagrama Mohilary, who was in power in BTC for 17 years since its inception in 2003. The BPF secured 17 seats in the BTC polls, but it failed to cobble together a majority due to souring of relations with the BJP., though the two parties are partners in the state government. Mohilary, a rebel-turned-politician, had come to power in BTC after the second Bodo Accord, signed by Bodo Liberation Tigers (which Mohilary headed) with the Centre and state government in 2003. The accord had paved way for creation of the BTC, after the first one signed in 1993 with the aim of ending the movement for a separate Bodoland state had failed. And now, Boro came to power after the third Bodo Accord in January this year, which he had signed as president of ABSU along with leaders of four factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland and the United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO). Unlike Mohilary, Boro had been not been associated with any rebel outfit. But his deputy Govinda Chandra Basumatary, the vice president of UPPL, has a violent past. The former head of NDFB (Progressive) was also a signatory to the third Bodo Accord. With assembly election in the state due in March-April next year, the BJP aims to further consolidate and increase its hold in BTC administered areas. In his address, CM Sonowal congratulated BJP workers for the win in BTC and indicated that the new tie-up with UPPL and GSP will continue in the assembly polls as well. Education and finance minister Himanta Biswa Saram announced setting up of 40 new colleges, 40 stadiums and a medical college in the area soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-equations-change-of-guard-in-btc-17-years-after-its-formation/story-2QsXJ8HpOo5iGMO3qVBDKI.html
15-12-2020||India||Boris Johnson accepts India’s invite, will be Republic Day parade chief guest||Prime Minister Boris Johnson has accepted India’s invitation to be the chief guest at Republic Day on January 26 – the second UK prime minister to attend the event after John Major in 1993 – and has invited India to join the UK’s G7 summit next year.Downing Street announced on Tuesday that Johnson will travel to India in January 2021 to strengthen a key strategic relationship which supports jobs and investment across the UK as part of his first major bilateral visit since taking office, and the first since the UK’s departure from the EU.Hindustan Times had first reported Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s invitation to PM Johnson on December 3.An official spokesperson said the trip will kick off a significant year for ‘Global Britain’, when the UK will host both the G7 Leaders’ Meeting and COP26 Summits, as well as a global education conference aimed at getting girls into school, and an event to mark the first meeting of the UN General Assembly in London in 1946.Johnson has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accept his invitation, and to invite India to attend the UK’s G7 Summit as one of three guest nations alongside South Korea and Australia, as part of Johnson’s ambition to work with a group of like-minded democracies to advance shared interests and tackle common challenges.The Prime Minister will use his visit to India to boost our cooperation in areas that matter to the UK and that will be priorities for our international engagement throughout 2021 – from trade and investment, to defence and security, and health and climate change”, a statement said, adding that the visit underlines his commitment to step up the UK’s engagement with the Indo-Pacific region.The UK and India are significant investors and markets for each other’s economies and our growing trade and investment relationship is worth around £24 billion a year, supporting more than half a million jobs.There are 842 Indian companies in the UK with a combined turnover of £41.2 billion, creating jobs in all four corners of the United Kingdom.That includes 19,500 people employed by Tata Consulting Services at sites including Peterborough, Liverpool, and Edinburgh; around 5,700 people in Warrington, Derby, Cardiff, Derry/Londonderry and Belfast working for business support firm Firstsource Solutions – which is soon to open a new office in Middlesbrough; and 1,200 people employed by Accord Healthcare Ltd in Newcastle and Barnstaple to manufacture and supply medicines to the NHS.Johnson said: “I am absolutely delighted to be visiting India next year at the start of an exciting year for Global Britain, and look forward to delivering the quantum leap in our bilateral relationship that Prime Minister Modi and I have pledged to achieve”.“As a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, India is an increasingly indispensable partner for the United Kingdom as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet.”The statement said that as the ‘pharmacy of the world’ India supplies more than 50% of the world’s vaccines, with over a billion doses of the UK’s Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured at the Serum Institute in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-prime-minister-boris-johnson-accepts-invite-to-be-republic-day-parade-chief-guest-says-uk-foreign-secretary-raab/story-uuJjCPL0OnQMlluMMs8FqJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Tripura man kills wife, found at home with her body||A 38-year-old Tripura man was found with the body of his wife, who he allegedly killed after a fight, said police on Tuesday. The incident was reported from Killamura ‘s Reang Para falling in Belonia sub division of south district of the state on December 12. The accused, Soumitra Reang, was arrested, but he is currently at GBP hospital in Agartala as the doctors noticed wounds on his head. Reang prepared country liquor to earn his daily bread. Also read | Prisoner kills inmate over pet dog, three missing puppies in Uttarakhand’s open jail“After arresting him, we took him to a local hospital for medical examination where the doctors found injuries on his head. He has been shifted to Agartala. Once he is released, we will take him to court, “ said Belonia sub divisional police officer Soumya Debbarma. According to his neighbours, Reang and his wife Sandhya Rani Murasingh (30) had been quarrelling for the past 15 days. Police suspect that they fought over preparation of country liquor and out of anger, Reang killed Sandhya with a sharp weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-man-kills-wife-found-at-home-with-her-body/story-mh1L89wsVDzwEROl9KcrLK.html
15-12-2020||India||Not convenient, India tells Canada on meeting of top diplomats. It’s a signal||India has asked Canada to put off the foreign office consultations between top diplomats of the two countries, a move seen to indicate the downturn that political relations between the two countries have taken after Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s comments on the farm protests in India, people familiar with the matter said.The foreign office consultations between Riva Ganguly Das, the foreign ministry’s secretary (East) and her Canadian counterpart expected to be held on Tuesday (December 15) have been postponed at India’s instance. New Delhi has told Ottawa that the date was inconvenient.ALSO WATCH | Kangana Ranaut vs Canada PM on Twitter over France cartoon controversy Foreign minister S Jaishankar had last week skipped the Ministerial Coordination Group of Covid-19 organised by Canadian Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne to formulate strategies on the coronavirus pandemic for the same reason.India, which had participated in a previous meeting of the group, had cited “scheduling” issues to stay away from the December 7 meeting.PM Trudeau had waded into the farm protests in India during a video interaction to mark the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, describing the protests as “concerning” and asserting that “Canada will always be there to defend the right to peaceful protest”.PM Trudeau’s comment had come despite New Delhi, which expected the matter to be raised in Canada’s House of Commons, briefing Canada’s foreign ministry, Global Affairs Canada, about the necessity of the farm laws.Canada has about 1.6 million citizens of Indian origin, a large number of them from Punjab. A little less than half of them, about 7 lakh, are Sikhs.PM Trudeau’s remarks were aimed at this constituency, preparing for the possibility that he may have to face elections in the spring of 2021. The other two political parties - New Democratic Party leader Jagmeet Singh and Conservative leader Erin O’Toole - have already expressed support. But PM Trudeau did not stop at letting his party court the Indian immigrants over the farm protests and took matters into his hand.An upset New Delhi promptly summoned the Canadian envoy over the “unwarranted” comments and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation that said the “comments by the Canadian Prime Minister, some Cabinet Ministers and Members of Parliament on issues relating to Indian farmers constitute an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs”.India also complained to the Canadian envoy about other statements by the Canadian leadership that “encouraged gatherings of extremist activities in front of our high commission and consulates in Canada that raise issues of safety and security”.Indian officials, however, underlined that economic relations between the two countries would not be impacted by the strain in political ties that was often attributed to the Canadian leadership letting local political interests of his party gain precedence over diplomacy and economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-drives-home-message-on-pm-trudeau-comment-puts-off-meeting-of-diplomats/story-sqdgeDRIhFkvh6vRCbK4gJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Government frees up hospital beds as Covid-19 cases drop in West Bengal||With active Covid-19 cases dropping in West Bengal, the state government has started freeing up beds in private hospitals, which had earlier been requisitioned for treating such patients. “The number of active cases has dropped and the rate of hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients has also gone down. The state government, which had requisitioned a few thousand beds in private hospitals to treat such patients, has started freeing them. These can now be used to treat non-Covid patients,” said a senior official of the state health department.The state government had requisitioned more than 3,400 beds in around 57 private hospitals across the state. In all, more than 13,500 beds in over 100 government and private hospitals were allotted to treat Covid-19 patients.While the number of active cases was 31,984 on October 15, it dropped to 29,314 on November 15. On December 14 (Monday), it was at 21,384.The rate of hospitalisation has also dropped during this period. While around 38% of the hospital beds were occupied on October 15, only around 21% of the beds were occupied on December 14.Till date, West Bengal has recorded 523,000 Covid-19 cases and 9,100 fatalities. The number of fresh cases reported daily in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas - the two districts which were registering the highest number cases – has also dropped.Kolkata recorded around 400 cases on December 14. In the last week of October, just after the festive season, the city had reported more than 900 cases on a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-frees-up-hospital-beds-as-covid-19-cases-drop-in-west-bengal/story-04VTgGI0PgjXJchPgH1ytO.html
15-12-2020||India||Parties not in favour of Parliament session, says Centre; Opposition denies||The opposition parties on Tuesday alleged that they were not consulted by the government over its move to scrap the winter session, insisting that Parliament should meet to discuss the ongoing farmers’ protests over the three controversial agriculture laws. Senior Congress leader and former union minister Jairam Ramesh took to Twitter to claim that Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad was not consulted by the government on the issue. The remarks came in the wake of a letter written by parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on December 14 informing him that leaders of all political parties were in favour of doing away with the winter session of Parliament in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation. Hindustan Times was first to report on November 16 that the rising cases of covid-19 infections in Delhi have cast a shadow on the winter session, which normally begins in December, and the government is mulling to club it with the budget session that begins at the end of January. “Mr Pralhad Joshi is as usual departing from the truth,” Ramesh tweeted. When asked if his party had been consulted on the issue, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien replied, “Consulted? Are you joking?” In the past few weeks, the opposition parties have stepped up their demand for holding the winter session in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three new farm laws, saying the government should repeal these legislations and hold fresh discussions on reforms in the agricultural sector. Members of Parliament (MPs) of the Congress from Punjab have been on a sit-in protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar for the past several days, urging the government to immediately convene the Parliament to repeal the farm laws and discuss the farmers’ issue. Over the past few days, they have been joined by many other Congress leaders. In his reply to Chowdhury’s letter to him demanding immediate convening of the winter session to discuss the new farm laws, Joshi said that the leaders of all parties were not in favour of it due to the Covid-19 situation. “Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon. In this regard, I have informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session,” the parliamentary affairs minister said. He said the government was willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest. “It would be appropriate to have the budget session, 2021 in January, keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” Joshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-not-in-favour-of-parliament-session-says-centre-opposition-denies/story-OyDPSkuVGaOaRghxCocKcL.html
15-12-2020||India||Maharashtra House panel to decide on Arnab and Kangana by 2nd week of February||Maharashtra assembly has given about two months’ extension to the privilege committee to decide if Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut are guilty of breach of privilege. If found guilty, they can both face punishment, ranging from a warning to imprisonment. The panel will also ask them to state their side before taking any decision.Ranaut is accused of “defaming Mumbai” after she likened Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and stated that she feared living in the city. Similar motion was initiated against Goswami for his alleged derogatory remarks against State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.On the second day of the State legislature’s ongoing session on Tuesday, Shiv Sena legislator Deepak Kesarkar, who heads the Assembly’s privileges committee, sought time till the last day of the budget session, likely to start in the second week of February. The request was approved by the lower house.Also Read: Shiv Sena’s Pratap Sarnaik moves breach of privilege motion over Kangana Ranaut’s tweetHowever, many BJP leaders opposed the motion, saying Goswami and Ranaut didn’t fit in the rules enacted for breach of privilege motion. Speaker Nana Patole, however, felt that the matter concerning the insult of the chief minister of the state should be taken seriously. The proposal for extension was passed in the assembly by voice vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-house-panel-to-decide-on-arnab-and-kangana-by-2nd-week-of-february/story-wvdxK8zcFgIEkJNmO71xyL.html
15-12-2020||India||US court terminates $100 million lawsuit against PM Modi, Amit Shah||A US court has dismissed a $100 million lawsuit filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah after the litigants - a separatist Kashmir Khalistan outfit and two associates - failed to appear before it at two scheduled hearings.The suit was filed on September 19, 2019, days before Modi’s historic “Howdy, Modi!” event in Houston, Texas. It challenged the Indian Parliament’s decision on Jammu and Kashmir that abrogated the special privileges of the state and carved out two union territories and sought a compensation of $100 million from Modi, Shah and Lt. Gen. Kanwal Jeet Singh Dhillon.Dhillon is currently serving as the Director-General Defence Intelligence Agency and Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff under the Chief of Defence Staff.“Other than that attempted service,” Kashmir Khalistan Referendum Front “have done nothing to prosecute this case”, and have now failed to appear at two duly set Scheduling Conferences, US District Court Southern District of Texas Judge Frances H Stacy said in his order dated October 6 and recommended that the case be dismissed.The case was terminated by Judge Andrew S Hanen of the US District Court in Texas on October 22.Apart from the Kashmir Khalistan Referendum Front, the other two complainants have not been identified, other than the acronyms ‘TFK’ and ‘SMS’. The suing party was represented by separatist lawyer Gurpatwant Singh Pannun.The Indian Parliament passed legislation last year changing the status of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, modifying provisions that have been an obstacle to economic development and promoted a sense of separatism.Prime Minister Modi, accompanied by US President Donald Trump, had addressed a crowd of over 50,000 Indian-Americans at the “Howdy, Modi!” event in Houston on September 22, 2019.As per court records, Kashmir Khalistan Referendum Front was able to serve the summons to Modi, Shah and Dhillon at the Indian Consulate in Houston on February 18, 2020.A conference was set by the court for August 2. A second conference was scheduled on October 6.Judge Stacy said that representatives of the Kashmir Khalistan Referendum Front failed to appear for the conference as such he recommended that the lawsuit be dismissed. Two weeks later, Judge Hanen terminated the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-court-terminates-100-million-lawsuit-against-pm-modi-amit-shah/story-OfruSRVpw2vQN1Q6oa2n3M.html
15-12-2020||India||India will grow to be among top 3 economies in 2 decades: Mukesh Ambani||Richest Indian Mukesh Ambani on Tuesday said India will grow to be among the top three economies in the world in the next two decades and per capita income would more than double.At a fireside chat with Facebook head Mark Zuckerberg, he said India’s middle-class, which is about 50 per cent of the nation’s total number of households, will grow three to four per cent per year.“I firmly believe that in the next two decades, India will grow to be among the top three economies in the world,” said Ambani, who heads oil-to-retail-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance Industries Ltd.More importantly, it will become a premier digital society, with young people driving it.“And our per capita income will go from USD 1,800-2,000 per capita to USD 5,000 per capita,” he said.Facebook and a lot of other companies and entrepreneurs in the world have a golden opportunity to be in India, to be part of this economic and social transformation that will accelerate in the coming decades, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-grow-to-be-among-top-3-economies-in-2-decades-mukesh-ambani/story-0FFQmmbaAZ9EbA0gQr0gwO.html
15-12-2020||India||Less than 45% of households in five states use clean fuel for cooking: NFHS||Less than 45% of households use clean fuel for cooking in five states, including Bihar and West Bengal, the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS) has revealed.The survey covered 17 states and five union territories. The five states where less than 45% households use clean fuel for cooking are Assam (42.1%), Bihar (37.8%), Meghalaya (33.7%), Nagaland (43%) and West Bengal (40.2%), according to the data.The NFHS-5 (2019-20) was conducted in 6.1 lakh sample households to collect information on population, health, family planning and nutrition-related indicators from the 22 states and union territories.According to the data, over 80% of households use clean fuels in Andhra Pradesh (83.6%), Goa (96.5%), Mizoram (83.8%) and Telangana (91.8 %). Electricity, LPG or natural gas and biogas are considered as clean fuel in the survey.The survey also showed that the use of clean fuel increased in all the 22 surveyed states and UTs in comparison to NFHS-4 (2015-16).It found that over 70% of the population in 16 states are living in households that use an improved sanitation facility.Lakshadweep (99.8%) and Kerala (98.7%) have the highest percentage of population living in households with an improved sanitation facility, while Bihar (49.4%) and Ladakh (42.3%) have the lowest, the survey said.It found that almost all the surveyed households are using iodised salt.Over 90% of the population was living in households with electricity, and more than 70% with improved drinking water sources in the surveyed states and UTs, according to the data.The NFHS results of 17 states and five UTs (Assam, Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Andhra Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Telangana, West Bengal, Mizoram, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu) have been released now as Phase-I. Phase-II, which will cover other states, will be released next year, the health ministry has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-45-of-households-in-five-states-use-clean-fuel-for-cooking-nfhs/story-wCel90zBzsvQQ2Ag8E0hvN.html
15-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 2 Punjab farmers returning from Delhi protest killed in road accident and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two Punjab farmers killed in road accident on Delhi-Chandigarh highwayTwo farmers returning from Delhi’s Singhu border were killed in a road accident as a light commercial vehicle hit their tractor-trailer on NH-44 (Delhi-Chandigarh highway) near Taraori town of Karnal district of Haryana on Tuesday morning.Read MoreAam Aadmi Party will fight Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022, says Arvind KejriwalAam Aadmi Party will fight Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022, says Arvind Kejriwal. Read More‘Helpless as our demands weren’t met’: AIIMS nurses’ union as indefinite strike enters day 2In biting cold and amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, an indefinite strike of the nurses’ union of Delhi’s premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) entered day 2 on Tuesday. Read More‘Personified India’s tradition of knowledge, enquiry’: PM Modi condoles death of aerospace scientist Roddam NarasimhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences on the death of aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha on Tuesday. Read MoreBookings for Land Rover Defender plug-in hybrid now open in IndiaThe latest Land Rover Defender claims to be better and safer than ever before, throwing a massive challenge to all that the country’s wilderness chooses to put in its path. Read MoreA spin battle in the shadows of the fast and furiousSumptuous cricketing battles in Australia have effectively been about aggressive batsmen again fiery pace, and the pink-ball Test in Adelaide first up will add swing bowling to the equation. Read MoreRemo D’Souza strikes heroic poses in hospital after suffering heart attack, Aamir Ali shares health update: ‘My brother is back’Actor Aamir Ali has shared a health update for choreographer-filmmaker Remo D’Souza, who was recently admitted to hospital after suffering a heart attack. “My brother is back,” Aamir wrote. Read MoreMom-to-be Kareena Kapoor Khan puts maternity spin on athleisure; flaunts baby bump in pink crop top, leggingsMom-to-be Kareena Kapoor Khan can pull off any look, and she proved that yet again as she flaunted her baby bump in a cute pale pink sports bra, matching high-waist leggings as she shot for an upcoming ad for a leading sportswear brand. Read MoreUK foreign secretary Dominic Raab on India visit: All you need to knowUnited Kingdom foreign secretary Dominic Raab is on a four-day visit to India. Raab will hold talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-2-punjab-farmers-returning-from-delhi-protest-killed-in-road-accident-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0QAFcBoUx4q996e03xAeOL.html
15-12-2020||India||AAP will contest 2022 UP assembly elections: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the party shall contest the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. “In 2022, the AAP will contest Uttar Pradesh elections… A lot of people from Uttar Pradesh who live in Delhi have told us over the last few years that Uttar Pradesh too deserves good governance, welfare and benefits like Delhi,” said the chief minister in a video press briefing. He further said, “Why do people from districts across Uttar Pradesh have to come to Delhi for healthcare, education and basic amenities? Why can’t they avail that in Uttar Pradesh? It is because all political parties in Uttar Pradesh have betrayed people. Each government has crossed the other one in terms of corruption. Uttar Pradesh politics lacks good intent. The AAP can change that… Give us a chance.” “If Sangam Vihar in Delhi can have Mohalla Clinics, so can Gomti Nagar in Lucknow… Uttar Pradesh can have a good public healthcare system, education system and development. They only need an honest government,” said Kejriwal. The announcement comes as the AAP registered its maiden win in the Goa zilla panchayat elections. The party opened its account with Hanzel Fernandes, who won the Benaulim seat in South Goa. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made big gains as it won 32 out of 49 seats in a clean sweep.The issues which the party would focus on in Uttar Pradesh shall be healthcare, education, water and power supply-related issues, unemployment and law and order, said Sanjay Singh, the AAP’s Rajya Sabha member and in charge of the Uttar Pradesh unit. He said, “Why can’t Uttar Pradesh see development on all these fronts? The AAP has been focusing on a politics of change in the country and today’s announcement is a major step in this regard.” Earlier this year, the party had said that it will be contesting 2022 assembly polls in Uttarakhand as well. The move is in line with its plan to spread beyond Delhi. Candidates of the party had earlier contested elections in states that include Punjab, Goa, Maharashtra and Haryana. Currently, the party has legislative assembly members in Delhi and Punjab, and one Lok Sabha member from Punjab. After defeat in the 2017 municipal elections in Delhi and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in which it had unsuccessfully pitched candidates in all seven Lok Sabha segments in Delhi, the party had announced that it would focus only on Delhi for a while.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-will-contest-2022-up-assembly-elections-kejriwal/story-sekOLoWUzpgJ7unB7BDI4O.html
15-12-2020||India||Two Punjab farmers killed in road accident on Delhi-Chandigarh highway||Two farmers returning from Delhi’s Singhu border were killed in a road accident as a light commercial vehicle hit their tractor-trailer on NH-44 (Delhi-Chandigarh highway) near Taraori town of Karnal district of Haryana on Tuesday morning.The deceased have been identified as Gurpreet Singh (24) and Labh Singh (65), residents of Saphera village of Patiala district of Punjab.Three other farmers from the same village sustained injuries and they have been hospitalised.Police said that as per the preliminary investigation, the incident took place around 2am on Tuesday when the vehicle hit the tractor-trailer from behind, causing it to overturn on the highway.While Gurpreet died on the spot, Labh Singh died on the way to hospital. The other farmers were rushed to Karnal’s Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital.Narender Singh, a farmer from Saphera, who was also in the trailer, said that Gurpreet was a bachelor and was the only son of a marginal farmer.Police said the bodies have been sent for post mortem to Karnal civil hospital. Statements of the injured farmers have been recorded and action will be taken against the unknown driver, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-punjab-farmers-killed-in-road-accident-on-delhi-chandigarh-highway/story-exJ4E1p32V9kHduhb1svrO.html
15-12-2020||India||Qualified AYUSH doctors can prescribe immunity boosters for Covid patients: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that qualified AYUSH doctors can prescribe government-approved tablets or mixtures as immunity boosters for Covid-19 patients as per the directions in the March 6 order of the Ministry.A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, however, said these doctors cannot prescribe or advertise them as a cure for Covid-19.The order of the apex court was passed on an appeal filed against the August 21 decision of the Kerala High Court holding that AYUSH doctors shall not prescribe tablets or mixtures as cures for Covid-19, but only as immunity boosters.The Kerala High Court order had asked the state government to use alternative medicine only as an immunity booster. It had ordered that alternative medicine such as homoeopathy, Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and naturopathy be used to enhance immunity to resist the disease.The High Court order had prohibited AYUSH doctors from advertising or prescribing medicines as a cure for Covid-19, except those specifically mentioned in the Centre’s advisory on March 6, 2020.An appeal was filed in the top court by Dr AKB Sadbhavana Mission School of Homeo Pharmacy against the Kerala High Court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qualified-ayush-doctors-can-prescribe-immunity-boosters-for-covid-patients-sc/story-apjhgSxo8sdt4wSXRo7qnL.html
15-12-2020||India||No winter session of Parliament due to Covid, says govt to Cong demand to discuss farm agitation||There will be no winter session of Parliament due to the coronavirus pandemic, the government has said, rejecting a demand from Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary to convene Parliament to discuss the new farm laws that have triggered massive protests. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi communicated the decision to Chaudhary in a letter on Monday, according to news agency ANI.The minister said he had informally contacted floor leaders of political parties and they were in favour of skipping the winter session, which normally begins in November and ends in December. “Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of the recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon,” Joshi said, according to his letter put out by NDTV.“The government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the Budget session 2021 in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” he said, responding to Chaudhary’s 3 December letter.Chaudhary had asked for a short winter session to discuss issues such as the farmers’ agitation, preparation of Covid-19 vaccine, economic slowdown and the stand-off along the India-China border.As news of the government’s decision emerged, Congress leaders took swipes at the government on social media, linking the decision to the demand to repeal the three farm laws. They recalled that Parliament’s Monsoon session was held in September when the number of Covid cases was at its peak.To be sure, the plan to scrap the winter session had been proposed much before thousands of farmers started their agitation on the outskirts of Delhi against the laws that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers insist the new laws favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices.The Hindustan Times had first reported the plan to scrap the winter session on November 16.The monsoon session, which started on September 14 when new daily cases in Delhi averaged 4,001,, was cut short by eight days after at least 50 people connected to Parliament tested positive. The plan to skip the winter session was drafted when the daily average stood at 6,670. On Monday, Delhi reported over 1,300 Covid cases, the lowest in over three-and-a-half months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-winter-session-of-parliament-due-to-covid-says-govt-to-cong-demand-to-discuss-farm-agitation/story-C7w6VIwgaYUgOPjqnkIpGP.html
15-12-2020||India||‘UP deserves benefits like Delhi’: Kejriwal announces AAP to fight 2022 polls||The Aam Aadmi Party will contest in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2022, party chief Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. “Why do people from districts across Uttar Pradesh have to come to Delhi for healthcare, education and basis amenities? Why can’t they avail that in their own state?” said Kejriwal as he made the announcement.“In 2022 polls, AAP will contest Uttar Pradesh elections... a lot of people from Uttar Pradesh who live in Delhi have told us over the last few years that UP too deserves the welfare and benefits like Delhi,” he also said. “If Sangam Vihar can have Mohalla Clinics, so can Gomti Nagar,” Kejriwal added.ALSO WATCH | ‘All parties have betrayed UP’: Kejriwal says AAP will contest 2022 state polls Kejriwal also said that all parties in Uttar Pradesh have betrayed the people as “each governent crossed the other one in terms of corruption”. “UP politics lacks good intent, which the AAP can bring in,” the Delhi chief minister said as he asked voters to give one chance to his party. “I assure you that Uttar Pradesh people will forget all other parties,” Kejriwal said.“People have Delhi have voted the AAP to power because they were waiting for an honest government... today, all residents of UP need an honest political party with good intent,” he also said.The announcement comes as the AAP registered its maiden win in the Goa Zilla Panchayat elections. The party opened its account with Hanzel Fernandes who won Benaulim seat in South Goa. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party made big gains as it won 32 out of 49 seat in a clean sweep.Before this, the AAP has contested in the Punjab, Goa, and Gujarat Assembly elections in 2017. With an ambition to go national, it has also contested in Meghalaya, Nagaland, Karnataka, Chhatisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha and Telangana Assembly elections. The party has also debuted in Haryana, Maharashtra and Jharkhand Assembly elections.Uttar Pradesh is currently ruled by the Yogi Adityanath led government after BJP stormed to power in the 2017 legislative assembly elections. In the 403-member UP Assembly, among the major parties, BJP has 309 legislators, Samajwaadi Party has 49, Bahujan Samaj Party 18, and Congress 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aam-aadmi-party-will-fight-uttar-pradesh-elections-in-2022-says-arvind-kejriwal/story-qBSyUVMYBkckTngG6u7teO.html
15-12-2020||India||Indian Navy senior-most submariner passes away due to Covid complications||Seniormost submariner of the Indian Navy, Vice Admiral Srikant, passed away due to Covid-19 related complications at Base Hospital in New Delhi on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.He was the Director General of Project Seabird.Earlier, he had held the titles including Inspector General of Nuclear Safety and Commandant of the National Defence College. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-senior-most-submariner-passes-away-due-to-covid-complications/story-oKl5eUir29Wd9UbTotO7kJ.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Personified India’s tradition of knowledge, enquiry’: PM Modi condoles death of aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences on the death of aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha on Tuesday. Professor Narasimha was an outstanding scientist, passionate about leveraging the power of science and innovation for India’s progress, PM Modi said. “Shri Roddam Narasimha personified the best of India’s tradition of knowledge and enquiry. He was an outstanding scientist, passionate about leveraging the power of science and innovation for India’s progress. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” PM tweeted.Also Read: Padma Vibhushan awardee and eminent aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha diesThe Padma Vibhushan awardee died at a private hospital in Bengaluru at the age of 87. He was admitted after suffering a brain haemorrhage and was shifted to the intensive care unit.“When he was brought to our hospital, he was in a very critical stage. There was bleeding inside his brain,” Dr Furtado, neurosurgeon and senior consultant at the Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in the city, told news agency PTI.Born on July 20, 1933, Prof Narasimha made a mark in the field of aerospace. He taught Aerospace Engineering at the IISc from 1962 to 1999. He also served as the director of the National Aerospace Laboratories from 1984 to 1993.Narasimha was the first student of Sathish Dhawan. He has also contributed to some of India’s major scientific programmes, including the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA). The central government bestowed on him Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award of India, in 2013. He was also the recipient of the Bhatnagar Prize and the 2008 Trieste Science Prize.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personified-india-s-tradition-of-knowledge-enquiry-pm-modi-condoles-death-of-aerospace-scientist-roddam-narasimha/story-cUjIGhT5fmOBMdOJMJZ1pO.html
15-12-2020||India||Samajwadi Party will ally with smaller parties in next assembly polls, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has said that his party will form the alliance with smaller parties in the upcoming Assembly polls.Speaking to media when asked about the party’s alliance in the upcoming Assembly election in the state to stop the BJP, Yadav said, “Samajwadi Party will forge an alliance with smaller parties. Our experience has not been good with big parties.”The former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh said, “We are hopeful that in 2022 Samajwadi party will form the government in the state with the majority.”It is noteworthy that in last Assembly elections of Uttar Pradesh, SP had formed an alliance with Congress in 2017. BJP had stormed back to power in the state in the Assembly polls. In the 403 member UP Assembly, among the major parties, BJP has 309 legislators, SP 49, BSP 18, and Congress 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-will-ally-with-smaller-parties-in-next-assembly-polls-says-akhilesh-yadav/story-Gr1Njizid3JilJN5SBwRDP.html
15-12-2020||India||PM meets space industry leaders; Spaceport in Tuticorin, fund for startups on agenda||Since the announcement of opening up the space sector to private players in June, the department of space has received 25 applications from industries seeking permission or support for space activities. These activities range from satellite constellation, small satellite launch vehicles, ground station, geospatial services, propulsion systems and application products, according to Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met representatives of eight space agencies to improve participation and seek suggestions for the newly created Indian National Space Promotion and Authorization Centre (IN-SPACe), an independent body that will give authorisation, monitor, and also share government resources for space activities. ISRO chairperson and department of space secretary K Sivan briefed the PM about steps taken so far. He said actions have been taken to address the requirements and applications are being processed in fast track mode. “The event was mostly aimed at assessing what the space sector is currently doing and taking feedback about the recent changes in the space sector. The government is looking at implementation of the suggestions made today,” according to a person present at the meeting. “Two of the main suggestions of the industry were to expedite the construction of the new launch pad at Tuticorin and setting up a space fund to help the startups in the sector,” the person said, on condition of anonymity. One of the representatives also suggested setting up a space education centre on the lines of Unites States’ Kennedy Space Centre. “Setting up a good infrastructure like that will not only inspire students from all corners of the country to learn about space, it will also bring in space tourism. Currently, we take our students and those from all neighbouring countries to US. It costs about $500 just for the visit to Kennedy Space Centre, add to that the cost of flight, visa etc; it is very expensive. If a centre is set up in India, it will cost one-third and bring in tourism,” said Srimathy Kesan, founder and CEO of Space Kidz India. She was present at the meeting and one of the eight persons to present to the PM. Others industry representatives were Sunil Bharti Mittal from Bharti Enterprises, Jayant Patil from Larsen & Toubro Ltd, Srinath Ravichandran from Agnikul Cosmos Pvt Ltd, Pawan Kumar Chandana from Skyroot Aerospace Ltd, Colonel H S Shankar from Alpha Design Technologies Pvt. Ltd., Rakesh Verma from MapmyIndia, and Awais Ahmed from PIXXEL India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-meets-space-industry-leaders-spaceport-in-tuticorin-fund-for-startups-on-agenda/story-GVRGNGaYXrZCAbiLpUa4WK.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Helpless as our demands weren’t met’: AIIMS nurses’ union as indefinite strike enters day 2||In biting cold and amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, an indefinite strike of the nurses’ union of Delhi’s premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) entered day 2 on Tuesday. Around 3,000-5,000 nurses launched strike on Monday over a host of demands, including that related to the 6th Central Pay Commission.Here’s all you need to know about it:1. “Our union is ready for talks with the administration. We’re feeling bad for patients but we’re helpless as our demands haven’t been met. We had given notice for a strike a month ago but even then, the administration didn’t listen to our demands,” Harish Kajla, president, AIIMS nurses’ union, told news agency ANI on Tuesday. Our Union is ready for talks with the administration. We are feeling bad for patients but we're helpless as our demands haven't been met. We had given notice for strike a month ago but even then the administration didn't listen to our demands: President, AIIMS Nurses Union, Delhi https://t.co/aEjKJO4VWV pic.twitter.com/LpT06KjPLN2. The strike began on Monday afternoon, with the union, in a letter to AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, blaming the administration’s “callous attitude towards the nurses” behind their reason to go on a strike.Also Read | Nearly 3,000 AIIMS nurses go on strike to demand better pay3. Responding to the letter, Dr Guleria on Monday put out a video message, calling the union’s decision to strike during pandemic time “inappropriate and unfortunate.” Appealing to the union to call off the strike, he urged the protesters to return and “help us get through this pandemic.”4. Dr Guleria also said of the 23 demands raised by the union, almost all had been met by the AIIMS administration. On the demand regarding the 6th Pay Commission, he said it was basically a “perceived anomaly” in the fixation of the initial pay as per the commission.5. “Their demands stand discussed with them for resolution. Union abandoned critically patients on demand of perceived anomaly of fixation of initial pay related to 6th CPC of 2006,” ANI quoted an AIIMS statement as saying.6. Late last night, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan issued an order, citing a Delhi high court judgement, directing the AIIMS administration to ensure there was no cessation or disruption of nursing services. The order further warned of action under the Disaster Management Act, over non-compliance.7. As a result of the strike, officials said, emergency services, outpatient departments (OPD) and operation theatres (OT) will be curtailed and services rendered depending on the availability of resident doctors and faculty members.8. On Monday, there were 1,376 cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, as per a Delhi government medical bulletin. Total cases are at 608,830 while death toll reached 10,074 with 60 new fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helpless-as-our-demands-weren-t-met-aiims-nurses-union-as-indefinite-strike-enters-day-2/story-wwcCJ0Mf2gPLSWt17rpYdK.html
15-12-2020||India||Indians among top nationalities considering a working holiday trip||A survey conducted by Booking.com has revealed that 68% Indian travellers have already considered booking a stay in order to work from a different destination. Indian travellers are second on the list after 69% travellers from Thailand to have considered a working trip. The survey revealed that 2021 could bring a significant rise in travellers looking to take longer trips that combine work and leisure due to the freedom of working from anywhere. The survey was conducted among a random sample of adults who travelled for business or leisure in the past 12 months, and must be planning to travel in the next 12 months after the travel restrictions are lifted. 20,934 respondents across 28 countries and territories, including about a thousand from India, polled in the online survey in July this year. The survey revealed that 63% Indian travellers would like to extend any business trips to also enjoy leisure time at the destination. “Working from home during the pandemic has allowed many to be released from the daily grind and commute to and from the office. And it now seems people may be reluctant to go back to their old routines. With the possibility of remote working becoming a long-term reality, it’s looking promising for those who are able to travel and set up their office anywhere – from a desk overlooking a serene lake setting to swapping your mountain screensaver for a real-life Himalayan backdrop. Bye-bye 9 to 5: work from wherever you want seems to be the new normal,” said the online travel agency’s spokesperson. Also Read: Google says 3 days a week in office, rest can be work from homeThe survey also said that travel platforms and places to stay will prioritise showcasing home office necessities and Wi-Fi speed in an attempt to attract this new wave of digital nomads.Booking.com also predicted that 2021 could bring a significant rise in travellers looking to take longer trips that combine work and leisure. Commenting on the findings of the research, Ritu Mehrotra, country manager, India, Sri Lanka and Maldives at Booking.com said, “Remote working is becoming a long term reality as health and safety is a top priority in the current environment. To break the monotony of working from home, travellers want to escape to a destination where they can easily blend leisure with business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-among-top-nationalities-considering-a-working-holiday-trip/story-SCid7A8vJE1K5zCdhgmL7K.html
15-12-2020||India||Prisoner kills inmate over pet dog, three missing puppies in Uttarakhand’s open jail||A prisoner has been arrested by Sitarganj police in Udham Singh Nagar district for killing another inmate following a fight over a pet dog and its three missing puppies in Uttarakhand’s Sitarganj open jail. The jail authorities were informed by Jeetu Ram that Jeevan Singh was lying unconscious with injury marks on his body. Investigation revealed that Ram himself was responsible for Singh’s death. Salahudin Khan, Sitarganj police station in-charge, said both the men were serving life terms in the Sitarganj open jail. “They were neighbours and both were fond of dogs. Singh’s pet female dog had given birth to three puppies. When they went missing suddenly, he suspected Ram’s hand in their disappearance and this led to a fight between the two,”said Khan. Also read | Supreme Court reopens murder case against BJP MLA, says UP probe ‘sham’Later, Ram allegedly barged into Singh’s hut and hit him with an iron rod on his head, killing him, said Khan. Then he informed the jail authorities that Singh, 45, was lying unconscious in his hut with injuries on his body. The jail authorities rushed Singh to a government hospital in Sitarganj where doctors declared him brought dead, said the police.The next day, jailer Jayant Pangtey lodged an FIR against unnamed accused under IPC section 302 (murder) in Sitarganj police station. “Following an investigation, police solved the case and arrested Ram on Monday evening,” said Khan. Prisoners serving life terms are housed in an open jail after periodic evaluation of their good behaviour in the jail. Such prisoners work in agriculture fields and live in huts provided by the jail administration. “Ram has confessed that after their fight, he feared that Singh would murder him so he decided to get to him first. We have recovered the iron rod used in the crime. Ram will be produced in the court after his medical check-up,” said Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prisoner-kills-inmate-over-pet-dog-three-missing-puppies-in-uttarakhand-s-open-jail/story-CfrAPLA2kYlhI8kAo8lTjK.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Just the beginning,’ says Arvind Kejriwal after AAP’s maiden win in Goa||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday hailed his party’s maiden win in Goa Zilla Panchayat elections, which marked the first electoral history of the party in the coastal state.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Goa has made big gains in the Zilla Panchayat elections, winning 32 out of 49 seats on offer, while the opposition Congress performed poorly, bagging just four.The AAP opened its account with Hanzel Fernandes who won Benaulim seat in South Goa.“Congratulations to AAPs Hanzel Fernandes on winning the Benaulim ZP seat in Goa. Many other AAP candidates have secured much higher vote share than last time. This is just the beginning. I am sure AAP will live up to the trust and expectations of Goans,” the Delhi CM tweeted.AAP’s Goa convener Rahul Mhambre thanked the people of Goa for reposing trust in the party.“The leadership and volunteers will strive to work harder and meet expectations of voters and win their hearts.For the people of Benaulim, Thank You for giving AAP their first victory in Goa. AAP will work for Goa and Goans,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-the-beginning-says-arvind-kejriwal-after-aap-s-maiden-win-in-goa/story-4kEYyXNSJTo2L6LDmgUELI.html
15-12-2020||India||Centre plans push for Ayurvedic, allopathic tourism in country||The ministry of tourism is planning to boost Ayurvedic and allopathic centres registered with the ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) as hubs of medical tourism, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. “Post Covid-19, a lot of people will be looking to plan wellness tours,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. “India is the ideal place and we have a great opportunity here,” the official said.According to tourism and culture minister Prahlad Patel, the decision was taken at a meeting of the National Medical and Wellness Tourism Board on Monday. “India has always been a leader in Ayurveda and we can become a global hub for such tourism,” Patel told Hindustan Times. The board will meet every three months to review the progress.It has officials from the ministry of AYUSH, home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare, Indian Medical Association and private players such as Dr Naresh Trehan, Dr Sangeeta Reddy and Ramdev.Also read | ‘Demand for Ayurvedic products went up globally during Covid-19’: PM ModiIndia, said officials, is poised to become an even larger player as the cost of treatment is lesser than in other countries, waiting time is lesser, presence of qualified doctors, personalised healthcare and easy medical visa process.“The ministry is also in talks to ensure that medical tourists will be able to obtain a visa within a day of their application,” said the above-mentioned official. “Those facing problems will be redirected to a new call centre being set up in the culture ministry to expedite their visa.”At present, India has 34 hospitals accredited by Joint Commission International, an international body that certifies healthcare organisations. National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers in India, however, has certified 578 hospitals. “The aim is to exponentially increase the number of internationally certified hospitals,” said the official. The list of these hospitals will be included in the Incredible India campaign and be made available on its website. The centres to be promoted will be identified by AYUSH ministry.“There are three buckets of strength that India has when it comes to medical value travel, one is the combined power of traditional medicine and modern medicine in India,” Trehan told Hindustan Times. “Traditional medicine, Ayurveda, can play an important role in treating gastrointestinal problems and allergies. Allopathy has established itself in treatments like bone enjoinment. Then there is herbal medicine, which is used for boosting immunity and stress reduction.”Trehan added that by using embassies abroad to spread awareness about the programme, India can become a hub for such treatments. “There have been scattered efforts by agencies and individual hospitals to promote such travel. What is missing is a consolidated effort and that is what the board is planning,” he said.The global medical tourism industry market is estimated to value $19.7 billion, with the Asia-Pacific region accounting for 40% of the share. India’s share was reported to be around 18% of the market in 2019, with nearly 4.75 million medical tourists travelling to the country in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-push-for-ayurvedic-allopathic-tourism-in-country/story-sa2WOQFOgl1weEe2ZPYmoK.html
15-12-2020||India||Padma Vibhushan awardee and eminent aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha dies||Eminent aerospace scientist and Padma Vibhushan awardee Roddam Narasimha died at a private hospital here on Monday, doctors said. He was 87. He was admitted to the hospital on December 8 after he suffered a brain haemorrhage. The scientist, who served at the prestigious Indian Institute of Science (IISc), breathed his last at 8.30 pm, neurologist Dr Sunil V Furtado said.“When he was brought to our hospital, he was in a very critical stage. There was bleeding inside his brain,” Dr Furtado, neurosurgeon and senior consultant at the Ramaiah Memorial Hospital in the city, told PTI.According to him, Narasimha had a heart-related ailment and suffered a brain stroke in 2018 as well.He is survived by his wife and a daughter.Born on July 20, 1933, Prof Narasimha made a mark in the field of aerospace and as a fluid dynamicist. He taught Aerospace Engineering at the IISc from 1962 to 1999. He also served as the director of the National Aerospace Laboratories from 1984 to 1993.He was the chairperson of the Engineering Mechanics unit at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) in Bengaluru from 2000 to 2014.Considering his contribution, the central government bestowed on him Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award of India, in 2013.According to his family friends, Narasimha was in the league of the Missile Man of India and former president Dr A P J Abdul Kalam.Dr Kalam and Prof Narasimha had together authored a book --”Developments In Fluid Mechanics and Space Technology”.He was also a good friend of eminent scientist and Bharat Ratna awardee Dr C N R Rao. He was the student of Indian rocket scientist Prof Satish Dhawan.His family members said the last rites will be performed on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-vibhushan-awardee-and-eminent-aerospace-scientist-roddam-narasimha-dies/story-OjKQNQfgRGBgGU7mBzjMwM.html
15-12-2020||India||Jailed person from Naxal-hit district, those who gave anti-national speeches, seen in farmers’ protest: Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said that photographs of people “who gave anti-national speeches in Delhi” were seen during the farmers’ protest.Some elements are trying to mislead the farmers by taking advantage of their protest, the Minister of Road Transport and Highways told news agency ANI, adding that the government is ready to initiate dialogue over farmers’ apprehensions about the three farm laws enacted in September.Also Read | ‘Don’t think Anna Hazare will join farmers’ stir, haven’t done anything against them’: Nitin Gadkari“There is Gadchiroli district near Nagpur, Naxalite (affected) district. In that, a person was nabbed and he did not even get bail from the court. He is in jail. He has no direct and indirect relation with farmers but his photo was seen in the protest. I couldn’t understand it,” the minister said.On being asked about remarks on involvement of urban Naxal and Maoist elements in the farmers’ protest, Gadkari said that such remarks were not made for all the farmers.Also Read | Will resume talks, but with some riders: Farmer unions“People who gave anti-national speeches in Delhi, who have no relation with the country and farmers, who have nothing to do directly or indirectly with the demands of farmers, their photos have been seen. Please tell me how did they come in this. There are some elements who are trying to mislead the farmers by taking advantage of the agitation. I feel it is wrong,” he said. Farmers have been protesting against Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 since November 26. They want the government to repeal the laws as they say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and stop the government’s purchase of staples at guaranteed prices.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-person-from-naxal-hit-district-those-who-gave-anti-national-speeches-seen-in-farmers-protest-gadkari/story-c6WgeXDTQu2c67f837UjOP.html
15-12-2020||India||Wolves prefer to stay away from human, shows telemetry study in Maharashtra||Dispelling the belief that wolves are one of the predator species lurking around human dominated zones, leading to conflict, preliminary results from a radio-collaring study of eight wolves in the Vidarbha and western Maharashtra grasslands showed the species tries to avoid human-dominated zones as much as possible.Bilal Habib and his team of researchers from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, and members of The Grasslands Trust, Pune, have been studying the land use pattern, movements, habitat selection, hunting and dispersal patterns of sub adults, and threats to the Indian grey wolf, since 2018.Attaching global positioning system (GPS) collars on eight individuals in December 2018 helped researchers assess their findings over a period of three years. “The most striking thing we came across was how wolves try to avoid high density human-use areas. The core areas of wolf use are without any human presence,” said Habib, adding that these species are not identifiable by any patterns on their body (unlike big cats), not seen during the day, and are very elusive. “Their subtle behaviour made it difficult for us to photograph them easily in camera traps. The idea is to conserve this last remaining breeding population of the Indian grey wolf in grasslands of the Deccan Plateau in Maharashtra. We need concrete policy for the conservation of this species, and ensure it does not go extinct,” added Habib.Also read | Buldhana’s Lonar Lake declared Ramsar site, second for Maharashtra within a yearThe Indian grey wolf is protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. As a subspecies of the grey wolf, it is found across much of peninsular India inhabiting scrub, grasslands, arid and semi-arid areas in the subcontinent. The species is presently confined to parts of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Karnataka. According to the International Wolf Centre (conservation body), there are approximately 400-1,100 wolves living in the Himalayan Region and 4,000-6,000 wolves in the peninsular region.Preliminary results of this three-year study showed that the land use pattern of adult pairs had considerable differences, even regionally, depending on the availability of food and water. One of the female sub-adults moved 80km away from her home territory, and established herself in a new area. “We also found that den sites play a crucial role in the lives of the wolves. Protecting land patches used as den sites would boost conservation efforts,” said Habib.The study involved three phases of collaring wolves across moist deciduous forests and grasslands of Ahmednagar, Solapur, Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Chandrapur districts. While wolves of different ages and across large packs were collared to know more about their ecology, body measurements and blood samples were taken during radio-collaring for further studies before releasing them.Among threats, the study found that free ranging dogs and in some cases, leopards were competing with wolves for habitat dominance while cases of poisoning as retaliation to livestock killing were being reported across the grassland landscape.“The Deccan plateau (Maharashtra) is probably the last remaining connected breeding population for this species in the world. Despite having highest priority in protection in terms of law, these animals and their habitat remain neglected by policy makers. We need a strong government initiative to preserve their future,” said Mihir Godbole, founder member, The Grassland Trust, Pune, which recently released a video of the study findings.Final results of this study are expected by mid-2021, said Habib.According to a 2017 study by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and WII, habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation, retaliatory killing coupled with disease threats rendered Indian wolves prone to extinction. However, very little research has been done to understand more about the species, and the animal continues to be perceived to cause conflict by allegedly attacking and lifting livestock in human-dominated landscapes. Independent experts said animal behaviour depends upon numerous factors and perceptions. “The behaviour repertoire of any species evolves with situations and circumstances. Studies (like WII’s) need to be carried periodically and findings need to be validated repeatedly to understand results better,” said Dr VB Mathur, former director, WII, adding that most predator animals maintain a respectable distance from humans until provoked or confronted.Dr Mathur explained that the first average reaction of people to elephants would be to appreciate, bow, and pay regards to the animal as it is worshipped in the Indian culture. “However, a wolf or a snake evokes a different response. Thus, when we talk about threats to such species, it is because of preconceived human behaviour rather than the animal behaviour rendering them an additional threat. Combined with this, there is folklore, some of which may be true while some may not be. However, as far as the wolf is concerned, the image of this animal in the eyes of an average human is that of a hostile type,” he said, adding, “As a landscape species, the best strategy for the wolf would be to avoid human presence. At the same time, despite our threat perception, grasslands need to be conserved for their safety, and the perception of such habitats as wastelands needs to change.” THE INDIAN GREY WOLFIndian grey wolves resemble the domesticated dog breed (German shepherds or huskies) in appearance but have a large skull and teeth, which distinguish them from other closely related canines. According to taxonomic studies, there are 32 sub species of the grey wolf globally with the Tibetian and Indian wolf found across India. Indian wolves have yellowish-brown coat colour interspersed with black. Their coat colour is usually lighter during summers. Studies estimate that they can travel tirelessly at a rate of 8 km per hour and sprint at speeds of 55 to 70 km per hour. Their average length ranges from 103 to 145 cm, males are heavier (19-25 kg) than females (17-22 kg) while adults can be distinguished from juveniles by white markings above the eyes, on the chin and under the throat. Females have a gestation period of 62-63 days with a litter size of two to six individuals. The mating season is during October and November while the age of dispersal for a young adult is 18 months. “Across Maharashtra, the majority of the wolf population is found outside protected areas and highly dependent on livestock allowing the potential for conflict, especially the shepherd community, but in this case we found their hunting, dispersal, and habitat pattern assuming that human spaces were a threat to them,” said Habib.(Source: Wildlife Institute of India and Central Zoo Authority)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wolves-prefer-to-stay-away-from-human-shows-telemetry-study-in-maharashtra/story-W9X9RPJK4ePaWXCVRSk8mJ.html
15-12-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 count drops to lowest since July 6, tally closer to 10 million||India recorded 22,065 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Tuesday morning. With this, the nationwide tally has reached 99,06,165.This is the lowest daily count of Covid-19 cases since July 6.The number of active cases went down further to 3,39,820, while 94,22,636 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals, according to health ministry update at 8 am.The country also recorded 354 fresh fatalities, which took the nationwide tally to 1,43,709.The share of India’s active Covid-19 cases in the total number of infections further shrunk to 3.57 per cent, lowest after 149 days, according to government statement on Monday.The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) organised a virtual session on Covid-19 on Monday where Ministry of External Affairs Secretary (West) Vikas Swarup said that India emerged as a net provider of health security and successfully shouldered its responsibility as the pharmacy of the world.“Within two months of the pandemic, we expanded our diagnostic facility from one major facility for pan-India testing to more than 2,000 today. From having almost no domestic manufacturing of PPE kits, we have become the second-largest manufacturer. More than 17,000 dedicated COVID facilities were set up with 1.6 million isolation beds. Digital tools such as the Aarogya Setu App were developed and are being effectively used for extensive contact tracing,” said Swarup.He also said that India sent consignments of medicines and medical supplies to almost 150 partner countries.Meanwhile, the Centre issued guidelines on Monday ahead of the Covid-19 vaccination programme that is expected to start soon. The Centre has directed states to ensure safe injection practices.The focus of the guidelines, prepared by the health ministry, is “One needle, One syringe, Only one time”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-count-drops-to-lowest-since-july-6-tally-closer-to-10-million/story-s8AfN6Ne5urlxE5f88XCxJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Rajasthan: Minor delivers baby in Nagaur, four, including brother, booked for rape||Police have booked four for a minor girl’s rape in Rajasthan’s Nagaur district on Monday. The matter came to light after the girl gave birth to a child on Sunday night. Those booked include the girl’s brother.“The girl is 14 and unmarried. The matter came to light when the girl and her family reached the Zanana Hospital in Ajmer on Sunday, where the doctors, after safely delivering her baby, informed us that the mother is a minor,” said Narotam Singh, station house officer, Padukalan police station. Singh added that the minor, along with her child, is under police and medical supervision. Based on the statements of her family, her brother and three other villagers have been booked under the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.Also read | Dera Bassi man booked for raping 19-year-old woman“Her family members confessed that her brother and three others from the same village have raped her several times,” Singh said. When the SHO was asked about the age of the accused, he said a DNA test on the accused and the newborn would reveal more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-minor-delivers-baby-in-nagaur-four-including-brother-booked-for-rape/story-wEETCcUNhctfV3UyRCTGAM.html
15-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab to meet external affairs minister S Jaishankar today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab to hold talks with foreign minister S Jaishankar todayDominic Raab, the foreign secretary of the United Kingdom, will hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday. Read moreKarnataka Legislative Council session today, anti-cow slaughter bill likely to be tabledThe Karnataka Legislative Council will hold its day-long session on Tuesday, where the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill is expected to be tabled. Read morePM Modi to lay foundation stones for several projects in Gujarat’s Kutch todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will embark on a one-day visit to Kutch in Gujarat on Tuesday during which he will lay foundation stones for several projects. Read moreNew UK law set to fine social media firms up to £18mn for illegal contentFines up to £18 million or 10% of annual global turnover of tech firms will be slapped on tech firms that fail to remove and limit the spread of illegal content under new laws and block non-compliant services from being accessed in the UK. Read moreViswanathan Anand chess academy to nurture India’s next big championFive-time chess world champion Viswanathan Anand on Monday officially announced the launch of his chess academy in collaboration with WestBridge Capital. Read moreWind met ice and created magic: Pic of icy fence may leave you stunnedSeveral pictures from nature possess the ability to mesmerize one thoroughly. One such particular image shared on the subreddit ‘oddlysatisfying’ has grabbed the attention of netizens and may amaze you too. Read moreNurses at Delhi’s AIIMS go on indefinite strike, Dr Guleria appeals against itNurses at AIIMS Delhi went on an indefinite strike on Monday. Nurses union sent a list of 23 demands to AIIMS authorities. The staff demanded restructuring of salaries as per 6th pay commission. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uk-foreign-secretary-dominic-raab-to-meet-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4CrgK6ebLF9UW2y7CBg0lI.html
15-12-2020||India||PM Modi pays tributes to Sardar Patel on his death anniversary||Paying tributes to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed him as the “iron man” who laid the foundation of a strong and prosperous India.Also Read | Statue of Unity to reopen from October 17: Check latest guidelines The path shown by him will always inspire us to protect the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country, he said in a tweet. Patel, a freedom fighter who became India’s first home minister and deputy prime minister, is credited with unifying hundreds of princely states with the Union of India following independence through a mix of persuasion, dialogue and even use of force when required.Also Read: Sardar Patel and the Kashmir question, writes Ram Madhav The prime minister has often expressed his deep admiration and respect for him and has been the brain behind the Statue of Unity project in Gujarat, a tribute to Patel who had passed away in 1950.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-sardar-patel-on-his-death-anniversary/story-qXbVCbcpdIRqTFHXv5eB9J.html
15-12-2020||India||India records its lowest number of Covid cases in single day||India reported its lowest number of cases of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day on Monday, with the country recording 22,022 new cases.With the increase, the total number of people infected with this highly contagious viral disease has reached 9,906,592 in the country.With 352 deaths on Monday, the total number of deaths due to the viral disease reported in a single day was also the lowest on recorded so far. The total number of Covid-19 patients having succumbed to the viral disease has reached 143,764.The first death due to Covid-19 in India was reported on March 12, from south India.Over the past week, India has also recorded one of the lowest daily cases and daily deaths due to Covid-19 per million population, according to the government data. Also read | Covid-19 can have impact on heart too, say expertsAbout 158 cases per million population have been reported in the country since past week; much lower than many other countries of the Western Hemisphere. New cases reported per million population in the world during the past one week has been 553. The active caseload, which is the actual disease burden that a country is seeing, on Monday stood at 352,586.The share of active cases in the total positive cases has further shrunk to 3.57%, which is the lowest in 149 days. The total active cases were 358,692 on July 18, this year. “The daily recoveries exceeding new cases have ensured a total net reduction of the active caseload. A net decline of 3,960 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in last 24 hours,” said Union health ministry in a statement issued on Monday. Daily recoveries have been exceeding new cases for the past 17 days. The total recovered cases are nearing 9.4 million, which translates to a recovery rate of 94.98%. The gap between recovered cases and active cases continues to grow and presently stands at 9,035,573, government data shows. “75.58% of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states/UTs. Kerala reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,258 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 3,083 new recoveries. West Bengal recorded another 2,994 daily recoveries,” the health ministry statement further said. Also, 75.82% of the new cases are concentrated in 10 states and Union Territories. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 4,698 in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra recorded 3,717 new cases while West Bengal reported 2,580 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-its-lowest-number-of-covid-cases-in-single-day/story-69qZovx4BOk3m6YMbAt7NI.html
15-12-2020||India||10000 diyas lit outside Lingaraj temple to celebrate new ordinance for the temple||Priests of Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar on Monday evening lit 10,000 lamps outside the temple premises after Odisha Cabinet approved a separate Shri Lingaraj Temple Ordinance 2020 for vesting of the management of the 11th century temple and its properties, including temples situated within its premises, other temples, sacred places and mutts, in a committee for better administration and governance.The priests lit earthen lamps at the temple premises to celebrate and express gratitude to the state government.On Monday evening, the state cabinet, presided over by chief minister Naveen Patnaik approved the law department’s proposed ordinance that would free up the temple from being governed by the Odisha Hindu Religious Endowment Act, 1951.Also Read: Process begins for reopening of places of worship in OdishaOfficials said separate law will help in proper execution of rituals, management or administration of temple and its properties“The Temple Trust was not able to properly execute such rituals due to limited power conferred under the existing law. As the government has recently proposed to undertake several developmental works for all-round development of Lingaraj temple, the law is being enacted through ordinance since the Odisha Assembly is not in session,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10000-diyas-lit-outside-lingaraj-temple-to-celebrate-new-ordinance-for-the-temple/story-2o0f28JrWqs8dPDzpbQm5H.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Don’t think Anna Hazare will join farmers’ stir, haven’t done anything against them’: Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Monday that the government has not done anything against the farmers by bringing the three farm laws. He also said that the government is ready to accept all good suggestions from farmers about the three laws.Gadkari said he doesn’t think social activist Anna Hazare will join the farmers’ agitation.“I don’t think Anna Hazare ji will join. We have not done anything against the farmers. It is the right of farmers to sell their produce in mandi, to traders or anywhere else,” Gadkari told news agency ANI.He also said that dialogue is the only way to find a solution to protest by farmer unions and a break in talks can lead to miscommunication.“If there is no dialogue, it can lead to miscommunication, to controversy and sparring. If there is a dialogue then issues will be resolved, the whole thing will end, farmers will get justice, they will get relief. We are working in the interest of farmers,” Gadkari said.Hazare had on Monday written a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar warning “resumption of a hunger strike” against the Centre fails to fulfil his demands including the implementation of the recommendations made by M S Swaminathan Commission.The anti-graft activist had sat on a fast in February last year over his demands. He called off the fast on February 5, 2019, after receiving a written assurance from then Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh that the Centre would form a high-powered committee to discuss the suggestions made by the Swaminathan Commission and other agriculture-related demands.Hazare had observed a fast on December 8 in support of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmer organisations demanding a repeal of the Centre’s three agri laws passed in September.Meanwhile, the Centre has expressed willingness to hold another round of talks with the farmers to sort out their issues. But the protesting farmers said they are ready for talks again but with certain conditions.The conditions set by the farmer organisations are: Talks cannot be about old proposals which farm unions have rejected; the government should draw up a new agenda and discussions must be focused on a repeal of the farm laws.The riders appear to put the onus on the government to draw up an agenda acceptable to the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-think-anna-hazare-will-join-farmers-stir-haven-t-done-anything-against-them-nitin-gadkari/story-8ilCx4aamKcET77NwxJm0I.html
15-12-2020||India||Mercury dips to 4.1°C in Delhi; minimum temperatures to drop in most of NW India||The minimum temperature in Delhi dipped to 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees below normal on Tuesday(recorded until 6.30am). The minimum temperature on Monday was 8.4 degrees Celsius while the maximum was 19.4 degrees C, 4 degrees below normal. “We are recording cold wave conditions in Delhi with minimum temperature falling over 4.5 degrees below normal at many stations,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), cold wave sets in when minimum temperature falls below 10 degrees with a departure of 4.5 degrees Celsius from normal.Delhi’s air quality index is 192 in moderate category. Most cities and towns in northwest India are recording poor to moderate air quality today. IMD has forecast a fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest India during the next four days. In central and east India minimum temperatures will fall by 2-4 degree Celsius thereafter. Dense fog is likely today in isolated pockets over Jammu division, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, northwest Rajasthan, northwest Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim, Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura today. Air quality early warning system for Delhi under the ministry of earth sciences said air quality has improved to moderate category because of relatively strong winds during the day and night, leading to better dispersal and ventilation. The wind direction is northwesterly with wind speed 6-15 kmph and mainly clear sky. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed 8-15 kmph, mainly clear sky and moderate fog in the morning today. In its severe weather bulletin, IMD has forecast cold wave conditions for Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, Chandigarh on December 17 and 18. “What we are seeing now is that several parts of northwest India are experiencing severe cold day conditions. A cold wave may also impact these regions from December 17. While cold day conditions are associated with overcast sky which hasn’t allowed the day temperature to rise, even night temperatures are falling. An intense western disturbance has passed and winds have changed to north-westerly direction, bringing icy cold winds to the plains,” said Shrivastava. Under the influence of an easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala and Lakshadweep area during December 16 to 18. Isolated heavy rain is also very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dips-to-4-1-c-in-delhi-minimum-temperatures-to-drop-in-most-of-nw-india-imd/story-k4H2YPGfbhyaS7kEPRHtOP.html
15-12-2020||India||FIR against 7,000 people in connection with violence at Wistron facility in Karnataka||A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered against 7,000 unknown people including 5,000 contract workers in connection with violence and vandalism at the facility of Wistron Pvt Ltd, manufacturer of iPhone, at its plant in Kolar, police said.In the FIR, the company stated that it suffered losses of over Rs 437.7 crores during the violence on December 12.Damages have been done to the property, office materials, vehicle and other things, as per the FIR registered at Vemagal police station, Kolar.Earlier on Saturday, Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka CN Ashwath Narayan condemned the incident where hundreds of workers were seen entering the Wistron manufacturing plant at Narasapura in Kolar and smashing the office properties. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-7-000-people-in-connection-with-violence-at-wistron-facility-in-karnataka/story-OROxtx6zcCFjtaBB5oelPP.html
15-12-2020||India||Karnataka Legislative Council session today, anti-cow slaughter bill likely to be tabled||The Karnataka Legislative Council will hold its day-long session on Tuesday, where the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill is expected to be tabled.Accusing Council Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty of “abruptly” adjourning the session sine die on December 10, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government decided to convene the House, and the ruling party had also petitioned the Governor in this regard.The “Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020” was passed by the state Assembly last week amid uproar from the opposition.The BJP legislators sporting saffron shawls shouted “Gau Mata Ki Jai” and cheered the passage of the contentious bill, but the opposition members trooped to the well of the House in protest.In the new bill, any cow or bull under the age of 13 cannot be slaughtered. A violation would invite jail term between 3-7 years and a fine between Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Repeat offenders would have to pay between Rs 1-10 lakh and could face a jail term of seven years.A permit would be needed from relevant state government authorities for inter-state movement of animal husbandry and transportation should be done according to central government norms. Any violation would invite a jail term of 3-5 years with a fine of Rs 50,000.For a bill to become law, its passage in the Council, followed by assent by the Governor is necessary.The ruling BJP would need the support of Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) if it wants to pass the bill in the legislative council where it has only 31 members in a House of 75.The Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting has been called on Tuesday morning ahead of the session to decide on their plan of action inside the House, which will be attended by CLP leader Siddaramaiah.The party has issued a whip to all its members to attend the Council proceedings on Tuesday.Currently, the ruling BJP is the single largest party in the Council with 31 members, followed by Congress with 29 including the chairman.The JD(S) has 14 members and there is one independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-legislative-council-session-today-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-likely-to-be-tabled/story-gOeQ5ASIOVzX1bJIMwJo9N.html
15-12-2020||India||104-yr old Assam man declared foreigner dies before proving citizenship||A 104-year-old Assam man, declared a foreigner by a tribunal nearly three years ago, died on Sunday night before being able to prove that he is an Indian citizen. Chandradhar Das passed away at his home at Baraibasti in Amraghat of Cachar district on Sunday night reportedly due to age-related problems. He was cremated by his family members the same day. Das had been declared a foreigner by a foreigners’ tribunal in January 2018 through an ex parte judgement after he failed to appear before it to prove his citizenship. He was later sent to central jail in Silchar in March, but was released in June after a public outcry against his detention. Das had come to India from erstwhile East Pakistan (later Bangladesh after 1971) in 1955. As per rules, anyone staying in Assam prior to 1971 is deemed an Indian citizen. The case against him didn’t get resolved as the refugee certificate issued to him in Tripura wasn’t verified by authorities there. Das’s status as a foreigner also resulted in his three children and grandchildren getting left out of the National Register of Citizens for Assam, which was updated for the first time since 1951 and published in August last year. Also Read: Drama continues after BTC polls results in Assam; lone Cong winner joins BJP The register, which sought to identify Indian citizens and weed out illegal foreigners, had excluded 1.9 million of the 33 million people who applied to get included in the list. Local reports quoting Das’s daughter Niyati said that the centurion’s last wish was to die as an Indian citizen. His hopes got raised after the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which proposed granting citizenship to Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, Christians, Parsis and Buddhists from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan was passed by parliament in December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/104-yr-old-assam-man-declared-foreigner-dies-before-proving-citizenshi/story-8JJSumLVu9j4cA6LF6YqvO.html
15-12-2020||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stones for several projects in Gujarat’s Kutch today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will embark on a one-day visit to Kutch in Gujarat on Tuesday during which he will lay foundation stones for several projects. The PM will virtually lay the foundation stones of world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park at Khavda, which will have both windmills and solar panels to generate power, and a desalination plant in Mandvi along the Arabian Sea coast in the afternoon in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani, a press release issued by the government on Monday said.PM Modi will also perform virtual ground-breaking ceremony for four other desalination plants to be set up in Kutch and Saurashtra regions and for a 2-lakh litre capacity milk chilling plant being set up by the Kutch District Cooperative Milk Producers Union, or Sarhad Dairy, between Anjar and Bhachau in the district, the release said. He will also lay the foundation stone for the Rs 129-crore fully automated dairy plant under the Centre’s Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana, it added.As the then CM, Modi had set up Kutch’s first dairy plant with 2 lakh litre processing capacity in 2013-14. Earlier, milk from the plant was carried to the Amul plant at Gandhinagar for processing.The new plant will increase the supply of milk and butter milk in Kutch under the Amul brand by another 2 lakh litre, according to the release.Next, the PM will interact with farmers and artisans and visit a memorial park being built in Bhuj in memory of the 2001 earthquake victims. He will return to Delhi late in the evening, the release said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stones-for-several-projects-in-gujarat-s-kutch-today/story-CXhNxcs5arSDSVjZvn2KgN.html
15-12-2020||India||UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab to hold talks with foreign minister S Jaishankar today||Dominic Raab, the foreign secretary of the United Kingdom, will hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday. During their meeting, the two leaders are expected to review efforts to forge a 10-year road map for the India-UK relationship and discuss a defence logistics agreement.He is also likely to meet environment minister Prakash Javadekar and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.Raab arrived in India on Monday on a four-day visit. He was received by Joint Secretary (Europe West) Sandeep Chakravorty.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that Raab’s visit will pave the way for further strengthening of the partnership across trade, defence, climate, migration and mobility, education, and health sectors in the post-Covid, post-Brexit context.India and the UK have had a strategic partnership since 2004 that has been marked by regular high-level exchanges and growing cooperation in diverse areas, the MEA further said on Monday.As part of the visit, Raab will travel to Bengaluru where he will meet Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on December 17.Both India and the UK have been working closely on climate change, including the India-led Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure.India is also understood to have invited UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to be chief guest at next year’s Republic Day celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-foreign-secretary-dominic-raab-to-hold-talks-with-foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-today/story-oQJynq9vr7KTfmufPQEFnJ.html
15-12-2020||India||BJP cites poll wins to claim farmers’ support||Following its win in the Goa zilla panchayat polls, the BJP on Monday asserted that the spate of its recent victories in a number of elections across the country would not have been possible without the help of farmers.While the opposition has been spreading confusion over the ongoing farmers’ protest, the BJP will dismantle their claims scientifically using poll data, party spokesperson Sambit Patra told a press conference.Patra’s comments came as the BJP won the zilla panchayat polls in Goa. The BJP has won the Bihar assembly polls, assembly by-polls across the country and local polls in states like Rajasthan, Assam and Goa, he noted.“The poor, rural regions and farmers form the spine of this country. These results would not have been possible without their support,” he said. He said the opposition, especially the Congress, has tried to corner the ruling party over four issues; the Covid-19 pandemic, economic problems due to overall global situation, migrant crisis and recent agri reforms.Elections results have shown that people, including farmers, stand with Modi because he is their true “well-wisher”, the BJP spokesperson said.Also Read: Anti-national elements leading farmers’ protest: Himachal BJP vice-presidentTaking a jibe at the Congress over reports that it has put up a tent to help protesting farmers at the Singhu border, he said the opposition party’s tent had blown away.“It cannot even elect its president,” he said, and took a swipe at its leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he considers rabi and kharif are “BJP workers”. Patra said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh are engaged in a war for power in the border state in the name of farmers’ protest.Kejriwal’s fast has been caused by his hunger for power, the BJP spokesperson alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cites-poll-wins-to-claim-farmers-support/story-8hdyKZxNEjyIWS7TD3hYhJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Sputnik V over 91% effective in final analysis, shows data||The developers of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine said on Monday that it had shown an efficacy of 91.4% based on the final analysis of data from clinical trials, and a report is being prepared for accelerated registration of the vaccine in various countries.The Gamaleya National Research Center for Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said the calculation was based on analysis of the data of volunteers who received the first and second doses of the Sputnik V vaccine or a placebo at “the third and final control point of 78 confirmed cases in accordance with the Phase III clinical trials protocol”.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn India, the developers have tied up with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for trials and regulatory approvals and, if approved, RDIF will supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy’s for distribution. Dr Reddy’s recently began phase II and III clinical trials after getting requisite clearance.According to Deepak Sapra, CEO for API and pharmaceutical services at Dr Reddy’s, Sputnik V doses distributed in India will be a combination of Indian and Russian made vaccines.Separately, RDIF recently finalised a deal with Hetero Biopharma to manufacture 100 million doses a year in India starting 2021.“The Sputnik V vaccine efficacy against severe cases of coronavirus was 100%. Among the confirmed cases of coronavirus infection, 20 severe cases were recorded in the placebo group, while no severe cases were recorded in the vaccine group,” the two developers of the Russian vaccine said in a statement.The research data is expected to be published by the Gamaleya Center team in an international peer-reviewed medical journal.More than 26,000 volunteers were vaccinated as part of double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled phase III post-registration clinical trials of Sputnik V in Russia. “No unexpected adverse events were identified as part of the research,” the statement said. The analysis of Sputnik V’s efficacy at the final control point was carried out on the basis of 78 confirmed cases, including 62 cases identified in the placebo group and 16 cases in the vaccine group.Besides India, phase III clinical trials of Sputnik V are underway in Belarus, the UAE, Venezuela and other countries.Russia’s health minister Mikhail Murashko said: “The new data on efficacy of the Gamaleya Center vaccine is extremely encouraging.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-v-over-91-effective-in-final-analysis-shows-data/story-wYUsNkAzgDPqGaNAt52o3O.html
15-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE updates: Govt willing to continue dialogue; MSP an administrative decision and will continue as it is: Agri Minister Tomar||The ongoing farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three contentious farm laws entered day 20 on Tuesday but there are no signs yet of the two sides-farm unions and the government reaching a common ground. On Monday, 40 farm union leaders observed hunger strike from 8am-5pm to “wake the government up,” while Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Centre want the discussions on farm laws to be held “clause by clause.” However, the farm unions, who organised a peaceful Bharat Bandh last Tuesday against the laws, have repeatedly stressed they want nothing short of a total repeal, the government has made it clear it won’t take back the laws.Also Read | Will resume talks, but with some riders: Farmer unionsOn Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and workers of his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), too, observed fast in solidarity with the protesting farmers. Minister Tomar, meanwhile, was met by as many as 10 farmer organisations from Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bihar and Haryana. The organisations, associated with the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), extended their support to the farm laws. Also, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, an ally of the Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said both Union home minister Amit Shah and the agriculture minister are “continuously discussing the issue,” adding that the next round of discussions “will be held soon.” Five rounds of talks have taken place thus far, including on December 1, 3 and 5.Follow all live updates here:Kerala govt to move Supreme Court against farm laws soonKerala agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar said that the state government will approach the Supreme Court against the farm laws as soon as possible. He told ANI that the government is trying to utilise the provision of 304(B) of the Constitution under which the states have the right to make their own enactment in the state assemblies.Government willing to continue talks with genuine farm unions; MSP will continue as it is: TomarAs a standoff continue between the government and groups of protesting farmers over three new farm laws, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said the Acts have been welcomed in various states across the country but the Centre is willing to continue its talks with “genuine farm unions” to find a solution with an open mind.Talk to farmers and re-enact the farm laws: P Chidambaram to govtTaking to Twitter, Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday said, ‘It is shocking that after 20 days of farmers’ protests in the bitter winter of Delhi, the government continues to stick to the ‘no repeal’ stand. It is obvious that any agreement between farmers and government will necessarily require a new Bill to be passed in Parliament. The simple way forward is to Repeal the present laws and Re-enact a new law based on the agreement Repeal and Re-enactment is a well known legislative toolGovernment should climb down from its high horse and reach an agreement with the farmers quicklyFarmers to observe Homage Day on December 20Farmers’ unions to observe a Homage Day (Shraddhanjali Diwas) on December 20 for all the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest. It’ll be observed in villages and tehsil headquarters across the country in the day from 11am to 1pm.More rallies planned in Kolkata, Manipur, Mumbai and Patna Farmers’ unions have planned protest rallies in Kolkata on 16th December, Manipur on 19th December, Mumbai on 22nd December. and Patna on 29th December.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan says Mandis will remain operational.“Mandis will remain operational. No mandi will close. We will improve the infrastructure and system of mandis. But even if someone sells (their produce), outside the mandi, we will provide them license. Farmers can sell at the mandi or outside it, as they want”: MP CM in BhopalJaipur-Delhi national highway remains partially blockedThe Jaipur-Delhi national highway in Rajasthan’s Alwar district remained partially blocked as the farmers continues to protest against the farm laws.Congress workers stage a protest outside BJP headquarter demanding repeal of farm lawsGovt has to pay heed to our demands: Farmers“We are not running away from negotiation, but govt has to pay heed to our demands and come forward with concrete proposals,” say farmer leaders. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar meets members of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) Conspiracy going on in Delhi to confuse farmers: PM Modi “A conspiracy is going on around Delhi to confuse farmers. They are being scared that after the new agri reforms the land of farmers will be occupied by others. Tell me, if a dairy has a contract of collecting milk from you, do they take away your cattle too?” PM Modi also said.Agriculture reforms exactly farmers, opposition asking for years: PM Modi“The agriculture reforms that have taken place are exactly what farmer bodies and even Opposition have been asking over the years. Government of India is always committed to farmer welfare & we will keep assuring the farmers and addressing their concerns,” says PM Narendra Modi in Kutch.Farmers protesting at Chilla border again block one carriagewayFarmers protesting at Chilla border (Delhi-Noida link road)blocked one carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida, days after they opened the road. Many cars carrying farmers from Noida, arrived at Chilla border and tried to march towards Delhi through the carriageway. However, the security personnel quickly responded to the situation and blocked the vehicles of the protesting farmers.The sudden blockade at the border, has also led to huge traffic jam on the carriageway going towards Delhi from Noida. Many motorists also found themselves stuck in the jam and in between the vehicles of the farmers.Industry body ASSOCHAM urges for early resolutionASSOCHAM releases statement, calls for early resolution , says protests resulting in daily loss of Rs 3,000-3,500 crore. ASSOCHAM calls for early resolution of farmers' issues, states, "farmers' protest resulting in a daily loss of Rs 3500 crores" pic.twitter.com/Hd3MiV7sheBKU’s Rakesh Tikait says government should visit villages and hold meetings“Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar is also a farmer. At what rate was his farm produce sold, was it sold at MSP? Did he suffer loss or earned profit?...The government should visit villages and hold meeting,” says Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.Have information Ambani and Adani groups registered 53 new agro-based companies, claims Congress MP“I have information that Adani & Ambani groups registered 53 new agro-based companies in the last few months. We’ll continue our protest till the farmers are not heard,” says Congress MP from Punjab, JS Gill.Rapid Action force deployed at Delhi-Haryana Singhu borderRapid Action Force (RAF) and additional forces deployed at Delhi-Haryana Singhu border as anti-farm law protests enter day 20. Delhi: Rapid Action Force (RAF) & additional forces deployed at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border as farmers' protest enters 20th day pic.twitter.com/vvfdNlhubcSit-in protest at Rajasthan-Haryana border continues for third straight dayFarmers sit-in protest at Jaisinghpur-Khera border (Rajasthan-Haryana) continues for the third day today. Rajasthan: Farmers sit-in protest at Jaisinghpur-Khera border (Rajasthan-Haryana) continues for the third day today#FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/7vvebld7HbGadkari says will talk to farmers if directed to talk to themNitin Gadkari further says that though agriculture and commerce ministers are engaged in a dialogue with the farmers, he, too, will talk to the farmers if told to talk to them.Our government will convince the farmers, says Gadkari“Our Government will convince the farmers, explain and find a way through dialogue,” says Nitin Gadkari. Our Government will convince the farmers, explain and find a way through dialogue: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari https://t.co/LmgOjFjoY9Some ‘elements’ trying to misguide farmers, says Union minister Nitin Gadkari“There are some elements who are trying to misguide farmers by misusing this protest. This is wrong. Farmers should try to understand the three laws,” Union minister Nitin Gadkari tells news agency ANI. There are some elements who are trying to misguide farmers by misusing this protest. This is wrong. Farmers should try to understand the three laws: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari https://t.co/qERXVgn9sd‘Why should protests take place in the US, Canada and London?’: Union minister G Kishan Reddy“Why should demonstrations take place in America, Canada and London in support of protests happening in India? Who is behind this? Some people want to carry out anti-India activities by misusing your (farmers) name. I request farmers to remain vigilant,”says MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmers-protest-live-updates-december-15-2020/story-KZoDIvE3yKbHkizkTtNdFJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||It’s been known for some time that Covid-19 affects people (or at least some people) the way autoimmune disorders do. Dispatch 140 on August 25 wrote about this, the challenges it posed, as well as the possible lines of treatment that became available if one were to respond to Covid-19 the way one would to other autoimmune disorders. Two recent papers, both from researchers at the Yale School of Medicine, shed more light on this. I was pointed in the direction of one by my colleague Binayak Dasgupta, who has made it his mission in recent months to keep track of the latest research on Covid-19, and then correspond with the authors to understand more; he is my go-to person in the newsroom when I want to discuss the science of just about anything to do with the viral infection – from testing to trajectory to vaccines. The other showed up on my radar. Both papers are pre-prints on medRxiv, and not peer-reviewed.Also Read| A weapon to ‘win the war’: US hospitals get initial Covid-19 shotsThe first paper, titled “Diverse Functional Autoantibodies in patients with Covid-19”, is by Eric Y Wang, Tianyang Mao, Akiko Iwasaki, and others. Several autoimmune diseases are caused by autoantibodies, essentially antibodies that attack the host’s own organs and cells. These autoantibodies target self-antigens, proteins produced by the body as it goes about its normal activities or because of an infection. And when they target these, they also target the underlying cells, tissues or organs. The presence of autoantibodies, and the role played by them could explain why, in the case of some patients, Covid-19 targets several organs and systems (including the immune system), often with fatal consequences. This is what the researchers studied. Using a method called Rapid Extracellular Antigen Profiling, the researchers checked for autoantibodies in 194 Covid-19 patients. They found that “Covid-19 patients exhibit dramatic increases in autoantibody reactivities” when compared to uninfected people in the study, and that these autoantibodies “target a wide range of immune-related proteins”. They also found, using a mouse model (tests on mice) that “immune-targeting antibodies exacerbate disease severity” and that the presence of autoantibodies that target “tissue-associated antigens” have a correlation with the severity of the disease.Why is this important? One, it points (like all good studies do) to further avenues of research – in this case, the role of autoantibodies in the severity of Covid-19 infections. And two, it also points to possible therapies (or, at least, to the direction in which these may be found).Also Read: Covid-19 can have impact on heart too, say expertsThe second paper, titled “Post-infectious Inflammatory Disease in MIS-C features elevated cytotoxicity signatures and autoreactivity that correlates with severity”, is by Anjali Ramaswamy, Nina N Brodsky, Carrie L Lucas, and others. The researchers studied 15 children with MIS-C (multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children), an autoimmune disorder that can cause many body organs to become inflamed, and which is related to Covid-19. The researchers explain that the syndrome typically manifests itself in young people “who had a mild or asymptomatic Sars-CoV-2 infection roughly 4-6 weeks prior”. Screening for autoantibodies and using other techniques, the researchers concluded that a “prior Sars-Cov-2 infection causes lasting immune alterations that set the stage for development of an acute and life-threatening” inflammation in some older children.Understanding the autoimmune aspects of Covid-19 – and because of papers such as these two, we now know more about these than we previously did – can help identify and address MIS-C and other syndromes (initially, for instance, when the first cases of MIS-C emerged, doctors believed they were seeing manifestations of Kawasaki Disease). It also adds to what we know of long-Covid – which was among the first signs that, at least in some cases, Sars-CoV-2 has the same impact as autoimmune diseases.We may have come up with vaccines that effectively prevent Covid-19, but we are still learning about the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-4oCwl6lYpdielc7yTNfCbI.html
15-12-2020||India||Will resume talks, but with some riders: Farmer unions||The Union government and farm unions protesting a set of agricultural laws the latter claim will hurt their livelihood are likely to restart negotiations that ran aground last week, with both agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and a major platform of farm unions on Monday signalling their willingness to resume talks.Tomar told reporters in Delhi that the government was engaged in efforts to restart negotiations that broke down after five rounds last week. “When a date is fixed, we will let you know,” he saidHours later, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Committee (AIKSCC) — a joint platform of the protesting farmers camped on the outskirts of Delhi — said it was ready for talks again but with certain conditions. The farm groups, mostly from Punjab, which have been pressing for a complete repeal of the three laws, said they needed three principal assurances before returning to the negotiating table.One, talks cannot be about old proposals which farm unions have rejected. Two, the government should draw up a new agenda. Three, discussions must be focused on a repeal of the farm laws. The riders appear to put the onus on the government to draw up an agenda acceptable to the farmers. To be sure, the government has reiterated the farm laws will benefit farmers. On their part, the farmers have held firm on the demand for repealing the three laws, and on Monday observed a hunger strike across the country, blocking highways and hitting the streets in protest. “The government [is] repeatedly dishing out old rejected logic. Farmers are ready for talks, but the three Farm Acts and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 have to be withdrawn,” said Avik Saha, the secretary of the AIKSCC. Kavitha Kuruganti, another leader of the AIKSCC, said farmers were not averse to talking again. “So, if the government sends the invite, the agenda laid out there will be the key to any future negotiations.” Earlier in the day, Tomar met a delegation of farmers from five states who pledged their support for the laws, and said that a meeting will “definitely happen”. “Our efforts to restart talks are on. Talks will happen. We are always open to discussions to solve farmers’ issues,” Tomar said. “The government has been talking to farm leaders over phone informally. When things work out, a formal invite is likely to be sent again with a revised agenda,” a person familiar with development told HT, requesting anonymity. A massive farmers’ protest was set off by three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The government on December 9 sent a written proposal to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfer, but farm union say they won’t call off their agitation until the laws are fully repealed. The willingness expressed by both sides to explore ways of meeting again comes amid hectic behind-the-scenes efforts to prepare a mutually agreeable agenda, the official quoted above said. “Why are thousands of farmers sitting out in the cold? Only to talk to the government. The government has ruled out a repeal of the laws. But we can still talk to see light at the end of the tunnel,” Saha said. “Withdrawal of three laws is necessary but not sufficient,” said Yogendra Yadav, a senior leader of the agitation, implying farmers also want legal guarantee of support prices. Analysts say economic reforms in mass sectors, such as labour and agriculture, will always be challenging because unlike financial reforms, these sectors are about livelihoods. “The government could suggest new institutions like a regulator for contract farming to gain confidence of farmers,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh , group chief economic adviser of the State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender. The developments came on a day farm groups across several states clashed with police and reiterated their opposition to the laws. Meanwhile, farm organisations from five states representing the All India Kisan Coordination Committee met Tomar for over two hours.This is the fourth group of farmers who have met the agriculture minister to show support to the reforms, which has come as shot in the arm of a government battling the massive agitation against its move to liberalise the farm sector. Tomar told the farm organisations that “intention and policy of the government are clear and farmers are already benefiting from the pro-farmer reforms which will help in increasing the income of farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-resume-talks-but-with-some-riders-farmer-unions/story-mP0rWh7tkMMiItK8FdQbSP.html
15-12-2020||India||Wedding halls, polling booths in Covid-19 vaccine plan||From polling booths to marriage halls, India’s health administrators are evaluating several options for sites where the Covid vaccine can be administered. They will need a few: the aim is to vaccinate 300 million Indians by the middle of the year. Private hospitals or nursing homes will also be tapped for inoculation but the government plans to tightly control the entire process — from storage and transport of the vaccine, to its administration. Each site will be designed to serve at least 100 recipients. Chosen sites will have to be spacious (with at least three rooms) and close to the homes or offices of the recipients. Vaccination drives will be held from 9am to 5pm in all sites. Also Read| A weapon to ‘win the war’: US hospitals get initial Covid-19 shots“We will have two types of sites. There will be fixed session sites and outreach sites. The sites will be identified looking at the of number of recipients in the locality and convenience of vaccine delivery and administration,” said an official involved in the planning who asked not to be named. For outreach sites, polling booths are emerging the preferred choice. “The bulk of the recipients are being identified from the voter list. So, it would be best to allocate sites for them in polling booths,” added the official.  Apart from polling stations—these are usually housed at schools, colleges, and community halls—health authorities are looking at other options that could serve as outreach sites. The centre’s guideline to the states, reviewed by HT, says: “Municipal offices, panchayat bhawans, marriage places (halls), cantonment hospitals/clinics, railway hospitals, encampment of the paramilitary forces, railways and other central PSU colonies etc. can be identified as outreach session sites if they fulfil all the pre-requisite conditions for arranging a session.” Dr Prantar Chakravarty, a public health expert based in Kolkata, said, “Setting vaccine camps in polling booths or hospitals is a good idea. But the government would do better if it allots specific slots to people—like they do in passport offices—instead of asking them to come anytime between 9am to 5pm. It can make the vaccination process more effective and help maintain social distance.”Also Read| There’s light at end of the tunnel, says first NYC recipient of Covid vaccineIndia used 1.03 million polling booths in the last general elections and officials involved in the vaccination plan said many of these will be used as vaccination sites. “Once the list of co-morbidities and old age are prepared, we would know exactly where all we require to put up vaccine sites,” said a second official involved in the planning who too asked not to be identified. “In case there are fewer than 100 recipients in an area, they will be clubbed with another area.” A site, according to the guidelines, will have at least three rooms. The first room would be used for identification of recipients and paperwork. The next will be for inoculation while the recipients will wait in a separate recovery room for half an hour after the jab — likely to monitor people for instant anaphylactic shocks or what is known as an adverse event following immunisation (AEFI).Meanwhile, the public and private health facilities will serve as fixed session sites. “All government health facilities at and above the level of Primary Health Centre/Urban Primary Health Centre can be utilized as sites. Private health facilities with more than 100 health care workers can also be session sites,” said the guidelines. While polling booths cover most difficult terrain and Maoist areas, outreach camps will not be held in those places due to security reasons, the officials said. The government will arrange mobile camps to cater to these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wedding-halls-polling-booths-in-covid-19-vaccine-plan/story-E8hQRdJhrzg3TD3jz6FJIM.html
15-12-2020||India||Cold winds from Himalayas bring down the mercury||Large parts of northwest India are experiencing “cold day” to “severe cold day” conditions where the maximum or day temperatures,too, have recorded a decline.Many parts of Punjab, Haryana and West Rajasthan recorded at least 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal day temperatures on Sunday due to an overcast sky. In a bulletin issued on Monday, the India Meteorological Department said minimum temperatures over most parts of northwest India are expected to fall by three to five notches during the next four days.Large parts of north India are already witnessing foggy conditions. However, no significant change has been forecast over most parts of central and east India during the next two-three days, but it can fall by up to four notches thereafter, the IMD said.“What we are seeing now is that several parts of northwest India are experiencing severe cold day conditions. But cold wave may also impact these regions from December 17. While cold day conditions are associated with overcast sky which hasn’t allowed the day temperature to rise, even night temperatures will start falling. An intense western disturbance has passed and winds have changed to north-westerly direction bringing icy cold winds to the plains,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre, said:“The cold day conditions in northern states were mainly due to fog, clouding and incursion of very cold air following a western disturbance. Minimum temperatures have also started dropping since there is no WD expected and the previous WD has left a lot of snow on the hills.”Meanwhile, several locations in Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh witnessed subzero minimum temperatures on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-winds-from-himalayas-bring-down-the-mercury/story-YkAMxKeuNRLYcmOVxEEv1N.html
15-12-2020||India||Hathras conspiracy: UP govt links Kerala journalist to SIMI||From a newspaper’s front page calling Osama Bin Laden a “martyr” to a fake identity card; from a distinction between a contributor and a journalist to details of cases registered against the Popular Front of India (PFI); from call details to a letter of vigilance inquiry, the Uttar Pradesh government has spared no effort to oppose the release of Siddique Kappan. Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Padesh after the September gangrape of a 19-year-old woman who died in hospital of injuries she suffered in the sexual assault. KUWJ subsequently approached the Supreme Court, calling Kappan’s arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. But the UP government, in its latest affidavit, has sought to highlight Kappan’s alleged association with the now-banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and the PFI, besides discrediting KUWJ. It has maintained that Kappan is not a journalist nor is KUWJ a credible organisation while citing Kappan’s alleged links with the (SIMI) and its alleged off-shoot, PFI. The latter is not a banned outfit under the law. Senior advocate Kapil SIbal, appearing for the KUWJ, submitted that they would want to rebut the allegations and need time to do it. “Since no immediate relief is likely, we would want time to file response to what the state has to say,” he told a bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde. The UP government’s affidavit has contended that the Union filed its petition at the behest of SIMI and the PFI, for whom Kappan worked actively. The state said the Delhi unit of KUWJ was itself facing a vigilance inquiry over embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds following a Kerala high court order. It added that the Union’s Thrissur unit was also facing charges of grabbing the devaswom (religious trust) land of the Vadakkumnatha temple in Kerala. “It (KUWJ) does not represent all journalists. There is a separate association of journalists which is the mainstream association. Therefore, the present petition is not maintainable...,” it stated.  “Kappan and all other co-accused (three others who were arrested with him) are directly and closely associated with PFI members, who have been the executive members of the banned terrorist organisation SIMI,” it added. It accused the KUWJ of concealing the “true identity” of Kappan as it sought to pass him off as a journalist who was going to report in Hathras even though the newspaper, Thejas, he claimed to work for shut down in December 2018. While adding that most of the former editors of Thejas were the executive members of the PFI, the affidavit said that Kappan worked as a “contributor” and not as a full-time working journalist. Attaching with the affidavit a copy of the newspaper clipping, it said Thejas had such extreme views that its front-page story on November 30, 2011 carried a picture of Bin Laden, describing him as a “martyr.” The state accused Kappan of being a “mastermind” having links with various riots and working in tandem with the editors of Thejas to trigger religious discord in Kerala. “As per the investigations till date, most of the executive members of PFI who are ex-office bearers of terrorist organisation SIMI have been in close intimacy with Kappan... Documents (allegedly found from Kappan’s house) disclosed formation of PFI as a reincarnation of SIMI after being banned. Also, the motive and ideology of both PFI and SIMI are corroborative,” claimed the affidavit. Submitting that Kappan and the three co-accused were also being investigated for suspicious money transactions in their accounts, the affidavit contended that all four were going to Hathras on the instructions of Md Danish – an accused in the Delhi riots case of February, to provoke class and caste conflicts in UP. It added that Kappan was also not cooperating with the investigators and besides lying about his house in Delhi, he also is not sharing details of his social media accounts. The KUWJ has sought time to respond to this affidavit, following which the matter was posted for third week of January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-conspiracy-up-govt-links-kerala-journalist-to-simi/story-WvyA4EQzC2GAM4j4No59jN.html
15-12-2020||India||Supreme Court reopens murder case against BJP MLA, says UP probe ‘sham’||The Supreme Court on Monday reopened a murder investigation against a BJP MLA from Uttar Pradesh, terming the probe by the state police a “sham”. The court scrapped the clean chit given to MLA Sushil Singh and ordered a further investigation into the murder of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Ram Bihari Chaubey in 2015; it also decided to supervise the probe. The SC bench, headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman, ordered the constitution of a special investigation team (SIT) for the case, and appointed an Indian Police Service officer, Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj, to head the team. The judgment, authored by justice Navin Sinha, severely indicted the police for the manner in which the case was closed hurriedly after the Supreme Court took up the petition filed by the slain BSP leader’s son. Chaubey’s son, who also filed a petition before the Allahabad high court earlier, cited gaps in the investigations, adding the endeavour of the police was only to save Singh, an MLA from Saiyadraja (Chandauli). “The FIR was registered on December 4, 2015. Eight investigating officers have been changed. An investigation which had been kept pending since then was promptly closed on January 30, 2019 after this Court issued notice on September 7, 2018,” noted the bench. It added: “The investigation appears to be a sham, designed to conceal more than to investigate. We are constrained to record that the investigation and the closure report are extremely casual and perfunctory in nature. The investigation and closure report do not contain any material with regard to the nature of investigation against the other accused, including Respondent no.5 (Singh), for conspiracy to arrive at the conclusion for insufficiency of evidence against them.” The bench tore into the reports by the police seeking to shut the case against Singh on the ground that Chaubey’s sons had failed to give any substantial evidence against the MLA. “The police have the primary duty to investigate on receiving report of the commission of a cognizable offence. This is a statutory duty under the Code of Criminal Procedure, apart from being a constitutional obligation to ensure that peace is maintained in the society and the rule of law is upheld and applied. To say that further investigation was not possible as the informant (sons) had not supplied adequate materials to investigate, to our mind, is a preposterous statement, coming from the police,” said the court. It emphasised that although it is for police to investigate, if the police do not perform its statutory duty in accordance with law or is remiss in performance of its duty, the court can’t abdicate its duties. “A fair investigation is but a necessary concomitant of Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution of India and this Court has the bounden obligation to ensure adherence by the police,” added the bench.MLA Singh said the charges against him were politically motivated. “However, there is a SC order and we will cooperate with the investigators...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-reopens-murder-case-against-bjp-mla-says-up-probe-sham/story-qhIDTVGZFku1JDNhl5YsTP.html
15-12-2020||India||Supreme Court sends notice on PIL over forced sacramental confessions||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice on a public interest litigation (PIL) that questioned the practice of sacramental confession before a priest as violative of an individual’s privacy and human dignity. The petition highlighted instances in the recent past where women in the church were sexually exploited or even raped by priests who blackmailed them, threatening to publicise their confessions. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice on the petition filed by three Christians from Ernakulam, Kerala; all three claim to be members of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, issued notice to the Centre, the Kerala government and the head of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church known as Catholicos with its headquarter at Devalokam, Kottayam, in Kerala. The three petitioners, Mathew T Mathachan, PJ Shaji, and CV Jose, said in their petition: “The compulsion to confess is a serious intrusion into the privacy of a person… This pernicious practice of forced, compulsory, and mandatory confession from every member (both men and women) is causing several other problems including sexual exploitation of women and blackmailing.” The petition claimed that even men are exploited, with money being extorted from husbands to keep their wives’ confessions secret. Reacting to the Supreme Court decision, spokesperson of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian church Father Johns Abraham Konatt said: “Confession is one of the seven sacraments of the church. There may be some cases of misuse but it is difficult to do away with the system. Only an ordained priest can deal with confessions and grant absolution.” He said sacramental confession forms a part of belief and remission of sin paramount to a believer. The church will file a reply as directed by the apex court soon, he added. Church reformists lauded the move. The demand to do away with sacramental confession gained ground after two cases surfaced in central Kerala in 2018 in which priests allegedly sexually exploited women, leveraging their confessions. After these cases kicked up a controversy, the National Commission for Women also favoured abolition of confessions. In one of the cases, a husband wrote to the church head alleging that five priests blackmailed and raped his wife using her confession. In response, the church disrobed all the priests and they were arrested later. The trial of the case is on. In 2018, a similar petition was filed in the Kerala high court by a church reformist, CS Chacko. He contended that imposing implied or expressed compulsion on a believer to confess a sin before the priest infringed upon the right to privacy. He said it was violation of Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) guaranteed by the Constitution. But the court dismissed the petition stating that the Constitution also mandates that a person has the right to join or leave a religion as per his choice and there is no compulsion on this. The present petition, while citing violation of Article 21, attacked the Malankara Orthodox Church’s constitution, which was written in 1934. The petition cited sections 7 and 8 of the constitution of the church that required all parish members -- men and women above the age of 21 years to undergo confession once a year in order to be a part of the parish assembly and to vote in its elections or be eligible to become part of the managing committee. Section 8 requires a confession register to be maintained in each parish. Members who flout these provisions risk losing their membership. In addition, the petition even questioned the practice of money collected by the parish under various heads, which, if not paid, can entail removal of the member from the parish register. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that the 1934 constitution was immune from any challenge before any civil court or high court in Kerala as per a decision of the apex court passed in KS Varghese v St Peter & St Paul Orthodox Church (2017) and that for this reason, both the police and state have adopted a hands-off approach, forcing the petitioners to approach the Supreme Court. The petition said, “When confession becomes the platform or medium through which rapes and sexual exploitation are carried out by predator priests, there is no reliable safety mechanism for victims who are physically and mentally scarred.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-sends-notice-on-pil-over-forced-sacramental-confessions/story-m3ayj4XLcVMnWqgNCR5yQI.html
15-12-2020||India||Willing to listen to farmers, best interests in mind: Govt||The Centre had the best interests of farmers in mind when it passed the three laws aimed at reforming trade in agriculture, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday, as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government pursued its outreach to protesting farmers. Singh added that the NDA government was always open to a dialogue with farm unions to allay their misgivings on the policy changes. Addressing the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) on the 19th day of a protest by farmers against the legislation, Singh said the government is “always willing to listen to our farmer brothers”. Describing agriculture as the “mother sector for all others”, he said: “There is no question of taking retrograde steps against our agricultural sector ever. The recent reforms have been undertaken with the best interests of India’s farmers in mind.” Singh added, “We are, however, always willing to listen to our farmer brothers, allay their misgivings and provide them with assurances we can provide. Our government is always open to discussion and dialogue.”The recent laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers fear the reforms could pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at federally fixed minimum support prices (MSPs), erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of private buyers. Farmers have organised sit-in protests across the country and observed a hunger strike from 8 am to 5 pm on Monday.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, too, said the government was ready for a discussion with the farmers anytime. “The meeting will definitely happen. We are engaging with farmers,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Earlier in the day, Tomar met home minister Amit Shah and discussed ways to end the deadlock. Later, Tomar met a delegation of farmers led by the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, which extended support to the laws. This is the fourth group of farmers to extend support to the laws in two weeks.Union minister for law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government will sensitise people across the nation on how the laws will benefit farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-listen-to-farmers-best-interests-in-mind-govt/story-mFjzFr8tYu5bfRTgMxarNO.html
15-12-2020||India||Farmers in several states join agitation, sit on hunger strike||Farmers across several states observed a one-day hunger strike on Monday, blocking roads, marching on streets, and shouting slogans to protest against three recently enacted agriculture laws that have sparked a fierce agitation on the outskirts of Delhi. A group of farmers tried to block the Delhi-Jaipur national highway at Shahjanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border, but were prevented by the police. At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Noida border, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Takait) faction blocked traffic for some time. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) chief Rakesh Takait said the traffic was blocked to tell the administration that they could block the vehicular flow if they chose, but the unions later desisted to ensure people were not inconvenienced. “The hunger strike call given by farmer leaders was successful,” said Baldev Singh, a farmer leader at Singhu, situated at the border of Delhi and Haryana where a large number of farmers are gathered since November 27.In Punjab and Haryana, farmers shouted slogans outside the offices of district commissioners and took out protest marches. Haryana Police closed the Ambala-Patiala highway after protesters gathered at the Shambhu border point with adjoining Punjab. “We wanted to send out a strong message to the government that it is not just an agitation by Punjab farmers but across the nation,” said Shiv Kumar Kakka, one of the farm leaders who went on a nine-hour hunger strike at Singhu,The ruling Congress held protests in Punjab, with the state unit chief Sunil Jakhar participating in one near the Shambhu border. Shiromani Akali Dal workers protested in Amritsar. Farm groups held events in Ludhiana, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Bathinda, Moga, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Tarn Taran.“Farmers held protests outside the offices of deputy commissioners at several places in Punjab,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. This particular union didn’t participate in the strike, alleging they were not consulted before finalising the programme.In Haryana, farmers hit the streets before holding demonstrations outside the offices of deputy commissioners (DCs). Many employees associations backed the protests, which roiled Rohtak, Hisar, Bhiwani, Sonepat, Jhajjar, Jind, and Fatehabad.“Everybody should come forward to join this fight for the future of the farming community. We are happy with the support from different sections and sectors,” said Ratan Mann, Haryana BKU (Tikait) state president.In Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party workers clashed with police at various places as they were prevented from heading towards collector offices in several districts. Clashes were reported from Lucknow, Hardoi, Agra, Gorakhpur, Etawah and some other districts. Protests were also reported from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. Superintendent of Police (Bhiwandi) Ram Moorthi Joshi said: “The protest is going on peacefully and we have deployed additional police force to ensure traffic on highway moves smoothly.”As night fell over the stretch of road that is now a protest ground in Singhu, people shouted slogans, held up placards and torches. “The message of the fast was that the nation’s ‘annadata’, food provider, was today sitting hungry,” said Harender Singh Lakhowal, a farm leader. Police enhanced security at Delhi’s border points. Containers, cemented barriers, barbed wires and additional police force were deployed at borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-several-states-join-agitation-sit-on-hunger-strike/story-McDUE2EkMNRE78O5oYpvcL.html
15-12-2020||India||5 of Tamil Nadu family found dead, suicide suspected||A family of five including a 37-year-old man, his wife, 30 and their three children were found hanging inside their house on Monday in Valavanur in Villupuram district, police said, adding the probable cause of death by suicide was financial stress. The children were two girls aged 8 and 6 and a boy aged 3. “Preliminary investigations reveal that the man had borrowed small amounts of money from several people to improve his business,” said Villupuram superintendent of police, S Radhakrishnan. But he was unable to repay as he did not have any income for the past nine months due to Covid-19.” Their bodies were sent to Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital for autopsy and last rites were performed on Monday evening. “Post-mortem examination does not reveal any criminal action. It was death by hanging. The children may have been sedated in their food because no marks or injuries were found on their bodies to show resistance,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-of-tamil-nadu-family-found-dead-suicide-suspected/story-gYIEzvy6Hgh4iOgY4IBOzO.html
15-12-2020||India||‘Ready to rest’: Kamal Nath; BJP calls it a retirement hint||Former chief minister and Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president Kamal Nath on Monday said he had “no ambition or greed for any post”, and was ready to stay at home.Addressing party workers in Sausar town in his home district of Chhindwara, Nath said: “I am ready to take some rest... I have no ambitions or any greed for any post. I have achieved a lot already. I have achieved to an extent perhaps any others achieved so. I am ready to stay at home.” BJP leaders described Nath’s statement as a hint that he was planning retirement from active politics after losing the recent bypolls. Congress leaders, however, described it as a “general statement”. Reacting to his predecessor’s comments chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “I am not forcing anyone to retire from politics. It’s Congress’ internal matter.” “...His [Nath’s] government fell and lost the by-elections on 19 assembly constituency seats out of 28 due to his wrong policies, in November this year. Now, he didn’t have any option but to retire from politics,” BJP’s state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said. Congress MLA and former minister PC Sharma, on the other hand, said, “It was a general statement of Kamal Nath. He was asking the residents of his constituency whether they want to see him again or not, like a good politician do.” Nath later said that he was saying that he would go into retirement if the residents of Chhindwara wanted him to. His Congress government lost majority in the assembly in March this year when 22 MLAs resigned. Three more MLAs resigned in July and yet another quit in October. Later, all of them joined the BJP. The bypolls were held on 28 seats and the BJP won 19 of the seats to get majority in the state assembly with 126 seats against the Congress’ 96 in the 230-member assembly. The Congress won only nine seats in the bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-rest-kamal-nath-bjp-calls-it-a-retirement-hint/story-CHVTNEsG8krcbnHO89OuTJ.html
15-12-2020||India||Centre to help study climate crisis impact on Himalayas||A Regional Climate Centre for the Third Pole or the Hindukush Himalayan region will be established to conduct cutting-edge climate research, assessments and applications to forecast impacts of climate change on the Himalayas.A similar Regional Climate Centre is based in China. But the Centre in India, which is likely to be located in Delhi, will advise Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Myanmar too. “We are in initial stages of work with the World Meteorological Organisation and cannot provide an exact timeline for by when this Centre will come up. But it will soon be set up because the impacts of climate change will be pronounced on the entire on the Himalayan region,” said M Mohapatra, director general of the India Meteorological Department at TROPMET 2020, a symposium on meteorology organised by the Indian Meteorological Society.IMD is likely to have 10 weather radars for the Himalayan region in India by early next year and also an airborne lidar observation to measure glacier volume periodically. It will also expand the weather observation network in coming months. On Monday, scientists from IMD and the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology cautioned that the impact of climate change on the Himalayas will increase in the form of cloudbursts, extremely heavy rain, landslides, glacial lake outburst flood (GLOFs) etc.“It is highly recognised by scientific community the world over that mountains play a dominant role in ecosystem and socioeconomic activity specially in the climate change scenario… considering the size and role of Himalayas in our hydrology, meteorology, ecology and socioeconomic issues, India has decided to facilitate research in the third pole region. A lot of initiatives have already been taken up by MoES for augmentation of observational network with deployment of weather radars and numerical weather modelling systems,” Mohapatra said, adding that climate change-led disasters are becoming more pronounced in the non-Himalayan mountain ranges.“Disasters play a dominant role in deciding which socioeconomic activities can be conducted in the region. Now we also have various disasters in Western and Eastern Ghats. In recent years we have seen due to heavy monsoonal rainfall how disastrous landslides, which were generally realised in the Himalayas or the north-eastern states, have been realised in Karnataka and Kerala. Similar landslides have also been realised when a super cyclone crossed Odisha in 2018 and the Eastern Ghats were impacted by landslides. There have been specific changes in the mountain ecology due to climate change. Being a data sparse region the observational network in the mountains is limited compared to other parts of the country so we have the scope to improve,” he added.The Hindu Kush Himalayas (HKH) experienced a temperature rise of about 1.3 degrees Celsius during 1951–2014 compared to India’s average temperature which has risen by around 0.7 degree C during 1901–2018, according to the “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region,” a report published by the ministry of earth sciences earlier this year. Several areas of HKH have experienced a declining trend in snowfall and also retreat of glaciers in recent decades. In contrast, the high-elevation Karakoram Himalayas have experienced higher winter snowfall that has shielded the region from glacier shrinkage. By the end of the twenty-first century, the annual mean surface temperature over HKH is projected to increase by about 5.2 degrees C under a low action scenario, the report has projected.“Mountains are home to a quarter of world population. Rising temperatures are causing changes to the region, loss of critical mountain ecosystems is increasing the risk of downstream disasters. Weather dynamics due to tropical and extratropical systems sometimes leads to heavy rains over the Himalayas like the Kedarnath and Srinagar floods in the past. The Himalayan region is warming faster than the world average, melting of glaciers is a major concern, a changing climate could mean more devastating impacts on the very fragile biodiversity of the Himalayas. It could also impact availability of water, food, agriculture and health in the region,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences. The global mean temperature for January to October 2020 was around 1.2 degrees C above pre-industrial levels, according to an assessment by WMO recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-help-study-climate-crisis-impact-on-himalayas/story-IouAHXBzH7K7gmR7g7LR3I.html
15-12-2020||India||Man missing in Tamil Nadu found in Nagaland, meets family after 8 years||A man from Tamil Nadu who was reported missing eight years ago after going on a pilgrimage was found wandering in a remote village in Nagaland and sent back home in Pudukkottai district. The person, identified as Kumaravel and aged around 50 years, reunited with his family on December 11 with the help of Nagaland police, Tamil Nadu police and the Nagaland Tamil Sangam.Kumaravel’s rescue story goes back to November 5 when he was found at Bongkolong village under Athibung subdivision in Nagaland’s Peren district. According to Peren police, the village authority reported that an unknown non-local person was found roaming in the village and his identity could not be established as he did not speak English, Hindi or any local dialect. Subsequently, police personnel went to the village and brought him to Athibung police station where they arranged an interpreter to communicate with him.After Peren police could establish his identity and address, official communication was made to Pudukkottai district police in Tamil Nadu and it was ascertained that Kumaravel was reported lost eight years ago. Upon acquiring his basic details, he was stated to have been moved to ‘House of Friendship’, an old age home in Dimapur (Nagaland), where he was lodged for a month till necessary arrangements were made to send him home.Pudukkottai police said that they were approached by the Nagaland police following which an enquiry with Kumaravel’s family was made. “The family had not registered any missing complaint but told us that he has been missing for eight years. We registered a missing complain only on November 22,” said a O P Murugesan, a police officer from the Pudukkottai station.Kumaresan is unmarried and his only family members are a younger brother and a sister, an officer from Pudukkottai police said. Also read: First Covid-19 vaccine administered in the US, tweets President Donald TrumpWith the coordination of the police of both the states, along with the Nagaland Tamil Sangam, Kumaravel finally reunited with his family after almost a decade. 50-year-old Kumaresan was accompanied by Tamil Sangam advisor, Kannan from Dimapur to Chennai on December 11, where a special team of the Pudukkottai district police received him and took him home.“The family was shocked when we told them that he was found in Nagaland. They had lost hopes because he used to leave home often. They were so happy to see him when we reunited them,” the police officer said. When contacted telephonically on Monday, Kannan informed that Kumaravel has reached home safely after a tearful reunion with his brothers and other family members at Chennai airport.“He (Kumaravel) is from a very modest background. We came to know that he went to Palani for pilgrimage eight years ago where he got lost,” Kannan said. Kumaravel stated to have narrated that he got on a train and travelled on and on as he did not know which station he was supposed to get down at until he reached Andhra Pradesh. He reportedly worked briefly at a house there before travelling on foot and hitching rides on trucks for months without knowing which direction he was headed to. Kannan said it could be during the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic when Kumaravel probably walked for months and ended up in Nagaland.“He said he forgot day and night and lost track of time, travelling by foot and hitching rides trying to get home,” Kannan stated. While expressing sadness that a person had to go through such an ordeal mainly due to his inability to communicate with others in a common language. Kannan said the Tamil Sangam Dimapur was happy that Kumaravel was finally home with people who know and care for him.Meanwhile, Peren police in Nagaland expressed appreciation for Bongkolong villagers for promptly reporting the matter, and also acknowledged the ‘House of Friendship’ old age home in Dimapur for sheltering Kumaravel for about one month, and the Nagaland Tamil Sangam for generously sponsoring his flight ticket upon learning his family’s financial inability to make the required arrangements for his return.“We also appreciate the Tamil Nadu police for assisting the process and making all necessary arrangements to receive the individual and reuniting him with his family members,” a Peren police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-missing-in-tamil-nadu-found-in-nagaland-meets-family-after-8-years/story-E60MGXtLylqj2P0jn0IwxL.html
15-12-2020||India||Shakti Bill for crime against women tabled in Maharashtra assembly||After close to a year of deliberations, the Maharashtra government on Monday tabled its Shakti bill with the provision of stricter punishments, including death penalty and fine up to ₹10 lakh for rape, acid attack and social media abuse against women and children. According to the bill, investigation and filing of charge sheet should be done in 15 days and trials should be completed in 30 days after filing a charge sheet. The bill, modelled on Andhra Pradesh’s Disha Act, is expected to be cleared in both houses on Tuesday. State home minister Anil Deshmukh tabled the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and Maharashtra Exclusive Special Court (for certain offences against Women and Children under Shakti Law) in the legislative Assembly on Monday, the first day of the two-day winter session of the state legislature.The first has provision for amending existing sections in the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act for stricter punishment and the second is for establishing special courts. The legislation, after being passed, will need approval of the Centre as amendments are suggested in central laws. The proposed amendments to CrPC have been sought to bring down the investigation period from two months to 15 days and the trial period from two months to 30 days. The appeal period has also been proposed to be reduced to 45 days from six months. The bill has the provision of death penalty and life imprisonment for rape and acid attack convicts. The amendment in sections 326, 354, 376 of the IPC, which deals with these crimes, has been proposed to be amended through the bill. The bill has also made provisions for reimbursement of plastic surgery and face reconstruction expenses. It also lays down the provision of punishment for failure to share dates with the investigating officer, relating to derogatory material against women and children on social media platforms, internet or mobile. The bill has proposed a separate judicial system to fast-track cases that come under the act’s purview with at least one special court in each district. The law will have provision for special public prosecutors and special police teams, which will have at least one woman officer, and will seek to establish institutions to provide services, including medical or psychiatric support and care, psychiatric counselling to victims, and facilitating legal and financial aid and rehabilitation.State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “We have tried to make the law foolproof. We held deliberations at various levels and sought opinions from experts over the past year. The draft was first discussed in March, after which a sub-committee of ministers was appointed to ensure there were no flaws in the draft. After the bill is passed in both houses and ratified by the Governor, it will go for the assent of the President,” he said. Deshmukh said the time limit given for investigation and trial was sufficient. “In recent cases of crimes against women in Roha and Jalgaon, the charge sheets were filed in two weeks and forensic reports were obtained in just three-four days,” he said. The bill was prepared after more than 10 months of ground work, and was finalised by a high-level committee of the home department, with Deshmukh visiting Andhra Pradesh to study the Disha Act. Following this, a committee under Aswathi Dorje, posted as director of Maharashtra Police Academy (MPA), was set up to draw up a draft. It was presented before the state cabinet on March 12, during the budget session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bills-on-law-for-crime-against-women-tabled-in-maharashtra-assembly/story-qvsSstLaZ2KTkOS2DPEfbM.html
15-12-2020||India||Little trade in MP mandis in October after passing of farm laws, traders say||Ganeshram Sahu, a farmer from Pipara village in his early 40s, sold toor daal (a pulse) in an auction at Rs 4,782 per quintal at Krishi Upaj Mandi, Karond, Bhopal against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 6,000 per quintal on Saturday. Similarly, another farmer Suresh from Shekhpura under Parwalia tehsil, sold his gram produce for Rs 4053 per quintal under auction against the MSP of Rs 5100 at the mandi the same day. However, both the farmers had no qualms in accepting the price as the produce was not of fair average quality (FAQ) and they sounded satisfied with the entire auction process as they were supposed to get the payment against the sale within 24 hours. For Ganeshram and Suresh or for that matter Hameer Singh Dangi, another farmer from Bhopal, the farmers’ agitation in Delhi against the central government’s three farm laws has hardly made any difference in their routine life and sale of their produce as of now. But there are doubts if the situation will remain the same in the time to come as is reflected in the low tax collection through Krishi Upaj Mandi tax and farmers numbers dwindling and also a good number of Mandi employees waiting for their salaries for the past more than two months due to low tax collection. The farm laws have made the traders jittery as the business is going down. Karond Krishi Upaj Mandi Traders Association president Harish Gyanchandani said, “The farm laws are nothing but the death knell for the mandis across the state. The reason being, a trader has to pay Mandi tax at 1.70% which was reduced to 0.50% for three months by the state government after their agitation in October, whereas traders dealing with farmers outside the mandis are not required to pay any tax. In this situation, why should a trader come to the mandi to buy agriculture produce? Instead, he will pass some of the amount, saved by not paying the tax, to the farmers to encourage the latter to sell their agriculture produce outside the Mandis.” Also, he added, the traders outside the mandis are not bound by any rules and regulation unlike the traders registered with the Mandis. Hence, farmers might not get adequate amount of money against sale of produce outside the mandi and also the payment is likely to be delayed. Agriculture Mandi Board Employees and Officers Association state president Angira Pandey said, “After the farms laws were enacted, at least 11 Mandis in the state, out of the total 259, registered zero transaction in the month of October and more than 36 mandis had their transactions reduced by more than 90%. Since the tax collection is low, only about 1500 of around 9000 employees engaged with the mandis have been able to get salaries in the past two months or so.” As per a document, the most affected mandis are at Sagar, Panna, Tiakamgarh, Rewa, Satna, Sahdol, Anuppur, Sidhi, Singrauli, Dindori, Chhindwara, Jabalpur, Shivpuri, Sheopur, Bhind, Guna, Mandsaur, Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Dewas, Neemuch etc..In October, farmers in Madhya Pradesh harvest paddy and soyabean and sell through local mandis and other tradersDwivedi said, “In Mandis the traders are bound to make payment to the farmers within 24 hours. If a trader fails to pay the amount within 24 hours he has to pay additional amount at 1% interest rate within 48 hours and the this interest rate goes up to 5% on failure of payment on subsequent days. Also, till he clears the payment he is not entitled to take part in the auction. As there are transactions outsides there are hardly such restrictions on the traders.” Also Read: ‘Anti-Modi elements part of protests, not farmers’: Union minister Narendra TomarAway from the Mandi, Jitendra Thakur, a farmer who is a resident of Arwalia village and has about 8 acre of land in his family in Bhopal, speaks why farmers’ agitation in Delhi has not affected the farmers in Madhya Pradesh much. “Unlike Madhya Pradesh the Mandi system in Punjab and Haryana is very strong and there is interdependence between farmers and traders. For instance, if a farmer needs a good amount of money for medical treatment, marriages or any other occasion, he gets it from the traders at the mandis. Also, the farmers there don’t have to cover long distances to reach the mandis. That’s why they fear that the new laws will lead to closure of the mandis.”Also Read: ‘For our farmer brothers’: Delhi Chief Minister Arvind KejriwalThakur added, “If our interests like MSP etc are protected in the laws, we would like to save a good amount of money otherwise spent on transportation to mandis for the auction,” he said. Another farmer of the village, Lalaram said, farmers were ready to back the new laws if they turn out to be in their favour.“If transparency is there in the laws and our interest is protected we would welcome it. If there are people who can buy our produce at the time of sowing, then it will give guarantee for our income. But until there are provisions in the law, our interest can’t be protected.” However, a farmer from Dalouda in Mandsaur Jitendra Patidar said, “There are many discrepancies in the new laws. For instance, in Mandis there are checks at several points so that the farmers get payment from traders and the latter are able to do business only after getting licences, whereas, once the traders start buying produce outside the mandis, there is no such scrutiny and licence required for a trader to buy the produce.” Bharatiya Kisan Union state president Anil Yadav said that the farm laws will only benefit the corporate houses. “If the central government really wanted to protect the interest of the farmers why did it not include the provision of MSP in the laws and why the farmers are debarred from approaching the courts in case of any buyer backing out from the contract?,” he asked. Minister for farmers’ welfare and agriculture Kamal Patel said, the state government is committed to safeguarding the interest of farmers.“We have made it clear that Mandis and MSP both will continue to exist. Hence, there is no reason for the farmers or Mandi traders to be worried. The farm laws aim at ensuring enhancing the income of the farmers,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/little-trade-in-mp-mandis-in-october-after-passing-of-farm-laws-traders-say/story-aveDzQYBkckLAYDzSdoERP.html
