16-12-2020||India||Odisha schoolboy charred to death while taking selfie atop train||A 13-year-old schoolboy in Odisha’s Paralakhemundi town was charred to death this evening when he tried to take a selfie by climbing atop a train. The boy lost his life when he came in contact with a high voltage power line.Police officials said the boy had gone to Paralakhemundi railway station in Gajapati district with two of his friends when he wanted to climb the compartment of a Covid special train covered with tarpaulin and take a selfie. Gajapati SP Tapan Patnaik said as soon as the schoolboy climbed atop the bogie, he was electrocuted and then charred to death. His friends also sustained injuries.Also read: Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacksThe East Coast Railway authorities have ordered a probe into the incident.The train compartment also caught fire as soon as the boy was charred. The boy studied in Std 9 of Centurion Public School, Paralakhemundi. He boy was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him dead.In September this year, a 22-year-old engineer from Tamil Nadu drowned to death in Boudh district of Odisha as he dived into the reservoir to salvage his mobile phone that had dropped from his hand while taking a selfie. Similarly, in August this year, two youths of Bargarh district died after slipping into the Kapildhar waterfalls while clicking selfies. In December last year, two teenaged girls of Jajpur district had drowned in a river while clicking selfies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-schoolboy-charred-to-death-while-taking-selfie-atop-train/story-c6IF8hypBELQMFXwCfVIaN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers, govt standoff continues as talks in limbo on day 21: All you need to know||In a grim standoff with government, thousands of farmers have continued their protest against three contentious farm laws for three weeks now even as northern India stares at a cold wave. On Wednesday, the protesting farmers said constituting a new panel to break the stalemate on the three new agri laws is not a solution as they want a complete withdrawal of the legislations. Government should have formed a committee of farmers and others before the laws were enacted by Parliament, the union said. Here are the key developments from day 21 of the protest:- Unable to bear ‘farmers’ plight’, Sikh cleric shoots himself deadA Sikh preacher supporting the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border in Delhi on Wednesday, police said. A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, says he was unable to bear the “pain of farmers”.The note is being verified by police.- Supreme Court seeks Centre’s reply on pleas seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi bordersThe Supreme Court Wednesday issued a notice to the Centre and others on a batch of petitions seeking removal of farmers camping at several roads near Delhi borders in protest against the three new agri laws.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also indicated that the court may form a committee having representatives of the government and the farmer unions across the country to resolve the deadlock over the legislations.- Stop holding parallel talks with other farmer bodies: Protesting farmer unions to govtAn umbrella body of 40 farmer unions protesting against the new agri laws wrote to the Centre on Wednesday, asking it to stop holding “parallel talks” with other farmer bodies over the contentious legislations.In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, the Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.- Centre being “stubborn” in face of farmers’ agitation: Delhi ministerThe Centre should give up its “ego” and “stubbornness” and accept the demands of farmers who are protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi’s borders despite the biting cold, the city’s Development minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday.Rai, also convener of the Delhi unit of the AAP, said the Arvind Kejriwal-led government and his party stand firmly with the farmers and have been making certain arrangements for them during their protest.- Security beefed up at Chilla borderSecurity arrangements were tightened at the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida on Wednesday as farmer union leaders have threatened to completely block the key border point to press for repeal of the Centre’s new farm laws.A senior police officer said elaborate security measures are already in place at the Chilla border. Multi-layered barricades, jersey barriers and additional security personnel have been deployed to ensure law and order.- Puri appeals to protesting farmers to resume talks with CentreUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday appealed to protesting farmers to resume talks with the central government to discuss their “genuine” demands, saying this is not the time to remain “adamant”.“We are ready to hold talks with them (farmers) to discuss their genuine demands. We are ready to find a solution of this problem, but it is necessary that the farmer brothers join the talks again and put forth their points face to face,” he said.- Farm laws row can be solved in 5 minutes if PM steps in: Sanjay RautThe issues flagged by agitating farmers can be solved in five minutes if Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself steps in, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday. Raut said the BJP-led NDA government should have a dialogue with the farmers who are protesting for the last 21 days outside Delhi demanding scrapping of the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws.- Farmers’ protest a planned conspiracy by Opposition: Gujarat BJP chiefBJP’s Gujarat unit president C R Paatil on Wednesday alleged that the ongoing agitation by farmers on the Delhi borders was a planned conspiracy by the opposition parties to create anarchy in the country and to destabilise it.Paatil, a BJP MP from Navsari Lok Sabha constituency in Gujarat, said Congress was in favour of these farm sector reforms when it was in power before 2014.- At Tikri boder, widows, sisters, mothers of farmers join protestSeveral family members, including widows, mothers and sisters, of Punjab farmers who committed suicide due to rising debt, joined the protesters at Tikri border on Wednesday.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been protesting near various border points of Delhi, including Singhu and Tikri, for over a fortnight demanding that the Centre repeal three new farm laws.- Modi govt continuously working for farmers’ benefits: Amit ShahUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government is continuously working for the interests of the country’s farmers. In a tweet in Hindi, he said the Modi government has taken another major decision and approved an assistance of Rs 3,500 crore for sugarcane farmers.Shah expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister Modi for this decision, which will benefit five crore sugarcane farmers, their families and five lakh workers associated with the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-govt-standoff-continues-as-talks-in-limbo-on-day-21-all-you-need-to-know/story-Ua5XaX3TCf1wQhuCFu9xYI.html
16-12-2020||India||Bolstering cooperation, connectivity on agenda at India-Bangladesh virtual summit on Thursday||India and Bangladesh are expected to sign nine agreements to boost cooperation in diverse areas and revive a railway link disrupted by the 1965 war with Pakistan during a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart Sheikh Hasina on Thursday.With Bangladesh focused on celebrations marking its Victory Day on December 16, the upcoming 50th anniversary of independence in March and the birth centenary of its founder Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the two leaders will release a commemorative stamp and open the “Bangabandhu-Bapu Digital Exhibition”.Officials of the two sides are giving final shape to nine memorandums of understanding (MoUs) expected to be signed during the summit, Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen has said. He didn’t give details on the MoUs.Also read: Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacksThe two premiers, who will be meeting virtually for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak, will witness the reopening of Chilahati-Haldibari railway route, 55 years after it was snapped during the India-Pakistan war. At that time, Bangladesh was known as East Pakistan.As part of efforts to enhance transport and connectivity, the two sides have already reopened four of six rail links that were suspended in 1965 – Petrapole- Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol. The Haldibari-Chilahati link was part of the main broad gauge route between Kolkata and Siliguri. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the Haldibari-Chilahati route will enhance connectivity to Assam and West Bengal from Bangladesh, and support bilateral trade. Initially, the link will be used to transport goods and passenger movement will start after infrastructure is developed. With Dhaka on Tuesday extending the birth centenary celebrations for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman till December 2021, the new stamp will pay tribute to the father of the nation of Bangladesh, whom Modi has hailed as “one of the greatest personalities of the last century”. The “Bangabandhu-Bapu Digital Exhibition”, which will pay tribute to Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi, will initially be on display in New Delhi before travelling to different locations in Bangladesh and the UN and culminating in Kolkata in 2022. The exhibition will focus on the Jallianwala Bagh and the “Genocide Tunnel” to portray the pain and suffering endured by people in the two countries. Bangladesh foreign minister Momen also said Dhaka will raise all major bilateral issues during the summit, including sharing of river waters, Covid-19 cooperation, border killings, trade imbalance and the Rohingya crisis.Also read: Nearly half of China’s investments in India’s neighbourhood went to PakistanHe said Bangladesh wants to bring under a single framework the seven trans-border rivers - Monu, Muhuri, Gomti, Dharla, Dudhkumar, Feni and Teesta - and will seek an early meeting of the ministerial Joint River Commission (JRC) to forge a framework to resolve all outstanding issues.Bangladesh’s Beximco Pharma has signed an MoU with the Serum Institute of India for 30 million doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, and New Delhi has pledged to help Dhaka with vaccines.Bangladesh is also expected to seek India’s assistance in resolving the crisis of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar, especially after New Delhi begins its stint as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bolstering-cooperation-connectivity-on-agenda-at-india-bangladesh-virtual-summit-on-thursday/story-69KfdMjjrRLkoK1kvodCUM.html
16-12-2020||India||Dualist Inquiry: I stay focused on my journey, don’t follow trends||Isolation is the space in which I’m able to process and make sense of all the experiences I have in my life,” says musician Dualist Inquiry. The artiste, known for his tracks like Isoterra and For Joss, says without this situation, it feels like there’s a build-up of “unprocessed material” that has not been turned into creative expression.With the pandemic and clouds of uncertainty looming over the future of live performances, the 33-year-old feels “there will be a gradual increase in the number of live shows” until the pandemic is behind us. Moreover, these challenges have presented themselves at a time when music is constantly changing and evolving.  A post shared by Dualist Inquiry (@dualistinquiry)“There is going to be a huge boom in the number and scale of live events that will take place in 2021 or 2022,” says the artiste, who recently released his latest track Closer in collaboration with Sachin Malhar. The track, he says, “is about heartbreak, and about the feeling of not being able to connect with someone in spite of wanting to do so”. About the changes that may take place in the music industry thanks to the rise of independent artistes, he says, “The music industry has been changing beyond recognition every 5-10 years, and the last decade has been no exception.” He adds, “I’m personally staying focused on my own artistic journey and not really paying too much attention to the trends that come and go every few years. As an artist, you can’t get too attached to the past - you have to keep leaving it behind and moving forward by adapting to the situation at every turn.” A post shared by Dualist Inquiry (@dualistinquiry)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dualist-inquiry-i-stay-focused-on-my-journey-don-t-follow/story-2HOSN9GZ8nZYEgEgteuG1I.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Hour of grief’: Rahul Gandhi condoles Baba Ram Singh’s death, slams Modi government for farmers’ plight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday condoled the death of 65-year-old Sikh protest Sant Baba Ram Singh, who shot himself at Kundli border and died at the protest site. “Seeing the plights of the farmers, Sant Baba Ram Singh ji of Karnal died by suicide at Kundli border. I offer my condolence and tribute at this hour of grief,” Gandhi tweeted adding that many farmers have sacrificed their lives. करनाल के संत बाबा राम सिंह जी ने कुंडली बॉर्डर पर किसानों की दुर्दशा देखकर आत्महत्या कर ली। इस दुख की घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएँ और श्रद्धांजलि।कई किसान अपने जीवन की आहुति दे चुके हैं। मोदी सरकार की क्रूरता हर हद पार कर चुकी है। ज़िद छोड़ो और तुरंत कृषि विरोधी क़ानून वापस लो! pic.twitter.com/rolS2DWNr1“The brutality of the Modi government has crossed all limits,” Rahul tweeted urging the government to shun its stubbornness and immediately withdraw the “anti-farm” laws.The priest used to head a Gurdwara in Karnal. “Farmers are in pain. They are protesting on roads for their rights, which is a cause of extreme pain. The government is not giving justice, which is cruelty. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am committing suicide against the cruelty of the government. This is a voice against the cruelty and voice in favour of the farmers,” he wrote in a note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hour-of-grief-rahul-gandhi-condoles-baba-ram-singh-s-death-slams-modi-government-for-farmers-plight/story-AfFDsJLdi5a2b7uPt99CmL.html
16-12-2020||India||Biting cold grips north India; eight killed in UP accident due to fog||Icy winds swept north India on Wednesday, with Amritsar in Punjab reporting the lowest minimum temperature in the plains, while dense fog engulfed several parts of Uttar Pradesh, where eight people died when a bus collided with a gas tanker amid reduced visibility. The mercury dropped below the freezing point in several hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. “The lowest minimum temperature of 2.0°C reported at Amritsar (Punjab) over the plains of the country,” the India Meteorological Department’s bulletin said. The maximum temperature in the holy city settled at 8.2 degrees Celsius, which was down by 13 notches against normal limits, making it even colder than Manali, Shimla and Srinagar. Manali, Shimla and Srinagar recorded maximum temperatures of 10.4 degrees Celsius, 11.7 degrees Celsius and 10.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Delhi registered a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius, while the visibility dropped to 100 metres in the Palam area in the morning due to “dense fog”. The India Meteorological Department has predicted both “cold day” and “cold wave” in parts of the national capital on Thursday and Friday. Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, experienced the coldest night of the season as the valley reeled under cold conditions with the mercury plummeting several degrees below the freezing point owing to a clear sky. The mercury in Gulmarg, the famous ski-resort in north Kashmir, settled at a low of minus 11.0 degrees Celsius which is about seven degrees below the normal for this time of the season, the officials said. The resort was the coldest recorded place in the Union Territory. In Himachal Pradesh, the weather remained dry in the last 24 hours, even as Manali, Dalhousie, Keylong and Kalpa in the state shivered at sub-zero temperatures. The minimum temperature decreased by one to two degrees Celsius in the state in the last 24 hours, the MeT Department said. Keylong, the administrative centre of the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti, continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 5.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Rajasthan has dropped by up to four degrees in the last 24 hours and the weather office has issued a cold wave warning for the next two days. Ganganagar was recorded as the coldest place in the state at 2.5 degrees Celsius. Parts of Uttar Pradesh received light rains, while dense fog engulfed isolated places over western part of the state. Eight people died, while 21 more sustained injuries on Wednesday morning when an Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus collided with a gas tanker amid reduced visibility due to fog, police said. Bareilly was the coldest place in the state where the minimum temperature was 5.3 degrees Celsius. Weather is most likely to remain dry and shallow to moderate fog is very likely at isolated places over the state on December 18 and 19. PTI TEAM SNE SNE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biting-cold-grips-north-india-eight-killed-in-up-accident-due-to-fog/story-8U22PvTn3LofIsejpS4AQK.html
16-12-2020||India||Indian farm widows join protests against agriculture reforms||Hundreds of Indian women, including many widows of farmers who were believed to have killed themselves over debt, joined a protest on Wednesday against government reforms that farmers say threaten their livelihoods.Farmers have been protesting for nearly a month over the reforms, enacted in September, to deregulate the agriculture sector, allowing farmers to sell to buyers beyond government-regulated wholesale markets.Small farmers fear the changes will mean the end of guaranteed minimum prices for their crops and leave them at the mercy of big retailers.“If these black laws come, more farmers will go deeper into debt,” said 40-year-old Harshdeep Kaur, a widow from Punjab state, at one protest site on the outskirts of the capital, New Delhi.“More mothers and sisters will become widows like me.”Suicide by struggling farmers has been a problem in India for years. Nearly 10,350 farmers and agricultural labourers committed suicide in 2018 - making up almost 8% of all suicides in India, according to the National Crime Records Bureau.Kaur said her husband committed suicide three years ago after running up debts of 500,000 rupees (nearly $7,000). As she spoke, she held a passport sized photo of him.The reforms, contained in three laws, loosen rules around the sale, pricing and storage of farm produce.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to assure farmers the changes will bring them new opportunities but few have been convinced. Several rounds of talks between farm union leaders and the government have failed.“We’ll keep protesting,” said Gurbax Singh, a farmer union leader at a north Delhi protest site.The farmers have gathered at various sites around the capital since late last month, blocking traffic and clashing with police, at least in the early days of their action. Singh said dozens of buses, tractors and cars were being arranged to bring more women from Punjab – the epicentre of the agitation.The protesters occupied several kilometres of a busy main road in western Delhi with their tractors on Wednesday.At a nearby protest site, old farmers lounged in ramshackle shelters beside medical stalls and makeshift kitchens.Kaur said she and other women were prepared to protest until the laws were repealed. “More women will come,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-farm-widows-join-protests-against-agriculture-reforms/story-u9uuz3s4smMAUw0WUlIYGN.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India slips a spot in UN’s human development index and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 nowDropping a spot further from its previous position, India on Wednesday ranked 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index, according to a report released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). Read more‘Tolerating it is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves noteBaba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, he expressed his pain over the ongoing protest of the farmers against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. Read more With positivity rate on decline in Delhi, Covid-19 testing unlikely to be scaled upWith the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positivity rate – the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – dipping below 2 per cent, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain indicated on Wednesday that the city is unlikely to scale up testing. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh blasts Kangana Ranaut for claiming he disappeared after inciting farmers, says ‘have some shame’Diljit Dosanjh fired back at Kangana Ranaut after she claimed that he disappeared after tweeting in support of the farmers protesting against the new farm bills. He also questioned who made her the authority to decide who is a patriot and who is an anti-national. Read morePUBG Mobile India latest update: Game is not coming back by New YearPUBG Mobile fans who are waiting for the battle royale to make a comeback, we have some bad news for you. According to a report from InsideSport, the PUBG Mobile India game is not coming back even by New Year. Read moreMan climbs onto wing of airplane taxiing for take-off in Las Vegas airport. WatchIn a bizarre incident, a man climbed onto the wing of an airline taxiing for takeoff in a Las Vegas airport on Saturday, December 12. Several clips of the incident have now surfaced on the Internet. Chances are that the incident will leave you surprised. Read more‘PM Modi is a master at political messaging’: Sanjay Jha on Congress’ mistakesSuspended Congress leader spoke about his upcoming book ‘The Great Unravelling: India After 2014’ during an exclusive interview with Hindustan Times’ Aditi Prasad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-slips-a-spot-in-un-s-human-development-index-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6MNjwXOXDUgGzY2zWEjvtJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Govt sets up ‘trusted source’ bar for phone companies to shield them from attacks||Phone companies in India can only use telecom equipment certified by a top security panel to have come from a “trust source”, the Union Cabinet decided at its meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The certificate will be issued by a security panel headed by Deputy National Security Advisor Rajender Khanna who reports to NSA Ajit Doval. A former chief of India’s external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing, Khanna heads the technologies section in the National Security Council Secretariat, people familiar with the matter said.“This is a very important decision with respect to national security,” Union telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said as he unveiled the National Security Directive on Telecommunication Sector that had been cleared by the cabinet minutes earlier.The directive does not require phone companies to replace their existing equipment and will not impact ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment.The move comes against the backdrop of concerns expressed in India and abroad over mobile companies using equipment manufactured by the China-headquartered Huawei that has been accused by the United States of spying for Beijing. One official said the new security directive owed its origin to a presentation made way back in July by India’s lead intelligence agency on the risks posed by Chinese companies across different sectors.Ravi Shankar Prasad did not name any country or company.A government official indicated that the freshly-minted security directive would enable India to address concerns around equipment pitched by Chinese companies but stressed that this policy was designed to secure Indian telecom infrastructure against other risks as well.The government, he said, wants to minimise the risks posed by cyber attacks. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) reported 4 lakh cyber incidents in 2019. In August this year, the government reported 7 lakh cyber incidents. During the last one year, the ministry of electronics and information technology told Parliament in August, the government and business entities had lost Rs 124 lakh crore to cyber crime.“The fact is that India is among the top three countries in the world facing cyber-attacks,” the official said.How will it workIndia’s National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt General (retd) Rajesh Pant will issue a list of telecom equipment that will be covered under the new security directive. Gen Pant’s office will notify a list of ‘Trusted Sources/ Trusted Products’ for the benefit of the telecom service providers once they have been cleared by a committee headed by Dy NSA Rajinder Khanna. The committee, called the National Security Committee on Telecom, will have representatives from government departments concerned apart from two industry representatives and an independent expert. The committee has also been empowered blacklist companies that will not be allowed to sell equipment to phone companies. The National Security Committee on Telecom has also been authorised to give incentives under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat exercise to companies identified as a “trusted source” if they meet the criteria in this regard.A portal will be launched for easy upload of applications by telecom service providers and equipment vendors. This will improve the ease of doing business by providing a predictable assessment methodology to phone companies and equipment vendors, a government official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-trusted-source-bar-for-phone-companies-to-shield-them-from-attacks/story-QoAoo66PTwgXUYJyWBb5nN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Tolerating is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stir, leaves note||Baba Ram Singh, a priest from Haryana, shot himself on Wednesday at a site of the ongoing protests by the farmers. In a hand-written note, the 65-year-old expressed his pain over the protest against the three laws passed by Parliament in September. In his note, he said he felt a lot of pain for the farmers as the government is not giving them justice. It is a sin to oppress and continues to be oppressed, he wrote in his note.The note is being verified by police, reported PTI.“Farmers are in pain. They are protesting on roads for their rights, which is a cause of extreme pain. Government is not giving justice, which is cruelty. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am committing suicide against the cruelty of the government. This is voice against the cruelty and voice in favour of the farmers,” he wrote in the note.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condoled his death. “The news of Sant Baba Ram Singh Ji’s suicide is painful. I offer my condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Our farmers are asking for their rights. The government should listen to the voice of the farmers and all three black laws should be withdrawn,” Kejriwal tweeted.The protest entered its 21st day on Wednesday with the Supreme Court intervening in the deadlock situation. Hearing a public interest litigation, the apex court indicated at forming a panel with representatives of the Centre, agitating farmers and farmers from other states as well to come up with a speedy resolution of the situation. The Centre has welcomed the suggestion of setting up a new panel while farmers have said it won’t offer any way out as they want complete withdrawal of the laws. “Government is continuously speaking with farmers. Yes or no is not the end of any agitation...Govt is willing to give in writing that we’ll continue to buy at MSP. Farmers can sell produce inside as well as outside APMC markets,” agriculture minister of state Kailash Choudhary said.According to reports, several farmers have died during the ongoing protest which began on November 26. The reason has mostly been the cold wave condition. Recently, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi quoted a news report and claimed 11 farmers had died in 17 days. The number has now gone up as two road accidents also claimed the lives of four farmers from Punjab. On Wednesday, hundreds of women, including many widows of farmers who were believed to have killed themselves over debt, joined the protest site at Tikri border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tolerating-it-is-also-sin-haryana-priest-dies-by-suicide-amid-farmers-stir-leaves-note/story-SaseWNO4m86hIygzb9IUsO.html
16-12-2020||India||Covaxin’s phase 1 trial result shows robust immune response, mild adverse events||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech on Wednesday released the results of the Phase 1 trials of its coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine ‘Covaxin’ - which produced a robust immune response against the disease and showed that the majority of the adverse events were mild and got resolved. The vaccine is being stored between 2-8 degrees Celsius and further efficacy trials are underway.The results of the first phase of Covaxin- which Bharat Biotech is developing in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) comes a day after the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) had said that it was examining the application submitted by the company seeking emergency use authorisation of its vaccine. The company has been asked to submit more data.Also Read: India records 26,382 new Covid-19 cases; death toll crosses 144,000Emergency approval for any vaccine or drug can only be granted once the regulatory body carries out an assessment of its safety and effectiveness, based on the data obtained from the efficacy trials.Also Read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probeMeanwhile, India along with the United Kingdom launched a virtual vaccines hub which will share best practice for clinical trials and foster innovation besides helping in the shared fight against Covid-19 pandemic. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab announced that experts from the two countries would join forces through a new virtual hub to deliver vaccines for coronavirus and other deadly viruses.India on Wednesday had registered 26,382 new Covid-19 cases and 387-related fatalities which pushed the overall tally to over 9.9 million. The active cases stand at 332,002 and are declining steadily while 9.45 million people have recovered from the disease till now. (With inputs from Rhythma Kaul)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-s-phase-1-trial-result-shows-robust-immune-response-mild-adverse-events/story-0swYxDQsyoK5POHjjPO22M.html
16-12-2020||India||Nearly half of China’s investments in India’s neighbourhood went to Pakistan||India provided support for a slew of connectivity and cross-border development projects and extended currency swaps and financial support in the region spanning from Bangladesh to the Maldives, even as China invested more than $4 billion in the neighbourhood this year. China’s investments and contracts remain cloaked in opacity, with virtually no official figures available, though reliable estimates showed $1.93 billion, or almost half of its investments and construction contracts in India’s neighbourhood, had gone to its traditional ally Pakistan.India’s support for connectivity and development projects in the neighbourhood picked up pace soon after the border standoff with China emerged in the open in May, and New Delhi has pumped in hundreds of millions of dollars for key schemes and to extend financial support to the governments of countries such as Sri Lanka and the Maldives that were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Indian side provided currency swap facilities of $400 million each to Sri Lanka and the Maldives to bolster economic revival. India also provided a soft loan of $250 million to the Maldives as budgetary support.Another $500 million, including a grant of $100 million, was provided for the Greater Male Connectivity Project, which is set to be largest infrastructure project in the Maldives with 6.7 kilometre-long bridge and causeway links between the national capital and three islands.New Delhi also handed over 10 broad gauge locomotives to Dhaka, launched the first cross-border container train service and began shipping goods from Kolkata to Tripura in the northeast via Bangladesh’s Chattogram port. Also read: India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 nowSome eight railway projects are being implemented for Bangladesh under lines of credit, including the $78-million Kulaura-Shahbazpur rail line and the $389 million Khulna-Mongla rail line that are expected to be completed in 2021. During their virtual summit on December 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina are set to launch the revived Chilahati-Haldibari railway link, which was snapped during the 1965 war with Pakistan.Last month, work was launched on the third integrated check post on the Nepal border, which is being built at Nepalgunj at a cost of almost $20 million to streamline and boost cross-border trade. In August, India provided $5 million under a border area development programme to Myanmar, where the country’s total development cooperation is worth almost $1.4 billion.According to figures collated by the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), which closely tracks China’s investments and construction projects around the world, Chinese investments in India’s neighbourhood this year included $1.93 billion in Pakistan, $1.25 billion in Bangladesh, $450 million in Sri Lanka and $280 million in Myanmar. The investments in Bangladesh, Myanmar and Sri Lanka were all under China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), according to AEI.Amit Bhandari, a fellow at Gateway House who tracks China’s economic activities in the region, said the figures could be significantly higher, given the lack of transparency regarding such investments, especially by Chinese state-run firms. “Recent estimates showed 60 per cent of the FDI in Pakistan, more than 40 per cent in Myanmar and more than 30 per cent in Sri Lanka came from China, which has a bigger cheque book to throw around. Such large investments in what aren’t vibrant economies are aimed at generating geo-political influence but also lead to badly designed projects that make problems worse. For instance, rates for power generated by China-backed projects in Pakistan are 20 per cent to 50 per cent more than in India,” he said.Also read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probeIndia, Bhandari said, had improved its performance but is yet to match China in implementing big-ticket projects. Experts also have concerns about the pace of work on India-backed projects despite the external affairs ministry streamlining its development partnership administration by creating sections that focus on specific projects and regions.For instance, though the 130-kilometre-long India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline was launched in September 2018, the ground-breaking for the construction of the pipeline to supply fuel from Numaligarh Refinery in Assam to Dinajpur in Bangladesh was done only on December 4 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-half-of-china-s-investments-in-india-s-neighbourhood-went-to-pakistan/story-QKTlADkHpFo90D7rQeIyxK.html
16-12-2020||India||India slips a spot in UN’s human development index, ranks at 131 now: 8 points||Dropping a spot further from its previous position, India on Wednesday ranked 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index, according to a report released by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).India has been positioned at 131 out of 189 countries and territories, according to the report. India had ranked 130 in 2018 in the index.Human Development Index is the measure of a nation’s health, education, and standards of living.Here is everything you need to know:- According to the report, life expectancy of Indians at birth in 2019 was 69.7 years. This is a shade worse than India’s neighbouring country Bangladesh which has a life expectancy of 72.6 years. The life expectancy in Pakistan at 67.3 years, the 2020 Human Development Report said.- In the medium human development, countries like India, Bhutan (129), Bangladesh (133), Nepal (142), and Pakistan (154) were ranked, the report said. India’s HDI value for 2019 is 0.645 which put it in the medium human development category.- Excelling in Human Development yardstick, Norway topped the index, followed by Ireland, Switzerland, Hong Kong and Iceland. - The UNDP report states that indigenous children in Cambodia, India and Thailand show more malnutrition-related issues such as stunting and wasting. ““In India different responses in parent behaviour as well as some disinvestment in girls’ health and education have led to higher malnutrition among girls than among boys as a consequence of shocks likely linked to climate change,” the report said.- Decoding India’s rank, UNDP Resident Representative Shoko Noda said the drop in India’s ranking doesn’t mean “India didn’t do well but other countries did better”. India can help other countries too and lauded its commitment to reduce carbon emissions, Noda said. - According to the report published by the United Nations Development Programme on Tuesday, India’s gross national income per capita fell to USD 6,681 in 2019 from USD 6,829 in 2018 on purchasing power parity (PPP) basis.- The report said evidence from Colombia to India indicates that financial security and ownership of land improve women’s security and reduce the risk of gender-based violence, clearly indicating that owning land can empower women.- Under the Paris Agreement, India pledged to reduce the emission intensity of its GDP from the 2005 level by 33–35 percent by 2030 and to obtain 40 percent of electric power capacity from non–fossil fuel sources by 2030, the report underlined. “As part of the plan, the National Solar Mission aims to promote solar energy for power generation and other uses to make solar energy competitive with fossil fuel–based options. Solar capacity in India increased from 2.6 gigawatts in March 2014 to 30 gigawatts in July 2019, achieving its target of 20 gigawatts four years ahead of schedule. In 2019, India ranked fifth for installed solar capacity,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slips-a-spot-in-un-s-human-development-index-ranks-at-131-now-8-points/story-YALVnkmJtX5lJWuZGXkvCI.html
16-12-2020||India||In a first, Parliament committee to examine functioning of RTI, information commissions||In a first, a Parliamentary standing committee will scrutinise the working of the transparency watchdogs, the Central Information Commission (CIC) and the state information commissions (SICs). The move has irked the right to information activists saying it “usurps” the powers of the state legislatives.As the information commissions are statutory bodies, the CIC is required to submit annual reports to the Parliament and the SICs to state legislatives through its administrative wings, the Ministry of Personnel and Training in Centre and Services Department in the states. However, these annual reports are rarely discussed in Parliament or state legislatures even though members have raised questions over the efficacy of the information law through short duration discussion and zero hour, where a member can raise an issue approved by the Chair.Rajya Sabha secretary general Utpal Kumar Singh has listed 12 issues for examination by the Parliamentary standing committee in the current financial year (2020-21), which includes a review of the working of the Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions. Others issued listed in agenda include reviews of working of virtual courts, Guardianship and Adoption laws and functioning of Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanisms.Committee chairperson and BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav was not available for comments. A Rajya Sabha official privy to the development said the committee decides on the agenda after taking inputs from all members, which include 10 MPs from Rajya Sabha and 20 from Lok Sabha. Also read: WHO’s team to go to China in January for Covid-19 origin probe“The committee has decided to review the information commission as there were lots of media reports about their functioning,” he said.The committee has powers to summon any official and seek suggestions from the non-government organisations to review the performance of any organization including the information commissions,” officials said.A report by Satark Nagarik Sangathan (SNS), released on eve of 15 years of RTI on October 9, 2020, said that around one-third of information commissions in India were headless, one-fourth of information commissioner posts were lying vacant and Jharkhand and Tripura information commissions were defunct. The report said nine states, such as Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan, does not have a chief information commissioner, whose appointment under the RTI law is a statutory requirement. Since then, Rajasthan has appointed the chief information commissioner. The Centre on November 10, 2020, filled the vacant post of chief information commissioner, since August 2020, with appointment of Yashwardhan Kumar Sinha.Another report filed by Transparency International India on the same day said that around 33 million RTI applications were filed with various government departments across the country in the past 15 years, showing the widespread use of the watershed law that has empowered citizens to raise governance questions with public authorities. Only about 9 per cent of these RTI applications resulted in a second appeal, showing that over 90 per cent of the applicants were satisfied with the government response which, transparency law activists said, is the RTI’s biggest achievement.“We have no problem with the review of the chief information commission by a Parliamentary Standing Committee as the legislature has powers to review,” said Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS. “We want the committee to give terms of reference of the review and the exercise should not be used to weaken the RTI Act. Earlier, the Central government had weakened the RTI law by bringing new service rules for information commissioners”.In October 2019, the Centre had notified rules downgrading information commissioner post from equivalence to election commissioners to a secretary in the government. The new rule also reduced the term of an information commission from five to three years and gave powers to the Centre to remove them, which Bhardwaj said had undermined the spirit of the RTI Act in name of rationalisation.Venkatesh Nayak of the National Campaign for People Right to Information (NCPRI) asked how could Parliament review the functioning of the state information commissions as they come under the purview of the state governments and state legislatures.“This is another attempt to usurp the powers of the state legislature, to which state information commissions submit their annual reports,” Nayak said. Agreeing with him, Bhardwaj said the standing committee should take transparency and federalism into account while reviewing the functioning of the information commissions. The importance of the RTI law for India could be gauged from Supreme Court 2019 judgment which said that the RTI has the potential to bring about good governance which is an integral part of a vibrant democracy. “Attaining good governance is also one of the visions of the Constitution. It also has a vital connection with the development,” the court said.The RTI is a Central law, which was adopted completely by the states without any substantial change. However, through rules, the state governments have brought in certain changes for appointing information commissions and functioning of the state information commissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-parliament-committee-to-examine-functioning-of-rti-information-commissions/story-uZpYOg1zmVVWWlHyqwgYZN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Those who are leaving the party know...’: Mamata’s dig at turncoats||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said those who are leaving the party now ahead of the state election in 2021 know that they won’t get a ticket in the upcoming election and that’s why they are leaving. The foundation of the party is as strong as a banyan tree, Banerjee said. Her comments came on a day when Suvendu Adhikari, who represented Nandigram, resigned from the legislative assembly and BJP state vice president Mukul Roy compared the party with a pack of cards.Political tempers in West Bengal have been rising soon after the incident in which BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked when he was on a tour in the state. The incident set off virulent attacks between the state and the Centre as the Centre summoned the DGP over the law and order situation of the state and the state refused to send them. Union home minister Amit Shah is also likely to visit the state amid this ongoing tension.While Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly was not a shock as he had already resigned from his ministry a few days ago, the timing of it has set tongues wagging that he might switch to the BJP in the presence of Amit Shah.Shrugging off dissident voices in the party, which might take a form of exodus, Banerjee on Wednesday said, “Trinamool Congress (TMC) government is of ‘Maa, Mati, Manush’, and these three elements can never cheat, betray or lie. We don’t take votes by lying, we do whatever we say, this is TMC’s vow.”Lashing out at the BJP, she said, “Sometimes they say CAA will be done and NRC won’t be done, sometimes they say NRC will be done and NPR won’t be done. But I am saying today they will do all three. I didn’t allow NPR in my state.”“Some dacoits of Chambal and goons from outside have entered Bengal. At times they threaten police and sometimes they threaten TMC. Today TMC is as deep-rooted as a Banyan tree. Two-three people who know they won’t get a ticket from the party are going away,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-are-leaving-the-party-know-mamata-banerjee-after-suvendu-adhikari-s-resignation-from-assembly/story-CSKzRdgEgmik7N1odi79oO.html
16-12-2020||India||Umar Khalid says medical treatment denied in Tihar jail for toothache||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested in a north east Delhi riots case, alleged before a court here on Wednesday that he has not been given any medical treatment by the Tihar jail authorities for his toothache for the last three days.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dinesh Kumar directed the jail Superintendent to provide proper medical treatment to Khalid as per the prison rules.The court directed the jail authorities to file a compliance report before it within two days.It said if the dentist was not available in the jail for check up till next day, Khalid may be taken to a dentist outside the prison also for the check up and for the treatment, if required.“Jail Superintendent concerned is directed to provide proper medical treatment to the accused (Khalid) as per rules ofJail Manual. If the dentist is not available in the Jail for check up till next day, the accused may be taken to a dentist outside the prison also for the check up and for the treatment, if required. A report of compliance be filed in the court within two days,” the court said in its order.Khalid alleged that he was having toothache for the last three days but he has not received any medical treatment yet.He claimed that a dentist was supposed to visit the jail today but he has not visited.Khalid said he was suffering from pain and it would be difficult for him to wait for another one week for the visit to the dentist.The court extended the judicial custody of Khalid for 14 days in the case related to rioting in Khajuri Khas area.Khalid was arrested on October 1 in the case. He was also arrested in September in a separate case related to a larger conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-says-medical-treatment-denied-in-tihar-jail-for-toothache/story-uzvNfSYENiET30xWBY2MCK.html
16-12-2020||India||Addressing cyber security, data protection issues important for financial inclusion, says RBI governor||Issues concerning cyber security and data protection must be addressed to gain confidence of the excluded section in use of technology, which is necessary for promoting financial inclusion, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Wednesday. “Technology, though being a great enabler, can also lead to exclusion of certain segments of society,” Das said in his keynote address at a webinar on ‘Investing in Investor Education in India: Priorities for Action’, organised by the NCAER. The RBI Governor added that it was imperative to build trust in formal financial services among the hitherto excluded population. “Adequate safeguards need to be reinforced to address issues of cyber security, data confidentiality, mis-selling, customer protection and grievance redress through appropriate financial education and awareness. These cast great responsibility on financial education providers,” he emphasised. Financial inclusion in the country, he said, is poised to grow exponentially with digital savvy millennials joining the workforce, social media blurring the urban-rural divide and technology shaping the policy interventions. For harnessing the near universal reach of bank accounts across the length and breadth of the country, there needs to be greater focus on penetration of sustainable credit, investment, insurance and pension products by addressing demand side constraints with enhanced customer protection, Das said. The interventions in financial education would have to be customised in local language and local settings keeping the different target audience in mind, he pointed out. The scaling up of Centre for Financial Literacy (CFL) projects across the country at the block level would be the cornerstone of community-led participatory approaches in the journey towards greater financial literacy, he added. The Governor also stressed that in a large country like India with an aspiring population, financial education cannot remain just the responsibility of financial sector regulators. This aspect has been highlighted in the National Strategy for Financial Education (NSFE 2020-2025) document which recommends a multi-stakeholder led approach to achieve financial wellbeing of all. “Going forward, increasingly, educational institutions, industry bodies and other stakeholders like think tanks, research institutions should come forward to shoulder the responsibility of increasing financial literacy through appropriate awareness campaigns,” Das said. Financial inclusion initiatives in India started in the aftermath of first All India Rural Credit Survey in 1954 with promotion of cooperatives. This was followed later by expansion of branch network after nationalisation of major private sector banks, launch of Lead Bank Scheme, promotion of Self Help Groups (SHGs), Joint Liability Groups (JLGs), implementation of Banking Correspondents (BC) model, expansion of banking outlets, creation of payments banks and small finance banks, among others. The largest impact in recent years came from the opening of Jan Dhan accounts and implementation of the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY). The launch of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) in 2014 has resulted in almost every household having access to formal banking services along with a platform for availing low value credit, insurance and pension schemes, the governor said. “This has been ably supported by initiatives to ensure last-mile delivery of banking services through innovative banking channels like the BC model. Thanks to technology, there has been massive improvement in deepening of digital financial services,” he said. The Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) ecosystem has made a significant difference in the universe of financial inclusion, Das added. NCAER’s Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Chair K P Krishnan said with the RBI Governor’s address setting the context, the next in NCAER’s series with financial regulators will delve deeper into investor education and protection issues in the securities market, and subsequently with other sectoral regulators in the following weeks. Speaking at the event, NCAER Director General Shekhar Shah said the pandemic has driven digitalisation in a few months that would have otherwise required years. “We need to capitalise on this transformation to now build smarter and more effective investor education and protection platforms so that an ever-growing part of our population is financially savvy,” he said. NCAER said it was the inaugural event for a five-part virtual workshop series with financial regulators on investor education and protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/addressing-cyber-security-data-protection-issues-important-for-financial-inclusion-says-rbi-governor/story-O5nxpolo6mXlppGxxSUuGO.html
16-12-2020||India||LDF hails victory in Kerala civic body election; people rejected propaganda, says A Vijayaraghavan||The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) won civic body elections in Kerala as it gained a clear edge in the village, block, district panchayats, municipal and corporation councils. Welcoming the people’s mandate LDF convenor A Vijayaraghavan said the results show that people in the state did not believe the propaganda spread by the opposition. While the CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury lauded party’s performance as saluted to the people of Kerala for “reposing the faith in LDF,” news agency ANI reported.“There was a strong attack on the Left by both the Congress-led UDF and BJP-led NDA. There were attempts made even to disrupt the day-to-day operations of the state government through central agencies. The results show that people have rejected all of it and are with the Left which is implementing development works in the state,” Vijayaraghavan said after the ruling LDF secured a win over Congress-headed United Democratic Front (UPF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Also Read | ‘Humbled,’ tweets Kerala CM after LDF’s emphatic win in local body pollsAccusing BJP of spreading propaganda against LDF, Yechury said, “It is not the BJP’s gain any ground despite all its misinformation and mispropaganda and despite the using central agencies in order to defame and character assassination of Chief Minister and all our leaders of LDF. They have failed miserably. They claim was to control and capture the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation at least but they were dismal in the third position.” Taking to Twitter to thank voters, state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote, “Thank you Kerala. Thank you for reposing faith in LDF. We are humbled by the trust and the confidence of the people of Kerala. This is a victory for secularism and inclusive development. My warm greetings to all the elected representatives,” CM’s tweet read.During the last round of counting, the LDF is leading in 516 out of the total 941 gram panchayats, according to the State Election Commission figures. The Congress-led UDF was ahead in 375 gram panchayats while NDA is leading in 22 gram panchayats. Out of the six corporations in the state, the LDF and the UDF were leading in three each.As the result of local body election came in favour of LDF, UDF claimed that it did not lose ground while BJP-led NDA said it was able to make inroads in the state. The BJP also alleged that vote-trading has taken place between UDF and LDF.The Kerala local body polls were held in three phases. The first phase saw a turnout of 73.12 per cent, while the second phase saw 76.78 and the third and final phase 78.64 per cent.A total of 21,893 wards in 1,200 local self-governing bodies, including six corporations, 941 village panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 87 municipalities went to the polls on December 8, 10 and 14.The local civic body elections are generally seen as pointer to the upcoming Assembly election as it gives a peak to the voters’ mood and political inclination.With good cadre and grassroots reach, usually LDF enjoys an edge in local body elections. However, this year there were concerns for LDF as Pinarayi Vijayan was grappled with a high-profile gold smuggling scandal.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ldf-hails-victory-in-kerala-civic-body-election-people-rejected-propaganda-says-a-vijayaraghavan/story-yjpGS40xpamh8UAtyO3dBN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: What Supreme Court and Centre said on solution||The 21st day of the farmers’ ongoing protest demanding the repeal of the farm laws saw crucial development as the Supreme Court has now intervened. While the protesters are determined that talks with the Centre will proceed further only when the Centre agrees to withdraw the laws, the Centre too continued its stance that protesting farmers are misled.Here is what happened in the day: The Supreme Court on Wednesday indicated that it may form a committee to resolve the deadlock. > The Supreme Court noted that the issue of road blockade may soon become a national issue.> It also noted that Centre’s negotiations have not worked properly and is bound to fail.Also Read: SC issues notice on pleas to open Delhi’s borders blocked by petitioners, allows farmer organisations to be added; hearing tomorrow> The new committee will have members from farmer organisations and representatives of the government. Members from other farmer organisations — from rest of India — will also be part of it.> When the road blockade by the farmers was compared with that of Shaheen Bagh, the apex court said there can’t be any precedent in a matter of law and order situation.What the Centre said> The Centre on being asked the name of the unions which are blocking roads said it can tell the names of the organisations which are engaged in talks with the Centre.> The government will not do anything which is against the interest of farmers, the law officer said during the hearing.> Union commerce minister of state Som Prakash welcomed the decision of the apex court and said the Centre wants to resolve farmers’ issue quickly. “Farmers and government will express their views in the committee which is good. Whatever final decision SC takes tomorrow on the issue, we will act accordingly,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-what-supreme-court-and-centre-said-on-solution/story-GiNp1pUmQsdwvSebxkMtIN.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir a planned conspiracy by Oppn to destabilise nation: Gujarat BJP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Gujarat unit chief CR Patil on Wednesday said that the ongoing protests by the farmers against the Centre’s reforms at Delhi borders was a planned conspiracy by opposition parties to destabilise the country adding that the Centre won’t let this happen.“This agitation is a planned conspiracy by the opposition to destabilise the nation, but the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not let this happen. Since opposition parties have lost their base, they are trying to create anarchy in the country,” Patil told reporters as part of the BJP’s outreach exercise to make people aware of the three laws which were being opposed by some of the farmer groups. Patil alleged that the Congress party was in favour of these reforms when it was in power but it was now spreading falsehood and misguiding farmers.“Congress was also in favour of these agricultural reforms when it was in power. But now, the opposition party is spreading falsehood and misguiding farmers. People need to identify such forces and remain cautious about their motives,” the BJP Gujarat chief added.Also Read: PM Modi says farmers surrounding Delhi have been misguided; blames OppositionPatil’s remarks about the ongoing stir came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the Centre was addressing the concerns of the farmers regarding the new reforms and accused the opposition of misguiding them.“Farmers gathered near Delhi are being misled as part of a conspiracy. Farmers are told that their land will be grabbed by others if new farm reforms get implemented,” Modi said after laying foundation stones of a desalination plant, a hybrid renewable energy park, and a fully automated milk processing and packing plant in Gujarat.Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday that the issues raised by the protesting farmers could be solved in five minutes if PM Modi steps in and added that the BJP-led central government should hold talks with the farmers who have been protesting in Delhi and neighbouring areas since November 26. “The government can solve the issue in 30 minutes sitting with the (agitating) farmers, if it wants...I think the issue will be solved in five minutes if PM himself intervenes, he told PTI,”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-a-planned-conspiracy-by-oppn-to-destabilise-nation-gujarat-bjp-chief/story-SXQ9VI3hlQpI9NP3dmJaeO.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi HC issues Centre notice for environmental appraisal of power, mining projects notification||Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued a notice on a petition challenging Centre’s notification constituting the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) for environmental appraisal of thermal power and coal mining projects.The bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan after hearing the submission of petitioner’s Advocate Ritwick Dutta, issued notice to the respondents and slated the matter for January 22, 2021.According to the petitioner Manoj Mishra, a retired Indian Forest Services officer, Union of India through Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change on July 10, 2020, reconstituted the EAC for the environmental appraisal of thermal power and coal mining projects under the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006.The notification shows that the government has appointed a total of nine ‘non-officials’ as members of the EAC and the rest six are officials, the plea said.The plea filed through Advocate Srishti Agnihotri stated that as per the notification, no ‘expert’ has been appointed despite the mandatory requirement that the EAC should comprise of ‘experts’. The EIA notification does not make any reference to ‘officials’ and ‘non-officials’, and any such appointment or classification is dehors the statutory scheme. The order states that a total of 15 members have been appointed, of which nine are ‘non-officials’, which is completely alien to the statutory scheme, the plea further added.It also stated that these appointments fly in the face of several precedents laid down by the Supreme Court of India and the Delhi High Court on the appointment of experts to the EACs/other expert environmental bodies. The notification requires members of the said bodies to be experts having certain educational qualifications and relevant experience in specific fields/disciplines including, inter alia, Environment Quality and Project Management in relevant sectors.The plea added that thus the qualifications for a chairperson are something more than mere expertise. The chairperson must be an ‘outstanding and experienced environmental policy expert’.The plea sought the quashing of the notification constituting the EAC and a declaration that the appointments of the respondents are illegal. It also says that the EAC for thermal power and coal mining projects has been improperly constituted vide the notification dated July 10, 2020.The newly appointed chairperson and other members do not meet the prescribed statutory qualifications. Thus, it is imperative that during the pendency of this petition, the EAC does not take any final decision on a thermal power and coal mining project, the plea stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-centre-notice-for-environmental-appraisal-of-power-mining-projects-notification/story-GbseRJUvcw5HBBy1aUFVfN.html
16-12-2020||India||UK’s Indo-Pacific tilt about managing challenges, taking advantage of opportunities in region: Dominic Raab||The UK’s planned “Indo-Pacific tilt” is as much about managing the challenges and pressures arising from China’s assertive actions as it is about taking advantage of opportunities across the region, British foreign secretary Dominic Raab said on Wednesday. Raab, who held talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday on a 10-year road map for bilateral ties and a free trade deal, also said he raised the farmers’ protest in Delhi in view of the strong connect between the politics of the two countries given the Indian diaspora in Britain. In an interaction with a small group of Indian reporters, Raab said the UK was acting to address “as swiftly as possible” the outstanding legal issues that have held up the extradition of fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya. The UK’s integrated defence and foreign policy review, set to be published in early 2021, is expected to outline the “Indo-Pacific tilt”, and Raab said the rise of China juxtaposed with the growth of economies in Southeast Asia and the Far East present both challenges and opportunities. “Actually, that’s all part of the Indo-Pacific tilt, which is to be more engaged in grasping the opportunities but also more engaged in managing some of the challenges and the pressures,” he said in response to a question on China’s belligerent actions, including the miliary standoff with India along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Obviously, there is the rise of China and the position of China, and the opportunities but also the risks it presents,” he said. India and the UK, Raab said, can cooperate on issues such as cyber-security and countering disinformation. The UK has also inked free trade deals with Japan, Vietnam and South Korea and applied to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations as a dialogue partner as part of its wider trade and investment engagement with the Indo-Pacific. Against the backdrop of Indian-origin British MPs asking the UK government to raise the farmers’ protest with New Delhi, Raab said he had discussed the issue with Jaishankar. “Obviously, we respect the fact that the reforms going through your system here are domestic reforms. Of course, they’ve elicited the protests that you refer to, and your politics, in some sense because of the Indian diaspora in Britain, is our politics,” he said. “But I think India, as well as having a market-driven economy, also has a vibrant heritage of peaceful protests and vigorous debate and we watch that with interest and we respect it.” Asked about the delay in the extradition of Mallya, Raab declined to specify whether the matter had figured during his meetings in New Delhi but said the two sides always had discussions on “issues of concern”. He added: “We’ve made it clear that in those cases, there’s still some legal issues outstanding. Obviously, they’re independent from politics or political intervention, but we would like to see those expedited as swiftly as possible.” The UK earlier said a “confidential” legal issue was holding up Mallya’s extradition. Britain’s stance gave rise to speculation tht the 64-year-old businessman, wanted in India to face charges of financial irregularities, could have applied for asylum in the UK. Raab also said Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit in January to join the Republic Day celebrations as chief guest will help drive cooperation on the Covid-19 crisis, trade, maritime issues and climate change. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be invited to both the G7 leaders’ summit and the United Nations Climate Change Conference to be hosted by the UK in 2021, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-s-indo-pacific-tilt-about-managing-challenges-taking-advantage-of-opportunities-in-region-dominic-raab/story-Ak2IFRtmosa23xovbcz1gL.html
16-12-2020||India||Govt gives nod to next round of spectrum auction: Key points to know||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the department of telecommunications’ proposal to conduct spectrum auction plan. Through the auction, spectrum will be assigned to the successful bidders for providing commercial mobile services.“The auction will be for spectrum in 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz frequency bands, “ the government said in a press release. “A total of 2251.25 MHz is being offered with a total valuation of Rs. 3,92,332.70 crores,” it also said.Also Read | India may blacklist some telecom equipment vendors for securityBy winning right to use spectrum through the auction, incumbent telecom service providers will be able to augment their network capacity whereas new players will be able to start their services.According to Jio, spectrum worth Rs 3.92 lakh crore is lying unused with the department of telecommunication for auction. The telecom ministry gets an average revenue share of 5% as spectrum usage charge from telecom operators which is calculated based on their spectrum holding and 8% as licence fee from the revenue earned by them from sale of communication services.Here are key points to know about the auction:1) Spectrum will be offered for assignment for a validity period of 20 years. The last auction was held in 2016.2) In the auction, bidders will have to comply with parameters mandated by the government like block size in which bidders will be able to submit their bids, spectrum cap maximum amount of spectrum that can be held by each bidder after the completion of the auction, roll-out obligations, payment terms etc.3) Successful bidders will have the option to pay the entire id amount in one go or can opt for the option to pay a certain amount upfront and the remaining can be divided into 16 instalments. The instalments will begin after a moratorium of two years. 4) Bidders that won 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz bands will be required to 25% upfront in case they opt for EMI option. For 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz, 2500 MHz bands, 50% of payment will be needed.5) In addition to the bid amount, successful bidders will also have to pay 3% of the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) excluding wireline services as spectrum usage charges for the spectrum won through this auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-gives-nod-to-next-round-of-spectrum-auction-key-points-to-know/story-eyJY0MKboEltGDXSDV4yNO.html
16-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi walks out of parliamentary panel meet on defence, says wastage of time||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and two other Congress members Rajeev Satav and Revanth Reddy on Wednesday walked out of a parliamentary panel meeting on defence, news agency PTI reported. The Congress leader alleged that instead of discussing on how to equip soldiers better, the panel wasted time in discussing the uniform of the armed forces while there was Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat present at the meeting.The panel was discussing the uniform of the armed forces in which Rahul Gandhi intervened and said that this could be decided by senior defence officers of the armed forces, it has been learnt. A BJP parliamentarian present at the meeting was in favour of a same uniform in Army, Navy, Air Force so that there is no confusion. Gandhi mentioned that each of the wings and their uniforms have glorious history and past. Chairman of the panel BJP MP Jual Oram didn’t allow Gandhi to speak as he wanted to raise the issue of the soldiers posted at Line of Actual Control.The political leadership should discuss the issues of national security and how to strengthen the forces who are fighting the Chinese in Ladakh, Gandhi said after which he was not allowed to continue. On several occasions before, Gandhi had raised the issue of the plight of the soldiers guarding the frontier of the country amid biting cold. ““The jawans of the country are fighting PLA soldiers in extreme weather conditions from normal tents. They are unafraid. But the Prime Minister of the country flies around in an aeroplane that costs Rs 8,400 crore and he is scared to even take the name of China. Who got achche din?” Gandhi had tweeted earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-walks-out-of-parliamentary-panel-meet-on-defence-says-wastage-of-time/story-ueRHcpLLufjhQDFlTjvfCP.html
16-12-2020||India||India, UK launch virtual vaccines hub for cooperation on clinical trials, regulatory approvals||India and the UK on Wednesday launched a virtual vaccines hub to facilitate the delivery of vaccines for Covid-19 and other viruses and to foster cooperation between experts on clinical trials and regulatory approvals.Visiting UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab announced the launch of the hub, aimed at protecting people in both countries by enhancing cooperation on the development and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and better aligning the international regulation of vaccines.The hub will also foster partnerships to develop innovation “moonshots” that can define vaccine delivery over the next decade. It will enable British and Indian experts to share knowledge on clinical trials and regulatory approvals and get vaccines to people who need them most in a safe, secure and energy-efficient manner.The Serum Institute of India plans to roll-out more than a billion doses of the vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Unlike other doses, it can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making it easier and cheaper to produce, store and distribute.Raab said, “This Serum Institute and Oxford University partnership demonstrates the UK-India relationship at its best – a vaccine developed in the UK and made in India, drawing our brightest minds together to save lives as a global force for good.Also read: ‘Uttarakhand faced loss of around Rs 4,000 cr during lockdown’ - Govt committee“A global pandemic requires a global solution. Scientific cooperation has made breakthroughs on coronavirus vaccines at record-breaking pace and the UK-India vaccine hub will now build on these innovations, to bring this crisis to an end and protect us all against future pandemics.”Millions of doses made by the Serum Institute will also be distributed to the world’s poorest people via the COVAX initiative, in partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO) and Gavi, the vaccine alliance. India and the UK also announced a new memorandum of understanding between the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency on more frequent discussions on bilateral vaccine and pharmaceutical regulations, improving standards and sharing information to control the trade of unlicensed products.Raab, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday to discuss a 10-year roadmap for bilateral cooperation and collaboration on the Covid-19 vaccine, praised the Indian government’s commitment to equitable global access to vaccines. He also visited a Delhi health clinic where the AstraZeneca vaccine will be administered.Also read: TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari resigns from assembly; more leaders voice dissent before Shah’s visitThe UK has worked for equitable access to Covid-19 vaccine and has committed up to £619 million to COVAX to secure both the UK’s access to vaccines and to distribute doses across the world.India supplies more than 50 per cent of the world’s vaccines and 25 per cent of the UK National Health Service’s generic drugs. Closer UK-India cooperation on medicines and vaccines approvals will ensure speedy access for the UK to Indian-produced pharmaceuticals and help safeguard supplies to the NHS.Raab also met Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and agreed to work on mutual recognition of academic qualifications, starting with master’s degrees, over the next year. He welcomed the signing of a new agreement between the University of Edinburgh and Gujarat to open a new biotechnology university in the state in July 2021. This will be the first foreign university collaboration of its kind in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-launch-virtual-vaccines-hub-for-cooperation-on-clinical-trials-regulatory-approvals/story-UEdiNOrHq6wKaNhCuH834L.html
16-12-2020||India||Countdown begins for launch of communication satellite CMS-01 on-board PSLV-C50||The 25-hour countdown for the launch of communication satellite CMS-01 on board launch vehicle PSLV-C50 commenced on Wednesday, ISRO said.The polar satellite launch vehicle’s 52nd mission is scheduled for lift-off at 15.41 hours on Thursday from the second launch pad at the spaceport of Sriharikota ‘subject to weather conditions’.“PSLV-CMS-01 Mission: Countdown for the launch of PSLV-C50/CMS01 mission commenced today at 1441hrs from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, SHAR Sriharikota,” ISRO said.CMS-01 is the 42nd communication satellite of the space agency and it is envisaged for providing services in Extended-C Band of the frequency spectrum covering India, Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands.PSLV-C50 is the 22nd flight of PSLV in ‘XL’ configuration (equipped with six strap-on motors), and tomorrow’s launch would be the 77th launch vehicle mission from Sriharikota, about 120 km from here.It follows the successful launch of PSLV-C49 (EOS-01) earth observation satellite and nine customer spacecraft on November 7 which was ISRO’s first mission of the year amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/countdown-begins-for-launch-of-communication-satellite-cms-01-on-board-pslv-c50/story-qPLf6JV6IFZYJr9pNOAmMI.html
16-12-2020||India||BJP leaders calling veteran TMC members, trying to break party: CM Mamata Banerjee||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is calling up veteran leaders of the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, including the party’s state president, in a bid to break the party, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday while tagging BJP leader as dacoits from Chambal. “BJP called up Subrata Bakshi, TMC’s state president and a Rajya Sabha MP, and tried to fix a meeting. Anubrata Mondol (another TMC veteran) called me up from Birbhum district and said he received a call from a BJP leader from Delhi who wanted to fix a meeting. Look at the audacity and the extent to which BJP can go. How dangerous? They don’t have the minimum courtesy,” said Banerjee while addressing a rally.Since a section of TMC leaders has expressed their disgruntlement against the party’s top leadership, speculations are rife that some may join the BJP. While an MLA from north Bengal has already switched sides, former Cabinet minister and TMC heavyweight legislator Suvendu Adhikari is also expected to join the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Some BJP leaders had, in the past, named at least seven TMC leaders who may quit the party anytime to join the BJP. On Wednesday, BJP rubbished the allegations made by the chief minister that their leaders had called up TMC leaders. “What if I say that Mamata Banerjee called me up and tried to fix a meeting? When a CM or a party head is saying something, she should have some evidence. Actually, she knows that the TMC has reached its end and hence, she is making such statements,” said Sayantan Basu, BJP’s state general secretary. The TMC chief also sent a strong message to rebels within the party, saying that those who joined the party in the initial days will stay till the end, while a section of the leaders would come and go with the tidal waters. “There shouldn’t be any difference within the party. Work together because that would help us to win. Ground level and mid-level party workers would have to come forward and take responsibility,” Banerjee said, while addressing a workers’ rally at Cooch Behar (south) assembly constituency in north Bengal. The MLA of Cooch Behar (south) has recently joined the BJP. North Bengal is crucial for both the TMC and the BJP after the latter wrested seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the region in 2019 and managed to win 18 of the state’s 42 seats. In terms of the 56 assembly segments in the eight seats in north Bengal, the BJP is ahead of the TMC in 35. The West Bengal assembly has 294 seats. Attacking the BJP and trying to brand it as an outsider, Banerjee compared the central BJP leaders as dacoits from Chambal. “Sometimes, they are trying to scare the TMC and sometimes, the state police. They are all goons from outside. They are dacoits from Chambal who have come to West Bengal,” she added. While ruing that the TMC couldn’t win a single seat from north Bengal and urging people to vote for it in the crucial assembly elections in 2021, Banerjee said it is good that the BJP won some seats in the Lok Sabha polls as it came handy to unmask them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-calling-veteran-tmc-members-trying-to-break-party-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-0YpnP9KtvSYjoJaAeWGHEN.html
16-12-2020||India||PM Modi to attend Aligarh Muslim University’s centenary celebrations via video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations of the Aligarh Muslim University via video link on December 22, an official statement said.Modi will attend the online function along with Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, it said.Extending his gratitude to the PM, AMU Vice Chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor said the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) community is thankful for his acceptance to participate in the celebrations marking 100 years of the university.“The outreach of the university during this historical year will also immensely help in its growth and development, and in the placement of our students in private and public sectors,” he saidProf Mansoor appealed the university community to put in all efforts for the success of the forthcoming events, and the staff members, students, alumni and AMU well-wishers for active participation.He also appealed to all concerned to keep the centenary programme above politics like the Republic Day, Independence Day and Gandhi Jayanti.Earlier this month, the university had announced that President Ram Nath Kovind was expected to be the chief guest at the centenary celebrations.The change of chief guest appears to be a last minute move, according to AMU sources.Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College became Aligarh Muslim University on December 1, 1920 following a gazette notification. AMU was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-aligarh-muslim-university-s-centenary-celebrations/story-aLPIoMidF1Z0CGgpL1xMoO.html
16-12-2020||India||Mahakumbh 2021: 24 police stations to be set up||Twenty-four police stations would be set up for security and crowd management in Haridwar for Mahakumbh 2021. With just a fortnight left for the fair to start, these police stations will have the responsibility of maintaining policing, law order, traffic, crowd management and patrolling the mela zone. Kumbh police personnel will be deployed in these police stations which will be functional till April-end when the four-month Kumbh fair concludes. Kumbh Inspector General of Police Sanjay Gunjiyal said, “The first lot of Kumbh force police personnel has arrived in the city and soon, a second batch of additional force will be joining for duty. Training has been given to Kumbh force personnel. Kumbh police station plays a vital role and are in addition to the local district police stations.” Initially, Kumbh police stations are being made at core mela zones of Har-Ki-Pauri, Pantdeep, Bhimgoda, Sapt Rishi , Rodi Belwala, Bairagi Camp and Chandighat. Also read | Mahakumbh 2021 expected to peak with 1st Shahi Snan on March 11The exact number of Kumbh force personnel to be deployed will be decided by Mela administration by early mid-February, keeping in mind the Covid-19 spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-2021-24-police-stations-to-be-set-up/story-m7ajgWVfS1pc6USytQSE3L.html
16-12-2020||India||TMC’s Suvendu Adhikari resigns from assembly; more leaders voice dissent before Shah’s visit||More dissident voices appeared in the ranks of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in different districts of south Bengal on Wednesday with several legislators and a Lok Sabha member speaking out against the party organisation and election strategist Prashant Kishor ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit this weekend. In a major development, former cabinet minister and heavyweight TMC legislator Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the legislative assembly around 4pm on Wednesday. He was the legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Adhikari went to the assembly and submitted a hand-written letter at the secretariat. The speaker, Biman Banerjee, was not present in his office. Also read: TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari may join BJP during Amit Shah’s Bengal visitAdhikari’s aides had said earlier that he was likely to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. He could switch over to the BJP on December 19 at Shah’s rally in East Midnapore. Shah will be in Bengal on December 19 and 20. He will address rallies in at least three districts, including East Midnapore where Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and an assembly seat. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown. Reacting to Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the rebel leader would be welcomed if he joined the BJP. Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member, said, “Adhikari is taking once step at a time before joining the BJP. This is not unexpected for us.” The developments took place while chief minister Mamata Banerjee addressed rallies in north Bengal, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Also read: Situation in Bengal worse than Kashmir, says BJP’s Dilip GhoshMore TMC leaders voiced dissent in south Bengal districts, where the BJP could not perform so well. Sunil Mandal, the two-time Lok Sabha MP from Burdwan East constituency, which was one of the strongest bases of the Marxists till he wrested the seat in 2014, told the local media that the TMC needed reforms. Questioning the necessity to rope in Kishor and his I-Pac, Mandal said, “It is acceptable that those of us who worked on the ground among people and rose from the ranks have to take instructions from paid employees of I-Pac on where and how to hold processions?” “People of Bengal are sensitive and intelligent. Processions cannot ensure votes,” said Mandal. Posters appeared in his support in several parts of East Burdwan amid strong speculations that Adhikari may hold a meeting with him. Statements against the TMC leadership were also made by Dipak Haldar, the legislator from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district; Biswajit Kundu, the legislator from Kalna in East Burdwan district; and Jitendra Tiwari, Asansol’s outgoing mayor and legislator from Pandabeswar in West Burdwan district. In another development, forest minister Rajib Banerjee’s followers put up more posters in different districts, including East Midnapore. The minister too made significant statements at a public programme on Tuesday. “People cannot change their character every day. You can change clothes every day but not idealism. Do you, the common people, have faith in me? Those who are with the party since its birth are still there. A few of those who joined us later are leaving. It will not make any difference,” Mamata Banerjee said at a rally in Cooch Behar.Incidentally, Mihir Goswami, the local TMC legislator, joined the BJP last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-suvendu-adhikari-resigns-from-assembly-more-leaders-voice-dissent-before-shah-s-visit/story-M2yJoRL61EiGL8NrZs4euM.html
16-12-2020||India||India may blacklist some telecom equipment vendors for security reasons||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved the setting up of a national security directive on telecommunication sector, which will have a significant impact on India’s security, IT and telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said announcing the new guidelines for telecom service providers.“Considering the need to ensure India’s national security, the Cabinet has accorded approval for the national security directive on telecommunication sector. Under this, in order to maintain the integrity of the supply chain security, government will declare a list of trusted sources, trusted products for the benefit of telecom service providers,” the minister said adding that similarly there will be a list of designated sources from whom no procurement will be done.The move will also be a push to “self-reliant India” as telecom gears made by domestic players might be considered in the category of trusted sources.Giving out the details of how this listing will be done and how it would impact telecom service in future, the minister said, “Once the lists are prepared, telecom service providers will be required to connect new devices which are designated trusted products. The designated authority will make its determination based on the approval of a committee headed by the deputy NSA. The committee will consist of members from relevant departments, ministries, two members from industries and an independent expert. The committee will be called the national security committee on telecom.”There will be no provision for mandatory replacement of existing equipment already inducted in the network of the service providers and the annual maintenance contracts will not be impacted either. The move comes at a time when India has already blocked several mobile applications — all Chinese — for being a threat to the “sovereignty and integrity of India”.In June this year, the government had blocked access to 59 mobile apps and on September 2, another 118 apps were banned under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. These apps included popular gaming app PUBG, TikTok, UC Browser, Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun. In November, another 43 Chine mobile apps were banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-blacklist-some-telecom-equipment-vendors-for-security/story-IzhVQ7GImJbkjkufJnpqGO.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Tomar thanks Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting farm laws||As the farmers’ protest in and around Delhi entered 21st day on Wednesday with no end of the stalemate in sight, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar praised the farmers of Madhya Pradesh for supporting the farm laws against which the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh are agitating fearing corporatisation of farming.“When attempts are being made to mislead and agitate farmers of Punjab in one corner of the nation, you gathered in Rewa, Sagar, Gwalior, Ujjain and other places to support farm laws by Narendra Modi government. I thank all of you,” the minister said.The minister had earlier met farmers from states like Telangana, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu and Bihar who extended their support to the farm laws. Taking objection to Centre talking to other farm bodies over this contentious issue, an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions on Wednesday write to the Centre asking it to stop the parallel talks. In a letter to Union Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said the Centre should also stop “defaming” the ongoing protests being held at several Delhi border points against the three farm laws.Representatives of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) from Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday met Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and submitted a memorandum with suggestions on the laws and the Minimum Support Price. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan) has also decided to end for now its protest, which it was holding at district levels in Uttar Pradesh.Earlier this week, a delegation of over 100 farmers from Uttarakhand had also met Tomar. However, the main protesters at Delhi’s Singhu border are not ready to budge unless the Centre agrees to repeal the laws.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-tomar-thanks-madhya-pradesh-farmers-for-supporting-farm-laws/story-cubMMqbykqxqdOkByw0MrN.html
16-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee should worry about her home, her people are going to BJP, says Asaduddin Owaisi||Denying West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegations stating Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is bringing a party from Hyderabad to divide minority votes, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) President Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said the former should worry about her own home state as many people are shifting loyalty towards BJP. “Till date there is no man who can buy Asaduddin Owaisi with money. Her allegation is baseless and she is restless. She should worry about her own home, so many of her people are going to the BJP. She has insulted the voters of Bihar and the people who voted for us,” said Owaisi.Banerjee had yesterday said, “To divide minority votes they have caught hold of a party from Hyderabad, BJP gives them money and they are dividing votes. Bihar election has proved it.” Owaisi further said, earlier Banerjee has praised the BJP, she has also been a part of the National Democratic Alliance so she should avoid such absurd statements. Meanwhile, Owaisi met former Uttar Pradesh Minister Om Prakash Rajbhar in Lucknow today. “Today was our first meeting, we will fight elections together in the front, now let’s see who else joins us,” said Owaisi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-should-worry-about-her-home-her-people-are-going-to-bjp-says-asaduddin-owaisi/story-0n0dPtEBjlSZomyntmX9xN.html
16-12-2020||India||Indigenous carbine passes final user trials: Ordnance Factory Board||A new joint venture protective carbine (JVPC) has successfully passed the final phase of user trials, meeting all criteria of the General Service Qualitative Requirement, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has announced. The compact gas-operated weapon has an effective range of more than 100 metres and weighs less than three kilos. During the tests, the ammunition penetrated 3.5 mm thick mild steel plate and 23 layers of soft armour at 100 metres, the OFB said in a statement. The weapon can be fired with one hand. It has a rate of fire of 800 rounds per minute. The JVPC, which feeds through the pistol grip unlike any other indigenously developed weapon in 5.56 x30 mm calibre, is being issued to Central paramilitary forces and state police organisations, Gagan Chaturvedi, deputy director general, OFB, said in a statement. Also read | DRDO successfully demonstrates quantum communication between two labsThe weapon features a 30-round steel magazine, semi bull-pup design, retractable butt, low recoil and multiple rails for mounting lights, laser pointers and optical sights. The carbine has been jointly developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the OFB which has its headquarters in Kolkata. It is manufactured at the Small Arms Factory, Kanpur, while the ammunition is produced by Ammunition Factory Khadki in Pune. The weapons earlier cleared the trials of the Directorate General of Quality Assurance, Chaturvedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-carbine-passes-final-user-trials-ordnance-factory-board/story-AybXhL52kCkDWOlKA9Go6N.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala civic body election: LDF ahead with 520 seats||With counting of votes for local body polls in Kerala underway on Wednesday, early trends showed that the ruling CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front was leading in 520 of the total of 941 panchayats.The LDF was also leading in 10 out of the 14 district panchayats and 108 block panchayats of the total of 152, according to the State Election Commission figures.The Congress led UDF was ahead in four district panchayats. Out of the six corporations in the state, the LDF and the UDF were leading in three each. BJP is ahead in 26 panchayats.Also Read | Kerala civic body election: Congress’ N Venugopal lose by 1 vote to BJP’s mayor candidateA total of 21,893 wards in 1,200 local self-governing bodies, including six corporations, 941 village panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 87 municipalities went to the polls in three phases on December 8, 10 and 14.The first phase saw 73.12 per cent turnout, the second phase 76.78 and the third and final phase, 78.64 per cent.Left leaders and workers claimed that the “hate campaign” against the CPI(M) through various issues raised by the Opposition Congress and BJP, including the gold smuggling case and other matters, failed to resonate with the people.“All the hate campaigns against the Left have been proven wrong,” senior CPI(M) leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan told the media.State Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac in a tweet said LDF was heading towards a resounding victory in local body elections.“LDF heading towards a resounding victory in the local body elections.People reject the slander campaign of Congress and BJP and also the machinations of central agencies.It is a vote for left politics and development alternative of Kerala government,” Isaac tweeted.In 2015, the ruling LDF had nearly swept the civic polls by winning 549 village panchayats, 90 block panchayats, 44 municipalities and four corporations.At the district panchayat level, both UDF and LDF had won seven seats each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-civic-body-election-ldf-ahead-with-520-seats/story-IvlyN1jSAqevIXtzv0F4PK.html
16-12-2020||India||Jharkhand proposes Rs1 lakh compensation for casualty in road accident||Jharkhand has decided to include fatalities in road accidents in the state disaster list, officials said on Wednesday. This means that the family of anyone dying in a road accident will receive a compensation of Rs1 lakh.State disaster management department minister Banna Gupta said, “The historic decision was taken on humanitarian grounds. The proposal was approved in the state disaster management authority (SDMA) meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday evening.” The minister said the compensation amount would be provided by the state disaster management department. “Jharkhand is probably the first state where the government will give compensation against casualty in road accident. The current practice is that the government hires an insurance company which gives the coverage amount after claim,” he said. However, the provision will only be applicable in case of death in road accident not injury, officials said. Joint secretary at the disaster management department Manish Tiwary said, “Earlier, road accident casualties were not in Centre or state disaster list. We have decided to include this in state disaster list.” He said the proposal would now go to the Cabinet for final approval. As per the records available with the state transport department, Jharkhand has been witnessing over 5,000 road accidents and over 3,000 deaths every year. An analysis of the road accidents data since 2016 shows that number of casualties has increased in the state over the years. In 2019, the state recorded as many as 5,215 road accidents, with 3,800 deaths reported in them. Even though the number of accidents declined in comparison to 2018, but casualties have increased. In 2018, the state had recorded 5,394 accidents with 3,542 deaths. However, the numbers of accidents and casualties have both declined sharply in 2020 due to Covid-triggered lockdowns. A total of 3,366 road accidents took place till October 2020, in which 2,294 people lost their lives. On the decision, joint transport commissioner (road safety), Ravishankar Vidyarthi, who is also the head of the lead agency on road safety in Jharkhand, said, “Road accidents or casualties are always unexpected. These sudden deaths cause trouble for the families left behind.”Vidyarthi said the department has also initiated hordes of measures including road safety audit and road engineering correction to reduce the accidents on Jharkhand roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-proposes-rs1-lakh-compensation-for-casualty-in-road-accident/story-0mEZJyb8xrCYpXagGNMd2H.html
16-12-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea on Allahabad HC order over religious conversions for marriages||Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea seeking to set aside an Allahabad High Court order, which held that conversions just for the sake of marriage are invalid.A Bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde while dismissing the plea said, “We see no reason to interfere (with Allahabad High Court order), dismiss.”The PIL said if the court does not allow a person to freely choose his religion, it amounts to a violation of his or her fundamental right as guaranteed under the Constitution of India.It also sought direction for providing immediate police protection to the couple whose petition was dismissed by the high court.The plea was filed by advocate Aldanish Rein against the High Court order declining to provide police protection to the married couple where a Muslim woman converted to Hinduism and married a Hindu man.The High Court had on September 23 dismissed the plea by the couple seeking direction to police and the woman’s father not to disturb their marriage and had said conversion just for the sake of marriage is not valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-on-allahabad-hc-order-over-religious-conversions-for-marriages/story-w3xpC49mhSX7CAieUZOmcI.html
16-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves next round of spectrum auction, announces sugar export subsidy||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday met and took decisions related to agriculture, telecom and power sectors. Announcing the decisions, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the Cabinet will provide subsidy on 60 lakh tonne sugar which will benefit five crore farmers and five lakh workers. The money will directly be credited to the bank accounts of the farmers. “For the last two and three years, there have been a surplus in production and therefore the price has gone down,” Javadekar said. Farmers will get three credits in the coming days, the minister added. The food ministry had proposed Rs 3,600 crore subsidy for exports of 60 lakh tonnes of sugar in the marketing year 2020-21 (October-September).In another important announcement, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said auction for the next round of spectrum allocation has also been approved by the Cabinet. The last auction was held in 2016.“Cabinet approves Auction of spectrum in 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz frequency bands, for validity period of 20 yrs. A total of 2251.25 MHz is being offered with total valuation of Rs 3,92,332.70 crores,” the minister said.The Union Cabinet meeting, held via video conferencing, started at 11.25am.The last Cabinet meeting was held on December 9, where the cabinet gave a mod for Aatmanirbhat Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) to boost the employment in the formal sector and incentive the creation of new employment opportunities during COVID-19 recovery phase under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package 3.0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-announces-sugar-export-subsidy-will-benefit-5-crore-farmers-says-javadekar/story-Awbub0f2WlR0dbfUZ2gtFI.html
16-12-2020||India||Groom stabbed to death for not providing more liquor to friends to enjoy wedding celebrations||In a shocking incident, a groom was stabbed to death barely hours after his marriage by some of his friends in a village near here because he refused to provide them more liquor to enjoy the celebrations. Police said the incident took place on Monday night in Palimukim Pur village when the 28-year-old Bablu went to meet his friends soon after his marriage. His friends, already in an inebriated state, demanded more liquor from him, but the victim expressed his inability to arrange it saying that they already have enough of it, police said. This triggered arguments resulting in one of his friends stabbing him in a fit of rage, said police, adding the victim was rushed to a hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries. The main accused Ramkhiladi was arrested on Tuesday, Circle Officer Naresh Singh said on Wednesday. Five other accused are yet to be arrested as they are absconding, Singh said, adding they too would be nabbed soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/groom-stabbed-to-death-for-not-providing-more-liquor-to-friends-to-enjoy-wedding-celebrations/story-SeOag519JK3B1uz68e6t9O.html
16-12-2020||India||CAT dismisses tax official’s appeal against compulsory retirement||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has dismissed a case against the government’s decision to compulsorily retire tax officials allegedly on charges of corruption last year, a finance ministry official said.“This justifies the government’s step of compulsorily retiring some black sheep in the tax administration last year,” the official said requesting anonymity.After the Union finance ministry sent more than seven dozen tax officials of the Indian Revenue Services (IRS) on compulsory retirement last year for their unscrupulous activities, some of them had approached various benches of CAT against its decision.“The principle bench of CAT in its December 9 order in one such case, pronounced through video conference, said that it did not find merit in the application and the same was accordingly dismissed,” the official said, while referring to a CAT’s order. The government had launched its zero-tolerance policy against corruption of tax officials on June 10, 2019 when it forced 12 senior income-tax officials to retire from their jobs over allegations of misconduct such as fraud, extortion and sexual harassment. Following week, it forced another 15 senior Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs officials to retire over allegations of corruption.“So far, 85 tax officials have been penalised for their unscrupulous activities under the drive,” the official quoted above said. Meanwhile, the revenue department, which is an arm of the Union finance ministry, has directed its top officials to perform their duties without fear or favour, and adopt zero tolerance in matters of corruption committed by its officials, he said. “Agreeing to the government’s contention that the scope of interference with the order passed by invoking Fundamental Rules 56 (J) is very limited and not warranted in the instant case, the bench has come out very straight on the face of complainant, stating that the record of the applicant speaks for itself, and it was no longer in the interest of the department to continue the applicant in service, as the personal life of the applicant was not only extraordinary but also dented the very reputation of the department,” the official said.The clause (J) of the Fundamental Rules 56 empowers the government to retire officers in public interest with immediate effect on completing 50 years of age.The taxman was compulsorily retired by the government on September 27, 2019, under FR 56 (J) on various charges and complaints alleging demand of bribe and concern over the quality of orders passed by him, besides a large number of irregularities noticed during vigilance inspection, the official said.“Besides several indiscipline and serious integrity issues, the official was accused of bigamy by his ex-wife and also of amassing wealth disproportionate to his income. He allegedly purchased a flat in Ashok Vihar, Delhi, and handed over the same to his estranged wife by way of alimony without furnishing any intimation as required under Conduct Rules,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cat-dismisses-tax-official-s-appeal-against-compulsory-retirement/story-udnaoMFLh53ShyIGtEjGGL.html
16-12-2020||India||Six new ‘eyes in the sky’ for IAF to be built by DRDO on Air India planes||In a major boost for the indigenous defence industry, India is going to make six new Airborne Early Warning and Control planes to be developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on aircraft from Air India to further improve Air Force’s surveillance capabilities along borders with China and Pakistan.Government sources said that as per the discussions on the AEW&C Block 2 aircraft to be developed by the DRDO under a Rs 10,500 crore project, the six aircraft would be acquired from the Air India fleet and modified to fly with a radar that will give 360-degree surveillance capability to the defence forces.“The six AEW&C block two planes would be highly capable than their predecessor NETRA plane and provide 360-degree coverage deep inside the enemy territory during missions. The government is expected to clear the project soon,” government sources told ANI.The project to build the AEW&C system on existing aircraft from the Air India fleet may also mean that India may not buy the six Airbus 330 transport aircraft planned to be acquired earlier from the European firm, the sources said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation had earlier planned to build six Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) on the Airbus 330 aircraft for which some facilities were planned to be created in Bengaluru.As per plans, the six new aircraft would be sent to a European destination to the original equipment manufacturer for modification of the planes for installing the radar, the sources said.Sources said the project has been planned in a way to promote Make in India in defense and Aatmanirbhar Bharat.Block-I of the project was delayed beyond the scheduled timelines but with the prior experience under its belt, the Centre for Airborne Studies lab of DRDO is planning to complete it in a shorter timeframe.The IAF has three PHALCON AWACS systems bought by it from Israel and Russia under which the radar is provided by the Israelis whereas the platform used is the Russian Ilyushin-76 transport aircraft.The two NETRA aircraft provided by the DRDO have also performed very well in the recent conflicts where they have flown extensively to keep an eye on the enemy activity.The six new ‘eyes in the sky’ would be stationed at different places in the countries for effective surveillance long both the borders, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-eyes-in-the-sky-for-iaf-to-be-built-by-drdo-on-air-india-planes/story-aMZzLNsbLwqeLPH3rfooWN.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Farmers’ protest can end in 5 minutes if...’: Sanjay Raut offers a solution||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that the ongoing stir by thousands of farmers will reach a conclusion within minutes if the government wants.“If the government wished, it could end the issue by sitting with the farmers in half an hour,” Raut told news agency ANI. The parliamentarian also suggested intervention by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “resolve the standoff in five minutes”.“If the Prime Minister intervenes himself, it will be resolved in five minutes. Modi ji is such a big leader, everyone will listen to him. You initiate the talk yourself and see the miracle that happens,” the Shiv Sena leader said.Thousands of farmers hailing from Punjab and Haryana are protesting near Delhi demanding repeal of three contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September. The farmers have alleged that the laws will reduce their earnings and will give larger control to the corporations.The protest has entered its third week, but there are no signs of a resolution to the standoff between the farmers’ unions and the government. Five runds of talks have been held so far, but the deadlock is contuinuing. While the government is saying that it can hold more rounds of talks, the farmer organisations are determined with their demand that the three laws be repealed.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the farmers organisations have expressed apprehension that it will pave the way for eliminating the minimum support price (MSP) cushion and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-pm-modi-intervenes-sanjay-raut-lobs-ball-in-government-s-court-on-farmers-issue/story-IZkJgSr7v8D9tOpm3iajcK.html
16-12-2020||India||1971 saw India’s emergence globally as a mature State: Arjun Subramaniam||Arjun Subramaniam is a retired Air Vice Marshal from the Indian Air Force and the author of India’s Wars: A Military History 1947-1971 and Full Spectrum: India’s Wars 1972-2020. On the 49th anniversary of the victory in 1971, he spoke to HT about India’s moment of triumph:How do you look back at the 1971 war and India’s triumph?There are a few issues that immediately strike a historian when one looks back at the 1971 war.The first is that the war and the liberation of Bangladesh were an outcome of a “whole-of-government” approach. There was perfect synergy between the political establishment, the military commanders and operational commanders. If one recollects that time in history, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi wanted General Sam Manekshaw to go into Bangladesh in March-April of 1971. But Gen Manekshaw explained to PM Gandhi the need for a fairly long preparatory period that would allow him to offer a decisive outcome to the military operation. It goes to the credit of PM Gandhi that she listened to her Army chief, and waited for six more months, even though it cost India quite heavily in terms of the increased number of refugees that came into the country.The second is the jointness among the three armed forces: The Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. There was also a clear understanding among the higher levels of operational leadership in the Indian military of what were the outcomes expected from them.Third, by going into the country in December, India gave itself the time to train the Mukti Bahini — which emerged as the eyes and ears of the Indian Army when it moved into Bangladesh in 1971.Lastly, at a tactical level, there was professional acumen and courage across junior leadership.What were the key elements of India’s military strategy that helped it win the war?Right from the beginning, it was decided that there would be different strategies for the western front and the eastern front.On the eastern front, the strategy was one of creating overwhelming superiority to drive a decisive outcome — the defeat of the Pakistan Army in East Pakistan. The creation of Bangladesh or the liberation of East Pakistan was not one of the initial military objectives. It came in later because of the spectacular success of the three armed forces in pressurising the Pakistanis to the point of psychological collapse in East Pakistan.On the western front, what Gen Manekshaw and India’s strategic establishment realised was that there was near-parity of ground forces between the Indian Army and the Pakistan Army. But India realised that to drive any decisive victory, you needed the Indian Army to be able to score decisive victories across the western front, which was a difficult proposition. Therefore, Gen Manekshaw’s strategy for the western front was what was called “offensive defence”. His move to pull out forces from the western front to the eastern front was a deliberate attempt to create this overwhelming superiority in the east. India did not try to bite off too much. To expect a spectacular victory on both fronts was just not possible. There was significant superiority as far as the Indian Navy and Indian Air Force was concerned. What emerged out of the 1971 war was that the Indian Air Force and the Indian Navy grew out of the shadows of their big brother, the Indian Army. They performed spectacularly during the war. They emerged as independent service entities and contributed significantly in operations on both the western and eastern front.The arrival of the US seventh fleet remains an abiding memory and scarred generations about the United States. At the same time, India was able to rely on Soviet support to an extent. How did India deal with the international geopolitics of the war?One thing that deserves mention is that we must not undercut ourselves to look back on our own performance in isolation in the 1971 war. Yes, the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation was a big confidence-booster. It allowed India a strategic buffer, but ultimately, we must give ourselves credit for the outcome of the war.As far as international opinion is concerned, and why I call it a “whole-of-government” approach, is that by March, PM Gandhi realised that India had to go to war, but being a mature democracy, it did not want to go to war. From March to November, even as the Indian armed forces continued to build up capability and deploy for war, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and foreign minister Dr Swaran Singh along with the PM’s advisers tried their best globetrotting across the world to impress upon the West to call upon Pakistan to stop the genocide in Bangladesh. But that didn’t happen. Significant efforts were made by India in the international arena to prevent the war. This is how India emerged internationally as a mature State. Not one country, except China, criticised India’s move into East Pakistan. The world realised that had India not intervened, there would have been a genocide of even more horrific proportions. This raised India’s stature on the world stage.Do you think we failed to convert the military victory into a political advantage in Shimla?Of course. By any yardstick, India failed to derive adequate political and strategic leverage from the operational outcomes of the 1971 war. Put simply, we were not able to drive a quid pro quo agreement that met our strategic requirements. It happened because India was under tremendous pressure, both globally and internally, to return the 93,000 prisoners.This was when Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto pleaded with PM Gandhi that he had just come to power, and if issues such as Kashmir, the Line of Control and the redrawing of boundaries were to come into the agreement, it would mean a sure-shot downfall for him in Pakistan. He used democracy as a leverage against PM Gandhi.One statement that remains etched in everyone’s memory of that time was that he said “bharosa kijiye” — which means to say that he promised to address all of these issues at some time in the future. But many of these issues linger even today and are festering in India-Pakistan relations. Despite the support to the war of liberation, how do you see the ebbs and flows of the relationship with Bangladesh?Bangladesh is emerging as the driving force for India’s Act East Policy. Therefore, every political establishment in India understands the need to develop and maintain good relations with Bangladesh. It is even more so now, because the trajectory of Bangladesh’s economic growth indicates that it is an emerging economy that has been doing well despite various setbacks in South Asia. There will always be contentious issues between our nations, but the onus lies on India as the larger nation to be able to manage the relationship. A good relationship with Bangladesh has many positive outcomes for India. This is well understood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-saw-india-s-emergence-globally-as-a-mature-state-arjun-subramaniam/story-gMCCU0Acmi6f0TTJoCRNPK.html
16-12-2020||India||AGP leader Pabindra Deka quits party||Ahead of assembly polls in Assam early next year, former minister and three-time MLA from Patacharkuchi in Bajali district, Pabindra Deka, has quit the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), citing the party’s alleged failure to address concerns over the Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA. He submitted his resignation papers to party president Atul Bora. The 69-year-old was one of the founder members of the AGP, which was formed in 1985, after signing of the Assam Accord that ended a six-year agitation against illegal Bangladeshis. The AGP is a member of the ruling coalition in Assam, which is headed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); the coalition also has the Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF). The AGP has 14 members in the 126-member assembly; three of them are ministers. “I am quitting AGP as it failed to represent aspirations of indigenous Assamese people and protect their rights. The party is working under dictates of BJP. The party also failed to oppose Citizenship Amendment Act, which seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh,” Deka said on Tuesday. Deka had first entered the assembly in 1985, securing over 92% of the total votes cast. He became MLA again in 2001 and 2016. There are indications that he is likely to join the Assam Jatiya Parishad, the new political party floated by the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) --- two of the largest student organizations in Assam. There are speculations that four-five more sitting MLAs from AGP could quit in the coming weeks and join other parties. On Tuesday, Roselina Tirkey, a sitting Congress MLA quit the party and joined the ruling BJP. The 39-year-old, who represents the tea-tribe community, won from Sarupathar in Golaghat district in 2016. Speculations have been doing the rounds that few other Congress MLAs could also join the BJP ahead of the assembly polls due in March-April next year. The Congress has 22 members in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agp-leader-pabindra-deka-quits-party/story-6xOC0gjjzO1uQ81sfEb0eL.html
16-12-2020||India||TRP manipulation case: Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani gets bail||A metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday granted bail to Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani arrested in connection with its probe into the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation scam.Khanchandani was arrested on Sunday and was remanded to judicial custody on Tuesday, after which a bail plea was moved by his lawyers. The plea was allowed on Wednesday afternoon.During the Crime Branch’s probe, it was revealed that some cable operators had used dual LCN (Landing Channel Number) technology which allowed viewing of one channel on two channel numbers at a time.The Republic TV officials also contacted cable operators to fix LCN and LCN promotion. Khanchandani knew everything as he was part of Republic’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions about LCN and Promotion LCN discussions to boost Republic TV’s TRPs took place, police officials said.The police discovered about the discussions on company’s WhatsApp group after investigators seized cell phone of company’s chief operating officer Priya Mukherjee (also part of the WhatsApp group), who has secured anti-cipatory bail in the matter. Besides, Mukherjee worked under Khanchandani.The fake TRP scam came to light in October when ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.Hansa is one of BARC’s vendors on engagement with panel homes or people’s meters. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels. Republic TV had, in the past, denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-republic-tv-ceo-vikas-khanchandani-gets-bail/story-qLPQV75cGFsDFuq5CvSrlM.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Discussed vast potential of India-UK partnership’: PM Modi meets UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday met visiting foreign secretary of the United Kingdom, Dominic Raab, on the penultimate day of the latter’s four-day visit to India. Taking to Twitter after the meeting, PM Modi posted he discussed with Raab the “vast potential” of the India-UK partnership in a post-Covid and post-Brexit world, adding that he is looking forward to the visit of British PM Boris Johnson to India next month as the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations.“Excellent meeting with Dominic Raab, UK Secretary of State. Discussed the vast potential of the India-UK partnership in the post-COVID, post-Brexit world. Looking forward to next month’s visit by PM Boris Johnson as Chief Guest at our Republic Day celebrations,” PM Modi tweeted. Excellent meeting with @DominicRaab, UK Secretary of State of @FCDOGovUK. Discussed the vast potential of the India-UK partnership in the post-COVID, post-BREXIT world. Looking forward to next month's visit by PM @BorisJohnson as Chief Guest at our Republic Day celebrations. pic.twitter.com/E8cpkqbOJTThe prime minister had invited his British counterpart to be Republic Day chief guest in a telephone conversation on November 27. The visit was confirmed by Downing Street on Tuesday.Also Read | Boris Johnson accepts India’s invite, will be Republic Day parade chief guestRaab’s visit to India comes at a time massive protests by farmers are taking place on the outskirts of Delhi against three agricultural laws passed by Parliament in September. The protests have made international headlines, with members of the Indian diaspora, and even Canada PM Justin Trudeau and several members of his administration expressing their support for the protesting farmers.At least three dozen British MPs, led by Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, who is a Sikh himself, had earlier sought an “urgent” meeting with Raab, as well as updates on representations, if any, the foreign office may have made with India on the issue.Also Read | 36 British MPs back farmers’ protest, want UK to raise issue with IndiaIn an interview with news channel India Today, the British foreign secretary said the UK is of the view “decisions on reforms in India’s agriculture sector are for the government and the people of India to take.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discussed-vast-potential-of-india-uk-partnership-pm-modi-meets-uk-foreign-secretary-dominic-raab/story-68vq1FUJZcQ2TMKPjK8BDN.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 positivity rate lowest ever since May: Health minister Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Wednesday said the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases is declining and it was below 2 per cent for the first time on Tuesday since the month of May.“There were 1,617 Covid-19 cases in Delhi yesterday. It is a matter of great satisfaction that the outbreak has been declining. The positivity rate was 1.9 per cent yesterday (probably the lowest ever) and I would still like to request people to wear masks. The mask campaign started by the Delhi government also seems to have a great effect,” said Jain.Regarding the availability of ICU beds, Jain clarified that overall 50 per cent ICU beds are available. However, in some private hospitals, the occupancy is about 80-90 per cent. Asked whether the test can be increased to 1 lakh, Jain explained, “Now the positivity has reduced significantly. WHO says that the positivity should be less than 8 per cent and it is optimum till 5 per cent. So far the positivity rate is up to 5 per cent, it indicates sufficient testing. Since we have now 2 per cent positivity rate, let us wait till how long it lasts. The positivity rate has been less than 3 per cent for the last 5 days. If the positivity rate is less than 5 per cent for the last 15 days, then it definitely indicates a downtrend.”Talking about the ‘third wave’ in the national capital, he elaborated, “We cannot say the third wave is over since the cases are coming, be it only 2 per cent. Now corona will remain like other diseases but certainly, the chances of its massive outbreak seem to be less. According to WHO parameters, our 2 per cent positivity rate looks fine.”On the MCD scam charges and mayor’s demonstration, Jain alleged that it is the tactics of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divert the attention of people from farmers’ agitation. “Look at the timing, when Arvind Kejriwal went to meet the farmers at the Singhu border, they staged a protest here. BJP’s ‘dharna’ is a political ‘dharna’, only for doing politics,” added Jain. Reacting on BJP’s ‘Mahapanchayat’ regarding the farm laws, the Delhi Health Minister said, “If they want to do ‘Panchayat’, it should be done at Singhu and Tikri borders. Fire is at one place and water is being put at another place. It is very strange. Why is there so much arrogance? Withdraw the laws as soon as possible and end the deadlock.”Meanwhile, Jain said the Delhi Government has issued the orders to include the employees of the Jal Board and electricity department along with police, civil defence and sewerage workers in the category of frontline workers so that they can be vaccinated at the first phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-lowest-ever-since-may-health-minister-satyendra-jain/story-SCSZzj0fg8BzKISnDZn0OK.html
16-12-2020||India||TRP scam: Republic TV CEO granted bail on surety of Rs 50,000||The Esplanade Court in Mumbai on Wednesday granted bail to Republic TV Chief Executive Editor Vikas Khanchandani, who was arrested last Sunday, in the alleged TRP scam. He was earlier remanded to police custody till December 15. He has been granted bail on a surety of Rs 50,000.Khanchandani was questioned previously by the investigators twice before his arrest.Mumbai Police registered a case of manipulating television rating points against the Republic TV after rating agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint through Hansa Research Agency about the rigging of TRP by some channels. It was alleged that some viewers were bribed to view certain channels to increase TRP. In its charge sheet, the police alleged that an official of Hansa Research Agency paid money to a few households to watch these channels.According to the police, apart from this, Republic TV officials had contacted cable operators to use dual landing channel number (LCN) technology — which facilitates the viewing of the same channel on two different channel numbers at the same time — to manipulate the numbers. The CEO was aware of it as he was a part of the channel’s internal WhatsApp group where discussions on LCN took place, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-scam-republic-tv-ceo-granted-bail-on-surety-of-rs-50-000/story-qhdyUiW2oNxPKyB8eO7fnM.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala civic body election: Congress’ N Venugopal lose by 1 vote to BJP’s mayor candidate||Congress mayoral candidate N Venugopal, has lost to the BJP candidate by one vote, in the Kochi Corporation North Island ward in the state’s local body elections. “It was a sure seat. I can’t say what happened. There was no problem in the party. There was a problem with the voting machine. That may be the reason for BJP’s victory,” Venugopal said. “I have not decided to go to court with the voting machine issue so far. Will check what happened exactly,” he added. Also Read | Kerala: BJP workers celebrate in Thiruvananthapuram as NDA leads in 13 wardsThe counting of votes for local body polls in Kerala is underway at 244 counting centres across the state.With all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran has said the postal votes, including special ballot votes, will be counted first and EVM votes later.Also Read | Explained: Why this year’s Kerala civic body elections matterThe district collectors of several districts of Kerala have imposed section 144 of CrPC on the basis of reports from concerned district police chiefs. The clashes between party workers were reported in many places of these districts during the election.The CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led, United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were in the fray for local body polls in Kerala.The local body polls were held in three phases in Kerala. 78.64 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the third and the final phase of the local body polls. The second phase recorded 76.38 per cent voter turnout and in the first phase, it was 72.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-civic-body-election-congress-n-venugopal-lose-by-1-vote-to-bjp-s-mayor-candidate/story-ycFYpw26ngakTiB8LxfXaK.html
16-12-2020||India||Kerala: BJP workers celebrate in Thiruvananthapuram as NDA leads in 13 wards||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers celebrated in Thiruvananthapuram, where counting is underway for Kerala local body elections on Wednesday. BJP workers were seen with lotus flowers in their hands and raising slogans hailing the party. As per the early trends of the local body poll results, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is leading in 13 wards. In Kerala local body poll results, Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won seven wards, NDA three and United Democratic Front (UDF) one, in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.S Pushpalatha, LDF’s mayor candidate has lost to an NDA candidate by 145 votes.With all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.State Election Commissioner V Bhaskaran has said the postal votes, including special ballot votes, will be counted first and EVM votes later.The district collectors of several districts of Kerala have imposed section 144 of CrPC on the basis of reports from concerned district police chiefs. The clashes between party workers were reported in many places of these districts during the election.The CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress-led, United Democratic Front (UDF) and BJP led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) were in the fray for local body polls in Kerala.The local body polls were held in three phases in Kerala. 78.64 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the third and the final phase of the local body polls. The second phase recorded 76.38 per cent voter turnout and in the first phase, it was 72.67 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-bjp-workers-celebrate-in-thiruvananthapuram-as-nda-leads-in-13-wards/story-kdRWsXHQoo0p8VwXcBpY2I.html
16-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: SC notices to Centre, Delhi on pleas seeking reopening of borders||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice on petitions demanding reopening of Delhi’s borders blocked by farmers agitating against the three farm laws passed by Parliament.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde called the issue “important” And issued notice to Centre and Delhi government. The court allowed the petitioners to include the farmer organisations which are striking to also be included as parties in the petition while posting the matter for hearing tomorrow.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the court that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) is one of the organisations spearheading thr agitation. At the same time, he pointed out, “Other interests have also taken over this farmer protests.” Highlighting the steps the government was taking to negotiate with farmer groups, he said, there was no headway as farmers were not willing to sit across the table with the Union ministers. “The government is and was willing to engage in talks and discuss clause by clause but the organisations’ approach is, ‘will you repeal or not repeal’.”The bench said, “This will soon become a national issue. It doesn’t seem the government sitting with farmers will resolve the issue. We will form a committee to resolve the issue. It will have members from BKU, the Union Government and some farmer bodies from rest of India.”Mehta was open to this suggestion. While Delhi government represented by advocate Rahul Mehra submitted that the issue of farmers must be immediately resolved, the bench remarked, “Delhi has nothing to do with resolution of dispute. It’s between Centre and farmers.”The court also allowed the petitioners, Rishab Sharma, Reepak Kansal and GS Mani, to contact the solicitor general’s office and get the names of the farmer organisations blocking the road. The court noted, “We must have farmers before us to enable negotiation,” allowing the petitioners to join them as parties to their petitions. The court told Mehta, “These petitions appear to be ill-conceived. We don’t see any legal issue involved except right to free movement of citizens being affected under Article 19(1) (g). Only person which is at the spot is the Union which has blocked the farmers from entering the Capital.” The court asked him to prepare a framework of this committee and members to be included from the governmentThroughout the hearing, Mehta got messages from senior advocate Harish Salve who wished to address the court but was not allowed into the videoconferencing facility. His petition was not before the court. The court directed Salve’s petition to also be listed tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-notices-to-centre-delhi-on-pleas-seeking-reopening-of-borders/story-smqBccUpU272QuxojADkTN.html
16-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu allows public meetings with 50% capacity in open spaces||Tamil Nadu has announced further relaxations to Covid-19-related restrictions such as allowing outdoor meetings for political, religious, sports and cultural gatherings at 50% capacity from December 19.Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, in a statement on Wednesday, said that organisers will have to take prior permission from district authorities to conduct the events. Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls in early 2021 and political parties such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) have already begun campaigning. In some cases, permissions have been denied, and a few leaders have briefly courted arrests for violating pandemic norms. Wednesday’s announcement comes a day after the higher education department in Tamil Nadu instructed its colleges and universities to conduct testing on their campuses and hostels after IIT-Madras turned into a Covid-19 cluster. Tamil Nadu had earlier allowed reopening of classes for final-year undergraduate students from December 7.IIT-Madras has a total of 191 positive cases as of Wednesday. Greater Chennai Corporation conducted mass testing at the neighbouring Anna University campus on Tuesday. Six out of 550 tested turned positive. Meanwhile school education minister K A Sengottiyan had earlier said that schools are unlikely to reopen anytime soon.As of December 15, the coronavirus has infected 8,01,161 people in the state and claimed the lives of 11,919. Altogether, 7,79,291 people have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-public-meetings-with-50-capacity-in-open-spaces/story-SzFEsNdcgsnAE8STSC9rYO.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Do not withdraw challenge’: Manish Sisodia to UP minister’s debate dare||Do not withdraw the challenge now, said Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday, taking on Uttar Pradesh basic education minister Satish Dwivedi who dared the Delhi minister to pay them a visit and debate the education and school facilities in the two states. The UP minster threw the challenge soon after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday that his Aam Aadmi Party will contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh state polls. In his announcement, Kejriwal had highlighted conditions of healthcare facilities, schools, governance and law and order in Uttar Pradesh.“BJP leaders asked for a debate on school models. They challenged me for a visit and also an open debate. I accept both the challenges. Next Tuesday [December 22], I will be in Lucknow. Please let me know where to come for the debate and who to argue with – the chief minister, deputy CM or education minister of UP. Let’s have an open debate on government schools in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh… I have one request, please do not withdraw the challenge now,” said Sisodia, who also doubles up as Delhi education minister. Sisodia added, “Schools get better with quality education, freedom to teachers, etc. The Delhi government is the first and the only one to spend 25% of its budget on schools… Schools in Uttar Pradesh are in extremely bad shape… I urge Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath to improve the condition of schools in Uttar Pradesh. If he doesn’t do that, people will vote the AAP to power and we will change the condition of the education sector in the state.”The UP government is yet to respond to Sisodia’s acceptance offer. Last month, Manish Sisodia was invited as a guest speaker on an online panel discussion on the happiness curriculum of the Delhi government by the Harvard Graduate School of Education (HGSE) during its International Education Week. Professor Fernando Reimers, Ford Foundation professor of practice in international education at HGSE, praised Sisodia’s vision and said the happiness curriculum was path-breaking, and impressive in tackling the huge challenge of building capacity of teachers, and enforcing happiness classes in all Delhi government schools. The Delhi government introduced the ‘happiness curriculum’ in its schools from July 2018. Under the curriculum, nursery and kindergarten students twice a week and students from classes 1 to 8 spend time engaging in meditation, storytelling, and activity sessions. The curriculum includes storytelling and activities, followed by question-and-answer sessions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-withdraw-challenge-manish-sisodia-to-up-minister-s-debate-dare/story-cI8S0tIj3mMKPD3k3MZyKM.html
16-12-2020||India||SC notice to Centre on petitions seeking uniform grounds for divorce, alimony||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to Centre on separate petitions seeking uniform grounds of divorce and maintenance for citizens across the country.Two separate PILs filed by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay stated that women across all religions ought to be treated equally and if some religious practices deny them their fundamental rights, such practices should not be protected.The bench of CJI SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We issue notice with caution.”The bench said, “You are making us go into a direction which will encroach upon personal laws and demolish what the personal laws seek to achieve. “Senior advocate Pinky Anand argued the petition for uniform grounds for divorce while senior advocate Meenakshi Arora argued the other petition seeking uniform maintenance and alimony grounds. Both petitions were filed by Upadhyay.The petition on divorce said, “Grounds of divorce are neither gender neutral nor religion neutral. For example, adultery is a ground of divorce for Hindus, Christians and Parsis but not for Muslims. Incurable leprosy is a ground of divorce for Hindus and Christians but not for Parsis and Muslims. Impotency is a ground of divorce for Hindus-Muslims but not for Christian-Parsis. Underage marriage is a ground of divorce for Hindus but not for Christians, Parsis and Muslims.”The bench asked, “Can we remove these discriminatory grounds without entering personal laws?”The lawyers cited the Shayara Bano decision where the SC struck down triple talaq as unconstitutional.The lawyers further cited judgments of the top court recommending Parliament to consider Uniform Civil Code. The court said that triple talaq was not found to have sanctity of law under Muslim personal laws. However, the bench sought response of the Centre on both petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-on-petitions-seeking-uniform-grounds-for-divorce-alimony/story-g84zheik2cLfBclFfteTFL.html
16-12-2020||India||SC issues notice on pleas to open Delhi’s borders blocked by petitioners, allows farmer organisations to be added; hearing tomorrow||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice to Centre on a petition seeking the immediate removal of farmers protesting near the Delhi border areas. The petitioner, a law student, had pleaded that the protest has led to blockage of national capital’s borders and also cited the rising Covid-19 cases as the reason to see their removal.The Supreme Court, meanwhile, granted the permission to implead farmer organisations and posted the matter for further hearing on Thursday.The case is being heard by three-judge bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and, AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The top court told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that it intends to set up a committee comprising representatives of farmers unions across India, government and other stakeholders to resolve this issue, adding “because this will soon become a national issue and with government it won’t work out it seems”.During the course of the hearing, the counsel appearing for petitioner mentioned Shaheen Bagh case to remove farmers from Delhi borders, but the CJI said there cannot be a precedent in law and order matter.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The farmer leaders asserted on Tuesday that they will “make” the Centre repeal the three new agri laws in a hardening of their stand. The union leaders again made it clear the government should first repeal all the three laws and only then there can be further talks. Negotiations between the government and the farmers’ unions have remained stuck after five rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-pleas-to-open-delhi-s-borders-blocked-by-petitioners-allows-farmer-organisations-to-be-added-hearing-tomorrow/story-u90rGWEha9Gk6ddrOGGlYL.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Biden names Buttigieg to cabinet in a first for an openly gay person and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Biden names Buttigieg to cabinet in a first for an openly gay personUS President-elect Joe Biden has nominated Pete Buttigieg, the openly gay former mayor, as his transportation secretary. If confirmed, he will be the first LGBTQ person to hold a cabinet post in the country. Read moreAway from home, soldiers on LoC battle rogue enemy, bitter coldThe life of a soldier on duty along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) is not an easy one and it only gets tougher during the winters when the mercury plummets to sub-zero level. Read morePM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay DiwasPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 that made Bangladesh an independent country. The day is celebrated as ‘Vijay Diwas’. Read moreKerala local body polls: LDF leads in four corporations, UDF in twoThe counting of the Kerala local body polls is currently underway with the Left Democratic Front leading in the local body elections, according to initial trends. Read moreExclusive: Okinawa’s new B2B electric scooter to arrive before Oki100 e-bikeGurugram-based Okinawa Autotech is all geared-up to kickstart the year 2021 with the launch of a B2B electric scooter which is slated to arrive in the first quarter of next year, the company exclusively told HT Auto in a recent interaction. Read moreSalma Hayek shares orange juice recipe with ‘secret ingredient’ to add beauty to your morning | Watch tipsAdding all the missing zest to our cosy winter morning, Frida actor Salma Hayek gave fans a rare glimpse of her London home while spilling the beans on her beauty and fitness secret for youthful appearance. Read moreShakeela trailer: Richa Chadha give an honest account into the making of an adult star. WatchThe first trailer of Richa Chadha-starrer Shakeela is out. The over two-minute trailer gives an honest account of how a young girl from a modest Indian home is forced to become an adult star, but one who keeps her conscience clean, no matter who the adversary. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-biden-names-buttigieg-to-cabinet-in-a-first-for-an-openly-gay-person-and-all-the-latest-news/story-izQAX5esrJt1RsuAONvURK.html
16-12-2020||India||China’s spies, India and the 2013 paper by NSA Ajit Doval that saw it coming||Before he became National Security Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ajit Doval as Director of VIF think-tank wrote a seminal paper published on July 3, 2013 titled “Chinese Intelligence: From a Party Outfit to Cyber Warriors.”The paper highlights the Chinese intelligence agency Ministry of State Security’s (MSS) penetration into the Dalai Lama establishment in Dharamshala and supporting the anti-India North-East insurgent groups with the help of Pakistani Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) when required, and keeping a close watch on Indian Army activities on the border with Tibet.The paper concludes: “The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) over the years, has upgraded its intelligence capabilities at tactical, technological and strategic levels, particularly in Asia Pacific Region, South Asia and Central Asia. The MSS has evolved itself as the premier foreign intelligence agency and besides diplomatic intelligence, it has been aggressively hunting for technological data and systems information to augment national economic and military capabilities. It continues to bank heavily on Chinese global diaspora that provides it a vast catchment area for human assets for intelligence gathering and espionage. To widen its catchment area, it is expanding its illegal cover for intelligence gathering for using commercial companies and business houses, media agencies, Chinese banks etc. Establishment of nearly 380 Confucius Institutes in 180 countries, Chinese language institutes etc. also are part of its foreign intelligence activities. China envisions for itself a big power role and, silently but steadily, is building up its intelligence capabilities commensurate to that vision.”While it is quite evident from the monograph that both western world, Indo-Pacific and India knew about the penetration of Chinese intelligence, it was woken up from deep slumber after the PLA troopers in a planned action aggressively transgressed into the north banks of Pangong Tso followed by Galwan and Gogra-Hot Springs area of East Ladakh.This week, an investigative report by The Australian spotlighted how loyal members of Communist Party of China infiltrated western consulates and mega corporations masquerading as professionals. The 2016 leak of the Communist Party member data-base also reveals, as per The Australian, that newspaper editors and intellectuals act as influencers of the largest Communist Party in the world on social media and seminars.Even though The Australian investigative report does not talk about India, India’s lead intelligence agency did caution the Cabinet Secretary and senior secretaries to the threat posed by Chinese intelligence in the government, particularly in departments of telecommunication, power and higher education on July 15. The Indian agency’s presentation gave a broad overview about Chinese intelligence infiltration attempts into the government and the key pillars of democracy. The use of Chinese mobile applications for extracting data and the role of Confucius Institutes as an influencer along with embedding malware into power equipment was also highlighted. It was then decided that the government review the Confucius Institutes in the country and memorandums of understandings with countries sharing land borders with India should first get approvals from the ministry of external affairs and the ministry concerned. The action, five months later, is still work in progress.Ajit Doval, in his 2013 paper, wrote that in 2009, the University of Toronto’s Information Warfare Monitor Citizen published a “Ghost Net” report detailing intrusion by Chinese hackers into the network system of Indian Security Establishment and offices of Dalai Lama’s secretariat. The report was expectedly rejected by Beijing.Although the Indian counterintelligence closely tracks Chinese activities, the reduction of Pakistan to a client state of the Middle Kingdom would have serious security repercussions for the sub-continent as Islamabad could become an important source of intelligence collection against India and the sub-continent with linguistic and cultural similarities. The appointment of officials belonging Chinese United Front Work Department, which reports directly to the central committee of the Chinese Communist Party, as ambassadors to the Indian sub-continent presents a bigger security challenge. These ambassadors are ideologically committed workers of the Chinese Communist Party as opposed to Indian diplomats whose views on India and the world are not dictated by the political party in power.Given the humongous financial resources with these embassies, Indian security agencies are already fighting a downhill battle against Beijing’s influence.It is quite evident that the two iron brothers will exploit all Indian fault-lines, right from Kashmir, north-east insurgencies, Maoists to the economic disparity and religious fundamentalism, to destabilise India.It is to the credit of Chinese pelf and power, that even though 1.6 million people have succumbed to coronavirus, which originated in Wuhan in November 2019, the international community finds it very hard to blame Beijing or demand reparations for the year lost.With India standing up the PLA aggression in East Ladakh and demanding that the status quo ante of April 2020 be restored, the Narendra Modi government needs to be battle-prepared for a dominant China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-spies-india-and-the-paper-by-nsa-ajit-doval-that-saw-it-coming-in-2013/story-K3pij9TPEcL4CBW340C4ML.html
16-12-2020||India||Seven dead, 25 injured as bus collides with gas tanker in UP’s Sambhal||Seven people died, while 25 more sustained injuries on Wednesday morning when an Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus collided with a gas tanker here amid reduced visibility due to fog, police said.The crash took place in the Dhanari police station area, they added.“A UP Roadways bus of Aligarh depot collided head-on with a gas tanker on the Agra-Moradabad road on Wednesday in which seven persons were killed, while 25 others got injured. The number of deaths could go up,” Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra said.He added that the injured have been admitted to nearby hospitals.Police said the deceased are yet to be identified. Police and district administration officials are at the spot and rescue operations are on, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-dead-25-injured-as-bus-collides-with-gas-tanker-in-up-s-sambhal/story-U808M8vcvZENhkJ3zWHruK.html
16-12-2020||India||Explained: Why this year’s Kerala civic body elections matter||Counting of votes polled in the crucial local body elections is underway as the traditional political fronts -- Communist Party of India (Marxist) led Left Democratic Front (LDF), Congress headed United Democratic Front (UDF) and Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance, sat with their bated breath for the results. As per early trends, the LDF is leading in 403 of the 941 gram panchayats, followed by UDF with 341. In district panchayat as well, the LDF has clear lead of 11 seats while UDF trails with three. In municipality, the UDF and LDF are fighting a close battle. The UDF is leading 39 while LDF is just one seat behind (38). Also Read | Kerala local body polls: LDF leads in four corporations, UDF in twoWith all Covid-19 protocols in place, the counting of votes of Kerala local body elections started at 8 am on Wednesday. The final results are expected by 1 pm.Here is what these elections mean for the political parties in Kerala ahead of Assembly election- The local civic body elections are generally seen as pointer to the upcoming Assembly election. The results of the civic body polls will give a peak to the voters’ mood as the LDF looks for re-election.- With good cadre and grassroots reach, usually LDF enjoys edge in local body elections. However, this year, this looks difficult as the state chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan came under fire for the high-profile gold smuggling scandal. One of its ministers is also being questioned by central agencies. - Ground reports suggest some of the early advantages and track records of the ruling LDF are overshadowed by sensational cases including corruption cases, narcotics and the controversial Kerala Police Act.- BJP-led NDA, which was looking for all means to break the decades-old bipolar polity led by UDF and LDF, is hopeful of improving its seat tally compared to the 2015 civic polls.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-why-this-year-s-kerala-civic-body-polls-matter/story-WJG8R652qMr6kh3X2csXcK.html
16-12-2020||India||Away from home, soldiers on LoC battle rogue enemy, bitter cold||The life of a soldier on duty along the 744-km-long Line of Control (LoC) is not an easy one and it only gets tougher during the winters when the mercury plummets to sub-zero level. “South of Pir Panjal range, where the mercury drops to sub-zero level and a deceitful enemy is few hundred metres away, the border guarding duties become even more challenging,” said a senior Army officer. “The LoC gets covered under snow. There is a dense fog, icy winds and poor visibility. Right from Poonch, towards Valley, everything is snow bound and the Krishna Ghati (KG) sector towards Rajouri is in the grip of intense cold. Therefore, guarding the border becomes a daunting task,” he said. Also read | Greater integration between foreign and military policies key to cope with challenges: JaishankarThe officer said that during winters, ambushes also can’t be ruled out because Pakistan has been waging a proxy war against India. So in this season, soldiers fight two adversaries—Pakistan and an inclement weather, he said. To keep the cold at bay, the Army has provided warm clothes, gloves, monkey caps, snow shoes, bukharis, DG sets, first aid kits, and has deployed battle field nursing assistants to attend to health-related issues of the soldiers along the LoC. “The drill of washing their feet with warm water to escape frostbite is there. Seeing the weather condition, it can be done twice in a day,” he said. “The LoC fence is lighted up in the night so soldiers don’t feel the monotony of their job. Then, we also change duties frequently which is always performed in pairs. There is the concept of buddy pair,” said the officer. A junior commissioned officer and 10 other soldiers patrol the LoC and the critical stretches are led by an officer. To keep the troops motivated, they are given leaves to ensure they get to spend quality time with their families, said the officer. Satbir Singh, a solider who served in Poonch sector, said, “We are given everything we require…from kerosene oil to hot food and warm clothing. Health checkups are an indispensable part. Serving the motherland at the LoC gives us a sense of pride”. “My colleagues in Kashmir and Siachen face more inclement weather than us,” he said. The LoC in Jammu and Kashmir has mostly remained active even in winters. This correspondent, who toured it in October 2016, still remembers an officer telling scribes to move inside trenches as Pakistan army had hoisted red flags on their posts to indicate hostility and as a sort of warning that they can open fire on any unusual movement. That year, India had carried out surgical strikes on terror launch pads across the LoC in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) on the intervening night of September 27 and 28 from Nowshera and Bhimber Gali sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/away-from-home-soldiers-on-loc-battle-rogue-enemy-bitter-cold/story-84VmDVZqVGAzsTIIE4kg2J.html
16-12-2020||India||50th anniversary of 1971 India-Pakistan war: All you need to know||India on Wednesday is observing the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war with Pakistan, also known as the Bangladesh Liberation War. Fought under the leadership of then-prime minister Indira Gandhi and chief of army staff (COAS), General Sam Manekshaw, the war ended in less than two weeks with a decisive victory for India, and resulted in the creation of Bangladesh, which was then known as East Pakistan.Here’s all you need to know about the 1971 India-Pakistan war:1. The conflict took place in the backdrop of tensions between Pakistan (also known then as West Pakistan) and the Bengali majority East Pakistan, which was closer to India then it was to Pakistan.Also Read | PM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay Diwas2. On 25 March 1971, the Pakistan Army, led by Lieutenant General Tikka Khan, who later went on to become Pakistan’s first COAS, launched Operation Searchlight to quell the rebellion in East Pakistan. Massive human rights violations were reportedly perpetrated by the Pakistan Army during this operation. 3. The hostilities between India and Pakistan formally began on December 3, 1971, when the Pakistan Air Force (PAF), launched pre-emptive air strikes on 11 Indian airfields. Addressing the nation the same evening, PM Indira Gandhi called the air strikes “declaration of war against India.”Also Read | ‘Surrender or be wiped out’: Field Marshal Manekshaw’s warning to Pak army during 1971 war4. While the Indian Air Force (IAF) responded with initial retaliatory strikes the same night, PM Gandhi ordered a “full-scale” invasion of Pakistan. Thus officially commenced the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971.5. The war came to an end in less than two weeks on December 16, 1971, with the Eastern Command chief of the Indian Army, Lt Gen JS Aurora, making the Eastern Command chief of the Pakistan Army, Lt Gen AAK Niazi, sign the instrument of surrender.6. As a result of the surrender, around 93,000 Pakistani troops were taken as prisoners of war (PoW) by India. The 13-day duration of the war also makes it one of the shortest wars in history.7. East Pakistan became Bangladesh, with Awami League leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, becoming its first President in January 1972, as well as its second prime minister in 1974. Mujib, who was assassinated in 1975, is the father of current Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina.8. The war is also known for the Indian Navy’s daring assault, called Operation Trident, on Pakistan’s financial hub of Karachi, which was also the headquarters of the Pakistan Navy. To commemorate this operation, India observes December 4 as Navy Day.9. The 1971 war is also known for the battle of Longewala, in Rajasthan, in which outnumbered Indian troops fought off advancing Pakistani adversaries. The battle is the subject of the 1997 Bollywood film ‘Border,’ with actor Sunny Deol playing Major KS Chandpuri, who led Indian troops.10. Throughout the conflict, the Indian forces were assisted by the Mukti Bahini, a Bengali guerrilla resistance movement, which was fighting the Pakistani forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50th-anniversary-of-1971-india-pakistan-war-all-you-need-to-know/story-U1JwHfjrFvQaWr7Rp3dNHI.html
16-12-2020||India||Maharashtra forms 4 sub-committees to expedite critical wildlife habitat declaration||The Maharashtra government has formed four sub-committees of the State Board of Wildlife (SBWL) to examine proposals for the critical wildlife habitats (CWH) and expedite their declaration, according to a government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday.The state also published a GR on the formation of a panel (study group) to prepare a five-year conservation action plan for pangolins – the world’s most trafficked animal. HT had on Monday reported the state nod for it. The panel would be headed by Ramesh Kumar, conservator of forests (wildlife), Pune.Meanwhile, the four CWH sub-committees were set up across revenue sub-divisions such as Nagpur, Amravati, Konkan and Nashik, and Pune and Aurangabad. Each committee has at least two members with a coordinating forest officer. Responsibilities of the committees include verification of CWH proposals submitted by the expert committee for a particular sub-division on the basis of guidelines issued by the Centre, investigate interests of local people towards creating the CWH, check whether biodiversity will be conserved under the CWH tag, and submit reports to the SBWL within 15 days of receiving a proposal, the GR said. The matter was taken up by the state after SBWL member Kishor Rithe put it up for discussion during a meeting on August 7.At present, not just the state, the entire country does not have a single CWH despite guidelines being put in place by the Union environment ministry in January 2018. However, state chief wildlife warden said he had approved proposals for eight CWHs in Vidarbha and western Maharashtra, which will be put forth before the SBWL during its next meeting.The Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, includes the provision to notify CWHs, which are areas required to be kept “inviolate for the purposes of wildlife conservation” identified within protected areas (PAs) such as national parks and sanctuaries. Thus, declaration of CWH does not necessarily involve resettlement of forest-dwellers, it can also be an area of co-existence after modification of forest rights. FRA applies here as forest rights of scheduled tribes and traditional forest dwellers are taken into account while proposing a CWH while Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, implies the conservation of the PA.At present as per existing guidelines, the proposal to declare a CWH is assessed on a case by case basis under scientific, objective criteria and examine community forest rights with village panchayats by expert committees formed for each PA, which include government and non-government members, social scientists, ecologists, and representatives from the village panchayat and tribal welfare.Maharashtra intends on declaring CWHs across all 55 PAs (49 wildlife sanctuaries and six national parks). “The idea is to declare a CWH in every PA of the state and ensure the process is completed swiftly to push for the protection of not only tigers, leopards, and elephants but threatened species like the Great Indian Bustard, Mouse Deer, Giant Malabar Squirrel, and Oriental Small Clawed Otter from going extinct,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. Kakodkar said the expert committees have identified a particular area within the PA as a CWH. Their proposals will be studied by the sub-committee, and then recommended to SBWL. Once the SBWL approves, the proposal will be sent to the National Board for Wildlife for its recommendation. Once that happens, the Centre will publish a notification calling for suggestions and objections for a stipulated time period following which the CWH will be declared. “I have approved eight proposals, mostly from Melghat Wildlife Sanctuary, few more areas in Vidarbha and few from along the Western Ghats. The Nagpur and Amravati sub-committees will soon commence deliberating on them,” he said.Rithe said it would have been more effective to set up only one larger overarching committee accommodating all members rather than division sub committees. “All the committees need to have common understanding while dealing with the complex PA issues. However, I have requested PCCF to address this problem,” he said.The issue of CWHs was first raised by environment group Vanashakti through its 2014 petition before the Bombay high court that sought directions to demarcate CWH to protect species from going extinct from PAs due to direct human intervention, agricultural expansion, poaching etc. An example highlighted was of Sanjay Gandhi National Park where the striped hyena and civet cat had gone extinct. “After years of struggle, wildlife finally gets a small space to survive,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti, adding that to conserve species, it was imperative that some areas are kept free from human intervention. “Maharashtra will be the first state to demarcate CWHs, and hopefully, we will be able to stem the rapid decline and loss of biodiversity,” he said.Report flagged procedural lapses in CWH identificationAs Maharashtra steps up its efforts to declare CWHs across all PAs, a report released by the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment and non-profit Kalpavriksh in August highlighted several violations by the state while proposing a CWH. According to the report, the process of forest rights recognition was far from complete across 39 PAs with over 1,000 villages whose rights could overlap with the PA boundaries. Among these, only 150-odd villages had received community forest resource rights. The second finding included the claim by the forest department that 25 PAs did not have any human habitation, which the report stated was incorrect. Third, the PA expert committees were functioning without outlining specific criteria and were interpreting the CWH as simply free of humans and not demonstrating actual threat to the existence of wildlife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-forms-4-sub-committees-to-expedite-critical-wildlife-habitat-declaration/story-65o7Z73MyWvfh1EB9FbJaP.html
16-12-2020||India||Trust between Indian Army and China’s PLA evaporated after Galwan clash, says top military commander||A top military commander has said that trust between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has evaporated after the clash in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley in June. Lieutenant General Anil Chauhan, GoC, Eastern Command, said it will take time to rebuild the trust.“I’d like to say there’ve been no major intrusions or face-offs in Eastern Command area since friction in Ladakh. Post-Galwan incident, mutual trust on LAC between us & Chinese PLA evaporated & will take time to stabilise,” Lt Gen Chauhan said said at an event organised on the occasion of Vijay Diwas at Fort William, Eastern Army Command Headquarters in Kolkata.In national capital Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other army official paid tributes at the National War Memorial on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the creation of Bangladesh.PM Modi lit the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ at the NWM as part of the tribute to the fallen soldiers while defence minister Rajnath Singh unveiled the logo for ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’.Four ‘Victory Mashaals’ (flames) lit from the Eternal Flame of National War Memorial will be carried to various parts of the country including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra awardees of 1971 war.In an official release on Tuesday, the Ministry said, “In December 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a decisive and historic Victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of a Nation - Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest Military Surrender after the World War - II. From 16 December, the Nation will be celebrating 50 Years of India-Pak War, also called ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Various commemorative events are planned across the Nation.”Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war ‘Veterans and Veer Naris’ will be felicitated and events like band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclave and adventure activities are planned.Vijay Diwas is celebrated every year on December 16 to mark India’s triumph in liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-between-indian-army-and-china-s-pla-evaporated-after-galwan-clash-says-top-military-commander/story-S0Jqa4r3tBGgB8BC0jTFaO.html
16-12-2020||India||Voting underway for seventh phase of DDC elections in Jammu and Kashmir||Polling is underway for the seventh phase of District Development Council (DDC) elections, for 31 constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. Braving the cold weather conditions, voters arrived at a polling station in Airwan, Nagri Block of Kathua this morning. Necessary Covid-19 protocols were been followed at the booth including temperature check and social distancing.Voting for 438 Panch and 69 Sarpanch seats will be conducted today simultaneously. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, State Election Commissioner (SEC) KK Sharma said that a total of 31 DDC constituencies will go to polls including 13 seats from the Kashmir division and 18 from the Jammu division.He said that against the 13 DDC constituencies of the Kashmir division which will go to polls on Wednesday, there are 148 candidates in the fray including 34 females. In the Jammu division, there are 150 candidates in the fray for the 18 DDC constituencies in this phase, including 38 females.A total number of 6,87,115 electors (3,59,187 male and 3,27,928 female voters) are going to elect their representatives in all 31 DDC constituencies, he said and added that a total of 1,852 polling stations have been designated with 1,068 in Kashmir division and 784 in Jammu division.The SEC further informed that of 117 sarpanch vacancies notified in the 7th phase of Panchayat by-elections. There shall be a contest in 69 constituencies, and 231 candidates including 79 females, are in the fray, he added.Parties including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Conference and CPI(M), formed the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and are fighting the maiden DDC elections together. National parties BJP and Congress are also in the fray.Elections for the DDCs, which are being held in eight phases, will conclude on December 19 and the counting of votes be held on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-underway-for-seventh-phase-of-ddc-elections-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-GxqIEKXV9Oh1CEkwHUHU8K.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Surrender or be wiped out’: Field Marshal Manekshaw’s warning to Pak army during 1971 war||The Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army on Wednesday posted a picture of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw strategising with fellow army officers amid the 1971 war on photo and video sharing app Instagram commemorating the 50th anniversary of India’s victory of Pakistan.A post shared by Indian Army (@indianarmy.adgpi)The photo was shared with the caption, “’You surrender or We wipe you out’ was the message given by Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw to Pakistan on 13th December 1971.”“The Field Marshal lived his words as the world will see unprecedented surrender of more than 93000 Pakistani soldiers.”India is celebrating the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ on the occasion of India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 war, that made Bangladesh an independent country.PM Modi along with several officials from the defence ministry paid tributes at the National War Memorial in New Delhi and kickstarted the 50th anniversary celebrations of the event.The 1971 war was fought between the Pakistan Army and the allied forces of Bangladesh’s Muktibahini and the Indian Army led by Field General Sam Manekshaw. The Pakistan government chose not to recognise the Awami League’s win in the 1970 elections following which Awami League leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman called for a nationwide strike. Pakistan, fearing that East Pakistan will continue to demand more autonomy arrested Rehman and imprisoned him in Lahore on charges of sedition.After arresting Rahman, Pakistan prime minister Yahya Khan sent General Tikka Khan to Dhaka to stem the insurrection. In March 1971, General Tikka Khan launched a crackdown on Bangladesh’s political leaders, students and minorities. Tikka Khan’s actions, according to several observers, were nothing short of a war crime.Pakistan prime minister dragged India into the war when on December 3, Pakistan Air Force attacked India’s air bases in Amritsar, Ambala, Agra, Awantipur, Bikaner, Halwara, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Pathankot, Bhuj, Srinagar and Uttarlai. Indian Air Force quickly repulsed the attacks and simultaneously moved into East Pakistan.By December 14 it was clear that Pakistan’s forces were depleted and Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw asked Niazi, commander of Pakistani forces, to unconditionally surrender in front of the Indian Army. Ninety three thousand Pakistani troops surrendered to the Indian Army on this day in 1971 making it the biggest surrender since World War II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-or-be-wiped-out-field-marshal-manekshaw-s-warning-to-pak-army-during-1971-war/story-ynQr8Ggo1W6YqE2FQQbaAI.html
16-12-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute at National War Memorial on Vijay Diwas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tribute at the National War Memorial in New Delhi on the 50th anniversary of the 1971 that made Bangladesh an independent country. The day is celebrated as ‘Vijay Diwas’.‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ - a symbol of victory - was also lit by the Prime Minister. There are four such mashaals or torches which will be carried to various parts of the country, including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and MahaVir Chakra Awardees of 1971 War.The entire year is being celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to commemorate the golden jubilee of the 1971 India-Pakistan war. Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war Veterans and Veer Naris will be felicitated.Meanwhile, defence minister Rajnath Singh and home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday extended their wishes to countrymen on the occasion of the Vijay Diwas. The ministers saluted the bravery and courage of the Indian Army.“Today, on the occasion of Vijay Diwas, I salute the valour and bravery of the Indian Army. I remember the bravery of our soldiers who wrote a new saga of bravery in the 1971 war. Their sacrifice is a source of inspiration for all Indians. Nation will always revere them,” Singh said on Twitter. आज विजय दिवस के अवसर मैं भारतीय सेना के शौर्य एवं पराक्रम की परम्परा को नमन करता हूँ। मैं स्मरण करता हूँ उन जाँबाज़ सैनिकों की बहादुरी को जिन्होंने १९७१ के युद्ध में एक नई शौर्यगाथा लिखी। उनका त्याग और बलिदान सभी भारतीयों के लिए प्रेरणा का स्रोत है। यह देश उन्हें हमेशा याद रखेगा।The home minister said that the Indian Army made a historic change on the world map on this day.“On this day in 1971, the Indian Army, with its indomitable courage and valour, made a historic change on the world map, protecting the universal values of human freedom. This mark with golden letters in history will continue to make every Indian proud. Happy Vijay Diwas,” Shah tweeted.The Indian Armed Forces had in December 1971 secured a historic victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest military Surrender after the World War–II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-at-national-war-memorial-on-vijay-diwas/story-GK9p2P3I4pe5wt6gppHyHP.html
16-12-2020||India||India records 26,382 new Covid-19 cases; death toll crosses 144,000||India recorded 26,382 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Wednesday. With this, the nationwide tally reached 99,32,547.The number of active cases, which have been steadily falling, stood at 3,32,002, the health ministry update at 8 am showed. And 94,56,449 patients have been cured or discharged from the hospitals.The country also recorded 387 fresh fatalities due to Covid-19, which took the nationwide death toll to 1,44,096.India’s daily case trajectory is at its lowest level in five months. On Monday, India recorded 22,022 new Covid-19 cases. This is the lowest number of new infections reported across the country since July 2, when the country saw 21,853 daily cases.The numbers are also receding in every major hotspot region in the country, according to analysis of data done by Hindustan Times. In India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, the seven-day average of daily cases has dropped nearly 82 per cent from the peak of 22,149 seen on September 17.Senior government officials said on Tuesday that India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak. But at the same time, they warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained.Senior government officials said on Tuesday that India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak. But at the same time, they warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained..“Active cases have declined from over 10 lakh in mid-September to fewer than four lakh at present... India’s cumulative fatality rate has also come down to 6.37%, and if you take into account the last week, it is 3%,” said said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.According to Bhushan, preparations are underway to prepare local officials to receive and administer vaccines, a process that is likely to cover close to 300 million people by the middle of next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-26-382-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-crosses-144-000/story-2Eqdf8i1FdpkD6hZTni36M.html
16-12-2020||India||Trinamool leader refuses to meet minister, seeks meeting with Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool’s Jitendra Tiwari, MLA from Asansol and former mayor of the city, has accused the state government of not allowing the Asansol Municipal Corporation to get Central funds due to politics and avoided meeting urban development minister Firhad Hakim in Kolkata on Tuesday evening. He told the leadership that he will talk only with chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and nobody else. Since Banerjee is touring north Bengal, the party informed Tiwari that the CM may meet him on December 18, a TMC leader aware of the development said. This happened on a day when former cabinet minister and party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari stoked speculations that he may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state later this week. Speculations started in Asansol too where two TMC councilors, who are known to be close to Tiwari, wrote social media posts praising Adhikari. In a letter to Hakim on Sunday, Tiwari said that the state government did not let the Asansol Municipal Corporation receive funds to the tune of Rs 2000 crore from the Centre under the smart city project because of political reasons. Though marked confidential, the letter got leaked. Tiwari alleged that he wrote to Hakim on the same issue at least five times in the past but Sunday’s letter was leaked by someone on purpose. “I will discuss these issues only with the chief minister,” he said. The Asansol MLA also informed the higher education department that he wants to resign from the governing body of two local colleges. These have caused a major embarrassment for the TMC because the BJP won two adjacent Lok Sabha seats in West Burdwan district in 2019. The developments have triggered speculations that Tiwari, who is the TMC’s district unit president, may leave the party in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls due in about five months. “…I am very aggrieved to state that our city was chosen by the Ministry of urban development, Government of India, under Smart City Mission project which if would have been allowed by you, our city could have received funds amounting Rs 2000 crore which would be very crucial for development of the city,” Tiwari wrote in a letter to Hakim on Sunday. “… due to political reasons we were not allowed to get benefits from it by the state government,” Tiwari wrote. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo is the MP from Asansol while the adjacent Bardhaman-Durgapur seat is represented by another Union minister of state, SS Ahluwalia. The region has a sizeable non-Bengali speaking as well as a Muslim population. Asansol is the second biggest city in south Bengal. It is located in the state’s biggest industrial and coal mining belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-leader-refuses-to-meet-minister-seeks-meeting-with-mamata-banerjee/story-6Lu8DRBxo8E8JcgrfWcwvK.html
16-12-2020||India||Will farmers continue their protest at Delhi border or shift to other place? Crucial Supreme Court hearing today||The Supreme Court will on Wednesday hear a petition seeking removal of the farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws from Delhi borders.The farmers have been protesting at Singhu and other border points of Delhi since November 26 seeking the repeal of the three laws passed in September.The petition has been filed by law student Rishabh Sharma and will be heard by a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian. Sharma has said in his petition that commuters are facing hardships due to the road blockades and the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Tuesday that the farmers are being misled about the reforms introduced by his government in the agriculture sector. He also lashed out at the opposition parties and farmer organisations.Modi expressed surprise at the protests triggered by the reforms his government introduced in September. Some opposition parties and farmers’ unions had all along demanded such measures, which couldn’t be implemented in the past, he said at Dhordo in Kutch, Gujarat.“The farmers are being misled about the agricultural reforms. They are being fooled into believing that others will occupy their lands,” PM Modi said in Hindi. “These reforms are exactly the same that farmers’ organisations and even the opposition have been asking over the years,” he said.The farmers are protesting against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Meanwhile, farmer leaders on Tuesday asserted that they will “make” the Centre repeal the three new agri laws in a hardening of their stand. The union leaders again made it clear the government should first repeal all the three laws and only then there can be further talks. Negotiations between the government and the farmers’ unions have remained stuck after five rounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-farmers-continue-their-protest-at-delhi-borders-or-shift-to-other-place-crucial-supreme-court-hearing-today/story-snUsZ0z0LAxK4KdyAq60AP.html
16-12-2020||India||ABVP finds new president in Chhaganbhai Patel; Nidhi Tripathi re-elected general secretary||Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has elected Chhaganbhai Patel as its president and Nidhi Tripathi has been re-elected as its general secretary.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the ABVP said the two were elected for the year 2020-21. Both of them will assume charge at the 66th ABVP conference to be held in Nagpur on December 25-26, it added.According to the statement, Patel hails from Mehsana district of Gujarat and holds a PhD in pharmacy. Presently, he is working as the principal of Sarvajanik Pharmacy College in Mehsana. As per the statement, he has published over 170 national level research papers and guided more than 23 scholars in research.Tripathi hails from Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. She did her BA from Allahabad University and MA and MPhil from Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi from where she is pursuing her PhD as well, the statement said.As a researcher in Sanskrit literature,Tripathi has presented papers in various national and international conferences, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abvp-finds-new-president-in-chhaganbhai-patel-nidhi-tripathi-re-elected-general-secretary/story-gpCx7jUVSKKuW9uzg0p4eJ.html
16-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in south India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heavy rainfall likely in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry; spell to last till Dec 22: IMDThe southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala will experience heavy rainfall for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weather forecast. Read moreDelhi minimum temperature rises slightly, cold day conditions likely to persistDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 5.9 degrees Celsius (until 6.30am ) today, around 2 degrees higher than Tuesday’s minimum of 4.1 degrees C. Read moreAjinkya Rahane’s great captaincy testCricket rarely remembers the vice-captain. Think Virender Sehwag, Gautam Gambhir or Rohit Sharma, exemplary batsmen who also happened to be the deputy at different times. Now think Ajinkya Rahane, India’s current vice-captain. Read moreEnraged Tom Cruise threatens to fire Mission Impossible 7 crew in leaked audio tirade, listen hereAn audio clip of actor Tom Cruise yelling at crew members on set of Mission Impossible 7 has been leaked. Cruise lost his cool after noticing a lapse in social distancing on set, and threatened to fire those allegedly flouting rules. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor in Rs 4k baggy T-shirt at the beach makes a strong case for comfy clothingActor Janhvi Kapoor has a certain elan about her. Within a small period of time, the Dhadak actor has made a name for not just her acting skills, but also her dressing sense. Read moreCustomer leaves $5,000 tip for waitress, restaurant shares ‘thank you’ postWith the festive season upon us, many are feeling jolly and generous. This notion stands particularly true for a customer of an Italian restaurant Anthony’s At Paxon in Pennsylvania, US. Read moreCovid vaccine side-effects can’t be ruled out: Indian govt, after UK advisoryThe Union government commented on the possibility of side-effects from Covid-19 vaccine. The government said that ‘adverse’ reactions can’t be ruled out when vaccination starts. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-south-india-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2cYOrI9tgji0oKg8pNBRFM.html
16-12-2020||India||Migrant labourer shot dead in Bihar’s Jamui village||A 23-year-old migrant labourer was shot dead at his village in Jamui district of Bihar on Tuesday for allegedly not paying extortion money.The incident took place when Pravin Mahto and his cousin were returning from the market. As soon as they reached the outskirts of Bichhwe village falling under Sikandra police station, some assailants shot at Mahato from point blank range. He was rushed to the hospital where he was pronounced brought dead.The main accused has been identified as Ranit Yadav, who, Mahto’s father Dasrath alleged, had demanded Rs 1lakh as extortion money from Mahato in October. Yadav had even threatened Mahto of dire consequences if the latter failed to pay. Also read | Delhi man shot dead in Raghubir Nagar, one heldFollowing the killing, irate villagers blocked Jamui-Sikandra road and disrupted vehicular traffic for over four hours. The protesters accused police of inaction since Yadav’s wife is a Bihar Police constable.However, Sikandra SHO Dhruv Kumar said a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Yadav and others and raids are on to nab them.In Gopalganj, garment trader Vijay Manjhi was shot at in a market under the Vishwambhar police station area for allegedly not paying Rs20 lakh extortion.Manjhi was outside his shop when motorcycle-borne miscreants shot at him, following which he was rushed to the hospital. Manjhi is recuperating in hospital where he is said to be out of danger. An FIR was registered under the IPC and the Arms Act against four unidentified men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-labourer-shot-dead-in-bihar-s-jamui-village/story-ao7H6yqyMZG2yCp9EH3yIP.html
16-12-2020||India||Swarnim Vijay Varsh: PM Modi to kickstart 50th anniversary celebrations of India’s victory over Pak in 1971 war||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will light up ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ at the National War Memorial (NWM) in Delhi on Wednesday and kickstart the 50th-anniversary celebrations of the 1971 India-Pakistan war, the Ministry of Defence said. In an official release on Tuesday, the Ministry said, “In December 1971, the Indian Armed Forces secured a decisive and historic Victory over Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of a Nation - Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest Military Surrender after the World War - II. From 16 December, the Nation will be celebrating 50 Years of India-Pak War, also called ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Various commemorative events are planned across the Nation.”Prime Minister Modi will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at the venue.The Prime Minister, Chief of Defence Staff and Tri-Service Chiefs will lay wreath and pay homage to the fallen soldiers.The Prime Minister will light up the ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ from the eternal flame of NWM on the occasion.“Four Victory Mashaals (flames) will be lit from the Eternal Flame of NWM. These Mashaals will be carried to various parts of the country including to villages of Param Vir Chakra and MahaVir Chakra Awardees of 1971 War. Soil from the villages of these Awardees and from areas where major battles were fought in 1971 are being brought to the NWM,” read the release.Various commemorative events will be conducted pan-India wherein war ‘Veterans and Veer Naris’ will be felicitated and events like band displays, seminars, exhibitions, equipment displays, film festivals, conclave and adventure activities are planned.Minister of Defence for state Shripad Yesso Naik and other senior civil and military officials of the Ministry of Defence will also be present on the occasion.Vijay Diwas is celebrated every year on December 16 to mark India’s triumph in liberating Bangladesh from Pakistan in 1971.In one of the fastest and shortest campaigns of military history, a new nation was born as a result of the swift campaign undertaken by the Indian Army.After facing defeat in the 1971 war, the then Army Chief of Pakistan General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi, along with his 93,000 troops, surrendered to allied forces which also comprised of Indian Army personnel. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarnim-vijay-varsh-pm-modi-to-kickstart-50th-anniversary-celebrations-of-india-s-victory-over-pak-in-1971-war/story-M2HKELfk90gMjbS9rCrAwL.html
16-12-2020||India||Delhi minimum temperature rises slightly, cold day conditions likely to persist||Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius (until 9am ) today, around 2 degrees higher than Tuesday’s minimum of 4.1 degrees C.Cold day conditions are likely to persist in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Cold wave conditions are also very likely in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days, India Meteorological Department has said in its bulletin.Severe cold wave conditions are likely to develop over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh on Friday and Saturday.Also read | Heavy rainfall expected in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry from todayDense fog is likely in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, north Rajasthan, Bihar and Haryana today.The all-time lowest minimum temperature recorded in Delhi is 0 degree C on December 27, 1930. Last year, the city had recorded a minimum of 2.4 degrees C on December 28.On Tuesday, the maximum temperature recorded was 18.5 degrees C at Safdarjung, 5 degrees C below normal and 16.7 degrees C at Palam, 7 degrees C below normal.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is based on two parameters—a minimum temperature under 10 degrees C, maximum temperature 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degrees C below normal respectively.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.“There have been intense western disturbances which have brought widespread snowfall to the Western Himalayas. Now icy winds are blowing over Delhi from that region. Climatologically also minimum temperatures fall sharply after December 15 but this year the drop has been abrupt,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre said on Tuesday.Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 268 in “poor” category today morning. According to the air quality early warning system under ministry of earth sciences, Delhi’s AQI is likely to improve due to relatively stronger winds today.Under the influence of an easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain/thundershowers very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area from today to Sunday. Heavy rains are likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal today and tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-minimum-temperature-rises-slightly-cold-day-conditions-likely-to-persist/story-ycJuRRx9wBqpckSO4jk1nI.html
16-12-2020||India||Heavy rainfall likely in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry; spell to last till Dec 22: IMD||The southern states of Tamil Nadu and Kerala will experience heavy rainfall for the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its weather forecast.According to IMD, heavy rainfall is very likely at isolated places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. These places will also witness thunderstorm accompanied with lightning.The situation will continue till December 22, the IMD said. Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar islands, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam can also experience rain during this period, it further said.The weather is likely to be dry in remaining parts of the country, the weather department said in its forecast.North India, meanwhile, is under the grip of a cold wave and dense fog has engulfed many states. National capital Delhi recorded its lowest minimum temperature of the season - 4.1 degrees Celsium - on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Delhi’s minimum temperature stood at 5.9 degree Celsius (at 6.30 am).The IMD has said that ‘cold day’ conditions are likely to persist in pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh for next two days. Some of these areas may experience ‘severe cold wave’ on Friday and Saturday.In Himachal Pradesh, Keylong and Kalpa recorded sub-zero temperatures despite dry weather in the state.In the Kashmir Valley, night temperatures dipped below the freezing point owing to a clear sky, with the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg shivering at minus 10.2 degrees Celsius.All weather stations in the Valley recorded sub-zero night temperatures several degrees below the normal for this part of the season, IMD officials said.Churu was the coldest place in Rajasthan with a minimum of 5.2 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 5.3 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-in-tamil-nadu-kerala-and-puducherry-from-today-imd/story-mytFnPY00FjbKxwCO4hWmM.html
16-12-2020||India||Nitish Kumar government approves free coronavirus vaccine for all in Bihar||In line with its poll promise, the Nitish Kumar government on Tuesday approved a proposal for providing free anti-coronavirus vaccine to all the people of the state. The decision was taken at the first meeting of the cabinet. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced that Bihar would be given free vaccines against Covid-19 during the state polls.Sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar directed the health department to work out the modalities of inoculating every resident of the state against coronavirus. “The modalities will be worked out in the coming days. A decision in principle has been taken for free vaccination in the state. In the first round, the health workers may be given the doses followed by people above 60 and then 50. There will be consultation and a detailed report on the vaccination drive would be prepared soon,” said a senior government officer aware of the developments. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad said: “We have decided to carry free innoculation of vaccines against Covid-19 to every resident of the state as it was a foremost promise of the BJP and also the NDA. Our decision is a big gift to people of the state after formation of the government. We feel Bihar’s biggest strength is its human resource and we want them to be protected against the deadly disease as the world is battling with the pandemic.” The deputy CM said the Covid vaccines would be given once it is approved and available in the market. Former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi said, “The decision of the state cabinet to provide free vaccines against Covid-19 to the entire population of Bihar is a welcome decision. I feel other states should emulate it. The BJP in its manifesto had promised to provide free vaccines knowing well how in Bihar only a small section of the populace could afford it at market prices. Once the vaccines come, the frontline workers, police personnel and those above 50 would be given the doses in a phase wise manner,” he said. The cabinet also decided to generate 20 lakh jobs in government and non-government sector in the next five years and also to link Hindi language with technical education apart from constructing Ashray stalls in every city for the senior citizens.The state cabinet approved the implementation of all programmes under Atma Nirbhar Bihar and Saath Nischai (Seven resolves) -2 for the next five years (2020-2025) apart from approving 14 other agendas, according to a press release issued by the government. Other major decisions taken were enhancement of incentive to unmarried girls having passed intermediate from Rs 10000 to Rs 25000 while for married/unmarried girls having done graduation, the incentive has been raised to Rs 50000 from Rs 25000 for higher education. Youths keen on starting business will be given Rs 5 lakh loans at one percent interest plus 50% subsidy on the project cost up to maximum of Rs 5 lakh would be provided. There will be a centre of excellence opened in all ITI ( Industrial Training Institute) and Polytechnics for higher training of students so that they adapt to needs of employment in the technical sector. The Seven resolves part 11 would be focusing on further improving the infrastructure and facilities in health, education, agriculture and other sectors as well, a statement from the cabinet department said. Incidentally, the decision of generating 20 lakh jobs in the government and non-government sector is another ambitious programme. Officials said the chief secretary would be calling a meeting of all departmental heads on Wednesday to discuss the modalities of generating jobs for youths to address the unemployment issue, which was a major poll agenda during the recent election. The opposition RJD had rallied on its poll agenda by promising 10 lakh government jobs, if voted to power. “There will be creation of posts in the government and also encouragement to the private sector to generate more jobs in the state. The matter would be discussed and a report would be prepared soon,” said another officer. Among the other highlights of the cabinet decisions were opening of mega skill centres in every district, tool room in every division, sport university at Rajgir, free medical treatment for children having a hole in the heart under “Child Heart Scheme” and formation of new department for skill development and entrepreneurship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-government-approves-free-coronavirus-vaccine-for-all-in-bihar/story-SBnulemMnZihANPmKOswIM.html
16-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Monday, India recorded 22,022 new cases of the coronavirus disease. Case numbers typically take a hit on Mondays owing to low testing over the weekend, but the last Monday on which the country recorded fewer than 22,022 cases was back on June 29 (18,318 cases).India saw 352 deaths from Covid-19 on Monday. The last Monday on which it saw fewer deaths was back on June 22 (311 deaths).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage India’s Covid-19 numbers have clearly taken a turn for the better — as the charts accompanying this piece show.Why is this happening?Let’s start with why it is not happening. Inadequate testing — this columnist’s favourite bugbear, as many have pointed out — is not the reason. On Monday, India conducted 993,665 tests. On the Sunday before (December 13), it did 855,157. On Monday, June 29, it conducted 210,292 tests; and on the Sunday before (June 28), it did 170,560. Nor is it that some states and Union territories are depending overly on the wrong kind of tests. Both Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, to name just two, have increased the number of Reverse Tanscription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests they conduct. These molecular tests are considered the gold standard in testing and are far more accurate than rapid antigen tests (which still account for a majority of the tests conducted by Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, although their proportion of the whole has decreased). Bihar still continues to depend on rapid antigen tests, though.So, what could explain the sharp fall in case and death numbers? The current seven-day average of cases is 28,827, 72.6% of what it was on December 1, 63.2% of what it was on November 1, and 37.8% of what it was on September 1. India has 333,392 active cases currently, 59.1% of the number of active cases on November 1, and 35.3% the number on October 1.One possible explanation is that there is better adherence to safety protocols such as the wearing of masks and social distancing. If everyone wore masks in every situation where it made sense for them to (and not just in every situation where they were required to), the number of infections is bound to fall sharply — and India could well be seeing some of that.Another is that with around 143 million people possibly exposed to and infected by the virus — this number is arrived at by assuming a 0.1% infection fatality rate and working backwards from the around 143,000 deaths India has seen to date — immunity levels in the population are high enough to ensure a fall in the number of infections. This number, 143 million, translates into an 11% exposure at the aggregate level — a proportion which is likely to be much higher in urban areas and much lower in remote rural areas. And given that there is a strong possibility of some under-reporting of deaths, the actual levels may be higher. For instance, 200,000 deaths would translate into 200 million infections, and an exposure level of almost 15%.Also Read| India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: OfficialsA third, and this is a more speculative explanation than the other two, is that the virus has infected most of the people susceptible to infection — we know that not everyone exposed to the virus is infected; and that not everyone infected becomes a transmitter — and that as it jumps from person to person, it is increasingly coming in touch with people who do not get infected. This would mean some pre-existing protection — perhaps from previous coronavirus infections or exposure to other viruses; or perhaps from something such as the BCG vaccine, something most Indians are administered in childhood, and which, research has shown, does offer some protection against Covid-19, or at least lessens the severity of the infection.All three explanations are mere theories at this point — there could be more such — but we’re having to think along these lines simply because India’s trajectory of infections is otherwise almost inexplicable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-abLwNtBKD7bES2CoCSs97L.html
16-12-2020||India||No winter session due to Covid-19; Opposition objects||The Union government on Wednesday confirmed that there will be no Winter Session of Parliament this year, and cited concerns raised by several parties over the Covid-19 pandemic as having prompted the decision.A number of Opposition parties, however, opposed the move, contradicted its contention that they were consulted, and stuck to their demand that a session be held, particularly in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ agitation near the Capital over the last three weeks.The Congress, the Left parties, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena said no consultations were held with them over calling off the session altogether, but the Trinamool Congress, the second-largest opposition party in Parliament after the Congress, said it had told Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi that they did not want a shortened winter session.Also Read: Why the winter session matters | HT EditorialThe government interlocutors indicated that it plans to hold a normal Budget Session starting in January 2021, and the Union Budget will be presented as per schedule on February 1.HT was the first to report on November 16 that the rising cases of Covid-19 infections in Delhi had cast a shadow on the Winter Session, and the government was considering clubbing it with the Budget Session. To be sure, the number of cases in the Capital has reduced substantially since November 16 (seven-day average of daily infections was 6,521 then against 2,129 as of December 15). Some of the important issues the Opposition was expected to raise in Parliament include the ongoing farmers’ protests, the state of the economy, the border stand-off with China and the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the key bills due for discussion and passage are Personal Data Protection Bill, Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill and National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill.Parliament normally holds three sessions in a calendar year – Budget (end of January to early April), Monsoon (July to August) and Winter (November to December). This year, the Budget Session was cut short by eight days, and an already shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic.In 2008, the UPA government skipped a formal Winter Session but extended the Monsoon Session for a few days in December.Also Read| Only Congress has an issue with no Winter Session: Pralhad JoshiThe government managers pointed out that despite taking elaborate safety measures, several MPs and Parliament officials tested positive during the Monsoon Session (held from September 14 to September 23). Three MPs — Anil Gasti, Balli Durga Prasad Rao and H Vasanthakumar — and Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi died after being infected by the virus.On Sunday, Joshi wrote to the Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury informing him that he had “informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with the Winter Session”. At 10:49am on 15.12.2020, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad told me: He [Joshi] has not talked to me. 4 mins later @ghulamnazad told me: They [Modi Sarkar] have not consulted us. So stop playing these silly games Mr. Joshi. @JoshiPralhad https://t.co/3LVUMRYbcm“The government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session, 2021 in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” Joshi wrote in the letter seen by HT.Chowdhury sent a letter to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla on December 3 demanding a Winter Session be held at the earliest. Replying to Chowdhury’s letter, Joshi wrote that “winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi”. He also said that a Covid-19 vaccine was expected soon.Several Opposition leaders criticised the decision, and Joshi’s letter was met with rebuttals. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted saying that the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, was not consulted by the government on the issue.“Mr Pralhad Joshi is as usual departing from the truth,” Ramesh said.While the Trinamool Congress’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said: “Consulted? Are you joking?” when asked about the government’s outreach to various parties, the party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said that Joshi had spoken to him.“Our party is of the opinion that a short Winter Session is meaningless. We want Winter and Budget sessions to be clubbed into a full-fledged session in which all issues can be discussed,” said Bandopadhyay.The Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s parliamentary leader Elamaram Kareem said the Left parties had not been consulted. “We have been demanding debate on farmers’ issues in Parliament in Winter Session. It’s a national issue but Modi government doesn’t discuss serious national issues. Similarly, National education policy was also not discussed,” he said.The government hurriedly pushed three controversial farm bills in the Monsoon Session, ignoring repeated demands by the Opposition for parliamentary review of the proposed laws. The Rajya Sabha passed the bills amid a massive disruption that led to suspension of eight MPs from the chamber. The Opposition also said that none of their pet issues, such as economy, plight of migrant workers, inflation was discussed in the House.In the past few weeks, the opposition parties have stepped up their demand for holding the Winter Session in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three new farm laws, saying the government should repeal these legislations and hold fresh discussions on reforms in the agricultural sector.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that Parliament should sit for a Winter Session, even for a short duration. “Not holding the Winter Session and evading questions is not right for democracy. Opposition parties and farmers are demanding that the session should be held even if it is for two days only,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann said that the government was scared to hold discussion on the farmers’ issue in Parliament and has decided not to call the session. “If you do not want run Parliament then why spend thousands of crores on the new building?” he asked on Twitter.As per the rule, there should not be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of Parliament.Speaking to HT, Joshi said, “This is an extraordinary situation. Many people have suggested not to go for session as there is a spike in the number of cases. The government because, of the extraordinary situation, are calling it (next session) in January. What’s the problem?”S Sreedharan, former secretary general of Lok Sabha, said there is no constitutional breach since the six months’ gap between the two sessions is not there. “But, if the government is convinced of the reasons for not convening the Houses as usual, it should formally consult the political parties and carry them on board.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-winter-session-due-to-covid-19-opposition-objects/story-M2W9JvkxIPez840RnZSnhP.html
16-12-2020||India||Number Theory| Covid-19: Why India is on the right track now||India’s Covid-19 numbers have taken a turn for the better. The rate of new infections being reported across the country is at the lowest level in five months, shows data analysed by HT. This is the first time a drop of this magnitude and consistency has been recorded in the Covid-19 trajectory in the country.All data points to this being the best situation the outbreak has been in five months. A look at how numbers show India is swinging the battle against the disease.1. India’s daily case trajectory at lowest in 5 monthsOn Monday, India recorded 22,022 new Covid-19 cases, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. This is the lowest number of new infections reported across the country since July 2, when the country saw 21,853 daily cases. The seven-day average of daily cases, also referred to as the case trajectory of a region, touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest recorded till date. As of Monday, this number stands at 28,827 — down 69% from the peak. The last time it was at this level was on July 15, or five months ago, when it was 28,594. One of the best signs, however, is that there have been little fluctuations in the drop in the trajectory. The seven-day average has seen a near-steady decline since the mid-September peak (barring a weeklong fluctuation seen in the second half of November, caused largely by rising cases in Delhi, West Bengal and Rajasthan).Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage2. For the first time, Covid situation is under control in all of India’s hot spot statesEven after India’s new cases hit the mid-September peak, there were some regions that were still reporting rising numbers – notably Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Rajasthan. Delhi’s third wave, for instance, was so strong that it caused a momentary spike in the overall numbers across the country in November. However, in the past fortnight, even that has been brought under control. As a result, for the first time since the outbreak gripped the entire country, numbers are receding in every major hot spot region in the country. In India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, the seven-day average of daily cases has dropped nearly 82% from the peak of 22,149 seen on September 17. In Karnataka, this has dropped 87% from the peak; in Andhra Pradesh it is down 95%; it is 82% down in Tamil Nadu; and Kerala has seen a 47% slump from the peak witnessed in the state. Delhi, which has seen the latest peak (7,341 cases a day for the week ending November 14), has also witnessed an impressive 71% drop from its peak.Also Read| India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: Officials3. Testing right: Positivity rate touches lowest everOn Monday, 2.2% of samples tested across India came back positive – the lowest single-day positivity rate reported since April 25 (also 2.2%). The average rate of samples testing positive for Covid-19 across the country has dropped from 9.3% for the week ending September 22 to 3% for the week ending June 17, another trend that is suggestive of a contracting outbreak. In the nearly eight months since the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had been releasing data on Covid-19 testing in the country, this is the lowest that the average positivity rate has ever touched in India. A dropping positivity rate, coupled with falling new cases, suggests that the testing strategy against the virus is paying dividends. India’s rate of testing (seven-day average of daily tests) has been hovering very close to peak levels – it has remained around the million mark (963,800 samples were tested every day in the preceding week) over the past three months.4. The secret to Delhi’s remarkable turnaroundDelhi was one of the key regions that defied the larger trend when India’s first Covid-19 wave started receding for the first time. While cases were dropping across the country in early October, the Capital was seeing the start of the third wave. This wave peaked in mid-November and has seen a remarkable turnaround since. The reduction in new infections has come hand-in-hand with a drop in the positivity rate and a significant improvement in testing. On December 15, for instance, Delhi tested 85,105 samples for Covid-19, of which 42,056 were tested using the more accurate Reverse Tanscription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method. Both these figures were single-day records for Delhi. But despite a record number of tests, the single-day positivity rate was only 1.9% – only once (April 6) has Delhi ever reported a fewer proportion of samples testing positive. The average positivity rate on Tuesday stood at 2.7% – the lowest ever recorded. The average positivity rate should consistently drop to 5% or below if testing is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In Delhi, this has presently been below the threshold for nine days in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-covid-19-why-india-is-on-the-right-track-now/story-mHAv8jcqv2KAZhpDNS07XI.html
16-12-2020||India||India bucking global trend but must keep its guard up in Covid fight: Officials||India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak, senior government officials said on Tuesday but warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained. Speaking at the government’s routine briefing on the Covid-19 situation, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Niti Aayog member (health) VK Paul also enumerated the legwork being done across the country for the logistics and training that will be required to deliver vaccines to hundreds of millions of people by next summer.  “Active cases have declined from over 10 lakh in mid-September to fewer than four lakh at present... India’s cumulative fatality rate has also come down to 6.37%, and if you take into account the last week, it is 3%,” said Bhushan, before speaking about the ongoing spike in infections and deaths in other countries.Paul described the contrast between India and the world as a warning as well as a source of satisfaction. “It is a reminder of the nature of the virus because even we might get a second wave of infections and deaths since this is how this virus behaves. Things can take a drastic turn even after it stabilises. The key lesson is, don’t take things for granted,” he said.On the other hand, he added, “it is reassuring that we are saving lives. Our situation now is like it was in July. People are now saying that the R-naught has reduced to below 1 and the outbreak is shrinking”. Paul went on to stress on the need to be careful, saying: “Remember, we have a large population of people who are vulnerable”.On Tuesday, 26,249 new infections were reported across the country, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 9,932,841, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. Meanwhile, 385 more patients lost their lives to the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities in the country to 144,149.The Niti Aayog official highlighted the case of the national capital, congratulating the Delhi government and the departments involved for having brought the outbreak under control. “But even as many regions show an improvement, some are still a concern, like Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Himachal Pradesh. We are in touch with officials there,” Paul said.According to Bhushan, preparations are underway to prepare local officials to receive and administer vaccines, a process that is likely to cover close to 300 million people by the middle of next year. “We will use 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70-walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined freezers, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators will be used. All these have already reached states and more equipment is being sent,” the health secretary added.The supplies were among three broad focus points from detailed guidelines sent to the states. These largely dealt with assigning of responsibilities (Bhushan said 23 ministries and departments of Centre and states have been told their roles), training and equipping the people who will be involved in logistics as well as administration of shots, and on how to monitor for and respond to any adverse reactions people might have.“Instructions (have been) issued on minor, severe and serious AEFI (adverse effect following immunisation). States will identify one AEFI management centre in each block, which could be fixed health facilities. Each AEFI management centres will be mapped with every session sites (vaccination centres) to make sure people can be taken to these instantly,” Bhushan said.These preparations are being done while at least three vaccine candidates are being assessed for an emergency approval. Paul said there was good progress in the vaccine pipeline, and highlighted a candidate by Gennova which is based on the same mRNA platform as the doses developed by Pfizer and Moderna and was cleared for clinical trials last week. “Unlike Pfizer and Moderna, this vaccine will require normal cold chain temperatures,” Paul said. To be sure, this vaccine candidate has just been cleared for Phase 1/ 2 trials. Following that, it will, subject to approvals, enter Phase 3 trials. “We now have six vaccines undergoing human trials in India,” he said, while adding that the approval and assessment process is being done in an independent and objective manner. “This process is being carried out by independent experts and people should feel reassured that whichever vaccine will be approved, it will be on the basis of established scientific and global parameters,” the officials said.The Drugs Controller General of India is assessing emergency use authorisation applications from Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Of these, Pfizer has been approved in several countries after having completed phase III trials and finding an efficacy of close to 95%.Serum Institute has applied for approval of the vaccine developed by University of Oxford and AstraZeneca, which has shown an efficacy of 62%-90%, according to an interim analysis. Bharat Biotech is at present carrying out phase III trials. Both of these companies have been asked by the DCGI’s subject expert committee (SEC) to present more data relating to their trials for their applications to be assessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bucking-global-trend-but-must-keep-its-guard-up-in-covid-fight-officials/story-i5xvHzPB917W9bdLuag3bP.html
16-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee challenges BJP to impose President’s Rule in West Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government to impose President’s Rule in the state ahead of the assembly elections. Banerjee added that only the Trinamool Congress-led state government will be able to find a permanent political solution for the long-pending issues of Darjeeling. “When they (BJP) try to scare me, I tell them why don’t you impose President’s Rule in the state and see what happens. It would be wonderful. My work load would come down and I would be able to hold rallies and meetings and take all your votes.” “In Parliament elections, TMC didn’t win a single seat from north Bengal. What crime have we committed? What injustice have we done? The BJP won all seats? I may not get any seat in Lok Sabha polls but I want all your blessings in the assembly polls,” said Banerjee while speaking a rally in Jalpaiguri on Monday. Banerjee also took a jibe at the AIMIM, saying that the party is here to help the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-challenges-bjp-to-impose-president-s-rule-in-west-bengal/story-gKWpfuDUAmtDcCnlw7g2DL.html
16-12-2020||India||Will join hands with Rajinikanth if our ideologies match, says Kamal Haasan||Actor and politician Kamal Haasan reiterated on Tuesday that he will join hands with his contemporary Rajinikanth, if it benefits the people Tamil Nadu. “If our ideologies match and if it helps the people of Tamil Nadu, we will shed our ego and co-operate. I’ve said this before,” Haasan told the media in Thoothukudi district for the upcoming 2021 elections in the state. Haasan launched Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) in 2018 from Madurai and kicked-off the first phase of his four-day election campaign on Sunday from the same district. There is wide anticipation if Haasan and Rajinikanth, the former co-stars in Tamil cinema with a huge cult following, will also partner politically as Rajinikanth was also planning to launch his party in January. The party is likely to contest all the 234 assembly seats in Tamil Nadu. “We both have said that we need a change in Tamil Nadu,” Haasan said. “But we can’t consider one-liners. So let their (Rajinikanth’s party) ideology and policies be clear and then we’ll talk. We are just a phone call away.”MNM fought the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but couldn’t win a seat but registered a 3.7% vote share. Haasan will be making his poll debut in the assembly elections next year, but he is yet to announce his constituency. The fledgling parties of Rajinikanth and Kamal will be fighting Dravidian rivals who have formed successive governments in the state — the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and their national partners Congress and Bharatiya Janata party, respectively. Haasan also drew on matinee idol MG Ramachandran (MGR) who broke away from the DMK to form the ADMK, later renamed as AIADMK. “For those who haven’t even seen MGR’s face, I grew up on MGR’s lap,” Haasan tweeted with a video of MGR kissing him on his forehead. “MGR belongs to the people. We cannot call him a DMK or an AIADMK man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-join-hands-with-rajinikanth-if-our-ideologies-match-says-kamal-haasan/story-6Vnydtm7A7qy6rBNACBmQJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Army colonel facing rape charges held||An Army colonel accused of raping his civilian friend’s wife of Russian origin after intoxicating her husband at the Officers’ Mess in Cantonment area was arrested on Tuesday. “Col Neeraj Gahlot was arrested while trying to flee to an unknown place to evade his arrest,” said Superintendent of Police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal.Police had launched a manhunt for Col Neeraj Gahlot whose mobile location was traced in the vicinity of officers’ mess on Monday evening but he had been evading his arrest, said Cantonment Circle’ Additional Superintendent of Police Nikhil Pathak. A team headed by Chakeri police station’s SHO Ravi Srivastava was dispatched to nab the absconding officer, but his room was found locked from outside, the ASP said.The colonel posted here was booked on Sunday for allegedly raping his friend’s wife at the Officers’ Mess, police said.The victim’s husband, a civilian, lodged an FIR against the Army officer at the Cantonment police station, SP Agarwal had said earlier. According to the complainant, his wife is of Russian descent and has been living in India for 10 years.The accused allegedly had invited his civilian friend to the Officer’s Mess and gave him an intoxicating drink which made him him unconscious, said police adding the Army officer subsequently raped his friend’s wife. The accused also allegedly assaulted the woman when she put up a resistance. After raping the woman, the colonel took leave from his bosses and went underground to evade arrest, said an official. The rape survivor was subsequently produced before a judicial magistrate who recorded her statement under section 164 of the CrPC, said Pathak, adding the statement, however, is yet to be shown to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-colonel-facing-rape-charges-held/story-OVQxhVzPKMo2R4OPxNm7VN.html
16-12-2020||India||Mukul Roy says TMC will not get even 100 seats in 2021 Bengal assembly elections||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy claimed on Tuesday that TMC will not get even 100 seats out of the total 294 in the West Bengal assembly polls in 2021.He said all those who are keeping themselves away from BJP because of misunderstandings must be convinced to return to its fold.“With responsibility I am saying that TMC will not even cross the 100 seat mark in the coming state poll,” he told a meeting of BJP workers at Shimurali in Nadia district.“Ask TMC to say how many seat they are going to win,” he said.Asking party workers to convince those who were staying away from the party due to misunderstanding, Roy said “This is not the time for ego. There is big and strong fight before us and we have to win as Amit Shah Ji wants at least 200 seats in Bengal to turn it into Sonar Bangla and push TMC to the bottom like CPI-M.” Criticising Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, he said that earlier she did not sit with rich persons but now she does just that. He hit out at the state government for the power rates in West Bengal, which she said is the highest in the country.Roy, who was earlier a prominent leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress, criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for misusing funds given by the Centre post Cyclone Amphan.“In two phases Modi handed over Rs 3400 crore to the Bengal government for Amphan effected people. But the poor people remained in the same plight”, Roy iterated.Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Bengal later this week and address two rallies on December 19 and 20, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukul-roy-says-tmc-will-not-get-even-100-seats-in-2021-bengal-assembly-elections/story-E8mjsclG3Gkv2q3n9Sb0CI.html
16-12-2020||India||79 more IIT-M students test Covid +ve||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras on Tuesday reported 79 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total number of infections of the viral disease in the institute to 183 since December 1, officials said.All 79 new cases are that of students. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said 978 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests have been conducted in the institute to detect Sars-CoV-2, the contagion that causes Covid-19, including 770 students. “The positivity rate is 19%,” he said.“With this, testing has been completed,” IIT-Madras said in a statement, adding that the next round of testing will be conducted after 10 days.Until Sunday, 71 people on campus had tested positive out of which 66 were students. On Monday, 33 more tested positive. It is suspected that the virus spread rapidly at the hostel mess where students gathered and couldn’t wear masks while eating. The mess has been shut and food is being sent to the students’ rooms. The institution has temporarily shut down its academic departments and research labs.A postdoctoral student, who has been in the campus hostel since March, was one of the hundreds of students who was tested for Covid-19 on Monday. She is awaiting her results. “Only one mess was open and it was overcrowded, so I’ve been ordering food from outside,” the student, who did not want to be named, said.Patients from IIT-Madras are being treated at the government-run King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research. “We have taken X-ray and CT-scan of the positive patients and they are stable as of now with mild symtoms,” said Radhakrishnan.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has directed state-wide testing across educational institutions and hostels since it has allowed the reopening of final year classes for undergraduate students from December 7. “We have sent an instruction to all colleges and vice chancellors of state universities to follow Covid-19 standard operating procedures and conduct testing,” said minister for higher education KP Anbzhagan. After two students reported fever at Anna University, the Greater Chennai Corporation began mass testing on campus on Tuesday similar to the exercise at IIT-Madras. “Close to 500 students were tested,” said vice-chancellor MK Surappa. “The two students have tested negative and we will receive the remaining results on Wednesday.”Radhakrishnan said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has instructed the health department and all collectors to monitor testing at educational institutions, working women’s hostels and mansions. “We have instructed campuses to send food to students if there is only one eating area on campus,” he said.Radhakrishnan warned of action under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, against the management of educational institutions if they failed to restrict students from sitting together in classes or in eating areas without social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/79-more-iit-m-students-test-covid-ve/story-4gzp5qnUKfe72pbdQCnEmO.html
16-12-2020||India||Covid-19 doesn’t differentiate between rich, poor: Supreme Court||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) does not differentiate between the rich and the poor, asserted the Supreme Court on Tuesday as it rued that arguments were being made about how poor people will not be able to pay steeper fines instead of making certain that everyone wears a mask to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The Supreme Court bench, headed by justice Ashok Bhushan, was hearing a suo motu (after taking note on its own) matter relating to various measures being taken by the Centre and states to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic.When the issue of wearing masks cropped up, justice MR Shah, also a part of the bench, referred to the statistics submitted in the court by the Gujarat government to express his surprise over more than Rs10 crore having been collected in fines only on account of people not wearing masks. “Is it not shocking that more than Rs10 crore is collected only on account of not wearing masks? And this can only be a tip of the iceberg. There could be many more,” said justice Shah. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre and Gujarat government in the matter, replied that the fine amount has now swollen to about Rs19 crore. At this, justice RS Reddy, another member of the bench, said: “There are reports coming that the rate of infection is going down in the entire country. And look what people are doing. They started celebrating marriages in large gatherings.” Mehta, on his part, submitted that steeper fines for not wearing mask could be an effective deterrent but the bench replied: “We cannot direct states how much the fine should be. It is for the states to take a call.” Joining the discussion, advocate Vishal Awtani, who had filed an application in the matter, told the bench that the poor will not be able to pay higher fines, and hence the suggestion by the S-G to increase the fine may not be the appropriate solution. But this argument did not go down well with the bench, which emphasised that everyone has been given masks free of cost by all the governments. “Why are poor not wearing masks given to them free of charge? Poor or rich, everyone has to follow the law. This virus does not differentiate between rich and poor,” the bench said. The court added that had people been finding it too difficult to pay fines, the collection only in one state (Gujarat) could not come to be around Rs18-19 crore, while underscoring that everyone must be encouraged to wear masks, follow social distancing, and abide with other safety regulations. Consider giving break to residents, interns During the hearing, the bench also asked the SG to look into the reports that resident doctors and interns were getting breaks from work despite being on duty for months. “Mr Mehta, you should look into this as well. You may have shortage of doctors, but that doesn’t mean these resident doctors and interns, who are students, will not be given break for months together. Some of them have not had a gap for the last eight months,” the bench told the SG.The court expressed fear that such prolonged duties could affect their mental health. “They are mentally broken. They have been working for eight months without break. They also need some rest. Consider giving them break after a month of work. What will happen if the doctors in the making are mentally broken at this age?” it asked Mehta, who assured the bench that the government would examine the issue.The bench also said that it will pass a detailed order later this week on fire safety norms in hospitals. Earlier, the bench has taken a suo motu cognisance of the fire tragedy at a Covid hospital in Rajkot, where five lives were lost. It had sought reports on fire safety from all states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-doesn-t-differentiate-between-rich-poor-sc/story-gAJl7g55x7cu5Oc5llXKjM.html
16-12-2020||India||‘Love jihad’ charge fake, admin behind miscarriage: UP woman||A 22-year-old woman from Uttar Pradesh, who was sent to a shelter home and her husband arrested under a new law against forced conversions by marriage, alleged on Tuesday that her mother leveled fake charges against the interfaith couple and added that she married a Muslim man and converted to Islam of her free will.The woman, Muskan Jahan or Pinki, also alleged that medical negligence at the shelter home was responsible for the miscarriage of her three-month-old foetus – a charge denied by the state administration. “I am happy with my marriage and have snapped all my relations with my parents, who reside in Moradabad,” she told media persons. Her comments came a day after she was released from the shelter home and moved back into her in-laws’ house in Moradabad district’s Kaanth town. On Monday, she told a magistrate that she was a major, 22 years old and married Mohammad Rashid under no pressure. She demanded the immediate release of her husband, Rashid, and his elder brother, Mohammad Saleem.Jahan was the first woman detained under the UP Prohibition Of Unlawful Conversion Of Religion Ordinance 2020, which outlaws religious conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement. She had converted to Islam after marrying Rashid, 28. She was shifted to a government shelter home after Rashid was booked on December 6.Speaking on Tuesday, Jahan accused the staff of the shelter home of ill-treating her and providing treatment only when her health grew worse. “They ignored my complaint of pain in the stomach for three days and took me to hospital only when my health deteriorated,” Muskan said.She further alleged that injections and medicines given to her in hospital were to terminate her pregnancy. This allegation was refuted by the inspector of Kaanth police station, Ajay Gautam, who described the allegations as “rumour” and “fake news”.Jahan and Rashid fell in love and married in Dehradun on July 24 in a madrassa. Rashid belongs to Kaanth town of Moradabad district and went to the local court on December 6 to get his marriage registered. But some local Hindu activists landed at the court, took the couple to Kaanth police station.At the time, Gautam said the woman’s mother had charged Rashid of enticing Jahan by posing as a Hindu man, Sonu, and hiding his religious identity. Later, Rashid was booked under section 3 of the new law and Jahan was sent to a shelter home.But Jahan said she knew that her husband was Muslim and blamed the Hindu activists, saying they started the trouble on December 6. The activists took them to police station and also brought her mother there, she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-jihad-charge-fake-admin-behind-miscarriage-up-woman/story-u162bDqXpY4xMYZ0xBX75M.html
16-12-2020||India||Deploy central forces in Bengal, BJP asks EC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has requested the Election Commission of India to deploy central police forces and enforce the model code of conduct in West Bengal at the earliest to avoid large-scale political violence during the campaign ahead of the crucial 2021 assembly elections. A BJP delegation from West Bengal, which met Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora in New Delhi on Monday, also cited discrepancies in the draft voters’ list and alleged that names of dead voters have not been deleted. “The BJP requests your intervention to ensure early deployment of CPF else the ruling Trinamool Congress, with the active support of West Bengal Police, will make campaign very difficult, resulting in widespread violence,” stated a letter submitted to the CEC. Accusing the West Bengal Police of being partisan, the BJP alleged that although its national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in full public glare during his visit to Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district on Thursday,afternoon, the police didn’t act. “Political murders have been going on since the Lok Sabha polls and several BJP workers have been killed till date. They have got heightened in the last few months. The state police invariably deflect these as personal enmity and family feud and no action is taken. All this makes normal political activities very challenging.” The Trinamool Congress (TMC) rubbished the allegations. “Deployment of central forces ahead of the elections is a routine exercise. Half of the central forces have already been deployed as bodyguards of BJP leaders. It appears as if an entire army is moving with them. What new central force do they want? People have seen central forces in previous elections. They will vote for TMC,” said Kunal Ghosh, a spokesperson of TMC. Some of the central leaders as well as top state leaders of the BJP including the party’s president of West Bengal unit Dilip Ghosh are protected by security personnel provided by various central police forces . These people are armed with automatic weapons. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was alloted a bullet-proof SUV by the Centre on Monday, days after the party’s national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked. The BJP has also requested the poll panel not to use members of the West Bengal State Government Employees Federation for polling duties as they have allegedly pledged their support to the chief minister and her party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deploy-central-forces-in-bengal-bjp-asks-ec/story-a9SpgT3vfXnm9xHWvE80AO.html
16-12-2020||India||Bihar cabinet gives nod to free Covid-19 vaccine||The Bihar cabinet on Tuesday approved free vaccination of coronavirus disease (Covid -19) in the state as and when it is available, keeping in line with the poll promise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recently concluded state assembly elections. The BJP is the senior partner in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state. Also Read: Wedding halls, polling booths in Covid-19 vaccine planConfirming the development, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad said: “ We have decided to carry free inoculation of vaccines against Covid-19 to every resident of the state as it was a foremost promise of the BJP and also the NDA. Our decision is a big gift to people of the state after the formation of the government. We feel, Bihar’s biggest strength is its human resource and we want them to be protected against the deadly disease as the world is battling with the pandemic.” Former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi, said : “The decision of the state cabinet to provide free vaccines against Covid-19 to entire population of Bihar is a welcome decision. I feel other states should emulate it. The BJP in its manifesto had promised to provide free vaccines knowing well how in Bihar only a small section of populace could afford it at market prices. Once the vaccines comes, the front line workers, police personnel and those above 50 would be given the doses in a phase wise manner,” he said.Ahead of the state election while releasing the BJP’s manifesto, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had on October 22 said the people of Bihar would be given free vaccines against Covid-19 once it was available for production on a mass scale. Also Read| 100 people per session, electoral rolls, mobile sites: Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine guidelinesVijay Kumar Chaudhary, water resources minister and senior JD(U) leader, said, “Free vaccines is a desirable step and it would help the people of the state to get protected. Our government is committed in providing health needs to the people and free inoculation is a step in that direction for public welfare.” Opposition did not comment on the development.The free vaccine promise had kicked up a political storm with opposition parties saying that linking public health to elections was a “degeneration of politics”.Rashtriya Janata Dal Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha had said,“It is unfortunate if vaccine for a pandemic becomes a part of a manifesto and a poll issue,” said The cabinet on Tuesday also approved the implementation of all programmes under Atma Nirbhar Bihar, Saat Nischai (seven resolves) and approved 14 other agendas, according to a press release issued by cabinet secretariat department. Free Covid-19 vaccine is one of the many components of the seven resolve programme. According to a statement issued by the government after the cabinet meeting, these measures are expected to create “20 lakh new jobs in government and private sectors”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-gives-nod-to-free-covid-19-vaccine/story-ekGCsmcPRxgSvc3xHSbfVJ.html
16-12-2020||India||Farm unions slam Centre, say govt lacks sympathy||Farmers’ groups camping on Delhi’s borders to protest against three laws passed by the Centre to open up agricultural trade on Tuesday accused the government of lacking sympathy for their community and announced a day of mourning for the farmers who they claim have died during their campaign.The 35 farmers’ groups said villages across the country would observe a day of mourning on Sunday for the 20 farmers who died during the farmer’s agitation that started on November 26. “On an average, one farmer has died every day since this agitation started on November 26. We will pay homage to all the farmers who have been martyred in this duration on December 20 across all villages in the country,” said Jagjit Singh Dallewala, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), said. “When their names and photos will reach villages, more people will come forward to join us in our struggle.”On Tuesday, four farmers died in two separate road accidents in and around the Mohali and Patiala districts of Punjab. The death of these farmers dominated the discussions at the Singhu border on Tuesday as farmers from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Uttarakhand joined the agitation. The farmers’ groups announced their plans on a day that Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the farmers had been misled by farmers’ groups and opposition parties to protest against the laws they themselves had sought in the past, but failed to implement. In reaction, they alleged that the government lacked any sympathy for the farming community. Farmers’ leaders also attributed the government’s decision to cancel the winter session of Parliament to the pressure they had exerted on the Centre, saying it wanted to dodge questions from the opposition.“We elected the PM and gave him the power to speak and yet he didn’t speak for us in the past 20 days,” said Yudhvir Singh Sehrawat, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait). Asked if the farmers would try to enter Delhi, Dallewala said: “Only time will tell.” Dallewala also said the farmers would only hold a dialogue with the government if it talked about repealing the laws instead of proposing amendments to them The massive farmers’ protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8 after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. Farmers, mainly from north Indian states, have massed at the entry points to the national capital.Bharatiya Kisaan Union leader Rishipal Ambavata also said that the farmers would also block Delhi-Chilla border on Saturday, two days after it was reopened. The gathering of farmers at the UP Gate border remained peaceful throughout Tuesday. At the Chilla (Delhi-Noida link road) border in the afternoon, nearly 100 farmers arrived from Noida in cars and tried to march towards Delhi through the carriageway that they had cleared on Friday night. Security forces blocked the road using iron barricades and reinforced their presence, causing a traffic jam. However, a senior police officer had a quick discussion with the farmers and convinced them not to block traffic. After nearly 10 minutes, the barricades were removed and traffic was restored. The protestors parked their vehicles and sat on one portion of the road, which has been barricaded and dedicated to the protesting farmers. “The Uttar Pradesh government has been stopping farmers from proceeding to Delhi. Many representatives of farmers have been kept in house arrest. We will not tolerate this. If the government continues harassing farmers, we will have no choice but to escalate our agitation to Lucknow and at local levels in Uttar Pradesh. If required, we may block the entire Delhi-Meerut expressway again,” said Rajveer Singh Jadhon, president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s UP unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-slam-centre-say-govt-lacks-sympathy/story-6DqqydPYqC3FzdL0Plwn5K.html
16-12-2020||India||Only Congress has an issue with no Winter Session: Pralhad Joshi||Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi spoke to HT about the decision to call off the Winter Session of Parliament, and the criticism by Opposition leaders that they were not consulted. Edited excerpts:Your decision to cancel the Winter Session has become very controversial. The Opposition says they were never consulted. In September, we had a session and in September itself, all parties including the Congress decided to conclude it early (due to large number of Covid-19 cases). It is basically the Congress party which has raised the major objection to the Winter Session being cancelled. Let the Congress leaders talk among themselves. If they are not in talking terms, it is not our responsibility.Who did you speak to? Jairam Ramesh tweeted that there wasn’t any discussion.Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary.They agreed to not have the session?I had a talk and I asked them what is your suggestion. They said ‘theek hai. aap Budget Session kar sakte hain (okay, you can hold the Budget Session)’. That’s what they said. We don’t want to say where we talked about it in public because decency doesn’t demand that. We have also spoken to the other major political parties. More than that I do not want to reveal. If they have a fight in their own house, they need to sort it out. Jairam Ramesh should talk to his leader. It’s not my job to make them talk to each other. Even Derek O’ Brien of the Trinamool Congress said that he hadn’t been consulted?Sudip Bandhopadhyay is their parliamentary party leader; we spoke to him. This entire thing has been done through dialogue and consultation. Many people due to Covid-19 didn’t want the session to take place now. It was an informal discussion, and I don’t want to name people publicly. I don’t want to name anybody. Basically, it is just the Congress party which has a problemWhat about the general criticism that the government had the session when they had to push their ordinance through but not discuss the protests?This is an extraordinary situation. Many people have suggested not to go for session as there is a spike in the number of cases. The government because, of the extraordinary situation, are calling it (next session) in January. What’s the problem?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-cong-has-an-issue-with-no-winter-session-pralhad-joshi/story-WoA3JSg2fp0lRFt1mz14DI.html
16-12-2020||India||Scuffle breaks out in K’taka Upper House||A one-day special meeting of the Karnataka legislative council, sought by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to remove the chairman of the house who belongs to the Congress, was marked by bedlam and scuffles between rival legislators, forcing its sine die adjournment, leaving the state at the edge of a potential constitutional crisis.BJP and Congress members shoved and pushed each other over the ruling party’s attempt to oust council chairman K Prathapchandra Shetty through a no-confidence motion as chaos descended on the House.When the house convened on Tuesday morning, deputy chairman S L Dharame Gowda of the Janata Dal (Secular) occupied the chairman’s seat. Congress members of the legislative council (MLCs) tried to push him out. As chairman Shetty tried to occupy the seat, BJP MLCs objected, saying he cannot preside over a no-confidence motion against himself.Congress members led by the party’s leader in the council, S R Patil, said the no-confidence motion had already been rejected by the Chairman’s secretariat because of procedural lapses and no one except Shetty could preside over the house. Congress MLC Narayanaswamy was seen pushing Dharame Gowda out of the chairman’s seat and occupying it.Revenue minister R Ashoka accused the Congress of assaulting not only BJP council members but also the marshals as well as the watch and ward staff. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa too hit out at the Congress.“Even after knowing that they do not enjoy the confidence of the house, it is unfortunate that the Congress and Shetty have behaved in this manner. After being served a no-confidence motion how can the person against whom it has been served preside over it?” Yediyurappa aked.Congress members defended the move. Patil said: “The no-confidence motion was rejected by the Chairman. They were trying to rule through the deputy Chairman against the rules of the house and the constitution.”BJP had served a notice of a no-confidence against Shetty, but the council chairman on December 10 adjourned the house sine die, saying that it did not meet the minimum 14-day advance notice period.The BJP then approached governor Vajjubhai Vala to reconvene the council for one day to enable it to remove the chairman. The BJP also wanted to pass the controversial Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle 2020 bill, which was to be also taken up for consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scuffle-breaks-out-in-k-taka-upper-house/story-0eQrA3P94gDSqg2bLjandK.html
16-12-2020||India||Gloves are on: Cold wave grips Delhi||Delhi’s minimum temperature fell to 4.1° Celsius in the early hours on Tuesday, bringing December’s first cold wave condition, according to meteorological department data that also showed that the Capital also recorded a “cold day” since the high settled at 19.4°C, significantly lower than what is normal for this time of the year.The cold, which began setting in from Monday evening, has gripped several parts of northern India, arriving as frosty winds from snow covered mountains. Tuesday’s minimum was a 4.3°C drop from the day before. The all-time lowest minimum temperature recorded in the city is 0°C on December 27, 1930. Last year, Delhi had recorded a minimum of 2.4°C on December 28. “There have been intense western disturbances which have brought widespread snowfall to the western Himalayas. Now icy winds are blowing over Delhi from that region. Climatologically, minimum temperatures typically fall sharply after December 15 but this year the drop has been abrupt,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.“During the next three days, we are expecting several parts of northwest India including Delhi to record both cold to severe cold days and cold wave. There are mostly clear skies and chilly winds blowing which is causing both day and night temperatures drop sharply. But in some places over Punjab and Haryana we are noticing uplifted fog, which also causes day temperatures to drop as sunshine doesn’t warm the surface,” added Shrivastava.The maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 18.5°C at Safdarjung, 5°C below normal and 16.7°C at Palam, 7 degrees below normal. According to IMD, a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10°C and if maximum temperature is 4.5°C or 6.4°C below normal respectively. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum is 10 degrees or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 °C in the plains. A cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.Delhi logged a record cold spell of 18 days last year when maximum temperatures were significantly below normal continuously. There was a cold spell for 17 days in 1997 and eight days in 2014. This time too there can be a cold spell for four days until December 19, Shrivastava said. Many parts of northwest India are recording “severe cold day” conditions since Sunday. They were markedly below normal (-5.1°C or less) at most places over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi; at many places over west Madhya Pradesh; central Maharashtra and west Rajasthan and at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, East Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, according to IMD. Severe Cold Day conditions were observed in pockets of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.Cold day conditions are very likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and West Uttar Pradesh during next two days, IMD said in its bulletin on Tuesday. Cold wave conditions are very likely in some pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next four days. “When there is incursion of such cold air from the hills both day and night temperatures drop. This will continue for at least next 3-4 days,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. The average air quality index (AQI) reading in Delhi was at 230 at 4pm on Tuesday, falling in “poor” category. Scientists said the air is likely to improve due to relatively strong northwesterly winds. Air quality is likely to remain in “moderate/; category on December 16 and 17. “The wind speed is about 12 kmph but we are expecting it to pick up further which will be favourable for dispersal of local pollutants,” added Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gloves-are-on-cold-wave-grips-delhi/story-AawoqfssgWyGLjUPlxFqNO.html
