17-12-2020||India||Yediyurappa unveils Bengaluru Mission 2022 to turn it into ‘world-class city’||The BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka unveiled its ambitious ‘Bengaluru Mission 2022’ for a cleaner, greener and better-connected city. The announcements are being seen as a part of BJP’s outreach to the Bengaluru city voters ahead of the local civic body polls which are scheduled to be held shortly.As part of the plan, the government outlined a long list of promises. It said the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) would undertake the construction of 12 high-density corridors. Annual maintenance contract for 400-kilometre of arterial roads in the city would be awarded, faster metro completion, promoting vehicle sharing to cut down on traffic congestion, rejuvenation of 25 lakes, scientific waste collection and disposal are a few of the promises made. Also read: Consultation with lawyers, panchayat - What farmers are planning nowThe Karnataka High Court, based on a petition by a Congress MLC, had directed the government on December 2 to hold polls to the 198 wards of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP) within the next six weeks. However, the government is seeking more time to hold the polls saying it wants to increase the number of wards to 243 to reflect the growth in the city population.Speaking at the event to outline Mission 2022, CM Yediyurappa claimed that in spite of a shortfall in government revenues due to the pandemic, there would not be any fund shortage for all the schemes. Two new tree parks and two more urban lung spaces have also been promised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yediyurappa-unveils-bengaluru-mission-2022-to-turn-it-into-world-class-city/story-Oi5NOqKVlJMEJq4Nko3JON.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Security, stability of Indo-Pacific vital for world’: S Jaishankar||The security, stability and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific is vital for the world and the region captures a mix of India’s broadening horizons, widening interests and globalised activities, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Defining the Indo-Pacific construct, he said the region signifies the confluence of the Indian and Pacific oceans that can no longer be handled as distinct spheres. The space is also home to more than 64 per cent of the world’s population and accounts for 62 per cent of the global GDP, with more than 50 per cent of global trade traversing through its waters.“And obviously, the security, stability, peace and prosperity of this vast region is vital for the world,” he said while speaking on the theme “Future construct of the Indo-Pacific” at the Partnership Summit 2020 organised by the Confederation of the Indian Industry (CII) and the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade.“Every nation and region would have its own version of this reality. But I can speak for India and say this: It captures a mix of our broadening horizons, widening interests, and globalised activities,” he added.Also read: India wants further talks with China for ‘mutually acceptable solution’ to LAC standoffJaishankar emphasised the need for collaborative action, as the individual interests of countries and collective benefits are at stake. He said it is critical to address the Indo-Pacific policy for all players in the international arena as threats to the region could imperil security.Referring to the debate on who owns the Indo-Pacific concept, he said records show India and Japan were “early movers” and Australia and the US joined in later. The ASEAN announced its Indo-Pacific approach last year and France, Germany and The Netherlands recently unveiled their official policies while the UK is now talking of an “Indo-Pacific tilt”. “This active debate should be treated as a recognition of reality and statement of priority. Quite appropriately, much of it revolves around the ASEAN, whose East Asia Summit initiative has long had its own Indo-Pacific connotations,” he added.Speaking on India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI), that was announced at the East Asia Summit in November 2019, Jaishankar said this is aimed at strengthening practical cooperation and rests on the seven pillars of maritime security, maritime ecology, maritime resources, capacity building, disaster risk reduction and management; science, technology and academic cooperation; and trade, connectivity and maritime transport.India will be a driving force for all areas under IPOI, and like-minded countries, such as Australia and Japan, and ASEAN member states have already expressed willingness to work with the country in these areas, Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-stability-of-indo-pacific-vital-for-world-s-jaishankar/story-UPEuJUaxViqa0eIDuhSSeM.html
17-12-2020||India||In Bihar, exercise to update electoral rolls starts||The special summary revision to update photo electoral rolls as on January 1, 2021 began on Wednesday with the draft publication of the electoral rolls at designated places as per the directives of the Election Commission.The revision aims at enlisting new voters, including those having attained the age of 18 as on January 1, 2021 and also deleting names of deceased voters or those who have changed addresses. The exercise will continue till January 11 till when the claims and objections will be received by the election office.Chief electoral officer, Bihar, H R Srinivasa said two dates have been fixed as special campaign days — December 27 and January 10 — when booth level officers (BLOs) would be visiting the polling stations where they would be receiving applications from eligible voters for any modification or enrolment.The CEO said the claims/objections of the electoral rolls to be received till January 11 will be disposed of by February 1. “The final publication of the updated photo electoral rolls will be done on February 15,” he added.The SSA in Bihar this year got delayed due to the Assembly polls in October-November where as in other states, the exercise has already begun, officials said.Bihar has a total of 7.29 crore voters as per the last update before the Assembly polls and the number is expected to rise after the summary revision. The coverage of electors’ photo identity card (EPIC) is 100 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bihar-exercise-to-update-electoral-rolls-starts/story-CIRCQsJX8AoIFQqyHhDg9L.html
17-12-2020||India||‘No political party appreciates me,’ tweets Kangana, explains why||Calling herself a vote-repellant, as told by her well-wishers, Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday took to Twitter and said she is not a favourite of any political party. Though there have been rumours — fuelled after her recent tiff with the Shiv Sena — that the actor may join the BJP, Kangana earlier clarified that she harbours no political ambition. The ongoing farmers’ protest has again brought the actor in news, apart from her movies, after she got engaged in a Twitter spat with singer Diljit Dosanjh over the farmers’ protest. I have been honest about the film industry so most of them are against me, I opposed reservations most Hindus hate me, during Manikarnika’s release I fought with Karni Sena so Rajputs threatened me as well, I oppose Islamists many Muslims hate me, I fought with Khalistanis... 1/2 pic.twitter.com/2Eu4RENQWm“I fought with Khalistanis. so now most Sikhs are against me,” Kangana wrote referring to her recent comments on the farmers’ protest. “...my well wishers tell me no political party likes a vote repellent like me, so clearly no political party appreciates me,” she said explaining. But she said she is appreciated in the world of her conscience.“I have been honest about the film industry so most of them are against me, I opposed reservations, most Hindus hate me, during Manikarnika’s release I fought with Karni Sena so Rajputs threatened me as well, I oppose Islamists, many Muslims hate me,” she wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-political-party-appreciates-me-tweets-kangana-explains-why/story-keIRwSzLXkPXBsMo0XE9fK.html
17-12-2020||India||Tourism sector will thrive again in post-vaccine era: IHCL CEO||Though the travel and tourism sector is most impacted by the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it will thrive again in the post-vaccine era, Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL) MD and CEO Puneet Chhatwal said on Thursday.The travel and tourism sector is the worst-hit sector globally and is even in India expected to lose around USD 66 billion, he said while speaking at the CII Partnership Summit 2020.“Future of travel and tourism is definitely bright. It is an industry which is going to thrive, the question is how do we build the bridge between now and the next 18 to 24 months, which is the post-vaccine era,” Chhatwal said.Speaking about the survival and revival of the sector, he said reopening of the services sector in general and tourism in particular requires the industry to be safe, attractive and economically viable for all stakeholders.“Crisis is also an opportunity to change and we can come up with innovation on new products, services, business models so that revival is faster,” Chhatwal said.Technology can help, we have to accelerate digital skills training for the youth, that will help us revive the business, though a full recovery may take 2 to 3 years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-sector-will-thrive-again-in-post-vaccine-era-ihcl-ceo/story-iYPrJYa53KjqqJTRIphYNI.html
17-12-2020||India||India, Australia condemn use of ‘proxies for cross-border terrorism’||In an indirect reference to terror emanating from Pakistan, India and Australia on Thursday condemned the use of “proxies for cross-border terrorism” and said all countries should take immediate and verifiable action to ensure their territory isn’t used for terror attacks.The matter figured in a meeting of the India-Australia joint working group on counter-terrorism, which was held virtually, and both sides said they would coordinate efforts to fight terror in line with the comprehensive strategic partnership established during the virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian PM Scott Morrison in June.“India and Australia strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and emphasised the need for strengthening international cooperation to combat terrorism in a comprehensive and sustained manner. Both sides condemned the use of terrorist proxies for cross-border terrorism,” said a joint statement issued after the meeting.They also “underlined the urgent need for all countries to take immediate, sustained, verifiable and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under their control is used for terrorist attacks and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of such attacks”. Also read: India welcomes normalisation of ties by Israel and Morocco, calls for talks with PalestiniansThe joint statement said, “Australia reiterated its condemnation of terrorist attacks in India, including 26/11 Mumbai, Pathankot and Pulwama, and reiterated its support for the people and the government of India in the fight against terrorism”.The two countries reviewed threats posed by UN-sanctioned terrorist entities and called for concerted action against all terror networks. They also exchanged views on the proscription of terrorist individuals and entities as a tool to combat terror.They discussed various forms of cooperation in counter-terrorism, including countering radicalisation and violent extremism, combating terror financing, and preventing exploitation of the internet for terrorism. Both sides decided to work closely to respond to challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic to combating terrorism, and also discussed ways to deepen engagement between their agencies to take forward interaction and information-sharing.They also discussed counter-terror cooperation at multilateral forums, such as the UN, G20, Global Counterterrorism Forum, ASEAN Regional Forum and Financial Action Task Force, as well as in the Australia-India-Japan-US consultations.Mahaveer Singhvi, joint secretary for counter-terrorism in India’s external affairs ministry, and Tony Sheehan, deputy secretary for international security in Australia’s department of foreign affairs, led the delegations of experts at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-condemn-use-of-proxies-for-cross-border-terrorism/story-6WMFFqn0GmIfX0tbw9w0PP.html
17-12-2020||India||Amid nationwide protests, Uttarakhand govt announces new panel to determine MSP for tea farmers||Amid nationwide farmer protests, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced the formation of a committee that will determine the minimum selling price (MSP) for tea farmers. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat during a review meeting of the state tea development board on Thursday announced that the MSP should be equal to farm gate price. Farm gate price is the value of a product received by a farmer without the transports and marketing costs. Rawat said, “Four new factories should be set up in the state to provide market to the farmers. A committee should be set up to determine the minimum selling price of green leaves produced from tea gardens. This committee will determine the minimum selling price for each year. Tea experts must be employed in developing tea garden and finalizing the price.” This announcement comes at a time when farmers across the country are protesting, demanding adding of a provision on continuing MSP in the farm laws passed by the Central government in September. He also announced that the headquarters of the Tea Board should be established in the summer capital of Garsain. He instructed the district magistrate Chamoli to find a suitable land for it. The chief minister added that tea gardens should be developed and handed over to the farmers. For this, an action plan should be prepared by within one month. Farmers’ suggestions should also be included in the preparation of this model. Technical expertise should also be provided to the farmers after developing the tea gardens. “Efforts should be made to run private tea factories in the state for any reason. If the owners of private factories are not able to run them, then efforts should be made by the board to run them. This will create employment opportunities for the local people and provide them a means of livelihood,” added Rawat. He further said board should meet four times a year. He said that tea gardens can play an important role in the tourism sector in the state. He also instructed the district magistrates to focus on tea tourism in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-nationwide-protests-uttarakhand-govt-announces-new-panel-to-determine-msp-for-tea-farmers/story-AZSWgMPde2oZxUoBEchz8J.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Expressed his feelings’: PM Modi backs agriculture minister’s letter to farmers amid stir||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday backed his agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s letter to the protesting farmers and urged people in the country to read it. “Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar Ji has expressed his feelings by writing a letter to the farmer brothers and sisters, trying to have a polite dialogue. I request all the ‘annadaatas’ to read it. The countrymen are also urged to make it reach to as many people as possible,” PM Modi wrote in a tweet. Tomar, in an eight-page open letter to farmers, said the Modi government is committed to the welfare of farmers and stressed that the new agri laws are aimed at benefiting small and marginal farmers.In his letter, Tomar underlined his background and said, “I am from a farming family. I have grown up seeing, understanding the challenges of farming. I have seen the distress of untimely rain, the happiness of timely monsoon. These were parts of my growing up. I have also seen the week-long wait to sell crops.”Tomar said that several farm unions have welcomed the reforms and are happy, and that there were farmers from some regions who had already stared availing the benefits of these reforms. He further urged farmers to not get influenced by those who were spreading lies for political selfishness.Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.At least five rounds of formal talks have been held between the three Union Ministers and 40 farmer unions to break the deadlock.The unions, however, are demanding complete roll back of the central laws. Last week, the Centre had sent a proposal to these unions, stating that it would give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) system will remain and also redress their other key concerns. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expressed-his-feelings-pm-modi-backs-agriculture-minister-s-letter-to-farmers-amid-stir/story-jAUzG5H4FTC4izq797OViO.html
17-12-2020||India||India wants further talks with China for ‘mutually acceptable solution’ to LAC standoff||India on Thursday called for further discussions with China to reach a “mutually acceptable solution” on complete disengagement at all friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) against the backdrop of the nearly eight-month border standoff. The eighth and most recent round of talks between senior military commanders of India and China was held at Chushul along the LAC on November 6, and the two sides haven’t held any discussions since then as they were unable to bridge reported differences on pulling back troops and armoured vehicles at key friction points. “It is our expectation that the further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. Also Read: India welcomes normalisation of ties by Israel and Morocco, calls for talks with PalestiniansResponding to a question on possible talks with China either between diplomats or military officials, Srivastava said several rounds of discussions held so far had led to better understanding on both sides. “The two sides continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. These discussions have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other’s positions,” he said. India and China recently blamed each other for the situation along the LAC, where tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in for the winter. New Delhi has maintained that attempts by Chinese troops to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC and violation of several agreements for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the disputed border triggered the standoff. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on December 9 that China had given “five differing explanations” for deploying thousands of soldiers on the LAC and pushing bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever. He also said ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements. In response to another question regarding media reports that a member of the Communist Party of China (CPC) was hired by the Indian consulate in Shanghai through a Chinese state-owned recruitment agency, Srivastava said the ministry wasn’t in a position to independently verify the information. “In certain countries, the hiring of local staff requires the approval of local authorities. However, all our missions and posts ensure due security precautions in this regard,” he added. Also Read: Centre modifies hilly road width citing India-China border link, impacts Char Dham roadChinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement that such allegations of “CPC infiltration” were groundless and made out of “ideological prejudice”. She added: “The members of the CPC are not ‘monsters’...It is absolutely ridiculous and wantonly smearing to maliciously label CPC members [for] ‘espionage’.” Responding to another question on Indian crew members of cargo vessels stranded at Chinese ports due to the China-Australia trade row, Srivastava said 23 Indian nationals were on board the MV Jag Anand, anchored near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13, and another 16 Indian nationals were on board MV Anastasia, anchored near Caofeidian port since September 20. Both vessels were waiting to discharge their cargo. Chinese authorities have said crew change is not permitted at these ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions, and owners of shipping companies and receivers of the cargo were made aware of the delay in unloading the cargo. “The government continues to be in regular touch with Chinese authorities to seek a resolution of these issues at the earliest and to ensure the humanitarian needs of the crew are taken care of,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-further-talks-with-china-for-mutually-acceptable-solution-to-lac-standoff/story-eWtY8CaOi0OjgjSbZgnfTL.html
17-12-2020||India||IAF flying officer stabbed after brawl in Guwahati pub||An Indian Air Force (IAF) flying officer was allegedly stabbed by an unidentified person outside a pub in Guwahati, police confirmed on Thursday. The incident took place on Sunday on Guwahati’s busy Guwahati-Shillong Road after the officer and four of his companions (also from the defence forces) had an argument with two civilians inside the microbrewery-cum-pub. The two persons were reportedly evicted by the pub’s employees after the argument. But after the IAF officer and his friends came out of the pub sometime later, the two of them engaged in a brawl with the group in which the officer was injured. The officer was shifted to a private hospital located nearby where he was treated for his wounds. According to the police, the officer is stable and is out of danger. “An FIR regarding the incident was filed by the officer on December 14. We have started our investigations. The two persons involved in the brawl have not been identified yet, but we hope to do so very soon,” said Prafulla Das, in-charge of Dispur police station. Police are going through video footage of events inside the pub and trying to identify the two civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-flying-officer-stabbed-after-brawl-in-guwahati-pub/story-AHfpscpcvvXcm0JL1UhdaM.html
17-12-2020||India||India welcomes normalisation of ties by Israel and Morocco, calls for talks with Palestinians||India on Thursday welcomed the normalisation of ties between Israel and Morocco and reiterated its call for talks between the Israeli and Palestinian sides to find an acceptable two-state solution. Morocco had on December 10 announced the partial normalisation of ties with Israel, including direct flights, the resumption of official contacts and diplomatic relations and the reopening of liaison offices in the two countries. King Mohammed VI of Morocco had also backed a two-state solution through negotiations between the Palestinians and Israelis. The US, which brokered the understanding, in turn recognised Morocco’s sovereignty over the disputed Western Sahara region. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing that India has always supported peace, stability and development in the region. “In that context, we welcome the normalisation of ties between Morocco and Israel. We have very good relations with both countries,” he said. “India continues with its traditional support for the Palestinian cause. We hope to see early resumption of direct negotiations to find an acceptable two-state solution,” he added. Morocco is the fourth Arab country to set aside hostilities with Israel in the past four months with US help. Israel has also normalised relations with the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Sudan. India has also welcomed a recent decision for resumption of coordination between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, and urged the leadership of both sides to use the opportunity to resume direct negotiations to advance the goal of a two-state solution. Such a solution envisages the establishment of an independent Palestinian state alongside Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-welcomes-normalisation-of-ties-by-israel-and-morocco-calls-for-talks-with-palestinians/story-kP2XY6zflnFHzAD6lw3gwN.html
17-12-2020||India||Consultation with Supreme Court lawyers, panchayat: What farmers are planning now||As the Supreme Court on Thursday commented on the ongoing protests of the farmers at several border points of the Capital, and said it won’t interfere in the protest at this stage, the farmers’ unions which are spearheading the protests have decided that further course of action will be taken only after a proper and thorough consultation.Here are the latest developments> Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said discussion will be held with panchayat.> Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh national coordinator KV Biju said his union has decided to consult four senior Supreme Court lawyers — Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves.> The protest will go on as planned as the Supreme Court on Thursday said the protest should be allowed as long as it is peaceful and there is no damage.> The Supreme Court was hearing a PIL filed against the huge gathering of the farmers.> Advocate General of India KK Venugopal, during the hearing, raised the Covid-19 threat issue as none of the protesters is wearing the mask, the AG said.> There was no representation from the farmers’ side — both on Thursday and Friday.> On Thursday, one of the farmers’ unions said setting up a new committee will not result in a breakthrough as the farmers want consultation only on the condition of withdrawing the laws.On Thursday, a 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border. Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, a BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consultation-with-supreme-court-lawyers-panchayat-what-farmers-are-planning-now/story-OJDz9SrOh884x8Rs9Qk65J.html
17-12-2020||India||PM Modi, Sheikh Hasina launch 5th rail link connecting India and Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina on Thursday launched the fifth rail link connecting both nations during a virtual bilateral summit. The 10.5 km long rail link connecting Haldibari in West Bengal to Chilahati in Bangladesh is expected to further strengthen people to people contact and boost trade between the two neighbours. A goods train was flagged off by Bangladesh’s railway minister Md Nurul Islam Sujan from Chilahati and it entered the Indian side after crossing the international border, said a release issued by Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). At present there are four other operational rail links between both countries. They are, Petrapole (India)-Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede (India)-Darshana (Bangladesh), Singhabad (India)-Rohanpur (Bangladesh) and Radhikapur (India)-Birol (Bangladesh). The rail link, 3.5 km of which is on the Indian side and the rest in Bangaldesh, was operational till 1965 and was part of the broad-gauge rail route from Kolkata to Siliguri during partition. But the link got disconnected in 1965 after the war with Pakistan. Reopening of the train link is part of the joint declaration in the inter-government railway meeting between both countries at New Delhi in 2015. Indian Railways restored the broad-gauge link from Haldibari till the international border at a cost of Rs 82.72 crore while the Bangaldesh railways upgraded the section from Chilahati to the border. “The newly opened rail link will enhance rail network accessibility to the main ports, dry ports and land borders to support growth in regional trade and to encourage economic and social development of the region,” the NFR release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-sheikh-hasina-launch-5th-rail-link-connecting-india-and-bangladesh/story-E38gq6llodxXgpqWCetZDI.html
17-12-2020||India||Maoists, opposing road construction in Odisha, kill contractor||A contractor, engaged in road construction in a remote area of Odisha’s Malkangiri district, was on Thursday hacked to death by Maoists who were opposed to the work, police said.Around 20 armed Maoists stormed the construction site near Dangriguda and set ablaze three vehicles, and machines used in the work, undertaken by contractor Sukumar Mandal, said RN Majhi, the inspector in-charge of Mathili police station.As the contractor tried to resist, the Maoists thrashed him using sticks and then hacked him to death with an axe, the officer said.The Maoists, who have been opposing the construction of roads in the area for the last few months, left a handwritten poster at the site, police said They were opposing the road construction as it would facilitate the movement of vehicles of security forces, Majhi said.Police and BSF personnel rushed to the site after the incident and launched a combing operation to trace the Maoists, police said.An investigation into the killing is underway, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-opposing-road-construction-in-odisha-kill-contractor/story-JFJFErbKycnRjJ1ourUqPP.html
17-12-2020||India||Will provide whatever ‘friend’ India needs to defend itself: Israel ambassador Ron Malka||Israel won’t be found wanting in meeting India’s requirements to defend itself against all challenges and hostilities though such cooperation is not directed against any other country, Israeli ambassador Ron Malka has said. The normalisation of ties between Israel and key West Asian states such as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain presents new opportunities for trilateral cooperation with India in areas such as trade and technology, Malka said in an interview. In an effort to boost cooperation with India in water management, an area in which Israel possesses the world’s leading technologies and expertise, the country will soon post a “water attaché” at its embassy in New Delhi and undertake an end-to-end project covering 25 villages in a semi-arid region of Uttar Pradesh focused on conservation, purification, recharging groundwater and irrigation techniques, he said. Responding to a question on whether India had made any emergency requests for defence equipment amid the border standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Malka said: “Since we have a strong friendship, whatever India needs from Israel to defend itself, we are there and available to India because this is how we manage our friendships and especially a precious friendship like with India. “But I have to stress that we are not against anyone, we have enough [problems of our own], so we are not against anyone but we are in favour of India...and we also trust India and the bold and strong leadership of India, that India knows how to manage its affairs wisely.” He added, “You don’t need us for that, you just need us to share with you the experience and practices since we share similar challenges and similar hostilities. So of course, there is so much we can share but we are not against anyone but only very strongly in favour of India.” India-Israel defence cooperation has advanced from a buyer-seller relationship to a key strategic partnership, Malka said. “We are working on a regular basis with India, sharing research and development, information and experience,” he said. Referring to the Abraham Accords and Israel’s normalisation of ties with the UAE, Bahrain and Morocco, Malka said this has opened new doors for trilateral cooperation. “Given the fact that Israel and the UAE are defined as key strategic partners of India, those distant partners now form relations...and I understand there is a big opportunity for India.” This atmosphere for normalising relations was reflected in the recent decision by Israel and Bhutan to establish diplomatic relations, he said. “Israel is trying to make as many friends as we can, it is part of our vision and values...There have been bilateral relations between Israel and Bhutan for many, many years, this warm friendship matured to the stage that we decided to formalise and start a formal relationship between the nations,” he added.Israel, the UAE and India are all focused on innovation and technology, and each country brings “comparative advantages to the table” and a lot of “added value to each other”. Malka pointed out that the Indo-Israeli Chambers of Commerce had opened an international office in Dubai because of the huge potential in trilateral collaboration and identified water security, food security and healthcare as potential areas for cooperation. The three countries will work together “to make each other more self-reliant because if there is one lesson that we learnt from this pandemic, every country should be more self-reliant”, he said. To give fresh impetus to Israel’s efforts aimed at water management in India, Israeli foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi has cleared a long-standing proposal to post a “water attaché” at the embassy in New Delhi. “We have signed a MoU with Uttar Pradesh for a flagship water project that will bring in Israel’s holistic approach for water and agriculture, we are going to work in a semi-arid area with 25 villages on both sides of the equation – the sources and the uses of water – to make it very efficient,” Malka said. A feasibility study for the project will soon be carried out. “It will be successful because it’s a proven concept in Israel. After we finish that, we can just replicate it in many places,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-provide-whatever-friend-india-needs-to-defend-itself-israel-ambassador-ron-malka/story-89hqXs9wFFR02CmA7D6CCN.html
17-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Isro’s K Sivan says next PSLV launch for Indian space startups and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion . Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Next PSLV launch to carry 3 satellites made by Indian start-upsAfter the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C50) successfully placed the communications satellite CMS 01 in orbit on Thursday, ISRO chairperson K Sivan announced that the next mission of the dependable rocket would carry satellites developed by Indian space start-ups and companies. Read moreSwitching sides: ‘History is repeating itself in West Bengal,’ says oppositionEven as Trinamool Congress supremo, Mamata Banerjee is crying foul and alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party has nibbled into her party, opposition leaders and political experts said it was the TMC which had started the practice of defection. Read morePM Modi’s virtual address to MP farmers to be telecast live across 23k villagesPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers virtually in a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan of Madhya Pradesh on Friday, a day after hundreds of farmers from the state started foot march from Morena to support the farmers’ protest in the national capital demanding repeal of three central farm laws. Read more‘Consider cancelling Christmas’: Priti Patel tells Britons to play it safe as pandemic ragesUK home secretary Priti Patel on Thursday urged Britons to consider cancelling plans for Christmas if it means travelling long distances to meet friends and family, given the rising numbers of Covid-19 cases and the prospect that the festive period could lead to a spike in January. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Sunil Gavaskar reacts after openers Prithvi Shaw, Mayank Agarwal flop in AdelaideSunil Gavaskar was not impressed with the performances of India openers Prithvi Shaw and Mayank Agarwal in the first innings of the first Test against Australia in Adelaide on Thursday. Read moreThe Stand review: Sprawling Stephen King adaptation collapses under its own weightIt’s difficult to gauge a show’s quality based on just four episodes — it’s like trying to understand a song after listening to just one verse, or a book on the basis of a couple of chapters. But only four episodes of The Stand were provided for this review, and that’s what we’ll have to work with. Read moreAsus ZenBook Flip S review: Minor sacrifices, major gains“With great 2-in-1 comes great productivity.” We just made that up. But that isn’t a lie as some OEMs are not able to make full use of this form factor and push it to its real potential. Read moreCanada declares Santa Claus as an essential worker, people applaudKids in Canada can rejoice because the country’s top doctor informed that Santa Claus is now an essential worker. The Chief Public Health Officer of Canada, Dr Theresa Tam, shared a video of her online conversation with Father Christmas where she declared the happy news to the kids. Read moreWatch: ISRO launches India’s 42nd communication satellite CMS-01ISRO launched the country’s 42nd communication satellite named CMS-01. This is the second satellite launched by ISRO amid Covid-19 pandemic. CMS-01 is envisaged to provide services in the Extended-C Band of frequency spectrum. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-next-pslv-launch-to-carry-3-satellites-made-by-indian-start-ups-and-all-the-latest-news/story-C8fMcwYoEEOUvJ1CQxX4uI.html
17-12-2020||India||NCB issues notice to Karan Johar over 2019’s viral party video||The Narcotics Control Bureau on Thursday issued a notice to filmmaker Karan Johar, seeking details of the parties he organised. There has been no date mentioned in the notice and Karan may not need to appear in the NCB office in person. He has been asked to send his response and produce documents/electronic evidence, with regard to the viral video of his party, which triggered a huge drug controversy long before the agency started its probe into Bollywood’s link with drug mafias following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. In 2019, Karan Johar had hosted a party, a video of which went viral claiming that most of those attending the party were in an inebriated state. Deepika Padukone, Malaika Arora, Arjun Kapoor, Vicky Kaushal were among the stars present at the party and in the viral video. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Manjinder Singh attacked Karan over the video and asked police to take cognizance of the party where drugs were allegedly being used.  #UDTABollywood - Fiction Vs RealityWatch how the high and mighty of Bollywood proudly flaunt their drugged state!! I raise my voice against #DrugAbuse by these stars. RT if you too feel disgusted @shahidkapoor @deepikapadukone @arjunk26 @Varun_dvn @karanjohar @vickykaushal09 pic.twitter.com/aBiRxwgQx9In September this year, Sirsa approached the Narcotics Control Bureau with respect to the viral video, after the agency started its probe in Bollywood drug link and arrested Sushant Rajput’s friend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. Both of them are now out on bail, but the probe is going on and several Bollywood personalities have been interrogated by NCB in the last few months.On several occasions, Karan Johar talked about the video in the last one year. “There were achieving members of the industry who were having an easy night out after a hard week of work, having a good time. I took that video with all the earnestness... would I be putting out that video if there was anything happening at all, I am not stupid,” he said in an interview.After the NCB interrogated and arrested Kshitij Ravi Prasad in the drug case, the name of Johar and the old video surfaced. Kshitij was associated with Dharma Productions’ sister concern Dharmatic Entertainment.In September this year, Karan Johar issued a statement distancing from Kshitij and reiterating that no drug was consumed at the party. “In view of the current malicious campaign. I am reiterating that the allegations are completely, baseless and false. No narcotics substance was consumed in the party. I WOULD LIKE TO UNEQUIVOCALLY ONCE AGAIN STATE THAT I DO NOT CONSUME NARCOTICS AND I DO NOT PROMOTE OR ENCOURAGE CONSUMPTION OF ANY SUCH SUBSTANCE,” he had said in a statement on Instagram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bollywood-drug-probe-ncb-issues-notice-to-karan-johar-regarding-his-party-s-viral-video/story-2f6u3Rcv7pkHzlBEt2ENaK.html
17-12-2020||India||Domestic tourism to be mainstay of tourism industry in post-Covid times: Prahlad Patel||Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel on Thursday said domestic tourism would be the mainstay of the tourism industry in post-Covid times, highlighting the need to identify and promote unexplored and little known destinations in the country.Speaking at two separate events organised by industry bodies ASSOCHAM and CII, Patel said the ministry is looking to promote medical tourism and geo tourism in a big way.“Corona is almost over now and whatever damage it had to do has happened. During this period, our steps brought a lot of good name for the country. Even foreigners preferred to stay back here and felt safe. Now the post-corona situation is one where our system of medicine, local cure and wellness methods are what could be best suited to deal with it. After corona, medical tourism is expected to rise and we must be prepared for this opportunity.“Domestic tourism is the future. Unexplored, unexploited destinations have to be identified and promoted. Also, people are now preferring to go to tiger projects and other serene places to be with nature and not just big hotels, who will continue to have their own importance and preference for international events etc.,” he said at the ASSOCHAM’s virtual session on “Reviving the stressed sectors to support the post-Covid recovery for India”.Rupinder Brar, Additional Director General, Ministry of Tourism, in her address, highlighted how domestic tourism grew from 128 crore to 2,322 crore visitors between 2014 and 2019, and has the potential to grow further.“Domestic tourism is now happening in a more organic fashion as an organised vertical and has a lot of potential. India’s natural heritage has been rated the sixth greatest in the world by the World Economic Forum. In the post-Covid recovery, I would like to say that we truly are a blessed land. Having said that, we are not forgetting the global market too,” she said.Speaking at the valedictory session of the CII’s annual tourism summit here, Patel reiterated the importance of domestic tourism and said the steps taken by the government during Covid have led to a change in the perception of India in the world.“We need to look at what our role will be after the Covid pandemic is over and it is our responsibility that we meet our pre-Covid level position. The government is working on initiatives like a medical and wellness tourism board, guide training, skilling and Dekho Apna Desh,” he said.Patel said the ministry has changed its publicity campaign by highlighting not just the destination, but the path leading to it as well. “Every stakeholder, whether private or government, will be promoted if they are contributing to the tourism industry. The ministry is open to suggestions on how to improve things. Also, we are as much a stakeholder in the sector as everyone else and if the industry does well, we will too,” he said.It was indicated at the CII session that assessments based on recent demand projections state that the return to pre-Covid levels of international travel will be by the end of financial year 2024 and the sector will see a dip of about 90 per cent in financial year 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-tourism-to-be-mainstay-of-tourism-industry-in-post-covid-times-prahlad-patel/story-XW4ovtSQx7s7kFfiL4tuUJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Chennai-Port Blair flight carries passengers instead of cargo, airline faces action||In a serious violation of norms, GoAir’s Chennai to Port Blair flight on December 15 and 16 flew without the requisite permissions in place to operate the flights. The budget carrier’s flight was scheduled as a cargo flight but, violating rules, the airline booked passengers and operated both of them as commercial flights leading to its return. Airports Authority of India (AAI) sources said the flight had reached Port Blair when it was denied permission to land.One of the passengers, Chirag Tamakuwala, who had to land back in Chennai due to the blunder took to Twitter. His tweet read, “@goairlinesindia http://GoAir.in flight #G8 1305 from Chennai to Port Blair couldn’t get permission to land at Port Blair due to any reasons. Passengers are stuck at Chennai Airport Runway. Please help.” A GoAir spokesperson confirmed the air turn-back but did not reveal details. “GoAir flight G8 1305 from Chennai to Port Blair did an air turn back/diversion due to operational reasons and landed in Chennai with 160 passengers on board. GoAir has taken utmost care and rendered all the requisite assistance to the passengers. The airline sincerely regrets the inconvenience caused to the passengers.”Also read: Farmers protest at this stage should be allowed, observes SCViral Patel, a businessman from Gujarat, tweeted on Wednesday, “@goairlinesindia WHAT you did to us yesterday IS PATHETIC while going from Chennai to Port Blair. You fool us you cheaters @MoCA_GoI @jagograhakjago my PNR from GoAir is I9D4UW. They board consumer flight and told a&n auth. that it’s CARGO FLIGHT.WE ALL STUCK AT CHENNAI AIRPORT. We want to file complaint about this and want them to punish them.”Arun Kumar, director-general of Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the regulatory agency is investigating the matter. Relevant documents available with HT confirm that the airline is permitted to operate only cargo flights on Tuesday and Wednesday between Chennai and Port Blair airports until March 24, 2021. “The flight schedule implies that the airline, in this case, had to operate as cargo flights for December 15 and 16. However, on both these dates, the flight was sold as a passenger flight on both the days and hence it was denied the permission to land in Port Blair,” said the source.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-port-blair-flight-carries-passengers-instead-of-cargo-airline-faces-action/story-01NbYIsJSiqZbGbxfkULSJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Innovation has shifted towards OTT shows, Saurabh Tewari||Content creator, producer and director Saurabh Tewari feels that content-driven innovation which used to happen on TV, has shifted towards the OTT platform. The Lucknowite has shot his series ‘Jackson’ in his hometown for 40 days.“Unfortunately, innovation has stopped happening on TV and I don’t think, even with falling ratings, broadcasters are still ready to change their approach. The problem today is that people from a business background have taken over and writers and creative persons are in the backseat. Sequels are the best example of this!” said the maker of shows like ‘Madhubala’ and ‘Rangrasia’. He feels creativity is happening in the digital space. “Storytellers, scriptwriters and creative content makers are doing more digital content and that’s the reason innovation is happening in the OTT space.” Tewari started in 2004 as writer with ‘Siddhant’ then turned creative-programming head and from 2012 an independent producer. Currently, his show ‘Pinjra Khoobsoorti Ka’ is on-air on TV. “We are producing it but I am not creatively involved. I have started realising that I started repeating my stories which was an alarming call for me. I have nothing against TV but my new stories are not suiting the medium. I am done with my phase with creating TV shows.”After ‘Jackson’ he will be directing another OTT series and producing a film that will be shot in London. He feels happy with family-oriented shows like ‘Scam-1992’, ‘Panchayat’ and ‘Gullak’ getting huge success. “With family-oriented content getting huge success, digital shows are getting more viewership. Like, ‘Jackson’ is a love thriller and it has zero sexuality and nudity. Since it is set in the North, it will surely have some words which may be a bit abusive but they are an integral part of script and characterisation.”Saurabh has also directed the TV show ‘Krishna Chali London’ and web-series ‘Chinese Bhasad’ in Lucknow. During the shooting, he contracted the novel coronavirus. “I was the only person to contract the virus but I was asymptomatic. I quarantined myself and after full recovery resumed shooting. It got a little scary but with God’s grace all is well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/innovation-has-shifted-towards-ott-shows-saurabh-tewari/story-oOb5fRynsTA5cczWt5DUhM.html
17-12-2020||India||India, Sri Lanka to discuss release of detained Indian fishermen at meet on Dec 30||India and Sri Lanka will hold a virtual meeting of their joint working group on fisheries on December 30 that will take up the issue of the recent apprehension of 36 Indian fishermen and seizure of five fishing vessels by the Sri Lankan Navy. The established bilateral mechanisms for discussions and cooperation on the issue of fishermen could not be convened because of Covid-19-related restrictions and the two sides have now mutually agreed to hold a meeting of the joint working group at the end of the month, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing on Thursday. The government attaches “high priority” to the issue of the apprehension of Indian fishermen and seizure of their vessels by the Sri Lankan Navy on December 14 and 15, which was also reported by the government of Tamil Nadu, he said. “We are in close touch with the government of Sri Lanka through our high commission in Colombo and the consulate in Jaffna to verify the information and to ensure consular access and facilitate the early release of the fishermen and their boats,” he added. The issue of fishermen and the seized fishing vessels have been on the agenda of discussions between India and Sri Lanka for many years, and the two governments have been “seized of this essentially humanitarian matter at high levels”. Srivastava said: “There exists a common understanding to handle the matter in a humanitarian manner.” The joint working group, led on the Indian side by the secretary of the department of fisheries, is expected to address all issues related to fisheries between India and Sri Lanka, including release of apprehended fishermen and fishing boats, modalities of communication between relevant authorities on the two sides, cooperation in dealing with issues related to livelihood of fishing communities and other matters, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sri-lanka-to-discuss-release-of-detained-indian-fishermen-at-meet-on-dec-30/story-g9AOnQOQDRu2FDw6HZPRJI.html
17-12-2020||India||Next PSLV launch to carry 3 satellites made by Indian start-ups||After the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C50) successfully placed the communications satellite CMS 01 in orbit on Thursday, ISRO chairperson K Sivan announced that the next mission of the dependable rocket would carry satellites developed by Indian space start-ups and companies.This comes just six months after the government announced the opening up of the space sector to private players with the inception of Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe).“The next PSLV mission is special for the entire country. Recently, we have brought the space reform and unlocked India’s potential in the space sector initiated by the government of India. Now, the first satellite by a start-up called Pixxel India called Anand which is an Earth Observation Satellite will be launched on PSLV C51. Along with Anand, two more satellites under the space reform are going to be launched – one by Space Kidz India and another by a university consortium called UnitySat,” said Sivan after the launch of CMS 01.Also read: Farmers protest should be allowed, observes SCThe satellite by Pixxel India is the first in a series of constellation of Earth Observation Satellites that will provide global coverage every 24-hour; enabling organisations to detect and monitor global phenomenon in near real-time. The data will be available on an Artificial Intelligence-based platform, making the extraction of the data easy. It will have uses in agriculture, forestry, urban monitoring, and climate.As for Space Kidz India, this will be their second satellite to be launched by ISRO. Their first KalamSat was the first student-made satellite to be launched by ISRO using the fourth stage of the PSLV as the platform for the first time.Apart from the PSLV-C51 mission, the Indian Space Research Organisation is also gearing up for the maiden flight of the small satellite launch vehicle. The SSLV will have the capacity to launch a light 500-kilogram satellite in the lower Earth orbit.Also read: Kejriwal is ‘new chameleon’, says Lekhi after CM tore copies of farm billsThe new rocket will cost about Rs 30 crore, compared to the Rs1 20 crore it costs to manufacture the currently used PSLV. It can also be assembled by a team of six within seven days, in comparison to a team of 600 people and a few months that takes to assemble a PSLV. The SSLV has been developed by ISRO mainly for commercial launches.The chairman also assured that work was ongoing on the big-ticket missions.“We have lot of work on hand; there are missions like Chandrayaan 3, Aditya L1 and Gaganyaan for which activities are going on. We will have the missions at the earliest. As usual, team ISRO will rise to the occasion and do the needful to meet the demand by the Indian government,” said Sivan.Chandrayaan 3 would be just a lander-rover mission which will use the existing India orbiter from Chandrayaan 2 mission to communicate with Earth. The Chandrayaan 3 mission was announced after the failure of the previous mission to attempt a soft-landing. It was to take place in late 2020 or early 2021, a deadline ISRO is likely to miss due to the pandemic.Aditya-L1 is India’s first solar mission which will see a satellite travel 1.5 million kilometres away from Earth to the L1 point. The L1 or Lagrangian point, between the Earth and the Sun, is where the gravitational pull of both the bodies on the satellite is equal to centripetal force needed to keep it in orbit.As for Ganganyaan mission, which aims to place Indian astronauts in low earth orbit, the first of the two planned unmanned mission was to take place in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-pslv-launch-to-carry-3-satellites-made-by-indian-start-ups/story-EFd5k8XIht3jjgXJy2qM8O.html
17-12-2020||India||Assamese people will get a govt of their dreams in 2021: AJP’s 1st president Lurinjyoti Gogoi||A day after officially joining the party, former All Assam Students Union (AASU) general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi on Thursday took charge as the president of the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). The student-leader-turned-politician was entrusted the responsibility of leading the new regional party, which aims to espouse rights of indigenous Assamese, at the outfit’s first political convention in Sivasagar. “The aspirations of Assam and Assamese people aren’t safe with national parties. We have been duped and exploited for long. The only way to safeguard our interests is to have a platform which believes strong regionalism,” said Gogoi in his maiden address after taking charge. “I want to assure people of Assam that in 2021 we will get a regional government. It will be a government that represents the dreams of the people of Assam. No one can stop this journey,” he added. Former minister Jagadish Bhuyan has been made the party’s general secretary and Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) MLA from Patacharkuchi Pabindra Deka, who resigned from his old party earlier this week and joined AJP, was made the working president. The party, which was formed by AASU and Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad-two of the biggest student organizations in Assam-also appointed 11 vice-presidents and a same number of joint secretaries, organizations secretaries and secretaries. The convention adopted the party’s constitution and also adopted a 19-point political resolution which outlined AJP’s views on various issues including repealing of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), verification of National Register of Citizens (NRC) and implementation of Clause 6 of Assam Accord of 1985. AJP is the second political party to be formed by AASU after Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), which came into being in 1985 after signing of the Assam Accord that ended the six-year-long anti-foreigners agitation--in which both AASU and AJYCP played a key role. Both organizations had spearheaded the anti-CAA stir in the state opposing the Centre’s move to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan—which many in Assam feared would lead to large scale influx of Bangladeshis to the state. Incidentally, AJP isn’t the only political party that would make its debut in the next assembly polls. Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), another outfit which spearheaded the anti-CAA stir has also formed a political party called Raijor Dal. The outfit’s leader Akhil Gogoi, is at present in jail since last December last year for his role in the anti-CAA stir. In his speech, Gogoi, urged all regional parties of Assam to come together and defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the next polls. He also called for unconditional release of the KMSS leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assamese-people-will-get-a-govt-of-their-dreams-in-2021-ajp-s-1st-president-lurinjyoti-gogoi/story-GwqPhgIvKeYxrbU1C3GrYN.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Was not allowed to speak': Rahul Gandhi to Lok Sabha speaker on exit from Parliamentary panel meet||Amid political furore surrounding his exit from the Parliamentary panel meet, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and said that he was not allowed to speak freely in the meeting. Gandhi has sought the speaker’s intervention in the matter, citing the right of an elected member of Parliament to speak freely and the need to protect it. The Congress leader and Wayanad MP exited the Parliamentary panel meet on Wednesday along with the members of his party, sparking a wave of political backlash, alleging that the panel’s time was being wasted in discussing armed forces’ uniform instead of the crucial issue of national security.Gandhi , according to people familiar with the proceedings, expressed an opinion that such matters were best left for the forces to discuss and suggested that the panel focus on more substantive issues. The chairman of the panel, Jual Oram, then asked Gandhi to stick to the agenda of the day, listed as “an introduction to the rank, structure of the Defence forces including their uniforms, stars and badges, and review of working of cantonment boards”.Gandhi, in his letter, also said the Speaker, being the custodian of Parliament, should ensure that the discussions and presentations in the panel on defence are in consonance with its role and objectives.     “Sir, as Speaker of the Lok Sabha and custodian of the House, I urge you to intervene and ensure that the discussion and presentations held in the defence committee are in consonance with the role and objective of the institution and that the right of elected MP’s to speak freely is protected,” the Congress leader wrote.Gandhi also raised the issue of Galwan clash from May this year and said, “You are aware that we are currently facing a serious national security challenge on our borders and that China has forcibly occupied our territory and martyred 20 of our soldiers. There are many critical matters to discuss at a time like this.”“It is the right of a member to point out digressions from the agenda and the purpose of the Standing Committee. The Committee is free to disagree with what I say, but the fact that the Chairman does not even permit a member to speak is a sad comment on how the government handles military affairs.He expressed his dismay over the contents of the meeting and the manner in which it was conducted and said it is meant to provide legislative oversight on the policies and decisions of the defence ministry, it being the premier interface between the defence forces and elected representatives. The former Congress chief said he was extremely disturbed to find that the Chief of Defence Staff and the top brass of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who have important matters to deal with, had been asked by the chairman to spend an entire afternoon explaining the colours and different types of uniforms and insignia worn by different ranks in our forces.The meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Army Vice Chief Satinder Kumar Saini and Defence Secretary Arun Kumar. According to some of the members, Rajya Sabha member Lt Gen (retired) DP Vats was asking the officers why the Indian defence establishment couldn’t have a uniform rank system, that is same designations in the Army, Navy and Air Force like the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-not-allowed-to-speak-rahul-gandhi-to-lok-sabha-speaker-on-exit-from-parliamentary-panel-meet/story-OoSetggPBwLUxX3ByHnmoO.html
17-12-2020||India||Won’t interfere with farmers’ protest at this stage, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it won’t interfere with the farmers’ protest at this stage that has been going on at several border points of Delhi for the last three weeks. The protest should be allowed to continue without impediment, it said. “We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police,” the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde said.On December 16, when the public interest litigation was taken up by the Supreme Court bench, the bench wanted to hear the agitating farmers. However, one of the impleaded respondents-farmers’ associations appeared on Thursday.“The preliminary issue before this court is the claim of the citizen who are the residents of NCT of Delhi/Haryana, having a population of more than two million people, that the manner in which the protest is being carried on is seriously inhibiting the supply of essential goods to the city because of restrictions on the free movement of goods vehicles,” the apex court said.“We clarify that this Court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order,” it said.As long as the protest is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law, there can be no impediment in farmers exercising their rights to protest, the court observed. On finding a way out, the top court mentioned a committee of experts in its order. But this may not be possible without hearing all the necessary parties, it observed. “Till the parties come before us, it would be advisable to obtain suggestions about the constitution of the said committee from all the parties which may be submitted on the date of next hearing,” it said.“List these matters after the ensuing winter vacation with liberty to move the vacation Bench if necessary, after service is complete,” the order said.During the hearing, the court asked Advocate General of India KK Venugopal whether the farm laws can be put on hold as long as the court is hearing the case.When the AG pointed out that if the laws are not implemented, then farmers will not come for further talks, the court said the move is to ensure that the farmers are open to further talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-interfere-with-farmers-protest-at-this-stage-says-sc/story-CZyhbmHjbbJBo5DcN9ZNKO.html
17-12-2020||India||‘I come from farming family,’ Tomar writes open letter to farmers; PM Modi urges to read||Amid the ongoing protest of the farmers which is completing 22nd day on Thursday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar wrote an open letter addressing the farmers where he said that misunderstanding had been created among some farmer groups regarding the reforms.“Several farm unions have welcomed the reforms and are happy,” Tomar said adding that there were farmers from some regions who had already stared availing the benefits of these reforms. He further urged farmers to not get influenced by those who were spreading lies for political selfishness. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar writes an open letter to farmers over the new farm laws. He writes, "Misunderstanding has been created among some farmers' unions regarding these laws". pic.twitter.com/KiNsW043Rz“As the agriculture minister of the country, my duty is to dispel farmers’ misconceptions, to make every farmer of this country tension-free. It is my duty to expose the conspiracy being hatched to create a wall between the farmers and the Centre,” he wrote in Hindi.Also Read: Kejriwal is ‘new chameleon’, says Meenakshi Lekhi after CM tore copies of farm bills“I am from a farming family. I have grown up seeing, understanding the challenges of farming. I have seen the distress of untimely rain, the happiness of timely monsoon. These were parts of my growing up. I have also seen the week-long wait to sell crops,” the agriculture minister wrote.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Tomar had expressed his feelings through this letter and urged all farmers to read it.  कृषि मंत्री @nstomar जी ने किसान भाई-बहनों को पत्र लिखकर अपनी भावनाएं प्रकट की हैं, एक विनम्र संवाद करने का प्रयास किया है। सभी अन्नदाताओं से मेरा आग्रह है कि वे इसे जरूर पढ़ें। देशवासियों से भी आग्रह है कि वे इसे ज्यादा से ज्यादा लोगों तक पहुंचाएं। https://t.co/9B4d5pyUF1Here are the key points of Tomar’s letter:1. The system of MSP, APMC will not be stopped.2. Farmers’ lands are not in danger. The agreement will be for crops, not for land.3. The price of produce will be determined in the farming agreement.4. Farmers will be able to end contract whenever they want.5. Contract farming is already there. Many states have introduced it. Many states have laws regarding contract farming.6. There have been consultations for two decades before the laws were passed.Earlier in the day, Tomar met Union home minister Amit Shah and Union railway minister Piyush Goyal at the BJP headquarters to discuss the farmers’ issues.Also Read: Won’t interfere with farmers’ protest at this stage, says Supreme CourtThe agriculture minister on Wednesday had thanked farmers of Madhya Pradesh for supporting the reforms brought in the month of September. PM Modi is set to hold a virtual conference on Friday with farmers from Madhya Pradesh where Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the BJP-led state government.Five rounds of talks have been held between representatives of farmer groups and the Centre which remained inconclusive. Farmers for several weeks have been camping at border points in the national capital seeking the removal of the reforms. In a major development, the Supreme Court said on Thursday that it won’t interfere with the ongoing agitation at this stage.“We’re of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment & without any breach of peace either by the protesters or police,” the apex court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomar-writes-open-letter-to-farmers-says-misunderstanding-created-regarding-reforms/story-rMono1UvhISTvdVNmM1HSM.html
17-12-2020||India||Labourer stabbed by fellow worker for refusing to give extra onions for salad||A daily wage labourer has been arrested here for allegedly stabbing his fellow worker multiple times when one of them asked for extra onions for salad while having dinner, police said on Thursday.On December 8, the accused Riyasat Ali (59) along with Pawan (60) came to SB Farm in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri for working at a godown. After work, the duo along with others sat for dinner during which a heated argument took place between Ali and Pawan over sharing onion salad, a senior police officer said.According to police, Ali asked Pawan for some extra onions, but Pawan said there were hardly any onions left. In a fit of rage, Ali stabbed Pawan multiple times with a kitchen knife lying next to him.Ali left the spot after Pawan fell unconscious, a senior police officer said.“We were informed about an incident of stabbing at Fatehpur Beri. On reaching the spot, it was revealed that the injured was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre by CATS ambulance. The hospital said the patient was stabbed multiple times near his stomach due to which his intestine and other inner body organs were exposed completely,” Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), said.The patient was in a very serious condition, but is stated to be out of danger now, he said.A case of attempt to murder was registered and an investigation was taken up in the matter, the officer said.During the investigation, CCTV cameras near the place of the incident were checked and multiple raids were conducted. More than 500 labourers were verified at different places and the photograph of the accused was shown to them, the DCP said.Later, the accused was picked up from a footpath at Labour Camp Company near the Old Delhi Railway Station, he added.The police also seized the weapon used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/labourer-stabbed-by-fellow-worker-for-refusing-to-give-extra-onions-for-salad/story-CSyyN40ScCQCRaeZAUW37N.html
17-12-2020||India||Special NIA court convicts Chennai-based engineer in ISIS conspiracy case||A special court of the National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Wednesday sentenced and convicted Tamil Nadu-based engineer Mohamed Naser Packeer for seven years of rigorous imprisonment in an Islamic State (ISIS) conspiracy case. Naser, who is a certified ethical hacker from Chennai, was working as a web developer and graphic designer in Dubai in 2014. He has also been charged with a fine of Rs 40,000.The NIA in a press release stated that a case was registered on December 9, 2015, under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 18, 18B, 38 and 39 of UA (P) Act, 1967 and pertains to criminal conspiracy hatched by the ISIS to establish its base in the country by recruiting youth through social media platforms.The main objective of ISIS is to establish a Caliphate by indulging in terrorist activities across different countries in the world including India, the agency said.The NIA had filed charge sheets against 16 accused including Naser on June 3, 2020- and 15 others had already been convicted up to 10 years rigorous imprisonment by the special court on October 16, 2020.The release also said Naser was motivated to join the terror outfit as he got radicalised through online lectures given by Islamic scholars. He had come across some online handlers who had left from Dubai to join ISIS in Libya via Sudan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-nia-court-convicts-chennai-based-engineer-in-isis-conspiracy-case/story-DSDY7wao1ennJeE3ay9ULK.html
17-12-2020||India||Delhi Gharana maestro Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan passes away, Sisodia, Meira Kumar tweet condolences||Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan, popularly known as the Khalifa of Dilli Gharana, passed away on Thursday. Tributes poured in from various quarters as Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia singer-songwriter Vishal Dadlani, former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar took to Twitter condoling his death. Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan was the recipient of the esteemed Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2014.Sisodia shared the news on Twitter with his photos and said, “The khalifa of Dilli Gharana, Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan is no more. An unmatched repository of Delhi’s rich musical history & a generous guru, he will be missed by all. Condolences to his disciples & family.” The khalifa of Dilli Gharana, Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan is no more. An unmatched repository of Delhi's rich musical history & a generous guru, he will be missed by all. Condolences to his disciples & family. pic.twitter.com/XY3RgIv9cuVishal Dadlani also took to Twitter to pay his condolences. He tweeted, “Shocked & saddened by the demise of #UstadIqbalAhmedKhan Sahab, head of the Delhi Gharana. I had a brief interaction with him during #IndianIdol2020, & he seemed very kind and empathetic about music & all musicians. I’d hoped to go & meet him in person once the pandemic was over.”“Saddened by the sudden passing away of Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan Sahib, Khalifa of the #DelhiGharana Gayaki. An exceptional human being, he leaves behind a rich legacy in music. My heartfelt condolences to the members of his family and admirers. May his soul rest in peace,” Meira Kumar tweeted. Saddened by the sudden passing away of Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan Sahib, Khalifa of the #DelhiGharana Gayaki. An exceptional human being, he leaves behind a rich legacy in music. My heartfelt condolences to the members of his family and admirers. May his soul rest in peace🙏🏼Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan was born in the national capital. Known for numerous recordings and anthems, he had received Senior Fellowship from the Ministry of Culture, Government of India. He was a noted artist of All India Radio and Doordarshan and had performed at various prestigious music festivals. He was especially known for composing the music of the anthem for the government’s e-governance arm that was penned by famous lyricist Gulzar.He had also composed music for television serials like Indra Sabha, Police File Se; documentaries, and telefilms such as Yaad-e-Ghalib, plays like Tamasha or Tamashai, and Jahan-e-Khusro.The Indian classical vocalist had received a number of accolades like the title of Gaayan Acharya given by Sangeet Sewalaya, Bodhgaya, Bihar (1993); the Mirza Ghalib Award conferred by Alam-i-Urdu Foundation, Hyderabad (2008); the All India Bahadur Shah Zafar Award bestowed by Urdu Academy of Delhi (2012); and the Ameer Khusro Samman given by All India Markazi Majlis-e-Chistia, Hyderabad.Ustad Iqbal Ahmed Khan had also been part of various documentaries like Dilli Ki Basti Mein directed by Anwar Jamal, and Ek Safarnama presented by DG Productions, Delhi on his musical life of 50 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gharana-maestro-ustad-iqbal-ahmed-khan-passes-away-sisodia-meira-kumar-tweet-condolences/story-0mUlBxIhMHdnI2nyrnO9YK.html
17-12-2020||India||Kejriwal is ‘new chameleon’, says Meenakshi Lekhi after CM tore copies of farm bills||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejirwal on Thursday for tearing the Centre’s three farm bills at the one-day session of the Delhi Assembly. Lekhi pointed out that the three farm laws had been published in the Delhi Gazette on November 23, and that they were tearing up the copies of the act after notifying. She called Kejriwal the ‘new chameleon’ who can ‘just change colours without qualms’.“Centre’s three farm laws were notified in Delhi Gazette on November 23. Now, they’re tearing copies of same act in Delhi Assembly after notifying. This is opportunistic politics. Delhi CM is the new chameleon, he can just change colours without qualms,” she said.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal had torn up the copies of the three farm laws in the one-day session of the Delhi Assembly on Thursday as a protest against the controversial legislation. He accused the BJP of ensuring their poll funding through the laws rather than thinking of the welfare of the farmers. “What was the hurry to get the farm bills passed in Parliament during the pandemic? It has happened for the first time that three laws were passed without voting in Rajya Sabha, even when several members were opposing the move… In the last 6-7 years, the BJP has made elections so expensive. So, much of money is spent on elections (by political parties). These laws have not been passed for the farmers. These laws have been made to ensure election funding for the BJP,” he told the members of the house. The assembly had passed a resolution tabled by revenue minister Kailash Gahlot demanding that the Central government should repeal the laws immediately.The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener also accused the nation’s ruling party of asking big party leaders to convince the farmers, saying that the farmers were not the ones that were misguided, but the BJP leaders and supporters. Kejriwal even urged the Centre to not be worse than the British. “How many sacrifices will the farmers have to make to get their voices heard? Today, the Delhi Assembly rejects all the three farm laws and appeals to the Central government to take back the legislations. I request the Centre not to be worse than the British,” he said. Scores of farmers have been protesting against the three controversial farm legislations brought by the Centre for days now and talks between representatives of both have resulted in stalemate. The Centre is willing to amend the laws but the majority of the protesting farmers want a complete roll back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-is-new-chameleon-says-meenakshi-lekhi-after-cm-tore-copies-of-farm-bills/story-xJtptKYR13A5lga7kUZbZM.html
17-12-2020||India||Sustainability an important decision-making factor in govt, corporate world: Piyush Goyal||Sustainability has become an important element of decision-making both in the government and the corporate sector of the country, Union Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. Sustainable development will further enhance the scale and speed of growth in the years to come, the commerce and industry minister said. He was addressing a virtual international conference organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). Goyal further said the present situation provides a unique opportunity to redesign, reinvent and realign various practices and processes. “While doing so, sustainability is the restrain that must guide our plans, decisions and actions for the future,” Goyal emphasised.   Under the mission of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, India is progressing rapidly to become a hub of manufacturing and expand its role in the global economy, he said. This is not possible without strengthening the ecosystem of MSMEs, the minister noted.  “India is going through a series of radical reforms which is changing our mindset to alleviate our actions, ambition and aims,” Goyal said. Echoing the views, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s economic strategy of Aatmanirbhar Bharat is not only aimed at self-reliance but also sustainability across sectors.” In 2014, when the Modi government came to power for the first time, it inherited an economy which was part of the ‘Fragile Five’ global economies and foreign investors were pulling out funds from India, he said. “However, in the last six years, we have consistently introduced reforms that have brought about significant change and now all indicators from inflation to fiscal deficit, from forex reserves to current account deficit, from GDP growth to financial inclusion, all point to very stable and sustainable economic position,” Thakur added. He further noted that a digital highway has been laid for growth of the banking and financial sector by taking up the task of connecting India’s 6 lakh villages with optical fibre network. “In the past three years, 1.5 lakh gram panchayats have already been connected and rest of the 1 lakh gram panchayats will be connected within next 12 months,” Thakur said. India can achieve double-digit growth through a healthy mix of digital services and manufacturing base expansion in the times ahead, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sustainability-an-important-decision-making-factor-in-govt-corporate-world-piyush-goyal/story-OsY26TpfqWvWb5WIHEhSzI.html
17-12-2020||India||IT secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney pushes for India’s own data protection model||IT secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney on Thursday said the new decade is of India and it is time for the country to come up with a data protection model that the world follows.The data protection model for both personal and non-personal is at an infancy stage and there is learning that is coming from various countries as of now, he added.“We have actually practised for the past several decades where we look at models which have emerged somewhere else and then sort of improve on that. This is 2020 and decade of India.“I truly believe it’s India’s decade and it’s India’s time to come up with a model that the world looks at and does some cut and paste, and some improvisation of what comes out of India,” Sawhney said at a virtual panel discussion organised by Vidhi Legal.He said that the idea of creating data trusts is going to be very significant for both personal and non-personal data.The Personal Data Protection Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha in February and has been referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee of both the Houses, headed by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, for examination and report.“Our framework is something that the world is looking very carefully and I believe this to be recognised as the best thinking at the current level. These are of course subjects that are there at the infancy stage. There is learning already from GDPR implementation and from other countries as well, but as we move not only to personal data protection but also into various aspects of non-personal data,” Sawhney said.The draft of the bill, approved by the Cabinet in December 2019, proposes a penalty of up to Rs 15 crore and up to three-year jail term for company executives for violating privacy norms.The draft mandates storage of critical data of individuals by internet companies within the country, while sensitive data can be transferred overseas only after explicit consent of the data owner.The bill has been drafted following a Supreme Court judgement in August 2017 that declared ‘Right to Privacy’ a fundamental right.The need for a strong personal data protection regime was further highlighted by the apex court in its judgement in September 2018 in which it held Aadhaar as a constitutionally valid scheme but struck down some provisions in the Aadhaar Act.As per the provisions of the bill, all internet companies will have to mandatorily store critical data of individuals within the country. However, they can transfer sensitive data overseas after explicit consent of the data owner to process it only for purposes permissible under the proposed legislation.Critical data will be defined by the government from time to time. Data related to health, religious or political orientation, biometrics, genetic, sexual orientation, health, financial etc have been identified as sensitive data.A company executive in-charge of conduct of the data business would face a jail term of up to three years if found guilty of knowingly matching anonymous data with publicly available information to find out the identity of an individual - called as ‘re-identify de-identified data’ in technical parlance, under the proposed law.Social media companies will be required to come up with a mechanism to identify users on their platform who are willing to be identified voluntarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-secretary-ajay-prakash-sawhney-pushes-for-india-s-own-data-protection-model/story-szmpLHPmalS3kyQHL4t3yJ.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Look forward to visiting Dhaka’: PM Modi after virtual summit with Sheikh Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has accepted Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s invitation to visit Dhaka in March 2021, the ministry of external affairs said as the two leaders interacted during a virtual summit on Thursday. In 2021, India and Bangladesh will be celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties, the prime minister tweeted after the summit adding he is looking forward to the visit. “Next year, India and Bangladesh will jointly commemorate Mujib Borsho and 50 years of establishment of our diplomatic ties. I look forward to visiting Dhaka for paying my homage to the life and ideals of Bangabandhu,” PM Modi tweeted.Also Read: PM Modi holds virtual summit with Sheikh Hasina, says Bangladesh significant pillar of India’s ‘Neighborhood First’ policy“Was honoured to review our diverse ties with Bangladesh during my Virtual Summit with PM Sheikh Hasina today. We also unveiled a stamp honouring Bangabandhu, and launched the Bangabandhu-Bapu museum and the Chilahati-Haldibari rail link,” PM Modi said. Next year, India and Bangladesh will jointly commemorate Mujib Borsho and 50 years of establishment of our diplomatic ties. I look forward to visiting Dhaka for paying my homage to the life and ideals of Bangabandhu.Seven agreements in the areas of hydrocarbon, culture, agriculture, high impact community development projects and the conservation of wildlife were signed at today’s summit, the MEA said. Teesta water sharing and other issues related to fisheries were also discussed.“It was a very fruitful summit that included inauguration of significant projects and detailed discussions in all areas of cooperation. PM Modi has accepted PM Sheikh Hasina’s invitation to visit Bangladesh on March 26th, 2021,” Smita Pant, joint secretary, Bangladesh-Myanmar, MEA, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/look-forward-to-visiting-dhaka-pm-modi-after-virtual-summit-with-sheikh-hasina/story-qzJXzNkTks3T8XzEKKyQDJ.html
17-12-2020||India||DAC clears proposals to acquire defence hardware worth Rs 27,000 cr from Indian industry||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on Thursday cleared proposals to procure military equipment worth Rs 27,000 crore, including indigenously designed airborne early warning aircraft and patrol vessels, from the domestic industry. The move, cleared during a meeting of the DAC headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, was described by officials as a big boost to the “Make in India” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives. Among the acquisition proposals approved were the airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Air Force, next generation offshore patrol vessels for the Indian Navy, and modular bridges for the Indian Army, according to a statement from the defence ministry. The DAC approved seven capital acquisition proposals for various weapons, platforms, equipment and systems required by the army, navy and air force at an approximate overall cost of Rs 28,000 crore. Six of these acquisitions, worth Rs 27,000 crore, will be made from Indian industry, the statement said, without giving further details. This was the first meeting of the DAC under the new regime of the Defence Acquisition Procedure 2020, and these was the first set of “acceptance of necessity (AoNs)” accorded, the statement said. A majority of the AoNs were “accorded in the highest categorization of Buy Indian (IDDM)”, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dac-clears-proposals-to-acquire-defence-hardware-worth-rs-27-000-cr-from-indian-industry/story-6s5kOFEZ7sRFx6thD62b3L.html
17-12-2020||India||CBI books Chennai Port Trust official in Rs 97-lakh bribery case: Officials||The CBI has booked a Chennai Port Trust official, who allegedly took a bribe of over Rs 97 lakh from an elderly man on the purported promise of getting his son appointed as an assistant traffic manager in the trust, officials said on Thursday.It is alleged that K Poopathy, who worked as the personal assistant to the chief engineer of the trust and is currently under suspension, met complainant N Devaraj (63) on a train journey, they said.During a conversation, Poopathy allegedly told Devaraj that the chief engineer has wide powers to appoint people in the port, the officials said.He allegedly told Devaraj that by spending Rs one crore, his son Sathyaprakash, a diploma holder in mechanical engineering and shipping logistics, can get a job of assistant traffic manager in the port, which is a gazetted officer’s position.Based on his assurance, Devaraj allegedly paid over Rs 97 lakh in cash and cheques to the accused between December 17, 2016 and November 20, 2019, the officials said.In order to secure a bright future for his son, Devaraj used his retirement funds, savings, pledged his daughter’s gold jewellery at a local pawn shop, mortgaged his house as well as took loans from private persons on interest, they added.Devaraj became suspicious of Poopathy as he stopped taking calls and coming for personal meetings, the officials said.It is alleged that some unidentified people threatened Devaraj in February and took his signatures on a document that said all his payments to Poopathy were returned to him, they said.Devaraj filed a complaint with the vigilance officer of the Chennai Port Trust, along with documents of transactions, mortgage, pawn receipts and audio recordings of conversations between Poopathy and his son Sathyaprakash, the officials said.The Chennai Port Trust subsequently suspended Poopathy, they added.Devaraj also approached the CBI with his complaint, which has now been taken up by the agency for investigation after registering an FIR against Poopathy under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-chennai-port-trust-official-in-rs-97-lakh-bribery-case-officials/story-IxSVKicvp00RgNSuzy4TZJ.html
17-12-2020||India||India, EU reaffirm commitment to open, free, accessible cyberspace||The sixth edition of the India-EU Cyber Dialogue was hosted by India on December 14, where both sides discussed various areas of cooperation in cyberspace including multilateral and regional cooperation and regional settings.According to an official release by Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), the Indian delegation was led by Dr S Janakiraman, Joint Secretary, Cyber Diplomacy Division, Ministry of External Affairs, while the EU delegation was led by Joanneke Balfoort, Director Security and Defence, EEAS.The discussions pertained to multilateral and regional cooperation on stability in cyberspace at UN platforms in GGE, OEWG, or in regional settings including relevant discussions at OSCE and ARF, EU Cyber diplomacy toolbox, cooperation on cybercrime and capacity building therein, contemporary issues and exchanges on cyber policies, internet governance, new emerging cyber-related technologies and more.“The two sides reaffirmed their commitment to an open, free, secure, stable, peaceful and accessible cyberspace, enabling economic growth and innovation. Views of both sides converged on many issues of cyber space,” said MEA.Both delegations also acknowledged the need to follow basic values of both societies in the cyber space and its governance such as rule of law, democratic values and fundamental freedoms.They also agreed to hold the next India-EU Cyber Dialogue in Brussels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eu-reaffirm-commitment-to-open-free-accessible-cyberspace/story-QzbacXOM6e4QGCJmCbpwGM.html
17-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address Madhya Pradesh farmers via video-conferencing on December 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address a conference of Madhya Pradesh farmers on Friday at around 2pm as Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the state government. The CMO has confirmed that Modi will be addressing the farmers. This comes at a time when farmers belonging to primarily Punjab and Haryana are up in arms against the three agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September. The protest has been going on for the last three weeks calling for the intervention of the Supreme Court. 18 दिसंबर को प्रदेश भर में होने वाले किसान सम्मेलनों को प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi वीडियो कॉन्फ्रेंस के माध्यम से संबोधित करेंगे। प्रधानमंत्री श्री मोदी दोपहर 2 बजे किसानों को संबोधित करेंगे।Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday thanked Madhya Pradesh farmers for supporting the farm laws. • 35 लाख से अधिक किसानों को सम्मेलन में मिलेगी 1600 करोड़ की राहत राशि• पीएम श्री @narendramodi करेंगे संबोधित• सीएम श्री @ChouhanShivraj रायसेन से होंगे शामिल • नए कृषि कानूनों के किसान हितैषी प्रावधानों से करायेंगे अवगतRM:https://t.co/KtqBa6Oiah#CMMadhyaPradesh https://t.co/Ymd2KnV5CaAt tomorrow’s event, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also distribute relief amount for crop loss among farmers, his office has confirmed.That there will be a discussion on the new farm laws has also been mentioned by Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s office. Farmers will be made aware of the farmer-friendly provisions of the new agriculture laws in the programme, the CMO has said.The mega event is being organised in four levels — gram panchayat, block, district and state. The chief minister will address the state-level programme where about 20,000 farmers will also be present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-madhya-pradesh-farmers-via-video-conferencing-on-december-18/story-ckf4j6c1FutmZnzWbh97IM.html
17-12-2020||India||ISRO launches PSLV with communication satellite||In its fiftieth successful flight, India’s workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) launched the communication satellite CMS-01, which will replace the old GSAT-12 satellite launched in 2011.The new satellite will enhance the country’s communication networks and aid in e-learning, tele-medicine, and disaster management services. The current satellite has an estimated mission life of over seven years. The rocket – in its XL configuration with six solid strap-on motors – lifted off from the second launch pad at Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh at 3.41pm on Thursday. After the burn of all four stages of a PSLV rocket, the satellite was placed in an elliptical geostationary transfer orbit. After four days, the Liquid Apogee Motor will be fired and after a few manoeuvres, the satellite will be placed in a circular orbit of 36,000 km. This was the second launch for the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) this year, with most of the missions – including big-ticket solar mission and first unmanned flight of the Gaganyaan mission – delayed due to the pandemic. Before the pandemic, India was only able to complete one satellite mission—GSAT-30—this year, launched by the international launcher Arianespace from Kourou, French Guiana, in January. The launch of PSLV-C50/CMS-01 had earlier been scheduled for December 7, exactly one month after its previous launch. However, the launch had to be delayed by ten days due to weather conditions. The satellite, named CMS-01, will be the first in a new series of communication satellites by India after the INSAT and the GSAT series. The previous satellite launched by Isro also had an altered nomenclature-- EOS (Earth Observation Satellite) 01.Earth observation satellites in the past were thematically named by the space agency, depending on their task or the kind of instrumentation carried. EOS-01 had previously been named RISAT-2BR2, short for Radar Imaging Satellite (RISAT). “I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV C-50 successfully injected CMS 01 in precise sub-GTO orbit. The satellite is functioning very well and I have received confirmation that the solar panels have been deployed. In another four days, the satellite will be placed in geo synchronous orbit. This excellent success was achieved because of the hard work of Team ISRO. They worked very safely during pandemic, with minimal staff,” said ISRO chairperson Dr K Sivan after the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-launches-pslv-with-communication-satellite/story-CDzp86VEV4mjzmFQJJR6SK.html
17-12-2020||India||Covid-19 test report must for Uttarakhand MLAs to attend upcoming assembly session||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Uttarakhand MLAs will have to mandatorily carry Covid-19 negative test reports with them to attend the upcoming three-day assembly session from December 21-23, assembly Speaker Premchand Agarwal said. Agarwal announced the rule while inspecting the arrangements being made in the assembly for the session on Wednesday. “Considering the ongoing pandemic, all the members of the assembly would have to mandatorily carry a negative report of a Covid-19 test so as to attend the session. Without it, nobody will be allowed to enter the House,” said Agarwal. He informed that there would also be a medical team at the entrance of the House to conduct a Rapid Antigen test for the members. “All the members are requested to undergo a test beforehand with a report having validity of 72 hours,” Agarwal said. He also informed that all the members would be attending the session in person unlike during the previous one-day session in which about 24 members opted to attend virtually. “This time as all the members have opted to attend it by being present in the House, no arrangements will be made to attend it virtually. Appropriate sitting arrangements have been made with social distancing for the members,” Agarwal said. During the three-day session, the Uttarakhand government will also present the state’s supplementary budget of Rs 4,096 crore. A Cabinet minister speaking on condition of anonymity citing the norm of not revealing details regarding the policy before any upcoming session said, “During the three-day session, a supplementary budget of Rs 4,096 crore would be tabled. Apart from that, the government would also answer about 468 questions received so far by the House to be taken up in the session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-test-report-must-for-uttarakhand-mlas-to-attend-upcoming-assembly-session/story-wRewMHXnq4iIo2UWRFUJSJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Mumbai: Special court asks Iqbal Mirchi’s wife, sons to appear||A special court here has asked the wife and sons of Iqbal Mirchi, the late aide of gangster Dawood Ibrahim, to appear before it. Mirchi’s wife Hajra Memon and sons Junaid and Asif have been summoned under Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, and they would be declared fugitive economic offenders if they fail to comply. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had, on December 4, approached the special court to declare the three as fugitive economic offenders as they have failed to respond to warrants issued against them and have not returned to India even after repeated summons and warrants. The court has issued notices to all three to return to India or it would proceed to hear the ED’s plea. The ED had initiated money laundering investigation against the gangster and his family on September 26, 2019. While probing the matter, the ED had provisionally attached the family’s assets to the tune of Rs798 crore in India and abroad under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.The agency had arrested five accused persons, including Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL’s) Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and Humayun Merchant in that case.The ED probe has revealed that the DHFL allegedly extended loans to Sunblink Real Estate Pvt Ltd, which purportedly routed money to Mirchi, who died in the UK in August 2013. The DHFL came under the ED’s scanner when the agency was examining properties linked to Mirchi in Worli. The three properties have already been attached by ED under PMLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appear-or-be-declared-fugitive-economic-offenders-special-court-to-iqbal-mirchi-s-wife-sons/story-vKooOyrBD2wPN2aiCT9bGL.html
17-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Amid vaccination drive US residents warned of severe snowstorm and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion . Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US residents warned of severe snowstorm amid Covid-19 vaccination driveAs many as 14 US states, with more than 60 million residents, have been warned of a powerful snowstorm sweeping through the north-eastern US. The National Weather Service (NWS) warned that the snowstorm will result in “significant impact including travel disruptions and power outages” in the worst-affected areas. Read more ‘Protest a constitutional right but...’: Supreme Court hears plea seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi bordersThe Supreme Court on Thursday said that the farmers protesting near Delhi cannot block a city. The remarks were made by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde while hearing a petition seeking to remove protesting farmers from Delhi border areas. Read more Isro launches India’s 42nd communication satellite CMS-01The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Thursday afternoon launched the country’s 42nd communication satellite named CMS-01. This is the second satellite launched by the space organisation amid the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. Read more Day-Night Test Day 1: Did Tim Paine miss a trick by not taking DRS as hot spot shows mark on Virat Kohli glove?In what could turn out to be a big miss for the hosts, Australian captain Tim Paine decided not to go for the Decision Review System when there was a shout for a catch behind the stumps against Indian captain Virat Kohli. Read more 20 years of Activa: Honda celebrates journey of Activa in IndiaHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India is pouring confetti by the kilo on Activa as its best-selling scooter completes 20 years in the country. Read more Genelia D’Souza says husband Riteish Deshmukh ‘knows very well that happy wife means happy life’Actors Riteish Deshmukh and Genelia D’Souza are among the most loved couples in Bollywood. The two had made their Bollywood debut together with Tujhe Meri Kasam in 2003 and went on to tie the knot almost a decade later. Read more From Planet Earth, Milky Way: 9-year-old girl’s letter to Santa has netizens in splitsLetters sent by children, with requests for presents, to Santa Claus has been an annual tradition across the world for many years. Along with this, kids are taught that Santa will only come with gifts if they have managed to stay good throughout the year. Read more Watch: ‘Learn from Sri Lanka’: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat cautions Nepal on ties with China||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-amid-vaccination-drive-us-residents-warned-of-severe-snowstorm-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kSko5bEYivEaqfTe6hcuoJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Delhi HC rejects PIL seeking medical facilities for farmers protesting at borders||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to entertain a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought medical and health facilities at borders with Delhi where the farmers have been protesting against the new farm laws. A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan said the matter is already pending with the Supreme Court, which is looking into the larger issue. It also said that the petitioner, a lawyer, Ashish, could have filed the petition at the Punjab and Haryana high court rather than coming here.“We are not the central govt. Where are they protesting? Outside Delhi? Is this publicity interest or public interest?,” the bench said. The court also said that since the protests are being held at the borders, it does not have jurisdiction. It said the same plea could have been filed before the Punjab and Haryana HC which could have adjudicated it.The plea filed through advocate Rohit Jha contends that under the present circumstances the agitation may take the face of “violent riots” at any point of time. It said that ‘unavoidable situations’ have been witnessed between the farmers and police authorities while the former has been agitating against the newly passed farms laws.The plea said that the farmers gathered at various borders of Delhi are at a high risk of getting infected from Covid-19 as there is no adherence to social distancing and most of the protestors are spotted without facemasks, which shows they are least aware about their own safety in the present situation of Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Crucial meeting at BJP headquarters on farmers’ issue; Ready to talk only if Centre calls, says TikaitThe petition argued that it was likely to turn the situation in Delhi critical if a large number of protestors get infected, thereby increasing the chance of a mass spread of the disease in the capital.“That the farmers who are protesting at various borders of the NCT Delhi are vulnerable to various kinds of diseases and are a threat to the women, children and aged protesters,” the plea said.The plea further argues that “it is a possibility that the violent anti-national groups may see a good opportunity to convert the peaceful protests by the farmers into violent riots and create communal tension among people. The protesting farmers who are already de-motivated by the utter negligence of the Union of India may act violently due to the inducement and abetment by the bad elements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-pil-seeking-medical-facilities-for-farmers-protesting-at-borders/story-sqI57PYLVxeF36A0olKT7H.html
17-12-2020||India||Rebel Suvendu Adhikari quits Trinamool; Asansol’s outgoing mayor steps down||Former West Bengal minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday by writing a formal letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Respected Madam, I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of the All India Trinamool Congress as well as from all other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect. I am thankful for all the challenges and opportunities that has been afforded to me and I will always value my time spent as a member of the party,” Adhikari wrote in the short letter. He was a member of the TMC’s steering committee and state committee as well as a leader of the trade union front. Last month, he had quit the cabinet in which he held three important departments. Though the body of the letter was typed in English, the date was hand-written. The initial date appeared to be December 15 but was overwritten and changed to December 16. TMC leaders said they received it on Thursday morning. In another significant development, popular TMC leader Jitendra Tiwari resigned from the post of chairman of the board of administrators of Asansol Municipal Corporation in West Burdwan district. Jitendra Tiwari quit the TMC around 4.45 pm. He alleged that his office at Pandabeswar was ransacked by miscreants shortly after he resigned from the post of chairman of the administrative board at the Asansol civic body. He also stepped down from the post of president of the TMC’s West Burdwan district unit and sent a letter to Subrata Bakshi, the party’s state president. “Now there is no need to meet the chief minister on Friday. I have not decided whether I will resign from the state assembly,” said Tiwari while the TMC faction opposed to him took out a rally in Asansol town. “Tiwari was not a big leader as such. Mamata Banerjee, who made him an MLA and mayor, had asked him to wait till she returns from north Bengal. People who do not have any ideology are leaving the TMC in search of better fortune. This is unfortunate but the party will not suffer,” Saugata Roy, TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson told HT. In Murshidabad district, six area presidents of the TMC resigned in the Bamangola community block area. At Dankuni in Hooghly district, Debasish Mukherjee, deputy chairman of the local civic body, stepped down and spoke out against the party. Gargi Mukherjee, president of the TMC’s women’s unit at Haldia in East Midnapore district, also resigned from her post. CM Banerjee, also the party’s founder, had called up Tiwari on Wednesday and asked him not to take any drastic step till she returns from north Bengal and meets him on Friday. After quitting the civic body, Tiwari remained non-committal on whether he would meet her. Tiwari is president of the TMC’s district unit and lawmaker from the local Pandabeswar assembly seat. Union minister of state Babul Supriyo is the Lok Sabha member from Asansol. The district’s adjacent Lok Sabha seat, Bardhaman-Durgapur, is represented by another Union minister of state SS Ahluwalia. The BJP secured more votes than the TMC in almost all the assembly segments of the district during the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. “I promise you that after the assembly elections our men will be in charge of the civic body and solve your pending problems. These will not be solved now as the incumbent urban development minister will never address issues regarding development of Asansol,” Tiwari said in his last speech before the civic body staff. He did not name Firhad Hakim, the minister. Tiwari attended a closed-door meeting with Adhikari and some other rebel lawmakers on Wednesday night. The meeting stoked speculations that Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the poll-bound state this weekend might be marked by defections of TMC rebels to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Shah will address rallies and party workers in three districts on December 19 and 20. Tiwari, however, said after the meeting that his allegiance to the chief minister was intact. On Thursday, he said, “I want the TMC to keep Adhikari in the party. If the party wants me to quit from the assembly, I will do so immediately.” Meanwhile, Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly ran into rough weather. When Adhikari went to the assembly house on Wednesday afternoon to submit his hand-written letter, the speaker was not present in his office. Though received by the assembly secretary, the letter raised several technical questions since Adhikari did not put any date on it and did not write or sign it before the Speaker --- something anti-defection rules of the assembly demands. The speaker, Biman Banerjee, said on Thursday that Adhikari’s resignation as an MLA had not been accepted on technical grounds. “There are technical issues. The resignation cannot be accepted. He will be informed eventually,” Banerjee said.Adhikari represents East Midnapore district’s Nandigram seat, where a land movement helped TMC chief Banerjee oust the Left Front government in 2011. Adhikari became a TMC lawmaker for the first time in 2006. His father, Sisir Adhikari, is the eldest among the party’s Lok Sabha members and has been Banerjee’s close associate since the birth of the TMC in 1998. Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and an assembly seat in East Midnapore. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rebel-suvendu-adhikari-quits-trinamool-asansol-s-outgoing-mayor-steps-down/story-U6gACK0ZtvwWbgJSDjmJQM.html
17-12-2020||India||TRP manipulation case: SIT arrests former BARC COO||Mumbai Police crime branch has arrested Romil Ramgarhia, the former chief operating officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) for his alleged involvement in the Television Rating Points (TRP) fraud.This is the 14th arrest made by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which is probing the case. The TRP fraud case is based on the complaint filed by BARC through Hansa Research Group.A crime branch officer confirmed the arrest, but did not specify Ramgarhia’s role in the case. Police sources said that the accused was well aware of wrongdoings related to TRP manipulation. According to the Mumbai Police, TRP ratings, which decide who will get the biggest share of advertisements, were being manipulated by three channels.Some families, at whose houses barometers were installed for collecting data of viewership, were being bribed to watch a particular channel to boost its TRP.In a press conference, Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh had claimed that two regional channels and Republic TV were suspected to be involved in the manipulation.Later, 13 people were arrested by the SIT in connection with the manipulation. Arrested accused involved executives of the channels.SIT recently also arrested Republic Television chief executive officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani. Later, he secured bail in the matter.Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh was also arrested in the past. Singh has allegedly paid monthly Rs15 lakh for seven months to a vendor to boost viewership of his channel, claimed the crime branch in their remand copy filed before the court. Police also claimed that hawala channels were also used for these transactions.Singh’s name cropped up in the investigation while officials were probing the role of Abhishek Kolawade alias Ajit alias Amit alias Mhadik, who worked as a vendor for many channels and was arrested on October 31.Mumbai Police has earlier informed the court that Kolawade’s sustained interrogation revealed that to amplify TRP of Republic TV, he received Rs15 lakh per month from Singh between January 2020 and July 2020. He received some of this money through hawala.The remand copy added that Kolawade gave part of this money to Ramji Varma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra to further pay to the families whose houses were selected for installing a barometer with an instructions to watch Republic TV channels. Many unlawful financial transactions surfaced during the investigations of Mumbai Crime Branch, which perhaps also prompted Enforcement Directorate to launch a parallel probe to investigate possible money laundering in the TRP manipulation.Previously, Republic TV had said that Mumbai Police is attacking it through fake TRP case probe.Recently, the SIT has also filed a charge sheet in the case, detailing the roles of arrested accused. The SIT would be filing a supplementary charge sheet in the case which would also include the report of forensic auditor tracing the money trail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trp-manipulation-case-sit-arrests-former-barc-coo/story-7UMnDt9cPb23EvzlbwKNXI.html
17-12-2020||India||Amit Shah, Tomar, Piyush Goyal attend crucial meeting on farm issues at BJP headquarters||As the Supreme Court on Thursday heard the issue of the ongoing protest of the farmers and made some suggestions to untangle the present deadlock, the protesting unions of the farmers remained stern on their demand to withdraw the laws first. A crucial meeting is being held at the BJP headquarters to discuss the farmers’ issues with party general secretaries. The meeting is to be attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, commerce minister Piyush Goyal. Agreeing to what Supreme Court pointed out that the issue must be resolved soon, Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said the future course of action will be taken after discussion with panchayat. As the apex court noted that the farmers have rights to protest but not blocking a city, Tikait said that the protesters have not blocked roads. The barricades have been put up by police, he said. “Supreme Court is right that the issue should be resolved soon. We’ll go if we’re called. Government wants amendments, while we want them to take back the laws,” Tikait said. The Supreme Court on Thursday noted that farmers have rights to protest but sitting on roads will not bring about any solution. A panel for mediation is likely to be set up with representations of farmers and the Centre. Experts like P Sainath can also be members of the panel. As the panel gets formed and starts working, the farmers can continue their protests, the Supreme Court bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, said. It also asked attorney general of India KK Venugopal whether the government can commit to not implement to laws as long as the hearing on the case is going on. The AG said if the laws are not implemented, then farmers will not continue the talks to which the SC bench said the move is aimed at facilitating further talks. The AG sought some time to take direction from the government.Since the three bills were passed in Parliament in September, there have been five rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmers. Three rounds of talks have been held in December after thousands of farmers started ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest rally on November 26. The protest has entered its 21st day on Thursday. No date for another round of meeting has been finalised yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-meeting-at-bjp-headquarters-on-farmers-issue-ready-to-talk-only-if-centre-calls-says-tikait/story-WVJq8SS8uXrQieU5o3lk4N.html
17-12-2020||India||Centre modifies hilly road width citing India-China border link, impacts Char Dham road||The Union road ministry has increased the sanctioned width of hilly roads of national strategic importance that provide connectivity to India-China border to 7 metres. The move will impact the Char Dham road project by nearly restoring its original width which was reduced by the Supreme Court to 5.5 metres. In a modification issued to its 2018 regulation for highways in hilly areas, the ministry said the width of the road should be 7 metre carriage way. In 2018, the ministry had reduced the width of the main carriageway of roads on hilly terrains to maximum 5.5 metres to reduce the impact on the environment due to road development. In September 2020, the SC upheld the 2018 ministry regulation. “For roads in hilly and mountainous terrain, which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border or are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7m with 1.5m paved shoulder on either side,” the highway ministry said in the new modification order issued on Tuesday. The new circular further mentions, “The standards prescribed therein have been further reviewed in the Ministry in light of the issues raised by the Ministry of Defence.”Speaking on the new circular issued by the ministry, VS Khaira, chief engineer, regional office of MoRTH Uttarakhand and project in-charge of Char Dham road project said, “We will now be following this new circular with a carriageway width of 7m. Following these new norms, the total road width would come up to be 10m. Before the Supreme Court’s order in September, the total road width of 10m was being followed.” He said that through the affidavit filed by the Defence ministry in the Supreme Court, the Centre was able to explain to the court the importance of the roads and “we hope that the court will allow us” to build a 10 metre wide road.On December 2, the SC was told by the defence ministry that the court order of 5.5 meters width posed serious repercussions to the country’s defence preparedness along the border points with China and Nepal. Both road transport and defence ministries were aggrieved by the SC’s September 8 order mandating the Char Dham road project to have a road width of 5.5 metre as recommended by five members of the 26-member high-powered committee (HPC).Committee chairman Ravi Chopra had written to the court on October 5 and November 2 about constant tree felling by the Uttarakhand government that was causing landslides along the Char Dham route. Also Read: After SC order on Char Dham road, alignment of key bypasses to be changedThe defence ministry in an affidavit to the Supreme Court on the Char Dham road project had said that national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri and Tanakpur-Pithoragarh are strategic and feeder roads for India-China border. These roads are also a part of the Char Dham road project. The court had asked HPC to examine the concerns of the two ministries and submit its report within two weeks. Next hearing on the matter is on January 18, 2021. When asked if the new road width would be followed for the whole project, Hemant Dhyani, a member of the minority group of the HPC said, “We have discussed about the new circular issued by the MoRTH in our recent meeting, but we cannot comment anything as the matter is subjudice. The HPC would be submitting a report to the Supreme Court within a week’s time.” Also Read: Govt’s own ministries divided on Char Dham road project, says SCThe environmentalists had challenged the project in the Supreme Court. They alleged that the project was broken into 100 parts to escape a mandatory comprehensive environment review by the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee. The government had, however, claimed that it followed all environmental norms. The project is being developed by the Uttarakhand government’s Public Works Department (PWD), Border Roads Organisation (BRO), and National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL). The road provides all-weather connectivity to four famous Hindu shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-modifies-hilly-road-width-citing-india-china-border-connectivity/story-EwLoDYrpOop84bmsxnymGK.html
17-12-2020||India||Isro launches India’s 42nd communication satellite CMS-01||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Thursday afternoon launched the country’s 42nd communication satellite named CMS-01. This is the second satellite launched by the space organisation amid the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak. The CMS-01 is envisaged to provide services in the Extended-C Band of the frequency spectrum whose coverage will include the Indian mainland, Andaman-Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands, according to news agency ANI. The satellite will be the first in a new series of communication satellites by India after the GSAT and INSAT series. “Communication satellite CMS-01 onboard the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C50) is scheduled from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR in Sriharikota today,” Isro had earlier said adding that fuelling process of the launch vehicle had been completed.  #PSLVC50 lifts off successfully from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota#ISRO #CMS01 pic.twitter.com/9uCQIHIapoThis will be the 77th launch vehicle mission from SDSC SHAR and the new satellite would replace the GSAT-12 in the orbit, which was launched in 2011. On November 7, Isro had launched the 51st mission of Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) on Saturday. The carrier vehicle PSLV C49 had delivered 10 satellites in all with EOS-01 as the primary one. The EOS-01, an earth observation satellite, is intended to provide agriculture, forestry and disaster management support.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-launches-india-s-42nd-communication-satellite-cms-01/story-USMAcN7NWpx5G8w25QJs3O.html
17-12-2020||India||3 IPS officers responsible for Nadda’s security in Bengal posted on central deputation||The Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday posted three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from West Bengal, responsible for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s security, on central deputation for five years. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee hit back, tweeting that it is unconstitutional and a brazen attempt by the Centre to control the state machinery by proxy. She said the state will not bow down. In a fresh letter issued on Thursday, the home ministry said the West Bengal government and Director General of Police have failed to adhere to the rules. The ministry quoted section 6 (1) of the All India Service officers rule, which says that “in case of any disagreement, the Centre government’s decision shall prevail”. The ministry said, therefore, three IPS officers have been posted at Centre with immediate effect. The ministry said South Bengal inspector general (IG) Rajeev Mishra has been posted as IG of Indo-Tibetan Border Police; Presidency Range deputy inspector general (DIG) Praveen Tripathi as DIG, Sashastra Seema Bal; and superintendent of police (SP) of Diamond Harbour, Bholanath Pandey, as SP of Bureau of Police Research and Development. A senior ministry official said the West Bengal government should immediately relieve them and the three officers should report at their respective postings immediately or they may face further action.On December 10, Nadda’s convoy was attacked in South 24 Parganas -- a TMC stronghold. Nadda was on his way to attend a BJP programme at Diamond Harbour, which is the constituency of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee. Banerjee is also the nephew of the chief minister. Soon after the incident, the home ministry had recalled the three IPS officers from West Bengal. The Trinamool Congress administration, however, refused to release them. The Centre found the letter, sent by the state on December 11, as unsatisfactory. “GoI’s order of central deputation for the 3 serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the State’s objection is a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of of IPS Cadre Rule 1954,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday. “This act is nothing but a deliberate attempt to encroach upon State’s jurisdiction & demoralize the serving officers in WB. This move, particularly before the elections are against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It’s unconstitutional & completely unacceptable,” she added. “We wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist & undemocratic forces,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-ips-officers-responsible-for-nadda-s-security-in-bengal-recalled-on-central-deputation/story-jIKWRcBTCrhX9yOJVuzpJN.html
17-12-2020||India||Odisha teenager tonsures head to help cancer patient get a wig||While teenagers are finicky about their hair styles, a teenaged college girl student of Odisha tonsured her head to help a cancer patient make a wig out of the hairs that she shed.Early this week, Shruti Swapna Maiti, a 19-year-old student of MPC government college in Baripada town of Mayurbhanj district, went under a barber’s razor to strip her long tresses of hair. “When I was in plus two, I saw the mother of a close friend losing her hair due to chemotherapy. She was distressed about the loss of her hair and I somehow wanted to help, but did not know how,” said Maiti.Maiti said she recently came to know about the hair loss of another cancer patient, who is the mother of a close friend of hers. “When I expressed my desire at home, no one made fun of me. But I don’t think anyone took me seriously either. I went to a ladies parlour where I shaved my hair carefully so that it can be cleaned and packed for use by some cancer patients. There are a few websites that collect hairs for such patients,” she added. Maiti said she was prepared to face the embarrassment of having a bald head so that some cancer patient can smile. “When a cancer patient loses hair due to chemotherapy, imagine how pathetic they feel. I can get my hair back in a few months, but a cancer patient may not regrow hair. It’s just a small help. Beauty comes and goes, but humanity is what counts,” said the girl, who has already pledged to donate her eyes and other organs in the event of her death.Also Read: Study: Target ‘zombie’ cells to improve Cervical cancerMaiti’s grandparents said they are proud of her decision. “We are proud to be her grandparents. In a world where kindness is a rare thing, Shruti has shown how big her heart is. She is also a regular blood donor. Doing something for the society without expecting anything is big,” said Shruti’s grandparents Nirmal Kanti Bose and Kuni Bose.Maiti said she got the idea of social service after joining the National Service Scheme in college. “In NSS I learnt that living for oneself isn’t life. I hope my hair donation gesture would motivate youths to come forward and help cancer patients,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-teenager-tonsures-head-to-help-cancer-patient-get-a-wig/story-OlXgEfHRwrWk11FtK3X00M.html
17-12-2020||India||Delhi minister Kailash Gahlot tables resolution in state Assembly to repeal three farm laws||Delhi transport minister and Aam Aadmi Party leader Kailash Gahlot on Thursday tabled a resolution in state Assembly to repeal three farm laws passed by Centre in September. The Delhi assembly’s one-day session on Thursday witnessed stormy scenes as AAP leaders Somnath Bharti and Mahendra Goyal tore a copy of the farm laws. “I refuse to accept these black laws which are against farmers,” he said.The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also geared up to raise an alleged scam of Rs 2,500 crore in the BJP-ruled city municipal corporations during the sitting.The Aam Aadmi Party, staunchly protesting the laws, has voiced its concerns regarding the impact on the earnings of farmers. Dubbing the laws as “anti-farmer and anti-common man”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the new farm laws will lead to immense inflation and will only favour a few capitalists.Kejriwal, along with AAP leaders, ministers, MLAs and volunteers had observing a day-long fast in support of the protesting farmers earlier this week, stating that the new farm laws ‘gives license to inflate’.“These laws are anti-farmer and anti-aam aadmi and are aimed to benefit a few capitalists. These laws will lead to immense inflation through hoarding. These legislations gives license to inflate,” Kejriwal had said.Thousands of farmers, hailing from Punjab and Haryana have been agitating against the agri-marketing laws at Delhi borders since the last 20 days demanding that the laws be repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-minister-kailash-gahlot-tables-resolution-in-state-assembly-to-repeal-three-farm-laws/story-uSnixML4OENpB0rvnU8B9I.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Blatant misuse of power,’ says Mamata on MHA’s fresh letter on IPS officers||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday sent a fresh letter to the West Bengal government and DGP stating that they have failed to adhere to the rules and according to Section 6 (1) of IPS cadre rules - “in case of any disagreement, the Centre’s decision shall prevail”. The MHA had earlier asked the West Bengal government to immediately release the three IPS officers for central deputation.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has reacted sharply to the fresh communication calling it “a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954”.In a series of tweets, Mamata Banerjee said, “This act is nothing but a deliberate attempt to encroach upon the State’s jurisdiction & demoralize the serving officers in WB. This move, particularly before the election is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It’s unconstitutional & completely unacceptable!” “We will not allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist & undemocratic forces,” she wrote in another tweet.The ministry of home affairs has posted three West Bengal IPS officers - Bholanath Pandey, Rajeev Mishra and Praveen Tripathi - for central deputation for five years following the Bengal government and police’s failure to respond to MHA’s letter. The 3 IPS officers have already been given responsibilities -- Bholanath Pandey as BPRD SP, Praveen Tripathi as SSB DIG, Rajeev Mishra as ITBP IG, the ministry has indicated.The three IPS officers have been posted at the Centre with immediate effect. While Bholanath Pandey has posted as SP BPRD, Praveen Tripathi has been deployed as DIG - Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Rajeev Mishra has been posted as IG ITBP. MHA officials said that the West Bengal government and DGP failed to cooperate with the Centre and their letter; dated December 11 (in which the three officers refused to appear before the Union ministry), was “unsatisfactory”. A senior officer said the three officers have to report at their respective postings immediately or they may face further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goi-s-order-of-central-deputation-for-3-ips-officers-of-bengal-despite-state-s-objection-is-colourable-exercise-of-power-mamata/story-CJ8YKgwepauU2vXXaIclTI.html
17-12-2020||India||Can farm laws be put on hold for the time being, asks CJI Bobde | 10 points||A day after the Supreme Court rapped the Centre over the ongoing protests of farmers as the negotiations didn’t yield results, a bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde on Thursday asked the attorney general for India if the government can give a commitment that the far laws will not be implemented while the court if hearing the petitions.The Centre told the apex court that if the implementation of farm laws is put on hold, then farmers will not come forward for negotiations. When the bench told that this is to enable talks, the AG sought some time to get back on this issue.During the hearing, the Supreme Court bench made some significant observations regarding the ongoing protests, the plight of Indian farmers etc. The protesters, on the other hand, remained unfazed as the agitation against three farm laws remained unfazed.Here is how the hearing on Thursday proceeded:> Farmers have rights to protest, but the protest has to be non-violent, the bench observed.> The apex court wants to facilitate further talks between the farmers and the Centre, it said.> An impartial and independent panel is likely to be set up. Apart from farmers and government’s representations, experts like P Sainath are likely to find a place in the committee.> Meanwhile, the protest can go on, the bench said.> Attorney General KK Venugopal said the large gathering at various border points of Delhi increases the Covid-19 risks. “None of them (protesters) wears a face mask. They sit together in large numbers. Covid-19 is a concern. They will visit villages and spread it there. Farmers cannot violate the fundamental rights of others,” the AG said.> The Punjab government has no objection to the Supreme Court’s suggestion that a group of people will act as the facilitator between the Centre and the farmers, P Chidambaram, who represented the Punjab government, said. It is for farmers and the Centre to decide who will be the members of the committee, he said.> Sitting in protest won’t help, said CJI“Blocking Delhi may lead to people in the city going hungry. Your (farmers) purpose can be fulfilled by talking. Just sitting in protest won’t help,” the CJI said.> Sympathetic to farmers: CJI“We are also Indian, we are familiar with the plight of farmers and are sympathetic to their cause. You (farmers) have to only alter the way the protest is going. We will ensure you can plead your case and thus we are thinking of forming a committee,” the CJI said.> The CJI also asked the AG if the government can commit that the farm laws will not be implemented while the court is hearing the petitions and that no executive actions will be taken under the laws in order to facilitate the negotiations.> The AG said if the implementation is put on hold, then farmers will not agree to negotiation. The bench said that the suggestion is to facilitate negotiation and then the AG sought some time to get back on this point.Farmers are not a mob, the bench noted. “We are worried over plight of farmers and the way things are going,” the CJI said. On Thursday, no judgment was passed. The bench said it will order for serving of notices to protesting farmer unions and give them liberty to approach vacation bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-farm-laws-be-put-on-hold-for-the-time-being-asks-cji-what-happened-in-supreme-court-hearing-today/story-2tnNLGRLTYaun8951tWpaO.html
17-12-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Congress to protest against fuel price hike, new farm laws on December 19||The opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh will hold a statewide protest on Saturday against the rise in fuel prices and the Centre’s three new farm laws, state party spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said on Thursday.Talking to PTI, Gupta claimed the prices of fuel and cooking gas have hit the roof and that farmers across the country want the agri laws to be repealed.“We are going to demonstrate near the statues of Mahatma Gandhi in the state on December 19. Protests will be held at every district and block level,” he said.State Congress president and former chief minister Kamal Nath also hit out at the government.“Cooking (LPG) gas cylinders price has shot up by Rs 100 recently after the rates of petrol and diesel skyrocketed.There is no trace of (cooking gas) subsidy. This time around, a BJP government fuelling inflation has come,” Nath tweeted on Wednesday.Thousands of farmers have been camping at border points of Delhi since November 26 to protest against the three new farm laws enacted by the central government.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court observed that the Centre’s talks with the protesting farmers have “not worked apparently” and were bound to fail, and said it will form a committee having representatives of both the sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-congress-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-new-farm-laws-on-december-19/story-Ip63YK67WfWNXTKNsZGFYN.html
17-12-2020||India||Governor Dhankhar writes to Bengal CM about Suvendu Adikari’s fear||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday wrote a two-page letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, citing rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Suvendu Adhikari’s apprehension that he and his associates may be falsely implicated in criminal cases by the police. Adhikari, 50, resigned from the state assembly on Wednesday and held a closed-door meeting with some rebel lawmakers for the first time, stoking speculations that Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state on December 19 and 20 could be marked by defections to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Adhikari wrote to Dhankhar on Wednesday evening, seeking protection and expressing fear that he and his associates might be implicated by the police and the administration in “criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta”. Also read | Personally feel Suvendu Adhikari will lose: TMC leader Madan Mitra“Called upon @MamataOfficial to take urgent measures on representation from Former Minister Suvendu Adhikari, apprehending false implication “in criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta.” Such apprehensions, from one-time associate call for correctional therapy,” Dhankhar tweeted on Thursday and attached a copy of his letter to the chief minister. “Such apprehensions, emanating from your one-time associate for long, call for introspective reflections and correctional therapy to uphold constitutional values and rule of law,” Dhankhar has written in his letter. “Undoubtedly politically inspired implication of opponents in criminal cases is slur on democracy apart from being unconstitutional and crime. All allegations of politically motivated implications need to be in sharp focus, micro-managed with involvement of human rights outfits to dispel any perception to the contrary,” he wrote. Dhankhar also raised other issues, such as appointment of an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer after retirement and inquiry faced by another officer in the past. TMC leaders or the government had not reacted till the time of filing this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-dhankhar-writes-to-bengal-cm-about-suvendu-adikari-s-fear/story-9rzNRGMVGswBhGxiByMIuO.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Not a protest site’: Prakash Javadekar slams Rahul Gandhi for walking out of Parliamentary defence committee meet||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for walking out of a meeting of the Parliamentary standing committee on defence, saying that Gandhi himself remains absent and then blames the government and walks out of meeting in protest. Javadekar further said standing committee “isn’t a protest site.”Also Read | Discussion on uniforms and ranks: Rahul Gandhi walks out of House panel meeting“Rahul Gandhi attended 2 of 14 meetings of Parliamentary standing committee on defence in the last year and a half. He’s himself absent and then blames government and all procedures and walks out of meeting in protest. Standing committee isn’t a protest site,” news agency ANI quoted Javadekar as saying on Thursday, a day after Gandhi walked out of the committee’s meet.“Being absent, not discussing their desired agenda of discussion and then making insinuations of non-discussion of important issues is an insult to all parliamentary procedures and constitutional institutions. We condemn this attitude,” Javadekar further said. Being absent, not disclosing their desired agenda of discussion, & then making insinuations of non-discussion of 'important issues' is an insult to all parliamentary procedures & constitutional institutions. We condemn this attitude: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar https://t.co/BcQXylUmgUOn Wednesday, Gandhi, along with his colleagues, had walked out of the meet after not being allowed to speak during a discussion on the armed forces’ uniforms and ranks. According to people aware of the developments, the former Congress president had opined that such matters were best left for the forces themselves to discuss and suggested that the panel focus on “more substantive issues.” On this, people said, Gandhi was told by the committee chief, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP, Jual Oram, to stick to the agenda of the day, which was “an introduction to the rank, structure of the defence forces including their uniforms, stars and badges, and review of working of cantonment boards.”Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, army vice chief Lieutenant General Satinder Kumar Saini and defence secretary Ajay Kumar were present in the meeting.The issue of Gandhi “not attending” the defence committee’s meetings was also raked up by the BJP earlier this year over his repeated criticism of the government, especially prime minister Narendra Modi, for its handling of the ongoing tensions with China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-protest-site-prakash-javadekar-slams-rahul-gandhi-for-walking-out-of-parliamentary-defence-committee-meet/story-N9yQ86vvu5X04JUInFjOGO.html
17-12-2020||India||Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt tests positive for Covid-19, admitted in AIIMS Delhi||Member of Parliament from Nainital and senior BJP leader Ajay Bhatt has tested positive for Covid-19, officials informed.Baljeet Soni, a close aide of the MP said that Bhatt tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi on Wednesday. “The health condition of the Nainital MP is completely stable. He had symptoms like fever, which spiked on Wednesday due to which as a precautionary measure he was admitted to AIIMS Delhi but the fever is under control now and he is completely stable,” said Soni. He added that the Nainital MP had urged everyone who had come in contact with him in the past few days, to monitor their health and get tested if needed.Bhatt had recently come in contact with JP Nadda, national president of Bharatiya Janata Party, who was on a four-day visit to Uttarakhand in the first week December. Nadda had tested positive for Covid-19 on December 13 and is in home isolation as per doctor’s advice.On Sunday, Nadda had tweeted, “I got the test done after experiencing the initial symptoms of coronavirus and the report came back positive. My health is fine and I have been following all the guidelines for home isolation on the advice of doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nainital-mp-ajay-bhatt-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-in-aiims-delhi/story-uGbPB8Z2yeWz4RX1EfDx2H.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Assault’ on woman cop: Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami withdraws pre-arrest bail plea||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Thursday withdrew his pre-arrest bail plea in connection with a case registered against him by Mumbai Police for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer.Goswami had moved the anticipatory bail application before a sessions court here in November.He sought pre-arrest bail after an FIR was registered against him at N M Joshi Marg police station in central Mumbai for allegedly assaulting a woman police officer when the police team went to his house to arrest him on November 4.His lawyer Shayam Kalyankar said the anticipatory bail plea has been withdrawn as per Goswami’s instructions.Goswami has been booked under IPC sections 353 (assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and under the Damage to Public Property Act in this case.He was arrested from his residence in central Mumbai on November 4 in connection with a 2018 case of abetment to suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud.The Supreme Court granted him interim bail in that case on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assault-on-woman-cop-republic-tv-editor-in-chief-arnab-goswami-withdraws-pre-arrest-bail-plea/story-DWvtZp1HvWf8kghLclHYVN.html
17-12-2020||India||38 year old farmer dies near Tikri border protest site, cause unknown||A 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said. Jai Singh, a resident of Tungwali village in Bathinda district, and his brother had been part of the farmers’ protest at the Haryana-Delhi border against the Centre’s three farm laws for the last several days, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh.Jai Singh was found dead in the morning. The exact cause of the death can be ascertained after a post mortem, an official of the Bahadurgarh police in Haryana said.Singh’s brother suspected that he might have died of heart attack. The body was sent to the Bahadurgarh civil hospital in Jhajjar district, the official said.Shingara Singh demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a government job for the kin of the deceased.Around 20 farmers, many of them are from Punjab, have so far died either of natural causes or in road accidents, the BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leader said.The farmers have been camping at several border points into Delhi for three weeks, demanding that the new farm laws be repealed as they claim it would benefit the corporates and end the traditional wholesale markets and the minimum support price regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-year-old-farmer-dies-near-tikri-border-protest-site-cause-unknown/story-E5DRPZlyQnJfqc9qdVLfDO.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Protest a constitutional right but...’: Supreme Court hears plea seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi borders||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that the farmers protesting near Delhi cannot block a city. The remarks were made by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde while hearing a petition seeking to remove protesting farmers from Delhi border areas. The petitioner - a law student - has cited inconvenience at border areas of the national capital and threat of Covid-19 as grounds for seeking the removal of protesting farmers.“A protest is constitutional till it does not destroy property or endanger life. The Centre and farmers have to talk; we are thinking of an impartial and independent committee before whom both parties can give its side of story to resolve impasse on farm laws,” news agency ANI quoted the CJI as saying.“The independent committee can have P Sainath, Bhartiya Kisan Union and others as members. You (farmers) cannot instigate violence and cannot block a city like this,” CJI Bobde further said.He also said that the committee will give a finding which should be followed and the protest can go on in the meanwhile.Attorney General KK Venugopal said that the farmers are violating Covid-19 guidelines which could lead to spread of the infection in their villages. “None of them wears a face mask, they sit together in large numbers. Covid-19 is a concern, they will visit villages and spread it there. Farmers cannot violate the fundamental rights of others,” said Venugopal.The hearing is continuing in the case.On Wednesday, the top court had issued a notice to the Centre and others. The bench comprising CJI Bobde, justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also indicated that the court may form a committee having representatives of the government and the farmer unions across the country to resolve the deadlock over the legislations.The Centre has told the Supreme Court that it will not do anything against the interest of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-a-constitutional-right-but-supreme-court-hears-plea-seeking-removal-of-protesting-farmers-from-delhi-borders/story-yDlS1y467nS8CWx9POMPRJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Shiv Sena rejects logic for scrapping Parliament’s winter session, offers own||Shiv Sena on Thursday targeted the central government over cancelling of the winter session of the Parliament and said that the BJP-led government does not want to face questions over ongoing farmers’ protest, the state of the economy and on Chinese intrusion in Ladakh and therefore it cancelled the session under the pretext of Covid-19 situation.Additionally, the editorial published in Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday said that the BJP government has shut the temple of democracy.It questioned Centre’s logic of protection from Covid-19 citing holding of Bihar elections and huge public rallies addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Prime Minister Modi and his government are giving inspiration to people to fight coronavirus but they themselves are running away. It is not true that the winter session of the Parliament was cancelled due to the unprecedented Covid situation because Bihar elections were held under the same situation. Prime Minister Modi addressed rallies, with thousands of people attending. Seeing the work that BJP chief JP Nadda has started in West Bengal, it seems Covid has passed West Bengal,” the editorial said. Also Read: Lift stay on policy to convert leased government plot to freehold: Maharashtra CM to revenue departmentSaamana editorial said that the opposition party (the BJP) in Maharashtra attacked the government for only holding a two-day long winter session of the State legislature but it seems that “BJP’s policies on democracy changes according to its convenience and States.”The editorial added that while the pandemic rages, the world has not stopped. It cited British PM Boris Johnson’s acceptance of the invitation for being part of the Republic Day celebrations in India.“During Covid-19, the USA held presidential elections where Trump lost and Biden won. Covid did not halt the elections in a big democracy. But we do not let a four-day winter session take place. America held elections that led to change of power; this is a superpower’s democracy, [While] we have put a lock on the biggest temple of democracy,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-rejects-logic-for-scrapping-parliament-s-winter-session-offers-own/story-8dRoCgqv3b26s9WyHl5hnJ.html
17-12-2020||India||India, Bangladesh sign seven agreements, revive railway link||India and Bangladesh signed seven agreements in areas ranging from hydrocarbons to agriculture and revived a cross-border railway line that was snapped 55 years ago at a virtual summit on Thursday, giving a boost to connectivity initiatives and energy cooperation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his opening remarks at the summit with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina, described Bangladesh as an important pillar of India’s “neighbourhood first” policy. Both countries, Hasina said, could move up global and regional value chains by further integrating their economies, and connectivity initiatives such as the revival of the Chilahati-Haldibari rail link will be catalysts for this process. Hasina used the summit to raise the sharing of Teesta waters and repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar – two issues on which Dhaka has repeatedly sought greater cooperation from New Delhi. She highlighted the need for early signing of an interim agreement for sharing Teesta waters finalised in 2011, and Modi reiterated “India’s sincere commitment and continued efforts” in this regard, according to a joint statement. The agreement on the Teesta, held up by opposition from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has become an irritant in bilateral ties. Pointing to India’s election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2021-22, Hasina “expressed Bangladesh’s expectation to see India assist in the repatriation of the forcibly displaced Rohingyas back to Myanmar”, the joint statement said. Modi appreciated Bangladesh’s generosity in sheltering 1.1 million forcibly displaced persons from Myanmar’s Rakhine state and both leaders reiterated the importance of their “safe, speedy and sustainable” return. The seven agreements signed on Thursday cover cooperation in the hydrocarbons sector, agriculture and textiles, high impact community development projects to be carried out by India, trans-border elephant conservation, supply of equipment for improving garbage disposal in Bangladesh’s Barishal city, and creation of a CEOs Forum. The agreement on hydrocarbons will help streamline investments, technology transfers and joint studies and promote hydrocarbon connectivity. The two countries agreed to strengthen sub-regional energy cooperation, especially with Nepal and Bhutan, and speed up work on the 130-km India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline. Both leaders directed officials to speedily conclude a joint study on a bilateral comprehensive economic partnership agreement. Modi began his remarks by greeting Hasina in Bengali on the occasion of Bijoy Dibosh or Victory Day, which marks the surrender of Pakistani forces in Dhaka on December 16, 1971. Hasina, who spoke in Bengali, responded by saying December 17 was a special day for her and her family as it was on that day in 1971 when Major Ashok Tara of the Indian Army freed herself, her mother, sister and brother from Pakistani forces. “Bangladesh was freed on December 16, but we were freed on December 17,” she said, paying tribute to three million Bangladeshi martyrs of the war of independence and Indian military personnel killed in action and their families. Tara, then aged 29, had won the Vir Chakra in the battle of Gangasagar when he was assigned the responsibility of freeing the wife and family of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founder of Bangladesh. Tara completed the task with only three more Indian soldiers despite having to take on a numerically superior Pakistani contingent. Modi said strengthening ties with Bangladesh has been of special importance to him since his first day in office, and expressed satisfaction at bilateral cooperation amid the Covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of medicines and equipment. Modi assured Hasina vaccines will be made available to Bangladesh as and when produced in India, and also offered a partnership in vaccine production. Hasina referred to several new initiatives, such as trade through rail routes and the first trial run of Indian cargo from Kolkata to northeast India by ship, and said, “We happily recognise the growing dependency of the economies of Bangladesh and India. “A good number of Indian nationals are employed in the manufacturing and service sectors of Bangladesh, and are remittance earners for India. On the other hand, India receives the highest number of tourists and medical patients from Bangladesh.” The two leaders virtually inaugurated the revived rail link, which was snapped during the 1965 war with Pakistan and will connect Assam to Bangladesh via West Bengal, launched a stamp on Bangabandhu Mujibur Rahman, and inaugurated a digital exhibition of Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi focusing on their contributions to the independence movements of the two countries. The joint statement said the filming of a biopic on Rahman, being directed by Shyam Benegal, will begin in January. The two sides also discussed key issues such as terrorism and border management, including Bangladesh’s concerns about the death of its nationals in incidents along the frontier. “Recognising that terrorism remains a threat to global peace and security, both sides reiterated their strong commitment to eliminating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations,” the joint statement said. Modi and Hasina agreed to complete border fencing in all pending sectors of the border at the earliest, beginning from the Tripura sector. “Both leaders also agreed that loss of civilian lives at the border is a matter of concern and directed the border forces concerned to enhance coordinated measures to work towards bringing such border incidents to zero,” it added.The Bangladesh side sought the early implementation of India’s commitment to remove remaining restrictions on use of land ports by Bangladeshi travellers in a phased manner, beginning with checkpoints in Tripura and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-sign-seven-agreements-revive-railway-link/story-lvH3HEckn9dbBWnhb886BK.html
17-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cong-led Parliament committee to submit report on govt’s Covid-19 management and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.House panel to submit report on govt’s Covid managementParliament’s committee on home affairs is set to submit a report on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic—an issue that has sparked major political debates with the Opposition accusing the Narendra Modi government of mismanagement. Read moreWill Kunal Kamra face contempt proceedings for his tweets? Supreme Court to decide tomorrowThe Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its order on contempt petitions filed against comedian Kunal Kamra. The petitions against the stand-up comedian were filed by two law students Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Skand Bajpai and a lawyer Abhijudaya Mishra. Read MoreRafale’s deep-strike cruise missile gets an upgrade for targets in mountainsFaced with the prospect of an adversary on both western and eastern fronts, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has got the French manufacturer to re-calibrate the software of Rafale fighter jet’s SCALP long-range air-launched cruise missile to ensure that the subsonic weapon hits targets up to 4,000 metres above sea level.  Read MorePortion of under-construction shop falls directly on man’s head in RajasthanA pillar from an under-construction shop fell directly on a man’s head in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur on Wednesday. News agency ANI has shared the video of the incident which shows two people walking on a street when suddenly a large rectangular cement pillar falls on top of a man’s head. Read MoreRicky Ponting predicts Prithvi Shaw’s exact mode of dismissal a ball before he gets out for a duckFormer Australia captain Ricky Ponting predicted Prithvi Shaw’s exact mode of dismissal seconds before the India opener was bowled for a second-ball duck after India opted to bat first in the historic first-ever day-night Test match against Australia in Adelaide on Thursday. Read more Swara Bhaskar describes her photoshoot: ‘Torn stockings and mismatching bedsheets, a bad metaphor for life?’Actor Swara Bhaskar recently did a photoshoot but she was also quick to crack jokes at her own expense. While hilariously and realistically describing the props at her photoshoot, Swara also called herself “queen of sh**ty captions”. Read moreMemes warm up Twitter as mercury dips in Delhi. Seen them yet?It is safe to say that winter has set foot in Delhi as all the blankets and woollens have finally come out from the shelves to see the light of day. The city woke up to a teeth-chattering morning on Thursday as the temperature dropped to 5.3 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal, according to reports. Read more Watch: Should India go for more free trade pacts? Citigroup economist answersSamiran Chakraborty, MD & Chief Economist, India, Citigroup said there wouldn’t be much traction for trade agreements at a regional level unless global growth tendencies change. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-led-parliament-committee-to-submit-report-on-covid-19-management-and-all-the-latest-new/story-0fIC0PJqDDsrJ1aNobKi9H.html
17-12-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses UP govt appeal against Allahabad HC order on Kafeel Khan||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed Uttar Pradesh government’s appeal against Allahabad high court’s decision to set aside detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under National Security Act (NSA).A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde, however, clarified that the observations made by the Allahabad high court in its September 1 decision will not impact the outcome of the criminal cases against Khan. These cases, the bench said, will be decided on own merits.Khan, a paediatrician whose brush with controversy began with the 2017 Gorakhpur hospital tragedy in which more than a hundred children died reportedly due to shortage of oxygen and he was suspended, was booked under the NSA last year over an allegedly inflammatory speech against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).After severely indicting the state government for booking Khan under the NSA, the Allahabad high court had in September quashed the detention order and allowed the habeas corpus petition filed by his mother, Nuzhat Parween.Khan was released after spending seven months in jail.Challenging this order by the high court, the central government and the Uttar Pradesh government have jointly filed an appeal, maintaining that Khan flouted prohibitory orders and delivered a provocative speech to AMU students with an attempt to disturb law and order in Aligarh by inciting Muslim students against other communities.The petition added that Khan’s speech, on December 13, 2019, incited about 10,000 AMU students to march towards Aligarh city.The plea further stated that Khan has a history of committing various offences, which had led to disciplinary action, his suspension from service, registration of FIRs against him and the invocation of the NSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-up-govt-appeal-against-allahabad-hc-order-on-kafeel-khan/story-E6McOs9qKKly1xhqwqiaHP.html
17-12-2020||India||House panel to submit report on govt’s Covid management||Parliament’s committee on home affairs is set to submit a report on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic—an issue that has sparked major political debates with the Opposition accusing the Narendra Modi government of mismanagement. The House panel on home affairs, led by Congress veteran Anand Sharma, has called a meeting on Friday to consider and adopt the report on “The Management of Covid-19 Pandemic and Related Issues”. But before that, the panel will hear the views of the governments of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, two of the worst affected states. This will be the second House committee report related to the pandemic that played havoc with the Indian economy and lives of millions of Indians. Last month, the health committee had placed a report that focused on the functioning of the health ministry and related agencies to tackle the pandemic. The House panel is expected to take a wider view of the issue and look into the roles of the disaster management authority, lockdowns, problems of the migrant workers in the early days of the pandemic, the Centre and state cooperation and the efficacy of the guidelines the home secretary issued from time to time. The panel also wanted to hear the views of representatives of West Bengal government but it was postponed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-to-submit-report-on-govt-s-covid-management/story-XywX6QUebhLQ90NksGpcEL.html
17-12-2020||India||Will Kunal Kamra face contempt proceedings for his tweets? Supreme Court to decide tomorrow||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its order on contempt petitions filed against comedian Kunal Kamra. The petitions against the stand-up comedian were filed by two law students Shrirang Katneshwarkar and Skand Bajpai and a lawyer Abhijudaya Mishra.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah will pass the orders on Friday.Attorney General K K Venugopal had last month given his consent for initiating contempt proceedings against Kamra for his November 18 tweet, saying it was “grossly vulgar and obnoxious” and tended to lower the authority of the Supreme Court.The consent of either the Attorney General or the Solicitor General is necessary, under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, for initiating contempt proceedings against a person.Kamra had allegedly criticised the top court in his tweets which the Attorney General said were in “bad taste”. Venugopal had also said that it was time people understood that attacking it brazenly will attract punishment.The petitioners claimed that Kamra started publishing tweets on November 11 when the top court was hearing the appeal of journalist Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court’s order rejecting his plea seeking interim bail in the 2018 abetment to suicide case.Kamra had refused to retract his tweets and apologise.“The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker,” he said in a statement addressed to Venugopal and the judges on his Twitter page. “My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticized. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” he had added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-reserves-order-on-contempt-petitions-against-comedian-kunal-kamra-judgement-to-be-passed-tomorrow/story-HqG4tESF1fSZSw8SNozyhN.html
17-12-2020||India||Non-invasive oxygen therapy, steroids prevent Covid deaths, agree experts||Non-invasive oxygen therapy, antiviral drug Remdesivir and convalescent plasma therapy in the early stage of the disease, and steroids in the later stages help patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19), said experts from the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) and the University College of London Hospital (UCLH) during the National Grand Round held on Wednesday to discuss the treatment protocols in both the countries. The national grand round is a virtual platform for doctors across the country to get information about the trends and latest treatment protocols for Covid-19 in the country. The doctors did not dismiss Remdesivir or plasma therapy completely, despite the World Health Organisation’s Solidarity trial showing no impact on mortality, duration of hospitalisation, or need for mechanical ventilation with the use of the former and Indian Council of Medical Research’s own PLACID trial showing no impact on mortality or severity of illness with the use of the latter. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today“Convalescent plasma, which was used in the previous pandemic of 1918, held a lot of promise. However, trials from the world over did not show the kind of benefits that were expected. It has been widely used in our country, but the effect has not materialised in the real life clinical practice. Most of the trials have an inherent problem – limited data from patients with mild disease, efficacy with early administration unknown, and no standardisation of antibody titres,” said Dr Neeraj Nishchal, assistant professor of medicine at AIIMS. “There is a need to conduct a trial where the patients are given the therapy in early stages of the disease, we may have a group of patients who may benefit from this therapy. Further studies are needed before ruling out plasma therapy as an option,” he said. As for Remdesivir, intensive care specialist Prof Mervyn Singer from University College of London said if he were a patient, he would want the drug. “I think it’s important to look at the evidence. Personally, I have a challenge with the platform trials as they are very vague about the randomisation of patients and the matching. For e.g; for Remdesivir, the randomised control trials with a placebo arm have shown a benefit in terms of time in hospital. The platform Solidarity did not show it,” he said. A platform trial assigns patients to multiple groups that are administered different therapies for a disease, whereas, a randomised control trial assigns patients to two groups: One that receives the therapy and other that doesn’t (or gets a placebo) to test the efficacy of the therapy. He went on to explain, “The opposite is true for steroids. The recovery trial showed this huge effect and none of the other randomised control trial showed anywhere near as big an effect.” The doctors said that steroids – the only medicine to have shown mortality benefit in Covid-19 – were not used early on in the pandemic as Covid-19 was thought to be mainly a respiratory infection. “When the pandemic started, the WHO guidelines did not recommend giving corticosteroids in patients based on experiences with previous viral pneumonias like H1N1, SARS, and MERS. However, as we started seeing cytokine storm (an excessive immune response) in patients, we thought steroids might help. It was later included in the national guidelines in May,” said Dr Nishchal. Initially, in the UK, doctors were also advised to intubate the patients early on to help them breathe. Dr David Brealey, consulting intensivist at UCLH discussed the case of a 41-year-old bar owner who had Covid-19 and was kept on CPAP (continuous positive airway pressure) for an extended period rather than being put on the ventilator. The doctors started realising that the patients were better off with non-invasive ventilation and it did not lead to higher rates of infection among healthcare workers if proper precautions were taken. With the realisation that they only had 12 of these life-saving CPAP machines, the doctors from the hospital also went on to design a non-electrical CPAP machine that was manufactured quickly by a Mercedes factory meant to produce engines for Formula 1 racing cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/non-invasive-oxygen-therapy-steroids-prevent-covid-deaths-agree-experts/story-PmgvtwXuTFprQnKeINbYpL.html
17-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries near 9.5 million: Here’s where other worst-hit countries stand||India’s count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has exceeded 9.95 million, Union health ministry’s data showed on Thursday. However, of these, 9,489,740 or over 95% are recovered cases, the ministry’s dashboard showed. As India, along with the rest of the world, continues to battle the pandemic, the Centre has repeatedly stressed on how the country’s count of recovered cases, and recovery rate, are among the highest globally.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia has the second-highest caseload of Covid-19. Here’s where other worst-hit countries stand:1. The United States: With over 17 million Covid-19 cases, according to a worldometers’ tally, the United States is the only country to have crossed the 10 million mark. The tally further shows that more than 10 million people have recovered in the US, giving it a recovery rate of nearly 58.50%. The US has also started administering shots of the Pfizer/BioNTech SE Covid-19 vaccine, therefore the recovery rate might improve in future.2. Brazil: The South American nation on Wednesday became only the third country after the United States and India to cross the seven million case mark. Brazil reported a record 70,574 new infections in the preceding 24 hours, its health ministry said. The number of recoveries, however, rose to more than 6.1 million, giving the country a recovery rate of more than 86%.3. Russia: The world’s largest nation also has the fourth highest caseload of Covid-19 globally. A worldometers tally shows that Russia has recorded a total of over 2.7 million, with nearly 2.2 million recovering from the disease, thus giving Russia a recovery rate of nearly 79.60%. In August, Russia registered “world’s first Covid-19 vaccine,” Sputnik V.4. France: As per worldometers, France is the world’s fifth worst Covid-19 hit country, with over 2.4 million infections. However, the tally also shows that France only has a little over 180,000 recoveries, giving it one of the worst recovery rates in the world, at just under 7.50%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-near-9-5-million-here-s-where-other-worst-hit-countries-stand/story-78qCcwRvUDb4hrIF1E4hVP.html
17-12-2020||India||Two Pakistani intruders shot dead at international border near Amritsar||Border Security Force (BSF) troops gunned down two armed Pakistani intruders near Rajatal village in Amritsar, 40 kms from the district headquarters, along the India-Pakistan border, in the early hours of Thursday.A search of the area later revealed an AK-56 rifle, two of its magazines and 61 live rounds; a Magnam rifle (calibre 223 bore, semi-automatic), one of its magazines and 29 live rounds; a Norinco Olympia pistol (calibre 30 bore) and two of its magazines; Rs 30 in Pakistani currency; and two PVC pipes (10 feet each).The incident took place at 2.18am when the troops of the 71 battalion noticed some suspicious movement across the barbed wire fence and between the zero line at the border, said BSF officials.“Using searchlights, our jawans noticed the movement of some suspects across the barbed fence. The suspects were warned, but they didn’t pay heed, prompting the troops to open fire,” said a senior BSF official.He said when the area was searched, two bodies were found on the ground. One of the suspects was carrying an AK-56 rifle. A preliminary investigation suggested that the suspects were trying to smuggle some drugs and weapons into the Indian territory. He said the two men who were gunned down were trying to set up PVC pipes to pierce the barbed wire for smuggling. They had more accomplices with them who managed to flee, taking advantage of the dense fog, he said. The process to identify the deceased men was on, he said.In an another incident, which occurred around a kilometre further ahead,the same battalion recovered three packets of heroin (weighing a kg each). BSF officials said this incident took place at around 2.10am. This is the second such incident in the past four months at the Punjab border. In August, the BSF had shot dead five Pakistani intruders in self defence after the infiltrators opened fire on the Indian troops along the India-Pakistan International Border in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-pakistani-intruders-shot-dead-at-international-border-near-amritsar/story-tbTlgQcGe3ueVq8QRlGHsL.html
17-12-2020||India||PM Modi holds virtual summit with Sheikh Hasina, says Bangladesh significant pillar of India’s ‘Neighborhood First’ policy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Bangladesh continues to be one of the significant pillars of India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy. Speaking at a virtual summit with Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina, Modi said that his government concentrated on keeping strong relations with Bangladesh since his government came into power.“Bangladesh is a significant pillar of our ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy. To strengthen relations with Bangladesh has been a priority for me since the first day,” said PM Modi.“The cooperation between India and Bangladesh has been good notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic,” he added.ALSO WATCH | ‘Bangladesh a key pillar of our neighbourhood first policy’: PM Modi On her part, Hasina said that she is happy to meet him again, “particularly on this month of victory”.“December evokes in all Bangladeshis the spirit of joy, freedom and celebration as we recall with deep gratitude our ‘Father of the Nation’ Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Under whose dynamic leadership we earned our great independence,” she said.“India is our true friend,” the Bangladesh Prime Minister added.The summit is being held a day after India celebrated its 50th anniversary of the nation’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 India-Pakistan War, also known as Bangladesh Liberation War.“I pay deep homage to the three million martyrs who laid down their lives. I pay tribute to the members of the Indian armed forces martyred in the war and to their families. I pay my gratitude to the government and the people of India who extended their whole hearted support for the cause of our nation,” said Hasina.The two leaders also inaugurated the Chilahati-Haldibari rail link between India and Bangladesh which has been inoperative for almost 55 years.Modi and Hasina jointly inaugurated a digital exhibition on Mujibur Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi in an effort to celebrate the life and legacies of the iconic leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-virtual-summit-with-sheikh-hasina-says-bangladesh-significant-pillar-of-india-s-neighborhood-first-policy/story-PQBRtrYKSU7oXD34c7qZ4M.html
17-12-2020||India||Rafale’s deep-strike cruise missile gets an upgrade for targets in mountains||Faced with the prospect of an adversary on both western and eastern fronts, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has got the French manufacturer to re-calibrate the software of Rafale fighter jet’s SCALP long-range air-launched cruise missile to ensure that the subsonic weapon hits targets up to 4,000 metres above sea level. The subsonic missile with a range in excess of 300 kilometres and a 450-kilogramme warhead is part of the weapon suite on Rafale Omni-role fighter of the IAF.In simple terms, it means that the IAF’s Rafale can demolish targets located in mountains and high plateaus at 4,000 metres instead of the previous calibration of 2,000 metres. The tweaking of the software has been done by the missile manufacturer MBDA in consultation with the top brass of IAF.ALSO WATCH | 2nd batch of 3 IAF Rafale aircrafts arrive in India from France While the next batch of three Rafale fighters are expected to arrive after 2021 Republic Day, there are plans that the aircraft will be refuelled mid-air by India’s close ally UAE air force using Airbus 330 multi-role transport tankers as they fly towards Ambala air base. As of now, seven Rafales are being used for training IAF pilots in France. The complete fleet of 36 aircraft is scheduled to reach India by the end of 2021. One squadron of this potent fighter will be based at Ambala, the other at Hasimara airbase, which is perched on the Siliguri corridor.Rafale carries a beyond-visual-range air-to-air missile Meteor with a range of more than 100 kilometres, the potent SCALP or storm shadow cruise missile and the Hammer precision-guided ammunition. The SCALP missile is used to target command, control, communications, air bases, ports, power stations, ammunition storage depots, surface ships, submarines and other strategic high-value targets.Also Read: Indian Rafale fighter jet adds Hammer stand-off weapon to its lethal arsenalAlthough both China and Pakistan have developed air-launched cruise missiles, the SCALP is a unique weapon that has a fire-and-forget mechanism. Once launched from the fighter, the cruise missile drops to a terrain-hugging role between 100 to 130 feet from the ground to avoid detection by the enemy radars and jamming systems. Before approaching the target, the missile again goes up to a maximum height of 6,000 metres and then drops perpendicularly on the high-value target. The primary charge first penetrates the target, the secondary charge then blows it to smithereens.With IAF having to defend on both the fronts and mountainous terrain on either side, airpower will have a very significant role to play in the worst-case scenario. The infantry, apart from the airborne special forces, will be used to defend both the Line of Control (LoC) and the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The SCALP’s range will be crucial to degrade enemy’s fight power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-east-ladakh-iaf-tweaks-rafale-s-terrain-hugging-deep-strike-missile/story-0Iz4losbaZDVNVG5PQBKhK.html
17-12-2020||India||Farmers protest Updates: Farmers’ body FIFA meets Tomar; extends support for new farm laws||The Supreme Court will today hold a crucial hearing on a petition seeking removal of protesting farmers from Delhi border areas. The protest has been going on for the last 21 days, with the farmers demanding repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament in September.The Supreme Court heard the case on Wednesday and gave a notice to the Centre. It also asked for the farmers’ organisations to be made party to the case.Several rounds of talks between the Centre and farm unions have reaped no resolution so far as the protesting farmers are adamant with their demand that the farm laws must be repealed. On December 9, a written proposal was also sent to the farm unions by the government regarding the laws which were rejected by the farmers.The protesting farmers have blocked various highways leading to the capital city and say that they have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months.Follow live updates here:SC denies to interfere in farmers’ protest against new farm lawsSC says it will not interfere with the farmers protest against three farms laws. “We’re of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment & without any breach of peace either by the protesters or police,” its says, reports ANI.Tomar writes open letter to farmers, says ‘misunderstanding’ created regarding reforms Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar writes an open letter to farmers over the new farm laws. He writes, "Misunderstanding has been created among some farmers' unions regarding these laws". pic.twitter.com/KiNsW043RzMaharashtra cabinet panel for farm laws hold its first meetingA sub-committee of the Maharashtra cabinet, formed to study the contentious farm reforms of the Centre, met for the first time here on Thursday, reports PTI. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi takes a jibe at Delhi CM for tearing farm laws, calls him new chameleonCentre’s three Farm laws were notified in Delhi Gazette on 23rd Nov. Now, they’re tearing copies of same act in Delhi Assembly after notifying. This is opportunistic politics. Delhi CM is the new chameleon, he can just change colours without qualms, said BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi on Delhi CM, reports ANI.SC must direct govt to hold farm laws, immediately call parliament session to repeal them: Farmers’ leaderSupreme Court must direct the govt to put these three laws on hold & to immediately call parliament session to repeal these laws. After that, a committee can be formed for other things like MSP, said Ashok Dhawale, All India Kisan Sabha, reports ANI. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tears Centre’s farm laws during state assembly session Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal addresses a special session of Delhi Assembly called to discuss farmers' agitation."I want to ask Centre how many sacrifices farmers will have to make, to get their voices heard," he said. pic.twitter.com/49bANt4f6lShah, Tomar, Goyal reach party headquarters for meeting on farmers’ protest Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal reach BJP headquarters to attend a meeting with party general secretaries to discuss farmers’ agitation, reports ANI. Will discuss future action in Panchayat; will go if called by SC: Farmers union leaderWe’ll discuss future course of action in our Panchayat. We’ve not blocked roads, barricades have been put up by police. SC is right that issue should be resolved soon. We’ll go if we’re called. Govt wants amendments while we want them to take back Farm laws, says Rakesh Tikait, BKU, reports ANI. No tax on farmers wanting to sell produce outside market, says UP CM YogiPM & Union Agriculture Minister have ensured that the laws made for farmers’ development don’t allow anyone to capture their farmlands. No tax on farmers, who want to sell their produce outside the market. A provision to guarantee this is in progress: CM Yogi Adityanath, reports ANI. AAP MLA Mahendra Goyal tears copy of Centre’s farm laws during state assembly sessionDelhi: AAP MLA Mahendra Goyal tears copy of Centre's Farm Laws during a special Delhi assembly session called to discuss farmers' agitation. "I refuse to accept these black laws which are against farmers,' he said while tearing the copy. pic.twitter.com/o4OQqvH5zSSC asks Centre to explore possibility to put legislations on hold Farm laws: Supreme Court asks Centre to explore the possibility of putting legislations on hold.Supreme Court asks the Attorney General if the government can assure the Court that it will not take any executive action on implementation of the law till the court hears the matter pic.twitter.com/drdupu0fV3Protesting farmer dies near Tikri borderA 38-year-old farmer from Punjab was found dead at a protest site near the Tikri border on Thursday morning, police said, reports PTI.Alter the way of protesting, will ensure you can plead case: CJI on farm laws to farmers "We are also Indian, we're familiar with the plight of farmers and are sympathetic to their cause. You (farmers) have to only alter the way the protest is going. We will ensure you can plead your case & thus we are thinking of forming a committee," says CJI on farm laws matter pic.twitter.com/a8CIeYNaKFPurpose can be fulfilled by talking, just sitting in protest won’t help: CJI to farmersBlocking Delhi may lead to people in the city going hungry. Your (farmers) purpose can be fulfilled by talking. Just sitting in protest won’t help, says Chief Justice of India during a hearing on farm laws, reports ANI. CJI says farmers cannot continue to block a city while hearing petition seeking removal of protesters from Delhi border areas, reports ANI Farm laws matter in Supreme Court: The committee will give a finding which should be followed. The protest can go on in the meanwhile, says CJI https://t.co/GDRnwTdkICWill only decide on farmer protest and not validity of laws, says SCThe first and the only thing we will decide today is regarding the farmers' protest and the fundamental right of citizens to move. The question of the validity of laws can wait," says Supreme Court https://t.co/9m5r1M1dLfTraders confederation write to Tomar, Goyal as per SC directions to resolve farm laws impasseIn the wake of the directions given by SC yesterday regarding formation of a committee to resolve farmers’ bill impasse, we have written to Union Ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal for giving due representation in the proposed panel said Confederation of All India Traders, reports ANI. Will discuss, take decisions when SC sends notice, says farmers’ leaderWe've not received any notice from SC. When we get a notice, all farmers' unions will hold a discussion&take a decision: MS Rai, Bhartiya Kisan Union, DoabaSC has allowed impleadment of 8 farmer unions as respondents in petitions seeking removal of protestors from Delhi borders pic.twitter.com/faL45lk7fR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/live-update/farmers-protest-live-updates-will-discuss-take-decisions-when-sc-sends-notice-says-farmers-leader/story-SpyBAq6WvQrvgK7aUUeGDK.html
17-12-2020||India||India records 24,010 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; recoveries close to 9.5 million||India recorded 24,021 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry update on Thursday. The nationwide case count has now reached 99,56,557.The number of active cases went down to 3,22,366, according to health ministry update at 8 am, while 94,89,740 patients have been cured or discharged from hospitals.The country also recorded 355 fresh fatalities due to the disease which pushed the nationwide death toll to 1,44,451.The active caseload has now diminished to 3.34 per cent of the total number of infections reported in the country, according to the health ministry.“India has recorded less than 40,000 daily new cases since the last 17 days,” the ministry further said on Wednesday.The figure of new cases per million population in India in the last seven days - 147 - is one of the lowest in the world, it underlined.Ten states and UTs account for 75.19 per cent of the new deaths.India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, and 90 lakh on November 20.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 15,66,46,280 samples have been tested up to December 15, of which 10,85,625 were conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-24-010-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-recoveries-close-to-9-5-million/story-eR7tMabisD7bIBMDzS1ZnJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: CM’s secretary appears before ED||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning in connection with the gold smuggling case. Raveendran has already been summoned four times by the Central agency. He was first summoned last month, but he could not appear as he had tested positive for Covid-19. Later, he stayed away citing post-covid complications. He was issued fresh summons after he was discharged from Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital last week. Raveendran has also moved the high court, seeking anticipatory bail but the ED has opposed it, saying he was not made an accused in any case. The court is expected to hear his plea later in the day. CM’s other secretary, senior Indian Administrative Service officer, M Sivasankar, is already in judicial custody in connection with the case. Raveendran was summoned on the basis of Sivasankar’s statement, said a senior official of the multi-agency probe team, requesting anonymity. Also read | Main accused in Kerala gold smuggling case says her life under threatLast week, the CM had defended him saying he was keeping away from questioning due to ill-health. He said the Central agencies can’t do anything against him as “he holds a good track record”. He had criticised the agencies, alleging that they were acting as per the script prepared by their masters in Delhi. The gold smuggling racket was uncovered on July 5 after the seizure of 30 kgs of the metal from a consignment addressed to the United Arab Emirates consulate in the state Capital. A multi-agency team headed by the National Investigation Agency is probing the case and 34 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-cm-s-secretary-appears-before-ed/story-7i1uCbvHgKbpXcNCjjLhRL.html
17-12-2020||India||Gehlot govt finishes 2 crisis ridden years with few hits and misses||The last two years for the ruling Congress government in Rajasthan have been challenging. If in the first year the party witnessed a debacle in the Lok Sabha elections by losing all 25 seats within four months of coming to power; the second year of the government wasn’t a cake walk either because of the coronavirus outbreak and the revolt by the deputy CM, Sachin Pilot, against the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Amid the Corona pandemic outbreak, the drift between Gehlot and Pilot came out in the open following allegations by the CM that efforts were being made to topple his government by the BJP, as was done in Madhya Pradesh. The crisis which continued for over a month, ended on a happy note with a floor test with Pilot and his followers casting their votes in support of Gehlot government but the time in between was full of uncertainties and political machinations involving action by central agencies such as Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate. As differences within the Congress grew sharper over the handling of Pilot’s rebellion, he was removed from deputy CM’s post and that of the state party chief. His two loyalists, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, too, lost their cabinet berths. During the political crisis, the Pilot camp MLAs, around 18, camped outside the state, while the Congress MLAs moved to hotels for a month in Jaipur and Jaisalmer. The fight between the two groups reached the Assembly Speaker, governor and the Rajasthan high court. The crisis ended with the Congress central leadership intervening and the government passing the floor test in the state Assembly. However, on December 5, Gehlot again blamed the BJP of trying to topple the state government. The year had begun on a challenging note for the Gehlot-government with an Italian tourist testing positive for covid-19 in March. Rajasthan was the first state in the country to impose a lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. With its ‘Bhilwara model’, the state government was appreciated nationally for containment of disease during the initial days. While Bhilwara district administration managed to break the chain of the virus, cases in other areas kept on increasing and the high number of Covid cases in Ramganj area of the state capital caused grave concern. The crisis made CM Gehlot lead the corona management efforts in the state himself including enlisting opposition’s support for the anti-virus campaign and enhancing the state’s medical infrastructure. The state politics witnessed many twists and turns, especially the panchayat, zila pramukh and local body elections held a few days ago. The results of these elections surprised many with the Congress losing ground in rural areas, and gaining support in urban areas. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), which had extended its support to the ruling government during the political crisis and Rajya Sabha elections, is now considering breaking ties since party leaders allege that the Congress supported BJP in the Zila Pramukh elections to keep their local ally out of power in some key regions. The state is also facing farmers’ unrest because of the three farm laws passed by the Union government. The state government in November, to counter the new farms laws, had passed three Bills in state assembly following in the footsteps of the Congress-ruled Punjab and Chhattisgarh. The Bills are waiting for the governor’s nod. Meanwhile, working on the promises made in the manifesto, the state government has waived Rs 7,692 crore short-term crop loan, benefitting 20.50 lakh farmers; and Rs 290.14 crore of mid and long-term loan. The state is also providing old age pension to farmers, which has benefitted 2.79 lakh farmers with the total disbursement under this scheme reaching Rs 317 crore so far. Also Read: Post-Covid centre to be opened at Ayurveda District Hospitals in RajasthanHowever, some of the manifesto promises such as farm loan waiver of commercial banks; regularization of contractual employees; education policy, and right to health are still pending. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas claims that Rajasthan government’s management of the pandemic is unmatchable. “We are the first in the country to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. The test and treatment of Covid-19 was made free of cost, the state government distributed 2 crore masks and provided ration to 6 crore people,” he said. He also claimed that though the results were not as expected in the panchayati raj institution (PRI) polls but the Congress had increased its vote base besides taking a slice of BJP’s vote bank in local body polls. He added that at the time of inflation, unemployment and high gas prices, the state government was providing unemployment allowance to the youth.Political analyst Rajan Mahan said the performance of the government could have been more impressive but for the major challenges like the loss of all 25 Lok Sabha seats, the pandemic and the internal political crisis. “Though the government did come up with good initiatives such as loan waiver and the unemployment allowance for the youth, the buzz, however, was not about the achievements but the friction inside the party between Gehlot and Pilot,” he said. Mahan added that sooner they resolve the differences, the better it is for the Congress. Also Read: IITs, IIMs, ISRO result of Nehru’s vision: Rajasthan CMBJP leader and former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said that this is the first time in seven decades when the government is “invisible” in the state, alleging it was neither visible to the public nor to the Congress workers.In the name of development, this government could not run even two steps in two years, she alleged further. “This government is deceiving the public from day one-- the first announcement to waive the entire loan of farmers in the next 10 days has not been fulfilled in 2 years. The government has failed in every exam,” said Raje. BJP state president Satish Poonia claimed that the Gehlot government had failed on all fronts. “The CM is insecure and this government is of jugaad. Congress government didn’t come with a clear mandate and is running with support of six MLAs from BSP, who are still under question and the independents,” he said. Poonia claimed that the political crisis inside the Congress continues, evidenced in the ‘dismissal’ of the state chief. “It’s the people who are suffering because of their infighting. A weak government does not have a long life,” he said. The Congress promise of loan waiver in 10 days has left 59 lakh farmers of the state waiting. The 27 lakh registered unemployed persons are waiting for unemployment allowance. The 2.5 lakh persons on contract are waiting to be regularised. The promise of addressing complaints in a time bound manner is yet to be fulfilled. Law and order is deteriorating, as per NCRB data, there has been an increase of 4.7 lakh cases in the last two years, Poonia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-govt-finishes-2-crisis-ridden-years-with-few-hits-and-misses/story-Gj4MEGMp2muPLRHVA6z9ZJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Contempt notice to Konkan collectors for failure to transfer mangrove land to Maharashtra forest department||An environment group has issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, the Konkan divisional commissioner, and state agency Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department.The direction to hand over mangrove areas to the forest department was first issued by the Bombay high court (HC) on October 6, 2005, that mangroves on government owned lands (including those belonging to state agencies) be handed over to the forest department within a period of 12 weeks from their declaration as protected forests. The HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. However, while district bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8 hectare area (ha), state agencies such as JNPT have failed to transfer approximately 1,147 ha to the forest department falling under their jurisdiction.Also read | Activist withdraws plea against diversion of forests land, work at Bandra-Versova Sea Link may resumePetitioner before the Bombay high court (HC) in various matters pertaining to mangrove and wetland conservation, environment group Vanashakti, issued the contempt notice through its counsel between last Friday and Tuesday. A period of seven days has been given to complete the transfer process or a contempt petition will be filed before the HC, the group said. “Not transferring mangrove lands to the forest department for almost 15 years shows that there is no sense of rule of law and no fear of the law. This is a fit case to get an order of civil imprisonment of responsible officers or head of respective departments,” said Vanashakti counsel Zaman Ali.A similar contempt notice had been issued to planning agency City Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. (Cidco) in October. However, the agency did not respond. “We are now forced to approach the HC for implementation of its orders and for mangrove conservation,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.Of the 30,200 ha mangrove forests across Maharashtra as per the Forest Survey of India, the state government has notified 15,312 ha as reserved forest under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (the remaining area falls on private land). According to the state mangrove cell, 1,592.8 ha is yet to be handed over to them. Maximum area is under the Raigad collector’s jurisdiction (1,195.5 ha) followed by Mumbai suburban (242 ha), Sindhudurg (115.3 ha), Palghar (34.1 ha), and Thane (5.6 ha).HT had reported on December 4 that state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had decided to expedite and ease the transfer process of mangrove areas under the control of state agencies from January onwards after rectifying data gaps between the forest and revenue department. “The process is underway and results are expected soon. The enquiry into most areas under revenue department will be completed by January 15,” said a senior official from the environment department.Stalin countered that if the process was not completed over 15 years, it was difficult to expect any improvement within a month. “The main beneficiaries of this contemptuous act are the real estate sharks. We have reminded all departments time and again to abide by court orders but the connivance at the level of higher officials is mind-boggling,” he alleged.Konkan divisional commissioner Annasaheb Misal said the matter was being monitored by the state. District bodies said they had not received the notice and would respond accordingly. A senior official from JNPT said they needed to check their records before they could comment on the matter.What does the law say?Destruction of mangrove forests across Maharashtra and construction within 50m of mangrove areas was banned by the Bombay high court (HC) first in 2005 after a petition by the Bombay Environment Action Group. In September 2018, the HC bench of justice Abhay Oka and justice Riyaz Chagla passed its final order, which read: “Destruction of mangroves offended the fundamental rights of the citizens and hence it was a mandatory duty of the state and its agencies to protect and preserve the mangroves. All mangroves in the state are to be declared as protected or reserved forests, including land belonging to government agencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contempt-notice-to-konkan-collectors-for-failure-to-transfer-mangrove-land-to-maharashtra-forest-department/story-mIEooGLybzcbcs8Qtx4pJJ.html
17-12-2020||India||EC team in West Bengal to oversee poll preparedness||The Election Commission of India (EC) has started taking stock of the poll preparedness in West Bengal for the crucial 2021 state assembly elections. A team of the poll panel led by deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain arrived in Kolkata on Wednesday and is likely to meet some of senior IAS and IPS officers including the district magistrates, superintendents of police and police commissioners in various districts of south and north Bengal over the next two days. As polls are expected to be held during pandemic, the state’s health secretary and home secretary are also likely to brief the team about the preparedness. “An EC team has come from Delhi. The team would be taking stock of the poll preparedness and holding meetings with bureaucrats and police officials. They are also likely to meet representatives of political parties in the state,” said a senior officer of the poll panel. Meanwhile, the poll panel has also started the process of checking all 78,000-odd polling booths across the state to provide assured minimum facilities, such as toilets, drinking water and ramps, on the polling day. Earlier this week, a delegation of the Bharatiya Janata Party from West Bengal met the chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, requesting early deployment of Central police forces and enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct to avoid widespread political violence during the campaign period. The state’s ruling Trinamool Congress, however, has rubbished the fears. “It is only after this team goes back and submits a report that we are expecting the EC’s full panel to come to the state,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-team-in-west-bengal-to-oversee-poll-preparedness/story-pHIKZhbAmA2ZRohG16IfHI.html
17-12-2020||India||Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Shetra says temple to be built using only domestic funds||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will be built using domestic funds collected from the general public through a mass contact programme as its trust doesn’t have required approvals for accepting donations from abroad, general secretary of the trust Champat Rai said on Wednesday.Underlining that the Ram temple would actually take the form of a ‘rashtra temple’, he said Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Shetra is going to start the mass contact and contribution campaign across the country for construction of the temple.  Addressing a press conference here, Rai said photographs of the proposed new model of the temple will also reach crores of households through this campaign.  “Voluntary donations from Rambhakts will be accepted for which coupons of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 will be made available,” he said.In order to maintain transparency in the financial dealings and transactions, the trust has printed 4 crore coupons of Rs 10 denomination, 8 crore coupons of Rs 100 and 12 lakhs coupons of Rs 1,000 denomination, he said.Rai also said for construction of the temple, no foreign funding can be collected as the trust doesn’t have enough necessary approvals while CSR funds can be considered for adjoining buildings of the temple.He further said no target has been fixed for collecting funds and no estimate has been made of expenditure for construction of the temple.Rai said through this campaign, the public will also be made aware of the historical significance of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-janmbhoomi-teerth-shetra-says-temple-to-be-built-using-only-domestic-funds/story-tnXivODmpJ2HoMElGdbtdO.html
17-12-2020||India||Centre to promote yoga as a competitive sport||The Central government is promoting yoga as a competitive sport within the country, with an aim to bring awareness about yoga, its benefits and spiritual background in young community.Minister of Ayush (Ayurveda Yoga and Naturopathy Unani Sidda Homoeopathy), Shripad Yesso Naik, and minister of state for youth affairs and sports, Kiran Rijiju, will be holding a press briefing in the afternoon today wherein they are likely to make some announcements about the initiative to promote yoga as a sporting event.India has also recently established the National Yogasana Sport Federation of India (NYSFI) for preservation and development of yoga as a competitive sport.“Yogasana as a competitive sport can develop an interest in yoga among people across the world. The Fit India Movement initiated by the Indian Government has gained impetus and the Government has promoted yoga as a healthy practice to stay fit. Since the inception of International Yoga Day, the growth prospect for Yoga has been immense,” says NYSFI on its website.“Yoga organisations and institutions worldwide have been campaigning to turn yoga asana into a competitive sport… Yogasana as an Olympic event would create a widespread opportunity for expanding awareness of yoga and its myriad health benefits.”The Ayush ministry says, “Several countries over the years have embraced yoga as a sport. Competitions have been conducted in several forms and styles of yoga like Iyengar, Hatha, Vinyasa, etc. for different age and gender groups.”“Participants are evaluated based on grace, poise, stability, balance, relaxation, holding the breath, effortlessness, perfectness of posture, retention time etc. Participants are asked to do few poses in a given time and are judged by a group of judges,” it adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-promote-yoga-as-a-competitive-sport/story-wzxv3PGL0C5xVRPbi2hIPK.html
17-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Cold spell continues in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cold spell continues in Delhi, minimum temperature at 5.3°CDelhi woke up to a chilly morning on Thursday with the minimum temperature dipping to 5.3 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s Mausam app. Read moreDelhi riots: Govt sanctions sedition charges against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, othersThe Delhi government on Wednesday gave its sanction to the police to charge 18 people accused in the Delhi riots case under sections of the Indian Penal Code that deal with sedition and criminal conspiracy. Read moreOdisha minor was sexually assaulted, SIT tells HC; BJP to walk for justiceThe day Odisha unit of BJP announced a padyatra in all the 147 assembly constituencies of the state to demand justice for the family of the 5-year-old girl who was brutally murdered in July this year, a special investigation team (SIT) told the Orissa high court that the minor could have been sexually assaulted before being murdered. Read moreIndia wary of Kookaburra pink ball, Australian twilightWhen the pink ball replaces red, some of cricket’s established theories change. Aware of the lifecycle of a red ball, why and when it seams and swings, cricketers need to change approach when the ball is pink and play begins in the afternoon. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh shuts down Kangana Ranaut’s rhetoric again, says ‘I don’t owe you any explanation, you’re obsessed with me’Kangana Ranaut and Diljit Dosanjh’s Twitter feud reignited on Wednesday, when Kangana suggested that Diljit had ‘disappeared’ from the scene, after raising his voice in support of protesting farmers. Read moreIndian professionals optimistic about 2021, 40% expect increase in new jobs: LinkedInLinkedIn has released its year-end report highlighting the key trends of 2020 among working professionals, and predictions for the coming year. 2020 was a year of uncertainty but Indian working professionals share an optimistic view for 2021. Read moreRaaga meets a cappella: This melodious rendition of Albela Sajan may mesmerize youThe pandemic-induced lockdown situation may have brought many things to a halt, but it surely couldn’t halt artists from creating something unique. This video of a classical a cappella rendition of a popular bandish is a perfect example of that. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cold-spell-continues-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TWdOR3bTI42AjlquSWFgQN.html
17-12-2020||India||Assam: GSP member elected to BTC is an accused in minor’s rape case||A newly elected member of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) from the ruling Gana Suraksha Party (GSP) is an accused in a minor girl’s alleged rape case, registered last year, which had led to his arrest. Ghanashyam Das, who won from the Dihira seat, was sworn in on Tuesday as an executive member of the council, which administers four districts, in presence of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal at Kokrajhar--the BTC headquarters. In April last year, police in Guwahati had arrested Das, who was a member of BTC at that time as well, on charges of raping a 15-year-girl, employed as a domestic help with a family in the city’s Patharquari area. “The matter came to light after the girl delivered a child at a private hospital and the child welfare department was informed by authorities. Questioning of the girl revealed she was allegedly raped by Das,” said Miguel Das Queah, a Guwahati-based child rights activist. Das had allegedly raped the girl on the pretext of warding off some evil influence on her employer’s family. Based on the girl’s testimony, Queah had filed an FIR against Das and the BTC-member-cum-tantrik was arrested by the police on various charges including provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. He was released on bail a few months later. Also Read: Fear of poaching by Opposition BPF leaves ruling members of BTC holed up in Guwahati hotel “The police filed its charge-sheet against Das in October last year. The case is at framing of charges stage and trial is yet to begin. In the meantime, Das managed to get elected from BTC again,” said Queah. Significantly, the victim and her child, who were kept at a home for girls in Guwahati, have been missing for the past few months. “We are planning to file a missing person report this week seeking the whereabouts of the victim and her child. We will also ensure that Das is not able to influence the victim,” said Queah. HT was not able to reach out to Das, who along with other members of the ruling coalition in BTC, is holed up in a Guwahati hotel. President of GSP, Nava Sarania, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Kokrajhar, didn’t respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-gsp-member-elected-to-btc-is-an-accused-in-minor-s-rape-case/story-CrjpjfIiuvgUAD8KRIOpVP.html
17-12-2020||India||Leopard shot dead in West Bengal after it injures four||A leopard was shot dead in north Bengal after it injured four persons, including a forest officer, near Bagdogra airport late on Wednesday evening. A senior forest official said the animal strayed out of the Gangarampur tea garden and reached a wooded area in the backyards of Rangapani cancer hospital. It mauled a man around 6.30pm. The forest department then deployed three teams to capture the animal. But the big cat managed to injure range officer Sanjay Dutta and two others when the teams were trying to tranquillise it. “The forest staff killed the leopard in self-defence,” said VK Yadav, chief wildlife warden of the state. All four injured persons were shifted to hospitals. The leopard’s carcass was taken to the forest range office for a post mortem. Man-animal conflict is common in and around the tea estates and forest of north Bengal where people are often attacked by leopards and other wild animals, including gaur and elephants. Several elephants have also died due to electrocution and train accidents in recent times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-shot-dead-in-west-bengal-after-it-injures-four/story-IYqynjazRAbXTwLcWedPzO.html
17-12-2020||India||Goa Congress chief resigns after party’s rout in zila parishad polls||Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar has stepped down from the post taking the responsibility for the party’s dismal performance in the zila parishad elections, people familiar with the development said. A Congress functionary said he has been asked to continue on the post till his replacement is named. Chodankar, 53, was appointed the Goa Congress chief in April 2018, replacing veteran leader Shantaram Naik. In the just concluded zila parishad elections, the Congress faced a near-rout, winning just four of the 37 seats it contested. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) swept the polls, winning 33 out of 49 seats. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also opened its score, winning one seat. The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) won three seats, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) one and independents seven. Since the results were declared, Chodankar had come under fire from his Congress colleagues for the poor show in the polls that were billed as semi-final before the assembly elections in 2022. Congress party’s Lok Sabha member from South Goa, Francisco Sardinha, claimed that no senior leader was consulted regarding the selection of candidates. Former Goa Congress president Ravi Naik also blamed Chodankar for the debacle and demanded his resignation from the post. Chodankar had earlier offered his resignation soon after the party’s debacle in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to share accountability with Rahul Gandhi who had stepped down as the Congress president. Meanwhile, the name of Congress legislature party (CLP) leader and former chief minister Digambar Kamat as the new state unit president is doing the rounds. A Congress functionary said if Kamat is appointed as the state unit chief, Curtorim legislator Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco could replace him as the CLP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-congress-chief-resigns-after-party-s-rout-in-zila-parishad-polls/story-uIsXxEza02SuCJiwtC8TsO.html
17-12-2020||India||Odisha minor was sexually assaulted, SIT tells HC; BJP to walk for justice||The day Odisha unit of BJP announced a padyatra in all the 147 assembly constituencies of the state to demand justice for the family of the 5-year-old girl who was brutally murdered in July this year, a special investigation team (SIT) investigating into the incident told the Orissa high court that the minor could have been sexually assaulted before being murdered.The SIT headed by IG-ranked cop Arun Bothra which submitted its first report in a sealed envelope before the Orissa HC found that the five-year-old girl was sexually assaulted before being murdered.“The investigation revealed that the minor was stripped before she was murdered. That she has been raped before being killed was confirmed from the samples collected from her clothes,” the SIT report said.The minor girl’s decomposed skeletal remains were found from the backyard of her house on July 23, nine days after she had gone missing. SIT officials said the frock of the minor victim bore semen stain and the undergarment was missing. The SIT during its probe recorded statements of many witnesses and collected blood samples of at least 34 villagers.The samples of the semen have been sent for DNA testing. The identity of the accused is yet to be ascertained, but official sources said the person could be a person from the girl’s village.Initially, the local police were investigating the case which was later taken by the crime branch and later by the SIT on November 29.The incident triggered a political storm in the state after the girl’s parents attempted immolation in front of the state Assembly last month blaming higher education minister Arun Sahoo of shielding the prime suspect in the case. While alleging that their daughter may have been a victim of an organ donation racket, the parents also blamed the police for harassing them instead of going after the culprits.Since then, opposition BJP has made it a political issue with the party now planning to take out a padayatra from Lingaraj Temple in Bhubaneswar to the minor victim’s village in Nayagarh district, demanding justice for the girl.Last week, the state government had suspended the woman inspector of the local police station for her unprofessional approach in investigation of the case and transferred her supervisory officer over similar charges. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) too had found irregularities in the probe carried out by the local police.State BJP unit president Samir Mohanty said padayatras would be held across 147 assembly constituencies in the state demanding justice for the girl’s family. “The National Crime Records Bureau data suggests that the recovery rate of missing children in Odisha was 27.1% in 2019, the lowest in the country. The NCRB data in the last two years (2017-19) mentioned 5,503 children were missing. So many children vanishing from their homes have disturbed every common citizen of the state. BJP will fight to provide justice to all these families,” Mohanty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-minor-was-sexually-assaulted-sit-tells-hc-bjp-to-walk-for-justice/story-OfS3kp9HRDzZgYNHSPr40O.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm law protests enter day 22, Supreme Court to resume hearing on blockade of Delhi’s borders | 10 points||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agricultural laws reached day 22 on Thursday as protesters’ numbers continue to swell on the borders of Delhi. On Wednesday, day 21 of the protests, the Supreme Court took up petitions seeking directions to authorities to remove the protesters from the national capital’s borders. A 3-judge bench of the top court, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, issued notice to the Centre in this regard and will resume the hearing on Thursday.Here are developments from day 21 of the anti-farm law protests:1. In its observations, the CJI-headed bench noted that if urgent measures are not taken, the protests may “soon become a national issue.” The apex court suggested formation of a committee comprising government representatives, farm union members and members of farm unions from the rest of India.Also Read | Supreme Court steps in to resolve deadlock over farm laws: ‘Talks set to fail’2. The bench also observed that the Centre’s negotiations have not worked properly and are “bound to fail again.” On comparison with the Shaheen Bangh protests, it said, there can’t be a precedent in a law and order situation.ALSO WATCH | ‘BKU leaders from UP support the farm laws’: Union Agriculture Minister 3. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, alleged in the court that “some other interests” have taken over the protests. “The problem is that their stand is that either the government repeal the laws or we won’t talk,” Mehta said.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: What Supreme Court and Centre said on solution4. Meanwhile, reacting to the developments in the apex court, the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), a large platform of farm unions which is spearheading the agitation, called it a big “moral victory for the farmers” but also stressed that the movement will continue till the three laws are repealed.5. In a tragic development on Wednesday, a Sikh cleric died by suicide at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border, the epicentre of these protests. In a suicide note, Sant Baba Ram Singh of Karnal wrote that he was “hurt to see the farmers’ plight” and the “government’s oppression.”6. The Opposition lashed out at the Centre after death by suicide of the Sikh priest. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, remarked that the Modi government’s “brutality has crossed all limits.” He too demanded withdrawal of the anti-farmer laws.7. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, continued its outreach to clear what it alleges is “misinformation” being spread by the Opposition on the farm laws. In Gwalior, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, once again stressed that the laws will benefit farmers from across the country.Also Read | ‘Does he know anything about farming?’: MP CM slams Rahul Gandhi amid stir8. Farmers, majority of whom are from Punjab, have been protesting against these laws since September, when these were passed by the Centre. Initially, they blocked rail tracks in Punjab. Then, in last week of November, they arrived in Delhi to put pressure on the government to repeal the laws.9. The protesting farmers have blocked various highways leading to the capital city and say that they have enough ration and other essential items with them to last for months. They have warned that they will block Delhi’s borders till their demands are met.10. In recent days, they have also been joined by small groups of farmers from other states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan. A group of farmers from Rajasthan has been sitting on the Delhi-Jaipur highway since Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-law-protests-enter-day-22-supreme-court-to-resume-hearing-on-blockade-of-delhi-s-borders-10-points/story-RRr8Geh28EN905BPsCkLtO.html
17-12-2020||India||2 DRDO-developed Prithvi-2 missiles testfired off Odisha’s Balasore coast||India on Wednesday successfully testfired two Prithvi-2 ballistic missiles off the eastern coast of Odisha in Balasore. According to sources, the trials of the DRDO-developed nuclear-capable surface to surface missiles were successful.Earlier on December 1, the anti-ship version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile developed by DRDO with a strike range of 300 kilometres successfully hit its target ship in a test fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-drdo-developed-prithvi-2-missiles-testfired-off-odisha-s-balasore-coast/story-rmp7998Vb5eywkUo7gjbGL.html
17-12-2020||India||Sikh religious leader dies by suicide at Singhu border||Baba Ram Singh, the priest of a gurdwara in Haryana, died after shooting himself on Wednesday afternoon at the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu, where he reached last evening and joined farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting against three farm laws passed in the Monsoon Session of Parliament. He was 65.In a suicide note, Singh, a resident of Singhra village in Haryana’s Karnal district,said he wanted to expose the “cruelty of the government”.In a handwritten note in Punjabi, he said: “Farmers are in pain, they are protesting on the roads for their rights. The government is not giving them justice, which is cruel. It is a sin to endure persecution and also a sin to oppress. Some have stood for the farmer rights and against the cruelty. People have returned their awards to show protest. I am sacrificing myself.” HT has seen a copy of the note.Sonepat’s superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa confirmed that the police had received information that a man shot himself dead at Kundli-Singhu, where the farmers are protesting. Ravi Kumar, station house officer of the Kundli police station, said the suicide note had been recovered and that its authenticity was being ascertained.“The Kundli police is investigating the case. A thorough probe will be done,” the SP added.Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have gathered on Delhi’s borders, demanding the repeal of three farm laws that allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed his anguish on the priest’s death. “Anguished to hear that Sant Baba Ram Singh ji Nanaksar Singhra wale shot himself at Singhu border in Kisan Dharna, looking at farmers’ suffering. Sant ji’s sacrifice won’t be allowed to go in vain. I urge GOI not to let situation deteriorate any further & repeal the 3 agri laws,” he tweetedCongress leader Rahul Gandhi expressed his grief over his death and said many farmers have given their lives for the agitation. “The cruelty of Modi government has crossed all limits. Leave stubbornness and repeal the three farm laws,” he tweeted.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, “The news of Sant Baba Ram Singh Ji’s suicide is very painful. Condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Our farmers are asking for their rights, the government should listen to the voice of the farmers and all three black laws should be withdrawn.”Amarjeet Singh, a close associate of Singh, said he shot himself in his own vehicle. “From the dharna site, he was rushed to a private hospital in Panipat where he died during treatment,” he said.Gloom descended on Singhra village after the news of his death spread.Residents of the village as well as the priest’s followers from Karnal as well as from nearby districts gathered at the Gurudwara and accused the Central government of not solving the farmers’ issue and forcing Singh to take his life.“He had dedicated his life to Sikh Sanghat and his supreme sacrifice will not go waste as it will unite all farmers,” said Angrej Singh Pannu, another of his associates.Singh, who moved to Karnal in 1983 from Ludhiana in Punjab, was popular in the community and had thousands of followers in Karnal and nearby districts.He used to organise weeklong satsangs (prayer meetings) and langars (community kitchens) for thousands of people , village residents said.His body has been kept at the Singhra village Gurudwara and will be cremated on Thursday.Additional police forces have been deployed in and around the village in a preventive measure, the local police said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-religious-leader-kills-himself-at-singhu-border/story-eH8CZacuGKy6KwiFR7bcFJ.html
17-12-2020||India||Panel grills Facebook head for inaction on Bajrang Dal||The parliamentary panel on information technology on Wednesday reproached Facebook India head Ajit Mohan over the social media company’s reluctance to ban the Bajrang Dal although an internal report, according to the Wall Street Journal, termed the Hindu nationalistic group a “dangerous” organisation. It is the second time in five months that the panel has found reason to rebuke the company for not heeding its own internal assessments.The question was raised by Congress party MPs and members of the panel, Shashi Tharoor, Karti Chidambaram and Nasir Hussain, people familiar with the matter said. Tharoor heads the panel, which met representatives of Facebook to question them on its efforts to safeguard citizens’ rights, prevent misuse of online news platforms and ensure women’s security in the digital space.“The MPs wanted to know why Facebook hadn’t acted on the internal report that had called the organisation dangerous,” said a person aware of the proceedings of the meeting, requesting anonymity.Wall Street Journal reported that an internal assessment by Facebook had described the Bajrang Dal as dangerous, but the company did not act on the report because of financial and safety concerns. WSJ on December 14 reported that Facebook “balked at removing the group” because its security team warned that action against Bajrang Dal “might endanger both the company’s business prospects and its staff in India”.Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone had denied the allegations stating that the company has a “careful, rigorous and multidisciplinary” approach when it comes to enforcing a ban on individuals or organisations on the social media company.“We enforce our Dangerous Individuals and Organizations policy globally without regard to political position or party affiliation,” Stone said, according to the report.People familiar with the matter said Mohan dismissed the WSJ report as “fake news”.“Some MPs also wanted to know why Facebook hadn’t flagged it as fake if the article wasn’t true,” said the first person cited above.A second person aware of Wednesday’s proceedings said the social media company contended that Bajrang Dal may remain on Facebook, but any hate posts on its page would be taken down.“The MPs also wanted to know why Facebook can’t take down a post suo moto {on its own} if its violates its hate policy,” the second person said. They pointed out that by the time someone complains about a post, it may have “already served its purpose.”Facebook told HT that the social media platform was transparent and allowed people to express themselves freely.“We thank the Honorable Parliamentary Committee for their time. We remain committed to be an open and transparent platform, and to giving people a voice and allowing them to express themselves freely,” a Facebook spokesperson said.Among other issues discussed were Facebook’s grievance redressal system, which the panel said should be based in India and not in the United States.The panel also quizzed Facebook on its fact-checking mechanism and revenue model. “It also has to be ascertained whether Facebook is a publisher or an intermediary, there has to be accountability,” said the second person. “Facebook’s ability to manipulate the reach of a post was also brought up at the meeting. Why is it that anti-government posts don’t get same traction as pro-government ones.”The panel also sought background information on all 268 Facebook India employees.Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra :also asked Facebook “whether or not it monetizes data,” said the first person mentioned above.The person added: “Facebook was evasive on the issue. It shows they may not be selling the data but they have a system that allows them to monetize it.”It’s not the first time that Facebook has found itself in the middle of a controversy in India following a Wall Street Journal report. According to an August 14 report in the newspaper, .Facebook’s then-South Asia public policy director Ankhi Das intervened to stop Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party legislator T Raja Singh from being banned from the social media site over possible fallout for the company’s business interests in India.Singh was eventually banned permanently from Facebook and Das resigned from the company in October to “pursue my personal interest in public service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-grills-facebook-head-for-inaction-on-bajrang-dal/story-AaHvtAZS2knL9QPA7GoejP.html
17-12-2020||India||Supreme Court steps in to resolve deadlock over farm laws: ‘Talks set to fail’||The Supreme Court stepped in on Wednesday to try and end the impasse between farmers’ unions and the Centre over the contentious new laws to open up trade in agriculture, observing that the protest will soon become a national issue and that recent events suggest government negotiations with the unions were “bound to fail again.”The organisation spearheading the protest said in its initial reaction that the court’s decision was moral victory for the farmers, but insisted that the laws should be repealed.Also Read| ‘Tolerating is also sin’: Haryana priest dies by suicide amid farmers’ stirA bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde will hold a joint hearing of the government and the farmers’ organisations on Thursday, indicating that the court will set up a committee of representatives of both sides to discuss and resolve the dispute.“It doesn’t seem the negotiations between the government and farmers will work,” the court said.The CJI-led bench is already seized of a clutch of petitions that have challenged the validity of the laws passed in September. These will also come up for hearing on Thursday. At least six factions of the BKU will be there at Thursday’s hearing. Permission was granted to implead major farm unions as respondents in the case, including the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU - Rajesh Tikait), BKU - Sidhupur (Jagjeet S. Dallewal), BKU - Rajewal (Balbeer Singh Rajewal), BKU - Lakhowal (Harinder Singh Lakhowal), and others.The three laws triggered a massive protest by farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, who have massed at the borders of Delhi since November 26. The laws allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate.The government has offered to amend the laws substantially; the farmers’ unions want nothing short of their repeal.“The SC’s order, in which it suggested a committee for negotiations, are a big moral victory for farmers. But talks will help only if they are about withdrawing the three laws,” said Avik Saha, secretary of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, a large platform of farm unions spearheading the protests.The AIKSCC said the Prime Minister was misinforming the nation about the Acts not affecting farmers’ land, about minimum support prices and diverting attention from the real issues by invoking the bogey of “Opposition fooling farmers”.“The Movement in Delhi will continue till 3 Acts are withdrawn. Farmers always ready to explain their issues to either the court or government. We will come up with more detailed views after studying the SC order,” said Darshan Pal, another farmers’ leader.During the hearing on Wednesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Union government, complained that “some other interests” have taken over the farmers’ protests and that the protestors’ representatives turn their chairs, showing their backs to the union ministers during the talks.“They come with placards, written ‘Yes or No’. The government was ready and is still ready to engage in talks with the farmers. But the problem is that their stand is either you repeal the laws or we don’t want to talk. I can submit that the government will not do anything which is against the interest of the farmers,” added the law officer.But the bench was not impressed. “What is the point of saying this when they perceive it to be against their interests? Your negotiations do not appear to work and are bound to fail again. What’s the point of saying something very good when it serves no purpose since the farmers are not before us (the court)?”The bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, pointed out that while the bunch three petitions were filed before it by lawyers with different kinds of prayers, no farmers’ union or representative is a party to the hearings.The court issued notices on the petitions but it underscored the need to give an audience to the farmers’ representatives for a suitable adjudication of the issues, which ranged from clearing the road blockades to directing the government to ensure the farmers’ demands are met.Responding, the SG said that he was aware that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) was at the forefront of the protests and that his office would be sharing the contact details of their leaders so that they can be heard tomorrow.At this, the CJI told Mehta: “Tentatively, we will form a committee comprising representatives of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, the government, and other farmers’ organisation from other parts of India because this will soon become a national issue. So, we will have other organisations from other parts of the country too.”One of the petitioners cited the need to move the farmers to a designated spot and clear the roads in the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Shaheen Bagh case wherein it was held that public roads cannot be blocked indefinitely by protestors. The Shaheen Bagh protest was against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act .The bench, however, said no order can be passed without the court hearing the other side. “What were the number of people in Shaheen Bagh? How many blocked the road? Will the numbers not matter? Who will take the responsibility? There cannot be any precedent in a law-and-order situation,” it added.The Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra also appeared in the case. While he questioned the petitioners for filing half-baked public interest litigations (PILs), Mehra said that it was very important that some urgent steps are taken by the Centre given the fact that farmers have been compelled to protest in the open in a cold winter.At this, SG Mehta retorted: “Mr Mehra seems to be appearing for some union and not a government. Which union are you appearing for, Mr Mehra?” This triggered a sharp response from Mehra, who said he can also comment on why and for whom Mehta was appearing in the matter.The bench asked the two lawyers to refrain from personal comments and fixed the matter for a hearing on Thursday, pointing out the court will be on a winter break after Friday. Senior advocate Harish Salve is also expected to appear in this matter on Thursday for a new petition or application.Zia Haq in New Delhi contributed to this report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-steps-in-to-end-deadlock-over-farm-laws-talks-set-to-fail/story-6VYwXLRlFFkTgreR3juruN.html
17-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US Food and Drug Administration’s endorsement of the Moderna vaccine’s safety and efficacy on Tuesday — a regulatory clearance is expected as early as Friday — came with a bonus: details, hitherto unknown, that indicated the vaccine’s ability to prevent or, at the least, reduce the transmission of Covid-19. As this columnist has previously written, what most of the Phase 3 clinical trials of vaccines against Covid-19 sought to measure as an outcome was effectiveness in preventing infection. The vaccines developed by Moderna, Pfizer/BioNTech, Astra Zeneca/Oxford, and the Gamaleya Institute, have all proved to be effective, albeit to varying degrees, though all do exceed the bar of 50% set by the US regulator.Based on the trial data published in the public domain, only AstraZeneca seemed to have tested for the vaccine’s impact on transmission — it found that the vaccine did reduce transmission — although this nugget was almost immediately forgotten in the criticism that was justifiably and understandably targeted at the vaccine developers for data based on what was clearly a mash-up of Phase 3 clinical trials. It’s probably the reason the vaccine won’t be approved in the US on the basis of these trials; an approval in the UK, one of the places where Phase 3 trials were conducted, is expected in days.Also Read: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin safe, says Phase 1 trial dataNow, FDA’s in-depth report on the Moderna vaccine candidate publicises data that was absent in the company’s initial data released in mid-November. According to this report, the company presented data that showed that the first shot of its two-dose vaccine actually managed to reduce asymptomatic infections — something that could, if established through further research, mean that it reduces transmission of the viral disease.Vaccines that don’t just prevent infections but also reduce or stop transmission could effectively crush the pandemic — and mean a faster return to normal. For instance, it could mean vaccinated people no longer have to wear masks because they cannot be transmitters. Similar data for the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine, which is currently being administered in both the US and the UK, isn’t available, although the company is believed to be working on this.While the Pfizer vaccine awaits regulatory clearance in India, it is likely that most Indians will not receive it. A vaccine dashboard maintained by Unicef puts the number of vaccine doses for which India has struck agreements with companies at 200 million — which is probably more accurate than the 1.6 billion number doing the rounds. Of this, 100 million doses (of Covishield, the two-dose AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine) are through an agreement between Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance and Serum Institute of India (SII), which is making the drugs locally, and another 100 million, through an agreement between Gamaleya and Hetero Drugs. The Indian government isn’t party to either deal, although there would seem to be an unstated understanding that the government will, pending the vaccine’s approval in India, acquire most of the output of SII that hasn’t been spoken for already.India is also likely betting on Covaxin, the vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the Indian Council for Medical Research. Phase 3 trials for Covaxin (also a two-dose vaccine) are currently underway, and interim results are expected around the end of the year. Bharat Biotech has sought emergency-use approval on the basis of data from its Phase 1/2 trials (this is as yet unpublished), but India’s drug regulator has rightly asked the company to come back with data from its Phase 3 trials. Again, while no formal deal exists (or has been publicised), the understanding would appear to be that, pending approval, the government will acquire much of Bharat Biotech’s output.SII is conducting its own Phase 3 trials of Covishield in India, and when that data is released it will be interesting to see if there is any indication that the vaccine prevents transmission, as suggested by the interim analysis of its Phase 3 trial data that was released last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-4m1ON9EOnatmZ1lwX03v8M.html
17-12-2020||India||US defence bill slams China on LAC aggression||A US defence spending legislation that has been cleared by both chambers of the US Congress expresses “significant concern” with Chinese aggression along the border with India, and urges Beijing to settle the dispute through “existing diplomatic mechanisms” and “refrain’’ from using force and coercion.The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), 2021 seeks to convey this message as an expression of the “sense of Congress”. Though it is neither a demand nor a threat tagged with enforceable consequences, it is a significant show of support for India and solidarity, passed by the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives and Republican-controlled Senate.The legislation is now awaiting the signature of President Donald Trump. He has until December 23 to sign the bill into law or veto it, as he has threatened to. However, since the legislations passed both the House and Senate with two-thirds majorities, the measure has enough support to override a presidential veto.In Section 1206 of the bill titled “Sense of Congress on the aggression of the government of China along the border with India and growing territorial claims” the bill says, “Continued military aggression by the Government of China along the border with India is a significant concern.”And that the “government of China should work with the government of India toward de-escalating the situation along the Line of Actual Control through existing diplomatic mechanisms and refrain from attempting to settle disputes through coercion or force”.It goes on to point to China’s other aggressive actions in the region and around, and says that Congress believes that “attempts by the Government of China to advance baseless territorial claims, including those in the South China Sea, the East China Sea, and with respect to Bhutan, are destabilizing and inconsistent with international law”.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi signed the NDAA last Friday, starting the 10-day notice period for the President to sign it.Trump has threatened to veto the bill if it did not contain provision taking away immunity enjoyed by social media platforms from prosecution for content published by them, under Section 230 of the Communication Decency Act. He wants to punish Twitter, Facebook and other platforms for censoring and labelling objectionable content published by him and his conservative allies.The $740 billion defence spending bill doesn’t contain that provision, in a rare joint snub by both Republicans and Democrats, which has set up a confrontation with lawmakers of both parties, who are determined to override his veto.Raja Krishnamoorthi, the Indian American member of the House of the Representatives who led the effort to include this language int the bill, said in a statement, “Violent aggression is seldom the answer, and this is especially true for the Line of Actual Control, which is the disputed border region that separates the People’s Republic of China from India.”He added that the inclusion of this language in the bill and its enactment by the US government will send a clear signal that “China’s military provocations of India will not be tolerated” and that the US is “committed to standing with our allies and partners like India in resolving the border standoff using diplomatic means”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-defence-bill-slams-china-on-lac-aggression/story-iVWUrpSAi7YkbyD7dzZb6N.html
17-12-2020||India||Dissent in TMC official, Suvendu Adhikari quits as MLA||Dissidence within the Trinamool Congress (TMC) became official on Wednesday when former cabinet minister Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the West Bengal assembly and held a closed-door meeting with some rebel lawmakers for the first time, triggering speculation that Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state this weekend could be marked by defections to the BJP. Shah will address rallies and party workers in three districts on December 19 and 20. Adhikari and the rebels assembled 165km away from Kolkata, at the residence of the TMC’s Burdwan East Lok Sabha MP Sunil Mandal. Asansol city’s outgoing mayor and legislator from West Burdwan district’s Pandabeswar, Jitendra Tiwari, and dissident leaders from at least three districts attended the meeting. They did not make any announcement till the time of going to press.Adhikari also wrote a letter to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in the evening, seeking protection and expressing fear that he and his associates may be implicated by the police and the administration in “criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta”. Adhikari did not say a word to the media but Dhankhar tweeted, “Suvendu Adhikari former minister @MamataOfficial has by way of representation sought my intervention so that police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice and administration are dissuaded from implicating him and associates in criminal cases out of political vendetta. Taking expected steps.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who was on a three-day tour of north Bengal, called up Tiwari during the day and asked him not to take any drastic steps till she returns to Kolkata and meets him on Friday, TMC leaders said. Tiwari has accused urban development minister Firhad Hakim and the government of depriving Asansol of central funds meant for development. Adhikari resigned from the legislative assembly around 4pm on Wednesday, 18 days after quitting the cabinet in which he held three departments. He represented East Midnapore district’s Nandigram seat where a long land movement helped TMC chief Mamata Banerjee oust the Left Front government in 2011. Adhikari went to the assembly house and submitted a handwritten letter at the secretariat since the speaker, Biman Banerjee, was not present in his office. The letter raised several technical questions since Adhikari did not put any date on it and did not write or sign it before the speaker, something anti-defection rules of the assembly demand. “I have not received any letter. The secretary has no authority to accept an MLA’s resignation letter. I have to review the matter,” the speaker said in the evening. The dissidents started speaking out in different districts of south Bengal since Tuesday, hours after the chief minister addressed rallies in north Bengal where the BJP won seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On Wednesday, while Banerjee headed for more rallies in north Bengal, several lawmakers in south Bengal, where the BJP did not do so well in the Lok Sabha polls, raised a voice against organisational decisions and election strategist Prashant Kishor. Mandal, the two-time Lok Sabha MP from Burdwan East constituency, which was one of the strongest citadels of the Marxists till he wrested the seat in 2014, told local media that the TMC needs reforms. The rebel leaders met at his home in Kanksa. Questioning the necessity of Kishor and his company, I-Pac, Mandal said, “Is it acceptable that those of us who worked on the ground among people and rose from the ranks have to take instructions from paid employees of I-Pac on where and how to hold processions? People of Bengal are sensitive and intelligent. Processions do not ensure votes.” Posters appeared in his support in several parts of East Burdwan. Statements against the TMC leadership were also made by Dipak Haldar, the legislator from Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district and Biswajit Kundu, the legislator from Kalna in East Burdwan district. Adhikari’s aides said he may join the BJP on December 19 or, he may do so on December 18 as he had plans to fly to Delhi on Thursday. Adhikari, his father and two brothers represent two Lok Sabha constituencies and an assembly seat in East Midnapore. They also run the civic body at Contai, their hometown. “The entire Adhikari family will eventually join the BJP. It is only a matter of time,” said a senior TMC leader who did not want to be named.Reacting to Adhikari’s resignation from the assembly, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said the rebel leader would be welcomed when he joins the BJP. Saugata Roy, the TMC Lok Sabha member who held reconciliatory talks with Adhikari, said, “Suvendu is taking one step at a time before joining the BJP. This is not unexpected for us.” The developments took place while the chief minister addressed people and party leaders in north Bengal. “People cannot change their character every day. You can change clothes every day but not idealism. Do you, the common people, have faith in me? Those who are with the party since its birth are still there. A few of those who joined us later are leaving. It will not make any difference,” Banerjee said at a rally in Cooch Behar. Mihir Goswami, the TMC legislator from the Cooch Behar South seat, joined the BJP last month. In a parallel development, forest minister Rajib Banerjee’s followers put up more posters in different districts, including East Midnapore. The minister, too, made significant statements at a public programme on Tuesday. Without naming the TMC, he said he had been deprived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissent-in-tmc-official-suvendu-adhikari-quits-as-mla/story-siWUiysSl62bJFf0QzoYUN.html
17-12-2020||India||JEE Main to be conducted 4 times a year from 2021: Govt||The Union government on Wednesday said it will conduct the marquee Joint Entrance Examination (Main), or JEE Main, four times a year from 2021 in 13 languages including English, just days after it said that a proposal is being evaluated for conducting it more than twice.The first of the four attempts allowed in JEE Main in 2021 will be conducted between 23 February and 26 February and there will be no negative marking for optional questions this time, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said. “We have examined the suggestions received from students and various quarters, and it has been decided that JEE-Mains will be held in four sessions in February, March, April and May,” Pokhriyal said.JEE Main will be conducted in English, Hindi and 11 other languages, instead of just English and Hindi as is the practice now, to give opportunities to students from regional language backgrounds, the minister said.The regional languages will include Tamil, Telugu, Gujarati, Marathi, Odia, Bengali and Assamese.The new format will help reduce the chances of JEE Main clashing with other competitive examinations or board examinations, the minister said. “The move will ensure that students do not miss out on opportunities due to clash of exams or due to the COVID-19 situation at present,” the minister said.The education ministry had on 10 December said it is exploring the possibility of holding JEE Main three or four times a year. The syllabus will be the same as the previous year. The ministry on Wednesday said students will be given the choice of answering 75 questions (25 each in physics, chemistry and mathematics) out of 90 questions (30 each in physics, chemistry and mathematics).The top performers of JEE Main, around 150,000 of the candidates, are shortlisted for giving JEE Advanced, the second leg of the JEE entrance system, which opens the door for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology. JEE Main results are also used for admission into engineering colleges in several states and some of the top centrally-funded engineering and tech schools.A candidate has the option to apply for one session (February) or more than one session, March, April, May 2021 together and pay the examination fee accordingly. “However, if a candidate appears in more than one session then his or her best of scores in 2021 will be considered for preparation of merit list or ranking. The question paper will contain 90 questions, in which the candidate will have to attempt a total of 75 questions. In the new paper pattern, there will be no negative marking in the 15 alternative questions,” Pokhriyal said. “The candidates have to attempt 75 questions out of 90, or 25 questions out of 30 in each section of chemistry, physics and maths,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jee-main-to-be-conducted-4-times-a-year-from-2021-govt/story-sAHRc221Kr8WH8dQqjH6MP.html
17-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin safe, says Phase 1 trial data||India’s first domestically produced vaccine against Covid-19, Covaxin, triggered robust immune response, and reported no major adverse events shows findings from the Phase 1 placebo-controlled, randomised, double-blind trial on the safety and immunogenicity published by Bharat Biotech in a pre-print study on Wednesday.Only one serious adverse event was reported, which was found to be not vaccination related, according to the study.The results of Phase 1 results of Covaxin had not been publicly released yet even though the data was first presented to Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on October 2 when the company applied for approval to start Phase 3 trials.“BBV152 induced binding and neutralising antibody responses… Vaccine induced neutralising antibody titers were reported with two divergent SARS-CoV-2 strains. BBV152 is stored between 2°C and 8°C, which is compatible with all national immunisation programme cold chain requirements,” says the paper, which is yet to be peer-reviewed.To be sure, data given in the study released on Wednesday only pertains to the first of the three-phased clinical trials for vaccine authorisation. In Phase 1, initial testing of the vaccine candidate is carried out in small numbers of healthy adults to primarily test its safety. The results of this phase do not play a role in the market authorisation.Other organisations that have been developing Covid-19 vaccines published data from their Phase 1 trials several months ago. Moderna Inc, for instance, published its Phase 1 data in July. The Pfizer/Biontech vaccine, which has already started being administered in the United States and Britain, released data from their vaccine’s Phase 1 results in August.Phase 2 involves larger numbers of subjects and is focussed on data about a vaccine’s ability to safely produce its desired effect (immunogenicity). The Phase 3 is the pivotal study on which licensing is based and it checks for the effectiveness of immune reaction triggered by the vaccine. Efficacy of the vaccine will be determined only in Phase 3 trials. The results of Phase 3 are finally presented as the data on which authorisation is obtained. Bharat Biotech has not yet submitted results of Phase 3 trials, which began in mid-November. On December 7, the firm had applied to DCGI for emergency use authorisation for Covaxin, following which the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) recommended that it present the safety and efficacy data from Phase 3 trials in order for its application to be considered . Bharat Biotech has developed the whole-virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate (BBV152) in collaboration with ICMR. In the Phase 1 study, a total of 375 participants were randomised equally to receive three vaccine formulations (n=100 each); the control arm had 75 participants. Vaccines were administered on a two-dose intramuscular accelerated schedule on Day 0 (baseline) and Day 14. The primary outcomes were reactogenicity and safety. The secondary outcomes were immunogenicity. The follow-up visits were scheduled on days 7, 28, 42, 104, and 194. Experts, however, say much depends on the Phase 3 trial results. “At this stage, there are many promising vaccine candidates but Phase 3 trial results will be significant in terms of which ones finally materialize,” said public health expert Professor K Srinath Reddy, who is also a member of the National Task Force on Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-safe-says-phase-1-trial-data/story-YQuKS072LuBSa1BNdzNrGM.html
17-12-2020||India||‘Good music should continue to happen…’||Singer Shilpa Rao has reasons to be happy these days. With so much music happening for her and appreciation coming her way has made her all cheerful.Initially she couldn’t believe the news. “We all love to be appreciated and especially when it comes in a form of the biggest global award nomination, what else one can ask for. I remember when I heard the news that Anoushka Shankar’s album ‘Love Letters’ which, also features my song ‘Those Words’ has been nominated in the Best Global Music Album category for the 63rd Grammy Awards, I was all numb. I wanted to authenticate the news first as so much fake news is happening around us. So, when I was able to confirm it, I was simply elated,’ she said. “Also, it’s an all women album and that makes it more special for us all,” she added. The singer of ‘Ghungroo Toot Gye’ (‘War’) fame is waiting to get back on stage and in studios soon. “Of course, we all want to resume normal life as soon as possible. I miss the time in studios and live singing. Giving real performances is what I am waiting for,” Shilpa said. Music kept Shilpa busy since last couple of months. “During this phase I have kept myself busy with recording, shooting at home, posting videos online. I recorded a song for ‘Ludo’ from home. Anoushka’s collaboration song too happened in the same phase where we shot the video sitting in our homes, so work was happening any which way. Also, I think music made all of us happy during such tough time. So good music should continue to happen,” she said. Next year Shilpa will be seen on TV as well as in more musical collaborations. “Apart from cutting music albums, both private as well as for films, I’ll also be seen on TV for Indian pro music league, a fun musical show where I’ll get to captain a team from Mumbai,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/good-music-should-continue-to-happen/story-k8hug4eT6WSmw02nT8149O.html
17-12-2020||India||8 dead, 21 injured in UP as bus, tanker collide||Eight people died while 21 sustained injuries here on Wednesday morning when an Uttar Pradesh Roadways bus collided with a gas tanker amid reduced visibility due to fog, police said. The crash took place in the Dhanari police station area, they added. “Eight people have died in the accident involving a bus of the UP Roadways and a gas tanker. All injured have been hospitalised. The number of injured persons is 21. The bodies have been sent for autopsy. Traffic has been diverted since there is still some gas in the tanker,” Moradabad Inspector General of Police (IG) Ramit Sharma told reporters. Earlier, Superintendent of Police Chakresh Mishra had put the number of injured at 25 and said the head-on collision took place on the Agra-Moradabad road. Police said the deceased are yet to be identified. District administration and police officials are at the spot and rescue operations are on, they added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident. He offered his deep sympathies to families of the deceased and wished a quick recovery for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-dead-21-injured-in-up-as-bus-tanker-collide/story-yB08aGKOG0TTAqjd2m7tDP.html
17-12-2020||India||EC seeks action on 4 for unaccounted cash during 2019 Madhya Pradesh assembly elections||The Election Commission ordered Madhya Pradesh chief election officer on Wednesday to lodge a criminal case against four bureaucrats for their alleged role in the use of black money during the 2019 assembly elections in the state.The bureaucrats include IPS officers Sushobhan Banerjee, Sanjay and V Madhu Kumar and state police officer Arun Mishra. “(The) Commission deliberated upon a report, received from the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), intimating its search operations in Madhya Pradesh and its findings of extensive use of unaccounted cash during the General Elections 2019 in Madhya Pradesh,” the EC said. “It is reported that these entities/individuals engaged in unauthorized and unaccounted cash contributions to individuals on behalf of certain political party, which is reported to be corroborated during searches against persons by Income Tax department under Section 132 of the Income Tax Act, 1961...”The Commission has directed the chief electoral officer of Madhya Pradesh to lodge criminal action with the Economic Offences Wing. It has also asked the Chief Secretary, Madhya Pradesh for similar action against State officer. “It was a search and seizure operation carried out by the CBDT. The Commission has found actionable evidence in the report,” said an EC official.Banerjee allegedly received Rs25 lakh from Pratik Joshi, whose residence was raided by the income tax department last year. Joshi was known to be a close associate of Ashwani Sharma, an alleged power broker. They were purportedly in touch with Kamal Nath’s aide and former officer on special duty Pravin Kakkar. Kakkar is currently under investigation by the Income Tax department. According to the CBDT report, Mane received Rs30 lakh, Mishra 7.5 crore and Kumar got over 13 crore. Congress claimed that money seized belonged to the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. On April 9, 2019, Kamal Nath alleged that the BJP was trying to exert pressure on him. Congress MLA PC Sharma said, “BJP-led central government is misusing the central investigating agencies for a long time. But now the government has started pressurising ECI to work in the favour of BJP. This is nothing but a conspiracy against Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-seeks-action-on-4-for-unaccounted-cash-during-2019-madhya-pradesh-assembly-elections/story-ynNR9VlMaGG0mJyBeZ6z3J.html
17-12-2020||India||India deteriorates to 131 in UN Human Development Index||India has dropped two spots on the Human Development Index, according to the 2020 Human Development Report published by the United Nations Development Programme on Wednesday. Asia’s third-largest economy ranked 131 among 189 countries in 2019, according to the report that measures national progress not by income or gross domestic product alone, but by development indicators such as educational attainment, health outcomes and standard of living. Bhutan and Namibia have overtaken India, and were placed at the 129th and 130th spots. “India’s HDI value for 2019 is 0.645 -- which put the country in the medium human development category -- positioning it at 131 out of 189 countries and territories. Between 1990 and 2019, India’s HDI value increased from 0.429 to 0.645, an increase of 50.3 percent,” the report said. Norway came out on the top of the index, followed closely by Ireland and Switzerland. Among a clutch of South Asian nations, India, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Nepal, Cambodia and Pakistan were ranked under a grouping of countries with medium human development. In contrast, among emerging Asian economies, Malaysia ranked 62, figuring in a category of countries with very high human development. Sri Lanka, Thailand and China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam ranked lower that Malaysia, but were ahead of India and classified as economies with high human development. India’s gross national income per capita fell to $6,681 in 2019 from $6,829 in 2018 on a purchasing power parity basis, the report said. India figured in the bottom third for most development indicators, including quality of health and education and an adverse sex ratio, according to the report. The country also ranked in the bottom third for a high percentage of people in vulnerable employment. India, however, figured in the top third grouping of countries with a lower unemployment rate and high representation of women in elected local governments. The idea of human development, pioneered by economists Mahbub al Haq through the UNDP’s Human Development Reports, and Amartya Sen, who weighed in with a conceptual and theoretical framework for it, has now become an influential paradigm for development. According to the pioneers of human development, such as Sen, human development is about people, not the economy and involved enlarging of choices that people value, such as longer and healthier life and education, along with income. According to this approach, economic development, or growth, is only one of the things necessary for the fulfilment of some larger goals of human well-being. The first Human Development Report 1990 defined human development as the “process of enlarging people’s choices”. Apart from income, this basket includes basic critical necessities, such as livelihoods, good health, freedom, nutrition and even dignity. In other words, a general sense of well-being. The philosophical underpinnings of such an approach is that the people are at the centre. Human beings aren’t mere resources for the economy or a factor of production. “The concept of human development is that people must have access to certain choice that enhance their capabilities. India’s slip on the global ranking is concerning, underscoring the need for higher investment in social infrastructure rather than a preoccupation with industrial development,” said Ashish Pai, a member of India’s first state-level human development index brought out by Madhya Pradesh in 1995.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-deteriorates-to-131-in-un-human-development-index/story-4iv8XeFjClpWmgna2NPWXL.html
17-12-2020||India||House panel to review working of RTI watchdogs, experts wary||A parliamentary standing committee, for the first time, will scrutinise the working of the transparency watchdogs, the Central Information Commission (CIC) and the State Information Commissions (SICs), a move that has caused consternation among Right to Information (RTI) activists who see it as an attempt to “usurp” the powers of state legislatures.As the information commissions are statutory bodies, the CIC is required to submit annual reports to Parliament and the SICs to state legislatures through their administrative wings, the ministry of personnel and training at the Centre and the services departments in the states.These annual reports are rarely debated in Parliament or state legislatures although members have raised questions over the efficacy of the RTI law in short-duration discussions and during the zero hour, where a member can raise an issue approved by the presiding officers.Rajya Sabha secretary general Desh Deepak Verma has listed 12 issues for examination by the parliamentary standing committee in the current financial year (2020-21), which includes a review of the working of the Central Information Commission and State Information Commissions. Other issues listed on the agenda include reviews of the working of virtual courts, guardianship and adoption laws and functioning of Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanisms.Committee chairperson and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Bhupendra Yadav was not available to comment on the matter. A Rajya Sabha official familiar with the development said the committee decides on the agenda after gathering inputs from all members, including 10 MPs from the Rajya Sabha and 20 from the Lok Sabha.“The committee has taken a decision to review the information commissions as there were lots of media reports about their functioning,” said the official, who requested anonymity.The committee has the powers to summon any official and seek suggestions from non-government organisations to review the performance of any organisation, including the information commissions, he added. A report by the Satark Nagarik Sangathan (SNS) released in connection with the 15th anniversary of the RTI law on October 9, 2020, said that around a third of information commissions in India were headless, with a fourth of information commissioner posts lying vacant.It added that the Jharkhand and Tripura information commissions were defunct. The report said nine states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Rajasthan, did not have a chief information commissioner, whose appointment under the RTI law is a statutory requirement.Since then, Rajasthan has appointed a chief information commissioner.The Centre on November 10 filled the post of chief information commissioner, a position that had been vacant since August with the appointment of Yashwardhan Kumar Sinha.Another report filed by Transparency International India on the same day said that around 33 million RTI applications had been filed with various government departments across the country in the past 15 years, showing the widespread use of the watershed law that empowers citizens to raise governance questions with public authorities.Only about 9% of these RTI applications resulted in a second appeal, meaning that over 90% of the applicants were satisfied with the government’s response, something that transparency law activists see as RTI’s biggest achievement.“We have no problem with a review of the chief information commission by a parliamentary standing committee as the legislature has powers to review,” said Anjali Bhardwaj of SNS. “We want the committee to give terms of reference of the review and the exercise should not be used to weaken the RTI Act. Earlier, the central government had weakened the RTI law by bringing new service rules for information commissioners.”The Centre, in October 2019, notified rules downgrading the information commissioner’s post, which was on par with that of an election commissioner, to equivalence with the post of a secretary in the Government of India. The new rule also reduced the term of an information commissioner from five to three years and empowered the Centre to remove the officer, which, Bhardwaj said, had undermined the spirit of the RTI Act in the name of rationalisation.Venkatesh Nayak of the National Campaign for People’s Right to Information (NCPRI) wondered how a parliamentary panel could review the functioning of the state information commissions, which come under purview of state governments and state legislatures.“This is another attempt to usurp the powers of the state legislature, to which state information commissions submit their annual reports,” Nayak said. Agreeing with him, Bhardwaj said the standing committee should take transparency and federalism into account in the review of the functioning of information commissions. The importance of that RTI Act in India can be gauged from a 2019 verdict of the Supreme Court, which said the law had the potential to bring about good governance, which is an integral part of a vibrant democracy. “Attaining good governance is also one of the visions of the Constitution,” the court said.The RTI is a central law, which was adopted by the states without any substantial change. State governments have, however, effected some changes in the appointment of information commissioners and the functioning of the state information commissions by amending some rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-to-review-working-of-rti-watchdogs-experts-wary/story-EuoR42llk6TnRYHBwnK1DM.html
17-12-2020||India||MP varsity faces flak for unique first-aid diploma||The Madhya Pradesh- government run Atal Bihari Vajpayee Hindi (ABVH) University has started a new diploma course in first aid that it has tried to popularise by effectively promoting quackery, and to which it has tried to lend a veneer of respectability by creating a First Aid Council of India (FACI), which has signed off on the programme. “Neem Hakeem, Jhola Chaap doctor (read quacks) or any other person can start their first aid centre to earn money after getting first aid specialist diploma course,” said an advertisement issued by the university in different newspapers and on social media platforms on December 14 to promote the one-year diploma course. The course fee is Rs28,000. Doctors and experts have raised objection to the course saying it promotes quackery.The university, which was started in Bhopal in 2011 with a vision to promote Hindi, has introduced three diploma courses - First Aid Specialists, Natural Pharma and Yoga and Natural Therapy.Governor Anandiben Patel is chancellor of the university. Additional secretary to governor Rajesh Kaul said, “The university is an autonomous body and the executive members are free to take decision related to the course. If we receive any complaint, we will take action.” “These are the first-of-its kind courses,” Ramdev Bhardwaj,the university’s vice-chancellor said in a message to media persons to promote the course. “Various state governments and the central government have many times discussed the proposal of starting a first aid course but no institution in India has ever introduced one. We have taken the initiative and it is essential for every people to learn lifesaving first aid methods.” Ajay Sahu,the director in charge of the diploma courses, said this course provides an opportunity to everyone, including class 12 graduate and even medical practitioners without degrees, to become self-reliant. His reference is to local (often unlicensed) medical practitioners. “The course basically needs a basic understanding of health which a student having cleared class 12 has. It is not a subject-specific thing so doesn’t need any basic qualification and knowledge of any particular subject.”“Even, World Health Organization (WHO) promotes first-aid programmes. We are following the 300-page manual of WHO for the first-aid course.The videos, audios and booklets prepared by experts and medical practitioners will be provided to students.They will be running online due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Sahu explained.He also claimed this course did not need any kind of permission or recognition. To buttress his claim, he shared with HT, replies of the Medical Council of India (MCI) and ministry of Ayush to the Right to Information (RTI) applications he had filed, stating that the area (first-aid) does not come under their purview.Dr Rajan Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association, which is protesting against allowing Ayurvedic doctors over 50 surgeries like allopathic doctors, said, “This does not sound like a healthy trend wherein non medical colleges are offering medical courses, even if short-term. The Indian Medical Association has also been running such training programmes for a while now. IMA is also not against Ayush systems; the body, however, has a problem with trivialising modern medicine. There should be no mixing of streams. You will end up in a mess, with our future generations suffering in the long run. It will also indirectly promote quackery.”National Medical Commission (NMC), which has replaced MCI to regulate medical education, declined to comment since the issue was of another ministry. Sahu said FACI was registered with the ministry of corporate affairs under the Companies Act in October, a few weeks before the course was ready for promotion.Interestingly, the university formed the First Aid Council of India, an autonomous body, which claims that it works to promote first aid treatment in India. An advertisement for the programme, featuring photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, claims FACI is opening a research centre in the university campus in Bhopal to promote national health. FACI president Shabab Aalam declined comment through a representative. Objecting to the course, Madhya Pradesh’s National Health Mission (NHM) additional director and former chief medical health officer (CMHO), Bhopal, Dr Pankaj Shukla, said, “The reply of Medical Council or Ayush ministry that the course doesn’t come in their purview doesn’t mean that the course can be run without their permission. The university should take permission from (the state government’s) directorate of medical education for the course and from the CMHO for running the first-aid centre because it is a medical course.”He also said anyone opening a first-aid centre without possessing requisite qualifications would be committing a crime. “If these diploma holders start their own first-aid centre in any part of the country, they would be sent behind bars for violation of the Clinical Establishment Act. The university is promoting quackery. ”A former faculty member of the university and now professor at Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC), Amravati, Anil Saumitra said the university was being forced to launch such courses to stay afloat.“The university started with a vision to promote Hindi by developing different courses in the Raj Bhasha (state language).” But because of improper planning, a programme in engineering failed to take off, he said. “Now, the university is facing existential (financial) crises and is forced to start such courses,” he added.Despite repeated calls and messages, vice chancellor Bhardwaj couldn’t be reached for comment. (With inputs from Rythma Kaul in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-varsity-faces-flak-for-unique-first-aid-diploma/story-o6tTJt09mmxnR5dsjEVkdK.html
17-12-2020||India||No decision on scrapping quota for IIT faculty recruitment: Govt||The Union education ministry said on Wednesday that it had taken no decision on implementing a controversial proposal to exempt IITs from quota norms for faculty hiring even as a political controversy brewed over the suggestion.The proposal was made by an expert committee, headed by IIT Delhi Director V Ramagopal Rao and comprising representatives from four top IITs and three government ministries. The panel, set up by the ministry in April, also told the ministry that IITs were institutes of excellence and matters of faculty hiring should be dealt with the board of governors of these colleges.“There is no such decision by the ministry,” said a senior ministry official on condition of anonymity. The panel was asked to look into the reservation process for students and teachers and submitted its report to the ministry in May.It comes at a time when several IIMs are carrying out special drives to recruit faculty members from scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and other backward class communities, in line with government guidelines.The panel noted that the IITs were institutions of national importance, set up by an act of Parliament and having a mandate to contribute to the development of India and the world. It said that vacant positions should not be blocked for a long period of time.“Since IITs have flexible faculty structure and there is no specified tier-wise faculty strength, all appointments are through open advertisement, without specifying specific numbers to be hired. It is important that this aspect of the selection process be retained,” the report said.The panel made some specific recommendations.One, bringing IITs under the list of institutions exempt from reservations.“This must be immediately reconsidered for inclusion of IITs in the schedule taking into account the nature of these institutions, duties, and their activities. The matter of reservations in these institutions may be vested with their respective board of governors to deal with as per the board resolutions, statutes, and byelaws,” the panel said.Two, a new “preparatory” programme to attract quality PhD candidates from reserved categories. If this was not possible, the panel recommended that reservations for all categories -- including economically weaker sections – could be capped at the position of assistant professor, and not extended to higher posts of associate and full professor. Three, vacancies not filled up with adequate representation from reserved categories in a particular year due to non-availability of suitable candidates be de-reserved in the next year.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) didn’t react to the recommendations. But the Congress attacked the Centre and accused it of being anti-Dalit.“It has become a habit of the Narendra Modi government to take every possible opportunity to hit at the very edifice of affirmative action and reservation. They take every opportunity to convolutedly and covertly and also overtly exhibit their anti-Dalit bias…So what’s being proposed is a clear undermining of power and protection provided to the marginalised amongst us,” said Congress spokesperson Pranav Jha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-on-scrapping-quota-for-iit-faculty-recruitment-govt/story-YSQBwvTWbmWRDlZflfKWMJ.html
17-12-2020||India||5 judges elevated as CJs, 4 chief justices transferred||Effecting a major revamp in the ranks of the higher judiciary, the Supreme Court collegium has elevated five judges as chief justices of high courts and transferred four chief justices.The decision was taken at the meeting of the collegium held on Monday that was chaired by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and attended by the two other senior-most judges, justice NV Ramana and justice Rohington F Nariman.The list of transfers has raised some eyebrows, particularly that of justice JK Maheshwari, the chief justice of the Andhra Pradesh high court, who has been asked to swap positions with Sikkim high court chief justice AK Goswami.Others who have been transferred include chief justice RS Chauhan of the Telangana high court to the Uttarakhand high court and chief justice Mohammad Rafiq from the Orissa high court to the Madhya Pradesh high court. Replacing them will be the judges who have been elevated as chief justices.There has been friction between justice Maheshwari, who took over as Andhra Pradesh chief justice in October 2019, and Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. In March this year, the high court put a spoke in the state government’s decision to paint panchayat buildings with the colours of the ruling party . A month later, the high court set aside Reddy’s decision to introduce English as the medium of instruction in government schools.For months, the tussle between the government and judiciary in the state continued over several issues, finally reaching a flashpoint in September when the high court issued a gag order barring the media from reporting the contents of a first information report (FIR) in a land scandal in the city of Amaravati involving former advocate general Dammalapati Srinivas and daughters of a sitting Supreme Court judge, justice NV Ramana. In October, Reddy wrote a letter to CJI Bobde, complaining that justice Ramana was trying to influence cases in the high court to destabilize his government. This letter was released to the media by Reddy’s principal advisor Ajeya Kallam at a press conference on October 10.Notable among those elevated are justice S Muralidhar, whose parent high court is Delhi. The collegium has recommended that he be moved as chief justice of the Orissa high court. Justice Hima Kohli, the senior-most judge in the Delhi high court after chief justice DN Patel, has now been recommended to become chief justice of the Telangana high court.In March, justice Muralidhar was transferred from his parent high court in Delhi to the Punjab and Haryana high court. The decision to transfer him created a controversy because it came soon after he pulled up Delhi police for not registering a first information report (FIR) against three leaders of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) for allegedly inflammatory speeches they made in the run-up to the February riots in Delhi.Justice Muralidhar, however, put the controversy to rest by clarifying in his farewell address at Delhi high court that the CJI had sought his consent in February to be transferred to the Punjab and Haryana high court.Justice Muralidhar began his legal practice in Delhi in 1987; he is credited with the decision in the Naz Foundation case (2009) in which he and then Delhi high court chief justice AP Shah decriminalized homosexuality, then punishable under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. This verdict, reversed by the Supreme Court, was eventually upheld by a Constitution bench in 2018.The other judges who were recommended for elevation as chief justices include justice Sanjib Banerjee, justice Pankaj Mithal and justice Sudhanshu Dhulia. Justice Banerjee, who is currently serving in the Calcutta high court, has been recommended to be moved as the new chief justice of the Madras high court. Justice Mithal’s parent high court is the Allahabad high court where he is currently serving as a senior judge on the Lucknow bench. He has been recommended to become chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir high court. Justice Dhulia, who is currently serving in the Uttarakhand high court, has been elevated as chief justice of the Gauhati high court.The five other judges recommended for inter-high court transfers include acting chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court Justice Sanjay Yadav, who will move to the Allahabad high court. Similarly, justice Rajesh Bindal, who is the acting chief justice of the Jammu and Kashmir high court, will move to the Calcutta high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-judges-elevated-as-cjs-4-chief-justices-transferred/story-8SAhdXlOUvxypvc1RkloHO.html
17-12-2020||India||Discussion on uniforms and ranks: Rahul Gandhi walks out of House panel meeting||Congress Member of Parliament Rahul Gandhi and his colleagues walked out of a Parliamentary standing committee meeting on defence on Wednesday, saying they were not allowed to speak during a discussion on uniforms and ranks. Gandhi , according to people familiar with the proceedings, expressed an opinion that such matters were best left for the forces to discuss and suggested that the panel focus on more substantive issues. At this point, the people said, the chairman of the panel, Jual Oram asked Gandhi to stick to the agenda of the day , listed as ``an introduction to the rank, structure of the Defence forces including their uniforms, stars and badges, and review of working of cantonment boards.’’The meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, Army Vice Chief Satinder Kumar Saini and Defence Secretary Arun Kumar. According to some of the members who attended the meeting and spoke to Hindustan Times on condition of anonymity, Rajya Sabha member Lt Gen (retired) DP Vats was asking the officers why the Indian defence establishment couldn’t have a uniform rank system, that is same designations in the Army, Navy and Air Force like the US does in its three services. Gandhi, according to a BJP MP and a Congress MP, responded by saying the forces were the best judge of this and that suggesting otherwise was an insult to the senior defence officers present at the meeting. The Congress MP added that Gandhi had been asking for a discussion on the border standoff with China for some time now and was disappointed that the committee, instead of taking that up as an agenda was discussing something else. The BJP MP claimed that Gandhi came late for the meeting and was absent in a previous committee hearing when it was decided that MPs needed a briefing to familiarise themselves with the ranks of the forces and how to differentiate between them. Chairman Oram is believed to have told Gandhi to allow the members ask questions and voice their opinions on the scheduled topic, but according to the prople cited above, Congress MP Rajeev Satav, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and a few others asked that Gandhi be allowed to speak his mind.When this request was denied, Gandhi and two other Congress MPs, Satav and Anumula Revanth Reddy, walked out. The people cited above said Gen Rawat and the other officers were silent throughout these proceedings which lasted about 45 minutes.BJP MP Pratap Simha who was present at the meeting said that Gandhi’s actions didn’t convey his respect for the forces.If he has so much respect for the forces then why did he meet the Chinese ambassador at the height of the Doklam standoff?’’HIS reference was to a july 2017 meeting between Gandhi and Ambassador Luo Zhaohui at a time when Indian and Chinese forces were locked in a weeks-long standoff at the Doklam trijunction area near Bhutan. The Congress’ explanation at the time was that it was to be briefed on bilateral issues and he had also met with former NSA Shivshankar Menon. Gandhi himself had tweeted that it was his job to be informed on critical issues and he had also met with the Bhutan ambassador.General Vats told HT that the subject being discussed was an important one . “I doubt Rahul Gandhi will be able to distinguish between one rank and another,” he added. Oram declined comment. A defence officer familiar with the proceedings said that India follows the British system where the three services have their own ranks and uniforms. There is no plan to change this, the officer added on condition of anonymity. “What Rahulji said is absolutely right. When India is faced with an unprecedented crisis at the LAC border, the parliamentary standing committee is discussing ranks and uniforms of armed forces! Instead of discussing ways to better prepare our forces logistically in these challenging times, the committee chooses to spend time on matters that should only concern the Armed Forces. The main issue is that BJP leverages India’s defence forces for political gains and wants to escape accountability to people’s representatives on issues of national importance,’’ said Satav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discussion-on-uniforms-and-ranks-rahul-walks-out-of-house-panel-meeting/story-o0UMLVmjl7sdDEVRTy8aCP.html
17-12-2020||India||SC seeks govt reply on uniform divorce laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set the ball rolling on a contentious debate over uniform grounds for divorce and maintenance/alimony across the country that are both gender- and religion-neutral.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice the ministry of home affairs, ministry of law and justice, and ministry of women and child development on two separate petitions filed by a lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitions highlighted Article 44 of Constitution which is a directive principle asking states to implement a Uniform Civil Code for all citizens. But their main thrust was on discriminatory practices existing within personal laws that violate Article 14, which offers the right to equality, Article 21, which promises the right to dignity. as well as Article 15, which prohibits discrimination. Such practices place women at an inferior position to men, the petitioner contends.The petitions prayed that regardless of religion or gender, grounds for divorce or maintenance for men or women should be the same. To put this point through, the petitioner engaged two leading women senior advocates, Pinky Anand and Meenakshi Arora, to convince the court that the issue at hand was not of encroaching on personal laws but of gender justice and equality.Initially hesitant to issue notice, the CJI-headed bench asked Anand: “You are taking us into a direction which will encroach upon personal laws and demolish what they seek to achieve.” Anand explained that discriminatory practices exist within personal laws of each religion, but the court has seen those issues from the prism of gender equality and gender justice.She cited a 2017 decision by a Supreme Court Constitution Bench in the Shayara Bano v Union of India case striking down the practice of triple talaq as unconstitutional. Anand also referred to a 1995 SC decision in the Sarla Mudgal case wherein the court asked the government to involve the Law Commission of India in framing a comprehensive legislation that rationalizes the personal laws of minorities in keeping with the modern day concept of human rights.The petition highlighted the discriminatory grounds for divorce existing among Hindus vis-à-vis Muslims, Christians and Parsis. For instance, adultery is a ground for divorce for Hindus, Christians and Parsis, but not for Muslims. Incurable leprosy is a ground for divorce among Hindus and Christians but not Parsis or Muslims.Impotency is a ground for divorce for Hindus and Muslims but not for Christians and Parsis. Similarly, underage marriage is a ground for divorce among Hindus but not Christians, Parsis or Muslims.The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said: “Can we remove these discriminatory grounds without entering into the personal laws. Triple talaq was found to be a practice not approved by the religion. Government may know the pulse of the people, but how do we encroach upon personal laws.”Arora, who argued in favour of uniform grounds for maintenance, pointed out that when religious practices infringe on rights guaranteed under the Constitution, such practices should not get any protection from the courts.“Different grounds of divorce are based on and reinforce patriarchal and stereotypical notions about women. Personal laws discriminate against women in marriage, inheritance and guardianship of children. For this reason alone, it completely contravenes principles of equality and dignity under Articles 14, 15 and 21 and the global conventions,” the petition stated. The Court underlined another concern. “The question that arises is which grounds to adopt – Hindu, Islam or Christianity.” The bench spotted an alternative prayer mentioned in both petitions where it asked the court to direct the Law Commission of India to examine all personal laws and suggest uniform grounds for divorce and maintenance considering the best practices of all religions and international conventions.The bench cited this prayer contained in the petitions and said, “This can be considered. We will issue notice but with great caution.”Upadhyay later told reporters: “It is unfortunate that 70 years since our Constitution was adopted, no government has taken steps to implement Article 44. This shows they are not interested in gender justice and equality. With the Court issuing notice, I am convinced that the Centre will respond to my prayer for uniform grounds for divorce and maintenance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-reply-on-uniform-divorce-laws/story-oEIEMvf8CDRO6XG8vgIk3M.html
17-12-2020||India||An uneasy calm in Shaheen Bagh, one year after protest||A year ago, when Road Number 13A in Shaheen Bagh, which connects Noida to Delhi, was blocked by locals protesting the Citizenship Amendment Act, it took Delhi Police by surprise. What started as a sit-in protest by a group of around 100 residents snowballed into one of the largest and most prominent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the country. For 101 days the road, blocked by hundreds of anti-CAA protesters, became a symbol of resistance to the government’s new law. It was cleared on the morning of March 24, 2020, the day before the national lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease.This year, as another protest -- this time over three farm laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy -- continues to rage with thousands of farmers on a similar sit-in protest at several of the Capital’s entry points, police are ensuring that nobody starts a protest within the city -- including in Shaheen Bagh’s Road 13A. At Batla House, about 5km away from Shaheen Bagh, when a group of protesters gathered on Tuesday to mark the first anniversary of the violence outside Jamia Millia Islamia, they were quickly forced to disperse. And sometime last week, as the number of protesting farmers swelled at two entry points into Delhi (from Haryana), Singhu and Tikri, police brought personnel from the Border Security Force to guard the streets of Shaheen Bagh. “No government wants a repeat of what happened last year. Until last week, there were some 5-6 local police personnel who would patrol the market during the day but not at night. But now armed commandos are guarding this place, round-the-clock. They don’t want this road to serve as a spot for the farmers’ protest,” said Kuki Solanki, 40, who runs a garment shop in the local market at Shaheen Bagh. On Wednesday, when HT visited the market, a busload of armed BSF personnel were alighting, and starting to march across the market. The officers declined to speak. “You know why we are here -- why state the obvious?” a BSF subinspector, who asked not to be named, said.Sporting AK-47 rifles , the BSF personnel patrolled the lanes along the market, which leads to the residential areas of Shaheen Bagh. A police quick reaction team (QRT) vehicle, along with police commandos and local police officers, was also on the roads. The officers walked the streets looking for potential threats -- those with banners against CAA , or the farm laws. Their anxiety is understandable. When the protest first started, no one outside the national capital, and not many residents of the Capital, knew of Shaheen Bagh, a small colony in the more famous Jamia Nagar neighbourhood of southeast Delhi.But as the protest grew, people from across the city made their way to Shaheen Bagh. They came to see the replicas of the India Gate monument where names of those who died in the anti-CAA protests across the country were etched. They came to hear revolutionary poems being read out by passionate young men and women. And they came to spend time with the grand old women of Shaheen Bagh, the Dadis or grandmothers. In September, 82-year-old Bilkis,one of the women, was named one of the 100 most influential people of 2020 by Time magazine.The 101-day long protest had its share of critics, including thousands of commuters who used road 13A to commute between Delhi and Noida daily. For 101 days as the protesters blocked the important Delhi-Noida link and there were massive traffic jams across the city. Police had to divert traffic on to the Delhi-Noida Mathura road leading to serpentine traffic jams in the morning and evening peak hours. Multiple petitions were filed in courts urging them to intervene and ask protesters to vacate the road. The Supreme Court appointed two interlocutors to speak to the protesters and ensure that the road was cleared. The talks did not make any headway. Much later, in September, after the pandemic achieved what the courts or police could not, the Supreme Court observed that the right to protest in public places should be balanced with the right of the general public to move freely without hindrance.“The Covid pandemic came in the middle of our fight against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The voices have drowned in the noise of this pandemic, but they are not dead. They will rise again. The protesting farmers also learnt about the way to protest from the Shaheen Bagh protesters. The residents will come back until justice is done,” said a member of the Shaheen Bagh residents welfare association.  CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019, replaced the Citizenship Act, 1955, to fast-track the grant of Indian citizenship to members of the Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities from the Muslim-majority nations of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The exclusion of Muslims triggered widespread protests across the country as did the linking of citizenship with religion.Several residents in the area -- most did not want to be named -- said they believe Shaheen Bagh was the most successful sit-in protest, particularly because there was no violence right till the end.But traders said the “successful protest” came at a cost. At least 15 shops in the roughly 200-shop market have shut permanently in one year -- not just because of Covid, although this served as a double whammy for shops that had been put of business for three-and-a-half months by the protest.When lockdown norms were relaxed in May, one shopkeeper said the fear of the virus had kept the shoppers away. About 60 other shops have not reopened yet.“People think it is risky to start a business here. The police are constantly on guard. What happened last year has led people to believe that this place is under the radar of government agencies and can be shut down in case of the simplest law and order problem. Maybe they are right too. They will start a shop in Batla House or Sarita Vihar nearby but not here,” said Ishrafat, 24, who works at a garment store. Nasir Hussain, president of the Shaheen Bagh market welfare association said: “Many shopkeepers did not return. They suffered heavy losses first during the blockade and later because of the lockdown.”Most traders said they do not expect a “spontaneous” gathering of locals again, at least not in Shaheen Bagh. “Delhi is known for protests but a protest like that will not happen here again. It was a spontaneous gathering of women, children and those who dared to speak truth to power. Maybe in other parts of the city but not here. The place is under constant surveillance,” said Mustafa K, 45, a resident. Delhi Police, however, have a different take on the Shaheen Bagh protest. They have alleged that the protest was not a spontaneous gathering of Shaheen Bagh residents but one planned and funded by those who were later involved in the 2020 Delhi riots, which left 53 dead and over 400 injured. The residents and others involved in the protest deny this contention.Professor Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for Study of Developing Societies said“ It would be wrong to say that the Shaheen Bagh protest created a template for sit-in protests such as the current one by the farmers. Shaheen Bagh was one of the longest ones and will be remembered in history. The fact that women, children and families came together for a cause was unique. It was an example of how protests can be undertaken if people are committed. But it may not be remembered best for what many would have liked to remember it. It did not achieve anything. The pandemic and social distancing norms cut short the protest. It ended in a dramatic manner. The Mandal agitation achieved results. Even the anti-corruption movement resulted in something...”On Wednesday, as police teams continued to patrol the market, a team of officers of the crime branch and special cell were still at work, investigating the riots and connecting dots to prove how the sit-in protest site at Shaheen Bagh was used to fuel the anger and orchestrate the Delhi riots, one of the worst in three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-uneasy-calm-in-shaheen-bagh-one-year-after-protest/story-ICbGQmdhTarXDLa8PbekiN.html
17-12-2020||India||19-yr-old Muslim man booked under UP ‘love jihad’ law in Bijnor||MEERUT The police registered a case under the new UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, commonly known as the love jihad law, and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code at Dhampur police station in Bijnor district of western Uttar Pradesh and arrested a 19-year-old Muslim man on Wednesday on charges of enticing a minor girl, allegedly by concealing his original identity and attempting to coerce her into conversion.Arun Kumar Tyagi, the station house officer of Dhampur police station, said the 14-year-old girl belonged to a scheduled caste. He added that a case has been registered against 19-year-old Mohd Saqib alias Sonu under Sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing a woman to compel her marriage) of the Indian Penal Code, provisions of Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the new ordinance against forced and dishonest religious conversion.Under the new law, the charges, if proved, could mean imprisonment of up to punished with imprisonment of 10 years with a fine of not less than Rs 25,000. The accused and the girl are from villages in the Dhampur area of Bijnor district. Tyagi claimed that Saqib enticed the girl by representing himself as Sonu. He also claimed that the couple was in a relationship for over a year and eloped on the night of December 14. They reached the town of Nahtaur where they were apprehended by the police who also informed the Dhampur police. Tyagi said he approached the girl’s family at her village in Dhampur, that they admitted the girl eloped on December 14, and that they did not report the matter to the police to avoid embarrassment.Tyagi also said that during interrogation, the minor girl alleged that the man had initially hidden his identity, introduced himself as Sonu, and , subsequently, tried to coerce her into conversion and marriage. The girl was sent for medical examination and the accused, Saqib, to jail, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-yr-old-muslim-man-booked-under-up-love-jihad-law-in-bijnor/story-IulSBwawxKt718F8vTtsWJ.html
17-12-2020||India||LDF sweeps Kerala local body elections||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday pulled off an emphatic victory against the odds in Kerala local body elections, considered a semi-final before assembly elections due in April-May 2021. Even LDF leaders and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), which won 19 out of the 20 Lok Sabha seats in Kerala in the 2019 general elections, were surprised by the outcome. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) remained an also-ran in the fiercely contested elections. The local body elections took place in the backdrop of mounting challenges to the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led government of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, whose secretary is in jail and a minister has been questioned by law enforcement agencies several times in connection with a gold smuggling racket uncovered in July.Powerful party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishan was forced to proceed on leave after his son was arrested in connection with a narcotics haul in Bengaluru. Many central agencies have also pitched their tents in the state, probing a series of alleged kickback scandals. Although the Congress and BJP tried their best to exploit these sensational cases to their advantage, the LDF pulled off a victory that is considered a personal triumph for the CM.A close look at the poll outcome shows that a political realignment in the LDF (the Kerala Congress Mani and Loktantric Janata Dal joined the ruling coalition), the effective battle it waged against Covid-19 and welfare measures it launched, including free rations, paid rich dividends.Its high-decibel campaign that central agencies were targeting its leaders and trying to sabotage welfare programmes also helped it attract sympathy votes, political observers said. Consolidation of the minority vote against the BJP also helped, they said. In the LDF surge, many Christian-dominated forts of the Congress like Kottayam and Pathanamhtitta crumbled and the party suffered a humiliating defeat even in the wards of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala in Haripad (Alapuzha) and former chief minister Oommen Chandy in Puthapally (Kottayam). The poll results raised question about the UDF’s prospects in the 2021 assembly elections. “The Congress will have to do enough introspection and check differences among its leaders,” said senior journalist and political commentator John Mary, adding that overconfidence contributed to the party’s crushing defeat. The BJP remained a distant third although it managed to wrest one more civic body -- Pandalam (Pathanamthitta) -- besides iPalakkad that it already held. Its effort to win the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation fell flat. Its hopes of pulling off a Hyderabad-like performance in the state capital failed to materialise -- out 100 corporation seats, the LDF won 52, NDA 35, UDF 10 and others three. Out of six corporations, the LDF won four -- Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Thrissur and Kozhikkode. UDF emerged victorious only in Kannur (north Kerala). Kochi produced a fractured verdict. Out of 944 local bodies, LDF managed 514, UDF 377, NDA 25 and 29 went to others. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said: “We are humbled by the trust and the confidence of the people of Kerala. This is a victory for secularism and inclusive development.”“It is a victory of the alternative policy being pursued by the CPI(M). People gave a befitting reply to the Centre’s plan to destabilise the state government using its agencies. We salute the people of the state. This mandate will help the LDF to retain its power in assembly elections also,” CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said in Delhi. Congress leaders said they will examine the reasons for the UDF’s debacle and introspect on the verdict. “Political climate was conducive for the party. We will examine reasons and take corrective measures,” said party leader T N Prathapan. BJP state president K Surendran said both LDF and UDF helped each other and cross-voted to contain the saffron party’s surge. “Last week LDF convenor A Vijayaraghavan said the CPI (M) had taken enough measures to stop BJP in its tracks. In many wards, Congress workers gave their vote en bloc to the CPI(M) to sabotage BJP chances in Thiruvananthapuram,” he said, adding that the ruling party also distributed leaflets in many places for minority consolidation against the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ldf-sweeps-kerala-local-body-elections/story-we303xhZtsCxDWc46Ra7xL.html
17-12-2020||India||Farm unions urge Centre to stop ‘parallel negotiations’||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions leading the protests against three agricultural laws, has asked the government not to hold parallel negotiations with farmers and stop vilifying farmers as anti-national elements. In a letter to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, the group said: “Please don’t hold parallel negotiations. We have already said that your proposals for amendments are not acceptable to us.”The letter also asked the government not to spread misleading information. “The government is open to talking to all kinds of farmers, including those on protest. Discussion and dialogue is the only way for a solution,” farm minister Tomar had said on Tuesday after meeting a group of farmers. The government has so far met four delegations of farmers who say they support the farm laws. “Yesterday, the PM made a wrong claim that milk production has been promoted by non-government private sector, while it is the government- aided cooperative sector which has helped milk farmers, and later the entry of the private sector stressed the milk sector,” said Avik Saha, a leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.A massive farmers’ rebellion was set off by the three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.“PM {Narendra} Modi’s document Putting Farmers First says that the laws “open up avenues for agribusiness” and it is the corporates and MNCs who these laws and government is helping, not the farmers,” the letter said. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. Farmers decided to call off negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The government on December 9 sent a written proposal to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers from penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfers, but farm unions say they will not call off their protest until the laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-urge-centre-to-stop-parallel-negotiations/story-6nRETSos4fzJkfB4OrgHEO.html
17-12-2020||India||Amid farm stir, Cabinet clears Rs 3.5k crore sugar export subsidy||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved a Rs 3,500 crore subsidy to export sugar by millers amid a glut, a farmer-friendly move through which India is set to offer sugar export subsidies for a third year in a row to pare surplus stocks and ensure domestic prices don’t crash. Export subsidies are necessitated when exports becomes unviable because international prices are lower than domestic prices. “Cabinet has taken the decision to help farmers directly by depositing money of subsidy into their accounts. The subsidy will be given on 60 lakh tonnes of sugar exports at the rate of Rs 6,000 per tonne,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday. The minister said the subsidy will benefit 50 million cane farmers in the country. Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka are among the three largest cane-producing states. India is the world’s largest sugar consumer, but 90% of the country’s output goes into commercial food products while 10% is bought by household consumers. The decision comes amid a persistent standoff between large farm unions and the government over three recent laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy. The subsidy is likely to be highlighted by the government as a key step towards as it battles the massive agitation by farmers against moves to deregulate agricultural markets. “The decision to continue cane subsidy is welcome. This will however have no impact on our agitation (against the new laws),” said Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait faction). Plentiful stocks, the highest since 2012, cheaper imports and mounting dues millers owe to the tune of over Rs 12000 crore have accentuated woes of sugarcane farmers. The subsidy will help farmers get speedier payments and millers to stay profitable. “Farmers sell their sugarcane to the sugar mills, however the farmers are not getting their dues from the sugar mill owners as they have surplus sugar stock. To address this concern, the Government is facilitating the evacuation of surplus sugar stock. This will enable payment of dues of the sugarcane farmers. Government will incur about Rs 3,500 crore for this purpose, and this assistance would be directly credited into farmers’ accounts on behalf of sugar mills against cane price dues and subsequent balance, if any, would be credited to mill’s account,” an official statement said. The country could produce over 31 million tonnes of sugar this season, well above the expected domestic demand of about 26 million tonnes. “The subsidy amount is lower than last year but considering that the world sugar prices are higher as compared to what they were at the same period in the last season, the industry is confident to perform well again in 2020-21,” said Abinash Verma, the chief of Indian Sugar Mills Association. This subsidy will cover costs on account of marketing, handling, upgrading, costs of international and internal transport and freight charges on export of up to 60 lakh tonne of sugar limited or the maximum admissible export quota allocated to sugar mills for sugar season 2020-21. “This decision will benefit the five crore (50 million) sugarcane farmers and their dependents, as well as the five lakh (500,000) workers employed in the sugar mills and related ancillary activities,” Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-farm-stir-cabinet-clears-3-5k-cr-sugar-export-subsidy/story-y7X7UuJ0Lqj4vF3lUSBynL.html
