18-12-2020||India||SC relief for senior Bengal BJP leaders||New Delhi :The Supreme Court on Friday granted protection from arrest to senior leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – national vice president Mukul Roy, state -vice-president Arjun Singh and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, along with Pawan Singh and Saurav Singh – after they complained to the court that the West Bengal government was preventing them from entering the state where elections are due next year by foisting false cases against them. In petitions before the top court, the leaders contended that cases were lodged against them by West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) soon after they left the party and joined the BJP. Arjun Singh, who is a BJP Member of Parliament from Barrackpore said that 64 cases under petty offences were registered against him at various places in the state starting from March 2019, which was when he left the TMC.The two political parties are in the middle of a pitched battle ahead of next year’s assembly polls, in which the BJP is gunning to wrest power from the TMC and its two-term chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Appearing for Singh, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi told a three-judge bench headed by justice SK Kaul that the cases registered against other petitioners -- Mukul Roy, Pawan Singh and Saurav Singh -- followed the same pattern, as the cases were lodged soon after they joined the BJP. Pawan Singh is the son of Arjun Singh and is a member of West Bengal legislative assembly; Arjun Singh’s nephew Saurav Singh is a councillor in the Bhatpara Municipality in the state which falls under the Barrackpore parliamentary constituency.Rohatgi also said that 17 cases were filed against former MP Mukul Roy since he left the TMC on September 22, 2017 after a falling out with CM Banerjee. Roy joined the BJP on November 3, 2017. Two years ago, the Calcutta high court quashed of the 12 cases filed against Roy.The petitions demanded that these FIRs be investigated by an independent agency, preferably the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Representing Vijayvargiya, his lawyer Prashant Kumar, argued that though he is an MP from Madhya Pradesh and does not stay in West Bengal, yet cases have been lodged against him in order to prevent him from visiting the state to perform his party responsibilities. Rohatgi contended that the TMC government has a pattern of foisting false cases against political opponents. He referred to the case of former officer of the Indian Police Service (IPS) Bharati Ghosh, who joined BJP last year, eventually approached the Supreme Court for protection after 11 FIRs came to be registered against her ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.“Let there be an order that no coercive steps shall be taken against us or else they will succeed in their plans to keep us away from elections scheduled for February-March next year,” Rohatgi submitted.The bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, after holding discussions, said that the petitioners need to be protected in the interim. “Till the next date of hearing there will be no coercive steps in any of the cases against the petitioners,” the court ruled, while issuing notices on each petitions to the West Bengal government, the TMC, the West Bengal director general of police, the state home secretary, the Union of India, and CBI.The matter has been posted for hearing in the week commencing January 3.TMC leaders refused to comment, saying it is a judicial matter. Roy and Singh welcomed the ruling, saying their stand has been vindicated. “We have been saying for a long time that the West Bengal police press charges against BJP leaders and workers to serve their political masters. We stand vindicated,” Roy said after the ruling came.“The only job of the West Bengal police is to register new cases against me. This has been happening ever since Mamata Banerjee realised that she is on the verge of losing power,” said Singh. Columnist and political commentator Suvashis Maitra said, “The court probably took into the account the elections in Bengal. This is indeed a good ruling. Leaders from all parties should be free to take part in political exercise. The investigations can continue.”Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson and former TMC leader Kabir Bose also approached the top court seeking similar relief against the state government, stating in his petition that TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee was seeking his arrest after he filed for annulment of marriage with Banerjee’s daughter in 2015 and joined BJP. On December 6, Bose’s car was attacked and he was unlawfully restrained from moving out of his house. The court separated Bose’s petition from the rest of the matters, and issued a separate notice on Bose’s petition. It also directed the CISF’s Special Security Group to submit the Special Incident Report of December 6 on the next date of hearing in a sealed cover. The court said it will take a call on granting protection from arrest to Bose after going through the report.TMC Lok Sabha member and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-relief-for-senior-bengal-bjp-leaders/story-wDt7Aj46vPwdZmxXdHIuvO.html
18-12-2020||India||AIMIM leader arrested after he opens fire in group clash, injures 3||An All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) party leader was arrested on Friday for allegedly firing at a group of people in Telangana’s Adilabad district, injuring three persons. The accused, Farooq Ahmed, was booked for attempt to murder, besides other sections of Indian Penal Code and also under Arms Act. “Steps are being taken to cancel his revolver licence and an inquiry has been ordered into the incident,” in-charge district superintendent of police V Satyanarayana told reporters. According to the SP, the incident happened at the Thatiguda area in Adilabad town. Preliminary inquiry revealed that old rivalry between two groups was the reason behind the incident. “However, the immediate provocation for the incident was a clash between two teams of youngsters while playing cricket. Following the clash, Farooq Ahmed came to the spot and entered into an altercation with the rival group. In a fit of rage, he opened fire at the other group. Later, he also tried to attack the rivals with a knife,” Satyanarayana said. Three persons received bullet injuries. While two of them - Zameer and Moteshan - were immediately shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Adilabad, the third person - Mohsin, who was grievously injured - was shifted to Hyderabad for better treatment. Farooq had earlier served as deputy chairman of Adilabad municipality and is currently president of the AIMIM Adilabad district unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimim-leader-arrested-after-he-opens-fire-in-group-clash-injures-3/story-CI3pOKjtigxEPMlw0yNK0N.html
18-12-2020||India||CBI books Hyd firm for bank fraud||New Delhi Probing another huge bank fraud, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Hyderabad-based company Transstroy (India) Ltd and its CMD Cherukuri Shridhar, among others, for allegedly defrauding a consortium of banks led by Canara Bank of Rs 7,926 crore, officials said on Friday. People familiar with the development said the amount involved in the fraud was even higher than what Nirav Modi owes to India banks. Modi is currently facing extradition proceedings and is lodged in a UK jail. Transstroy, which was into construction of highways, bridges, irrigation projects, metro-related work as well as in the business of oil and gas, is currently under liquidation process as per an order by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in September 2019. Apart from Transstroy and Sridhar, the CBI has named as accused Rayapati Sambasiva Rao (additional director in the company) and Akkineni Sathish (additional director) in the FIR registered at its Bengaluru unit. Agency teams on Friday carried out raids in Hyderabad and Guntur at the premises of accused persons and recovered documents related to the fraud, officials said. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said that Transstroy had availed credit facilities on multiple banking arrangements from a consortium formed with other banks led by Canara Bank. “It was further alleged that the accused was involved in falsification/fabrication of books of accounts, fudging of stock statements, tampering of balance sheets, round tripping of funds, etc. It was also alleged that the accused misappropriated bank’s funds and diverted the loan amount sanctioned by the banks and caused a loss of Rs 7,926.01 crore (approx) to Canara Bank and other member banks. The account had become NPA (non performing asset) and the fraud was reported,” Gaur said. Transstroy’s legal or company representatives could not be located by HT for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-hyd-firm-for-bank-fraud/story-iqwR0Rtb56ES3cYTFwic2H.html
18-12-2020||India||Minimum temperature drops below 3 degree Celsius in parts of Delhi, icy winds continue||The minimum temperature dropped below the three degrees Celsius-mark in parts of Delhi on Friday as frosty winds from snow-covered Western Himalayas continue to sweep the national capital, the India Meteorological Department said.The mercury plunged to 2.7 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur. It settled at 3.5 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations, the IMD said.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum, however, rose to 19.8 degrees Celsius.The city had recorded a “severe” cold day on Thursday as the maximum temperature dropped to 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal and the lowest this season so far.A “cold day” is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.4 degrees Celsius below normal. A “severe” cold day is when the maximum temperature is at least 6.5 notches below normal.“Cold wave” conditions are predicted in Delhi on Saturday and the cold spell is likely to continue till Monday, the IMD said.For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days.However, for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperature-drops-below-3-degree-celsius-in-parts-of-delhi-icy-winds-continue/story-4m79R44PqH5z82O6adKi1I.html
18-12-2020||India||North India under cold grip; IMD says slight relief expected later||Several parts of north India shivered at an average minimum temperature of below 5 degrees Celsius on Friday as the India Meteorological Department said the trend will continue over the next week and a slight relief can be expected only a week later.As winter chill gripped the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said night temperatures would continue to be below normal in north India over the next week.In its forecast from December 17-24 and from December 24-30, the IMD said the minimum temperatures would be below normal by 2-6 degrees Celsius over most parts of northwest, central and east India.Near normal or slightly above normal temperatures are likely over remaining parts of the country during the first week.“Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions would occur in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the first half of the first week and decrease thereafter,” the IMD said.The minimum temperature dropped below the three degrees Celsius mark in parts of the national capital as frosty winds from snow-covered Western Himalayas continued to sweep the city.The mercury plunged to 2.7 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur. It settled at 3.5 degrees and 3.8 degrees Celsius at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations, respectively, the IMD said.Cold wave conditions are predicted in Delhi on Saturday and the same is likely to continue till Monday, it said.Kashmir continued to reel under freezing night temperature on Friday even as there was a marginal increase in the minimum temperature in Srinagar city and Gulmarg tourist resort, the meteorological department said.Srinagar - the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir - and the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir were the only places in the Valley where the night temperature improved Thursday night, it said.According to MeT, all the other weather stations across the Valley registered a further decrease in the minimum temperature.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 6.0 degrees Celsius, up from the previous night’s minus 6.4 degrees Celsius which was the coldest night of the season.The mercury in Gulmarg settled at a low of minus 10.6 degrees Celsius, up from minus 11.0 degrees Celsius. The resort continued to be the coldest recorded place in the Union territory.The MeT office said while no major snowfall is expected till the end of this month in the UT, there is a possibility of light to moderate snowfall during December 21-22 at isolated places of Kashmir.The cold wave sweeping Punjab and Haryana also intensified, with Amritsar reeling at 0.4 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.The minimum temperature in Amritsar was recorded three notches below the normal, it said.Ludhiana and Patiala, also in Punjab, recorded their respective minimums at 3.2 degrees Celsius and 4.1 degrees Celsius, both down by three notches.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below the normal.In Haryana, Narnaul was the coldest at 1.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal limits.Intense cold wave conditions threw normal life out of gear in Rajasthan where the mercury dipped to minus 2.5 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu.Churu was the coldest place in the plains with a minimum temperature of minus 0.3 degrees, according to the meteorological department.The night temperature at other places in the state was below 7 degrees Celsius as many areas reeled under ‘cold wave’ to ‘severe cold wave’ in the night.Sikar, Pilani, Bhilwara, Vanasthali, Chittorgarh and Bikaner recorded a minimum of 1 degree, 1.5 degrees, 2.1 degrees, 2.7 degrees, 3.5 degrees and 4.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, it said.Cold to severe cold conditions occurred at a few places in western Uttar Pradesh and at isolated pockets in eastern part of the state in the last 24 hours.Dense fog and cold to severe cold condition occurred at isolated places in west and east UP, the MeT department said.At 3 degrees Celsius, Fursatganj (Raebareilly) emerged as the coldest place in the northern state, while Jhansi registered the highest temperature at 23.1 degrees Celsius. Keylong, Kalpa and Manali continued to shiver at sub zero temperatures in Himachal Pradesh in the last 24 hours, it said.The tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 10 degrees Celsius, Meteorological Centre Shimla Director Manmohan Singh said.Several parts of Madhya Pradesh in central India also experienced biting cold following a dip in mercury.The IMD’s six out of 30 stations in Madhya Pradesh recorded a drop in mercury ranging between 3 and 5 degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours, senior meteorologist GD Mishra told PTI.In areas covered by IMD’s 23 stations, minimum temperatures hovered between 3 and 10 degrees Celsius during the same period.Mishra said the lowest minimum temperature of 3 degrees Celsius was recorded at Datia, while the same in the state capital Bhopal was 7.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-india-under-cold-grip-imd-says-slight-relief-expected-later/story-O9Hu6LFwTZ5b7Gk7GjziUN.html
18-12-2020||India||What is Mucormycosis, a black fungal disease, being linked with Covid-19?||After Delhi’s Gangra Ram Hospital reported cases of a rare fungal infection in Covid-19 patients, hospitals of several other cities have reported the same occurrence. This is not new but a rare infection and affects people who are under medication or are suffering from some illness as their immunity remains in a compromised state.Here is all you need to know about this:1. It can occur in almost any part of the body. It can affect the sinuses or the lungs if the fungus enters through inhaling. It can also enter the skin through a cut, burn or ay other type of skin injury.2. If not detected early, the infection – Mucormycosis also known as black fungus – can kill half the patients and lead to loss of vision or jaw in others. 3. How does it affect the eyesight? It enters through the nose and then spreads to the eyes, paralyses the muscles around the pupils which might lead to blindness. It may also cause meningitis if it spreads to the brain.4. This is not contagious. 5. The connection between Covid-19 and Mucormycosis is the weakened immunity response.6. Many Covid-19 patients are given steroids and other drugs that might lower their immunity further, said Dr. Shaloo Bageja, senior eye surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram hospital.7. One-sided facial swelling, headache, nasal or sinus congestion, black lesions on nasal bridge or upper inside of mouth, fever are symptoms of mucormycosis in sinus and brain.8. Fever, cough, chest pain, shortness of breath are the symptoms of mucormycosis in the lungs.9. Skin mucormycosis has symptoms like blisters or ulcers, blackening of a portion of skin or excessive redness, swelling around a wound etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-mucormycosis-a-black-fungal-disease-being-linked-with-covid-19/story-mNTtFUEGb23yKQ3gTxGmpI.html
18-12-2020||India||ICMR chief Balram Bhargava admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre for Covid-19 treatment||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava, who has tested positive for Covid-19, is undergoing treatment at Delhi’s AIIMS Trauma Centre, news agency PTI reported on Friday.Bhargava, who was admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, is recovering well and likely to be discharged soon, the report added. The AIIMS Trauma Centre was converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility on December 15.The ICMR chief, who is also a cardiologist, had tested positive for coronavirus infection around 7-8 days ago and was under home isolation, officials told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-chief-balram-bhargava-admitted-to-aiims-trauma-centre-for-covid-19-treatment/story-woUELamIijPvJZTlO4bCkJ.html
18-12-2020||India||15-year-old girl, her friend arrested for killing parents in MP’s Indore||A 15-year-old girl and her friend were arrested for allegedly killing her parents at their residence in Indore on Thursday, police said. Special Armed Force constable Jyoti Prasad Sharma, 45, and his wife Neelam, 43, residents of Rukmani Nagar, were found dead at their house on Thursday morning. Indore deputy inspector general (DIG) HN Mishra on Friday said, “The girl and her 20-year-old friend Dhananjay Yadav were arrested from Mandsaur on Thursday late night while they were trying to run away to Rajasthan after the crime. Police recovered some documents and cash of Rs 1 lakh from their possession.” “The accused confessed to their crime. The girl said her parents used to object to her friendship with Dhananjay. A few days ago, her father saw her with Dhananjay and the father beat them up. Her mother also used to scold her for the friendship,” Mishra said. “On Wednesday night, the girl mixed a sedative in the food of her parents. On Thursday early morning, the girl called Dhananjay to her home. Dhananjay first killed Neelam with a sharp-edged weapon then he attacked Jyoti Prasad. Jyoti Prasad fought back and screamed aloud for help but the girl went outside and told neighbours, who came out of their houses after hearing the screams of Jyoti Prasad, that her parents were fighting with each other. After killing the couple, Dhananjay asked the girl to write a letter against her father and make false accusations,” said the DIG. They stole Rs 1 lakh and locked the house from outside before running away from Indore, said the police. The girl’s elder brother Rishabh Sharma and her paternal grandmother Shreedevi Sharma, who lives in the neighbourhood, broke the lock to enter the house. They saw the couple in a pool of blood and informed the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-year-old-girl-her-friend-arrested-for-killing-parents-in-mp-s-indore/story-0YLOuPFICmqb2TE9h0N8mJ.html
18-12-2020||India||India dismisses reports of UN vehicle being targeted across LoC||Claims made by the Pakistan Army and Foreign Office that a UN vehicle was targeted by Indian troops on the Line of Control (LoC) are false and factually incorrect, people familiar with developments said on Friday.The Pakistani military’s media arm and Foreign Office had both claimed that a vehicle carrying two officers of the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) was “specifically targeted” by Indian troops from across the LoC. Pakistani military spokesman Major General Babar Iftikhar had tweeted photos of a UN vehicle with apparent damage to its windows and chassis, and contended the SUV was the target of “unprovoked fire” in Chirikot sector of the LoC. One of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity: “The reports emerging from the Pakistani side regarding an attack on a UN vehicle are completely false and factually incorrect.”The person added: “There was no firing from the Indian side in this sector on Friday. Since movements of UN vehicles are known in advance, the question does not arise of any such firing. The allegations are baseless.”The Indian side doesn’t recognise UNMOGIP, which has offices in Srinagar and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Pakistan’s Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Chaudhri had described the purported firing on the UN vehicle as a “new low”. He said the incident occurred at 10.45 am when the UNMOGIP officers were on their way to Polas village in Chirikot sector to meet people affected by ceasefire violations on the LoC. The UN vehicle was damaged but the officers were unhurt, Chaudhri said.There have been intense exchanges of fire between Indian and Pakistani troops along the LoC in recent months. The Indian side has said it responds to unprovoked firing by Pakistani troops that is meant to provide cover to terrorists trying to sneak across the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dismisses-reports-of-un-vehicle-being-targeted-across-loc/story-SSIZsVwFPLwVe3rn7iVP2M.html
18-12-2020||India||Air quality dips in Mumbai as cold wave continues in northern India||The ongoing cold wave in north-western India had an impact on the air quality in Mumbai on Friday, with many parts of the city reporting poor to very poor quality of air. The city recorded an air quality index (AQI)—a pollutant measuring indicator—of 218 on Friday, falling in the poor quality category. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. This is the poorest quality of air the city has had since December 5 when the AQI shot up to 225. SAFAR categorizes AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Bandra Kurla Complex recorded the poorest air quality with an AQI of 362, followed by Navi Mumbai where an AQI of 329 was recorded—both in the very poor category. SAFAR has predicted that air quality will remain poor on Saturday as well. “The poor air quality is primarily because of the cold wave which is likely to continue for at least two-three days. At the same time, now the air flow has changed and more wind is coming in from the land, rather than the sea. The air quality from the land is poorer,” said a spokesperson for SAFAR. While north-western India is reeling under a severe cold wave, temperatures in Mumbai were relatively high. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 31.6 degrees Celsius, only 0.7 degrees below the normal temperature. The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 32.9 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature at the Colaba station was 22 degree Celsius and at Santacruz was 21.2 degree Celsius. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said that temperatures are likely to drop in the last week of December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-dips-in-mumbai-as-cold-wave-continues-in-northern-india/story-wss9UDMjwdfOrViBjyXEsI.html
18-12-2020||India||BJP, Cong leaders voiceless, only BJD can fight for Odisha’s interests: Naveen Patnaik||Even as the Trinamool Congress in neighbouring Bengal faces massive challenges from the BJP ahead of assembly polls next year, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday invoked regionalism while launching an attack on both BJP and Congress leaders accusing them of being remote-controlled by their Central leadership.Addressing the first executive body meeting of the Biju Yuva Janata Dal, the youth wing of the party through the virtual route, Patnaik said only a regional party can fight for the interest of the state.“The Congress government in the state was remote-controlled from Delhi. The BJP governments in other states also follow the direction of the national leadership. National parties are bound to compromise on the distinctive requirements of a state for gains in the larger national context. State leaders of national parties neither have the voice to insist on protecting our unique heritage nor do they have the intent to do so in a hierarchical centralized national party structure. BJD is the only regional party that is working hard to preserve and promote the unique identity of Odisha,” Patnaik said.“We are not a drop in the ocean, we are the ocean. Remember my words! Only a regional party will do justice for aspirations of the youth and preserve the state’s unique identity. Otherwise, the mainstreaming national parties will make you a small drop in their vast ocean,” he said, alluding to massive poaching of TMC leaders by BJP in Bengal.Patnaik said for Odias the Odia language was more important than Hindi. “Mahanadi is more sacred than any other river, Odissi music is a classical art form, Kosali and Ho are mainstream languages, the rich diversity of our tribal population is our pride and Sambalpuri handloom is world-class. Our mineral wealth is bountiful and unmatched. The diversity and richness of tribal culture is our strength. All these do not matter to a national party or their branches in states,” he said.Patnaik said the primary objective of national parties is to win elections and have power to form government at the Centre. “They (leaders of national parties) have to basically impress the national headship so that they can get crucial posts or become ministers. The state leaders of national parties neither have the voice to insist on protecting our unique heritage nor do they have the intent to do so in a hierarchical centralized national party structure,” the CM said.Continuing his tirade against BJP, Patnaik said his government has been urging the Centre for ‘Special State’ status for Odisha as the state faces natural disasters every year, “Both the national parties – BJP and Congress had kept Special Category Status as their number one point in the manifesto of the 2019 general elections. But like always, they forgot it conveniently after the polls. On the other hand, BJD will continue to fight for it and keep reminding national parties about their step motherly treatment of Odisha. The very purpose of forming a separate state is to preserve, protect our unique identity and continue to fight for the people of Odisha,” said Patnaik.BJP in its reaction said the chief minister’s tirade showed BJD does not have any agenda to develop the state. “Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan is working hard to ensure development of Odisha and the voice of the state is now being heard in Delhi. The Centre had suggested resolving the Mahanadi issue by amicable discussions. But BJD is resorting to agitations and it doesn’t have any intent to protect the interests of the state. After BJP led by PM Narendra Modi came to power, Odisha has been getting what it deserves which was not possible during the UPA regime,” said Golak Mohapatra, senior BJP leader.Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik said Patnaik’s speech was to play down speculations over the BJD- BJP nexus. “BJD is trying to show that they are do not support the ideology of the BJP by raking up the stepmotherly treatment by the Centre only to save its own image before the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-leaders-voiceless-only-bjd-can-fight-for-odisha-s-interests-naveen-patnaik/story-CjV4tPE6yS3HY0IRScnAaI.html
18-12-2020||India||Kidnappers of 8-year-old in Karnataka demand Rs 17 crore in Bitcoins||Kidnappers of an eight-year-old boy in Karnataka have demanded 100 bitcoins, which comes to about approximately Rs 17 crore, as ransom money from the boy’s family and have also given instructions on how to execute the same.The boy, Anubhav, was kidnapped while playing in front of his house in Ujire taluk of Mangaluru district on Thursday. His father Bijoy and grandfather AK Shivan are said to be prominent businessmen in the city. After the family approached the police, the kidnappers have reduced the ransom demand to 60 bitcoins (approx Rs 10 crore), but threatened the family with dire consequences for having approached the police. A special investigative team set up by Dakshina Kannada SP BM Lakshmi Prasad traced the origin of the new ransom message from a cell tower in Hassan district of Karnataka.A police team comprising Bantwal Dy SP Valentine D Souza, Belthangady Circle Inspector PG Sandesh, Inspector Nandakumar and Dharmasthala station SI Pawan Kumar has been formed to track the abductors whose last known location was Alooru. DK Police sources indicated that Nakhabandi (checkposts) have been set up all across the Charmady Ghat forest area. Police suspect that the kidnappers are well known to the family. “The investigations are at a sensitive stage and we cannot comment anything more,” the source added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kidnappers-of-8-year-old-in-karnataka-demand-rs-17-crore-in-bitcoins/story-OOx09AmfyunSRSl98sfpAJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Well positioned to undertake vital role in Indian Ocean region: Army Vice Chief Saini||India’s dominant position at the geographical centre of the Indian Ocean as well as its robust economy and global standing as an upholder of law and democratic values placed it in a firm position to play a vital role in the quest for peace and stability in the region, Vice Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen SK Saini said on Friday.In an address at a military think-tank, he said India believes that adherence to rule of law, transparency, respect for all nations and peaceful resolution of disputes are non-negotiable aspects to harness the vast potential of Indian Ocean.His comments came amid growing global concerns over China’s increasing military muscle-flexing in the Indian Ocean, a region that is critical for India’s strategic interests. The Vice Chief of Army staff cautioned that the increasing interest of “extra regional forces” and the existing challenges of piracy, human trafficking, illegal fishing have all made the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) volatile and a potential “global battlefield”.India has significantly expanded its deployment of warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region in the last few months following its border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh, ostensibly to send across a message to Beijing.Lt Gen Saini identified preserving and facilitating the freedom of navigation in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) as among key challenges, adding inadequate arrangements for equitable and peaceful harnessing of natural resources were also important aspect of the overall scenario. “These concerns have been further accentuated by unilateral actions by some of the nations which have not only questioned the rights of the IOR nations to utilise their exclusive economic zones but have also challenged their sovereignty over some of the strategically located Islands itself,” he said. In his address at the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS), the Vice Chief of Army Staff said such actions to change the “well-established equilibrium” has resulted in “immense turbulence and an intense superpower rivalry” in the region.“India’s dominant position at the geographical centre of the IOR, a robust economy and a global standing as an upholder of law and democratic values, places it well to play a vital role in the quest for peace and stability in the region,” he said.Lt Gen Saini said India has been increasingly engaging with all nations of the IOR and its outreach towards the East through the doctrine of SAGAR or ‘Security and Growth for All’ has been a pillar of its overarching foreign policy.“India recognises and believes that to harness the vast potential of the Indian Ocean for economic development, adherence to rule of law, transparency, respect for all nations and peaceful resolution of disputes will be inviolate and non-negotiable aspects,” he said.“It would be appropriate to say that our role as a net security provider in the region is now a strategic obligation and no longer a matter of choice. India, therefore, requires to formulate a well defined IOR strategy and follow a robust capability development road map to live up to its potential in this region,” he said.Lt Gen Saini said the unfolding diplomacy in the IOR is a clear indicator that the world powers want to forge partnerships with India to ensure peace and development in the region. The Vice Chief of Army Staff reiterated that the geographical factors coupled with the slow and steady shift of power from the West to the East, have resulted in the IOR becoming a hub of global geopolitical rivalry.The discussion was organised to get the defence forces, Indian industry, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders into a common platform in order to understand the complexities of changing dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region and to evolve coherent policies to address the future challenges. ‘||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-positioned-to-undertake-vital-role-in-indian-ocean-region-army-vice-chief-saini/story-Eb6uWE2COm4CcIqrELursK.html
18-12-2020||India||Kamal Haasan’s party MNM moves Madras HC, seeks battery-torch symbol||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s party Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) has approached the Madras high court for the ‘battery-torch’ symbol to be reassigned to them for Tamil Nadu’s assembly election in 2021. MNM which was formed in 2018 contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections under the battery-torch symbol. MNM “has filed a writ petition” for “directing the Election Commission of India to allot the battery-torch’ symbol in its favour and to restrain MGR Makkal Katchi from using the same”, said a statement from the party on Friday. Last week, the Election Commission of India (ECI) allotted symbols to political parties in the run- up to the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry in 2021. MNM was allotted the battery-torch symbol only for Puducherry and failed to get it for Tamil Nadu. In the state, the symbol went to MGR Makkal Katchi for all 234 assembly constituencies. MNM has stated in its prayer that it is entitled to the symbol as per provisions of the Election symbols (Reservation and Allotment) order, 1968. Haasan will contest in the assembly elections due in early 2021 and losing the ‘battery-torch’ could be a setback for the party which has campaigned with this symbol. Haasan recently concluded his four-day campaign across six districts including Madurai and Thoothukudi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-s-party-mnm-moves-madras-hc-seeks-battery-torch-symbol/story-KlqTXAAPh5xnKDtd6ffILK.html
18-12-2020||India||Quad member states review connectivity cooperation, security in Indo-Pacific||Senior officials of the four countries in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on Friday reviewed cooperation in connectivity and infrastructure development and security issues across the Indo-Pacific region. The virtual meeting of officials of India, Australia, Japan and the US was a follow-up to the last such official discussions in September, and the second ministerial meeting of the Quad held in Tokyo on October 6. It also came in the wake of Australia participating in the Malabar trilateral naval exercise by India, Japan and the US last month. The officials exchanged views on regional and global issues of common interest and reviewed “ongoing and proposed practical cooperation in...connectivity and infrastructure development, and security issues, including counter-terrorism, cyber security, maritime security [and] humanitarian and disaster relief, with the objective of promoting peace, security, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific”, the external affairs ministry said. The officials highlighted the need to ensure safe, effective and affordable access to Covid-19 vaccines. In the context of the global pandemic, they “underscored the importance of enhancing the resilience of supply chains for an expeditious and sustainable global economic recovery”, the ministry said. The four countries reiterated their commitment to a free, open, prosperous and inclusive Indo-Pacific based on shared values and principles and respect for international law, especially the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The four members of the Quad have stepped up their efforts to ensure security across the Indo-Pacific and to build alternative and resilient supply chains against the backdrop of China’s increasingly assertive actions across the region. Friday’s meeting was joined by officials of India’s external affairs ministry, Australia’s department of foreign affairs and trade, Japan’s foreign ministry and the US state department. The meeting also expressed appreciation for the Vietnamese chairmanship of the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) and the outcomes of the East Asia Summit held in November. The officials reiterated support for Asean-centrality and Asean-led mechanisms, particularly the East Asia Summit, in the regional architecture for the Indo-Pacific, and their readiness to work with Asean and all other countries to realise a “common and promising vision for the Indo-Pacific”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-member-states-review-connectivity-cooperation-security-in-indo-pacific/story-KV486oPljPW11u9i7vQ1PK.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19 positive Anil Vij health improves, still in ICU: Officials||Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij, who had tested positive for Covid-19, has recorded improvement on Friday in his health condition in the last 24 hours, doctors said. The health minister’s clinical condition is stable and his blood pressure, liver and kidney functions are also normal. A team of doctors, including district chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav, examined the minister on Friday morning. “His blood pressure, kidney and liver functions are normal. According to doctors, his clinical condition is stable,” Medanta said in a press release issued later in the day. Also read: Haryana health minister Anil Vij in ICU after lung infection due to CovidVij, who had tested positive earlier this month on December 5, has been admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram. He was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit after he reported of Covid-19 complications. Vij is the BJP MLA from Ambala Cantt.On December 12, he was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak, where he had undergone convalescent plasma therapy. The minister had received one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine candidate, which was part of a two-dose trial, a fortnight before he tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-anil-vij-health-improves-still-in-icu-officials/story-e15nC8JXBmQh1qn81VyEvM.html
18-12-2020||India||Not possible to give date for normal service resumption: Railway Board||The railways on Friday said it is not possible to provide a definite date for the resumption of normal train services and pointed out that it has seen an 87% drop in the earnings from the passenger segment so far this year, compared to the last year.Addressing a press conference, Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav said so far in the current fiscal, the railways’ earnings from passenger revenue have been Rs 4,600 crore and estimates show that by March 2021, the figure is expected to rise to Rs 15,000 crore.Yadav, however, said the loss in the passenger segment will be overcome from the earnings through freight, which is expected to cross last year’s figures. He said by December, the national transporter had already achieved 97% of last year’s loading.Yadav said the railways has suffered massive losses in passenger revenue due to the suspension of train services because of the coronavirus pandemic.“It is not possible to give a definite date for the resumption of normal train services. The general managers have been in discussion with the state governments and we will resume the services when and where we get the go-ahead. Even now, the situation is not normal.“So far, our earnings from passenger revenue are Rs 4,600 crore and by the year-end, our aim is to take our total earnings from the passenger segment to Rs 15,000 crore. In the last fiscal, our earnings from this segment were Rs 53,000 crore. This makes our earnings 87% less than the last year,” Yadav said.He pointed out that even the trains that are currently in operation are witnessing around 30-40% occupancy on an average, reflecting that the fear of the pandemic is still there.Yadav said the railways is currently operating 1,089 special trains, while the Kolkata Metro is running 60% of its services, the Mumbai suburban is running 88% trains and 50% of the Chennai suburban services are in operation.Yadav said senior railway officials are closely monitoring the situation and normal train services will be resumed “slowly” in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-possible-to-give-date-for-normal-service-resumption-railway-board/story-CCCafEjTjhuNgGS3eGsWBN.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak foreign minister accuses India of planning surgical strike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak foreign minister accuses India of planning surgical strikePakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has claimed that India was planning a surgical strike on its neighbouring country to divert attention from issues it had been facing at home. Read moreKerala HC asks govt to return Rs 10 crore it got from Guruvayur temple for flood reliefThe Kerala High Court on Friday ordered the state government to return Rs 10 crore it had received from the Guruvayur Devasom Board towards the CM’s relief fund. In the order the court said the temple fund was meant to develop the shrine and its allied services and it was not proper to divert it for other reasons. Read moreHyderabad company booked for fraud, scam bigger than Nirav Modi caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Hyderabad based company, Transstroy (India) Ltd, for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks of Rs 7,926 crore, officials said on Friday. Read moreTransporter marries employee without divorcing wife, booked for rapeA transporter is facing charges of rape, cheating and bigamy on the complaint of his second wife.The accused, a resident of Partap Colony, Mundian Kalan owns a transport company in Transport Nagar. Read morePrithvi Shaw fails again in Adelaide Test: ‘Better for him if he is taken out of the team,’ says Nick KnightWhen Prithvi Shaw made his Test debut at Rajkot against West Indies in the October of 2018, he was considered the next big thing of Indian batting. Hailing from Mumbai, Shaw had made a name for himself in age group cricket and followed that up with an impressive debut season in domestic cricket. Read moreInstagram crashes for Android users across the world, services restored nowInstagram has crashed for Android users across the world and many users have taken to Twitter to complain about the issue. People have been tweeting with #instagramdown and #instagramcrashing making these topics trend on the micro-blogging site. Read moreUrmila Matondkar says her husband Mohsin Akhtar, his family are constantly attacked by trolls: ‘There is a limit’Actor-politician Urmila Matondkar called the constant troll attacks on her husband, Mohsin Akhtar, and his family ‘unfortunate’. She also talked about her Wikipedia page being vandalised by miscreants, who changed her parents’ name on it. Read more Artist brings nature and geometry together in surreal light sculptures. WatchThe use of light as a medium to create spellbinding artworks has a long and diversified history. For years, artists have used light and shadow to create temporary or permanent art pieces. Philipp Frank is one such creator whose videos, shared on Instagram, present viewers with a chance to experience surreal sculptures that he creates by projecting light on different natural surfaces - from tree trunks to mushroom to rocks. Read more Watch: ‘Ready to discuss all issues’: PM Modi to farmers on new laws, protest, MSPPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday that political parties, experts and even farmers had been demanding new farm laws for long, and assured that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism for crops will continue. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-foreign-minister-accuses-india-of-planning-surgical-strike-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IJokNJ0eM5xFVM9EF5yrbO.html
18-12-2020||India||Andhra govt to give financial aid to hotels, eateries, theatres that incurred losses due to Covid-19||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday announced a Rs 200 crore relief and restart package for hotels, function halls and restaurants which had suffered heavy losses due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The package was approved by the state cabinet led by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at its meeting held at the state secretariat. “Under this package, loans ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 50, 00,000 would be provided to each unit and a moratorium of six months would be imposed for the commencement of repayment. An interest subsidy of 4.5% would be of given during the first year,” state minister for information and public relations Perni Venkataramaiah alias Nani told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The cabinet also approved a restart package for the film industry. Fixed power charges of cinema theatres would be waived for the first three months of the pandemic - April, May, and June, while payment of electricity charges for the next six months would be postponed for 1100-odd multiplexes and other theatres across the state. “The cabinet decided that theatres can avail of working capital loans – Rs 10 lakh in major cities and towns, and Rs 5 lakh in smaller towns. There would be a moratorium of six months in loan repayment and an interest subsidy of 4.5 per cent,” the minister said. The cabinet approved a new tourism policy for the state, according to which various incentives would be provided to the mega projects worth more than Rs 400 crore. The incentives include 100 per cent subsidy in SGST, 100 per cent reimbursement of stamp duty, supply of electricity at Rs 2 per unit and 100 per cent waiving of land use conversion charges. The cabinet also approved to increase the land lease period from 33 years to 99 years for mega projects in tourism industry. The cabinet decided to conduct comprehensive land resurvey from December 21. The government had made five amendments to Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundary Act 1923 as per the needs of the resurvey to be conducted. Maps would be designed for every land based on sub division and the boundary of the land would be tagged with GPS coordinates. Nani said the chief minister would release input subsidies for farmers who had suffered crop damages due to Cyclone Nivar that hit the state between November 24 and 28. As many as 8.06 lakh farmers suffered crop losses in 13.01 lakh acres including paddy in 12.38 lakh acres. The cabinet has approved for the establishment of the Andhra Pradesh Medical Education and Research Corporation (APMERC) through which Rs 16,000 crore would be arranged for strengthening of existing 11 medical colleges and construction of 16 new medical colleges across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-to-give-financial-aid-to-hotels-eateries-theatres-that-incurred-losses-due-to-covid-19/story-uLGchn15TO9L36QFK9CQUL.html
18-12-2020||India||CBI books Hyderabad company for loan fraud, amount bigger than Nirav Modi case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against a Hyderabad based company, Transstroy (India) Ltd, for allegedly cheating a consortium of banks of Rs 7,926 crore, officials said on Friday. People familiar with the development said that the amount involved in the fraud is even higher than what fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi owes to banks in India. The 49-year-old is currently facing extradition proceedings and is lodged in a UK jail. He owes some Rs 7,700 crore to Indian banks. Transstroy, which deals in construction of highways, bridges, irrigation projects, metro related work and is also in the business of oil and gas, is currently under liquidation process as per an order by National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in September 2019. Apart from Transstroy and its CMD Cherukuri Shridhar Sridhar, the CBI has named as accused Rayapati Sambasiva Rao (additional director in the company) and Akkineni Sathish (additional director) in the FIR registered at its Bengaluru unit. The agency teams on Friday carried out raids in Hyderabad and Guntur at the premises of accused persons and recovered documents related to the fraud, officials said. CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said that Transstroy had availed credit facilities on multiple banking arrangements from consortium formed with other banks led by Canara Bank. “It was further alleged that the accused had involved in falsification/fabrication of books of accounts, fudging of stock statements, tampering of balance sheets, round tripping of funds etc. It was also alleged that the accused misappropriated bank’s funds and diverted the loan amount sanctioned by the banks and caused loss of Rs 7926.01 crore (approx) to Canara Bank and other member banks. The account had become NPA (non performing asset) and the fraud was reported,” Gaur said. Transstroy’s legal or company representatives could not be located by HT for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-company-booked-for-fraud-scam-bigger-than-nirav-modi-case/story-sH8ZaWMhVhAx93sqaezweJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Kerala HC asks govt to return Rs 10 crore it got from Guruvayur temple for flood relief||The Kerala High Court on Friday ordered the state government to return Rs 10 crore it had received from the Guruvayur Devasom Board towards the CM’s relief fund. In the order the court said the temple fund was meant to develop the shrine and its allied services and it was not proper to divert it for other reasons. A devotee N Nagesh had approached the court saying that the presiding deity was the sole proprietor of the temple fund and the board has no right to divert the shrine fund. The temple board had contributed Rs 10 crore to the CM’s relief fund after two consecutive floods in the state, 2018 and 2019. Earlier, a single bench of the High Court had asked the government to return the money but the government approached a division bench which also upheld the single bench verdict. In May this year, Guruvayur Devasom Board chairman K B Mohandas had handed over the fund to the Thrissur district collector saying the contribution was part of the temple’s social responsibility. Many Hindu bodies had decried the decision saying it was unlawful. But the board justified its decision saying it was done earlier also. “Matters such as contributions towards disaster relief fund do not fall under the preview of the Devasom Board. It can protect the temple wealth but has no right to pass it on to someone else,” the court said in its order. Many organisations including the Hindu Aikya Vedi lauded the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-asks-govt-to-return-rs-10-crore-it-got-from-guruvayur-temple-for-flood-relief/story-QOrerPuVJ07i05tSfajhnI.html
18-12-2020||India||In Assam, ex-IPS officer, BJP leader among 36 accused named in charge sheet in police job scam||A former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and 34 others have been named as accused by the Assam Police in a charge sheet filed on Friday in connection with the police recruitment scam. The 2621 page long charge sheet filed in court of the special judge under several sections of Indian Penal Code, Information Technology Act, Arms Act, Assam Police Act and Prevention of Corruption Act pertains to leakage of question paper of the written exam to recruit sub-inspectors in Assam Police. The case was registered on the basis of an FIR lodged in September by Pradeep Kumar, the then chairman of the police recruitment board. Those named as accused include retired IPS officer Prasanta Kumar Dutta, senior police officer Kumar Sanjit Krishna and BJP leader Dibon Deka. The written exam to select 597 sub-inspectors to Assam Police was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper got leaked. Dutta and Deka had allegedly fleeced many candidates for the SI post by assuring jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police investigation revealed that a day ahead of the test, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati. Krishna is accused of having played a role in leaking the question paper. As per the charge sheet filed in 87 days of the first arrest in the case, during investigation police teams seized Rs 6.26 crore in cash, 32 mobile phones, 11 digital video recorders, 5 laptops and 10 vehicles from 24 crime scenes spread across four districts. The charge sheet names 183 persons as prosecution witnesses. Confessional statements of 5 accused persons and statements of 32 witnesses have been recorded by judicial magistrate. The written exam to recruit sub-inspectors was conducted again in November and the results declared this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-ex-ips-officer-bjp-leader-among-36-accused-named-in-charge-sheet-in-police-job-scam/story-Iix9Caq9XOriGGP7cHTPUI.html
18-12-2020||India||Jagan govt accused of ignoring order on local body polls, faces contempt||Andhra Pradesh state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Friday filed a contempt of court petition in the state high court against the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government for its non-cooperation with the commission in conducting local body elections in the state. In the petition, Ramesh Kumar charged the state government with not honouring the high court’s order dated November 3, directing it to extend necessary cooperation to the State Election Commission (SEC) to hold panchayat raj elections in February 2021. “The state government’s refusal to comply with the high court directions is contemptuous in nature,” Kumar said in the petition, in which he mentioned chief secretary Neelam Sawhney and principal secretary, panchayat raj Gopala Krishna Dwivedi as respondents. He said despite writing several letters to the chief secretary and the principal secretary of the panchayat raj department for initiating the process for conducting the elections in February, there had not been proper response from them till date. Ramesh Kumar further said the government was not releasing necessary funds to the SEC as per the budgetary allocations to enable it to take up the election process. It was also not filling up existing vacancies in the SEC, which was essential to conduct the elections despite the court orders, he alleged. Ever since the SEC decided last month to hold the elections to the panchayat raj bodies in February, the state government has been strongly resisting the same on the ground that the state was yet to overcome the severity of the coronavirus pandemic. The government stonewalled the attempts of Ramesh Kumar to hold video conferences with district collectors to discuss the preparedness for local body elections, forcing him to move the high court. On Tuesday, the state government filed an affidavit in the high court stating that it would not be possible to conduct the elections to local bodies in February, as the official machinery would be busy with the coronavirus vaccination programme. The government argued that as per the central government guidelines, the vaccination programme will be taken up in January and February. Not only the police department, but the employees of various other departments would be engaged in the vaccination programme, it said. However, the SEC filed a counter on Thursday stating that the conduct of local body elections would in no way affect the vaccination programme. “Moreover, it will take at least three to six months for the vaccination programme to commence in the state,” he said. The SEC also brought to the notice of the high court that elections were held in Bihar, Rajasthan and Hyderabad without any issue amid the coronavirus pandemic. “The situation in Andhra Pradesh is conducive for holding elections to local bodies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-govt-accused-of-ignoring-order-on-local-body-polls-faces-contempt/story-4bFKC8r38jolREeHZKXSVN.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Solution hopefully before year ends, says Tomar | 4 key points||The day farmers’ ongoing protest completes the 23rd day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually addressed a farmers’ conference in Madhya Pradesh which made it clear that the government is ready for more talks, leading to probable amendments, but repealing the laws is not quite on its table. The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that it won’t interfere with the protest at this moment as long as the protest is peaceful. It has also proposed a committee of experts to broker peace between farmers and Centre.Here are the major takeaways of the 23rd day of the protest:Main protest gaining strength: The protest gains strength as the All India Kisan Sabha has now extended support to the protesting farmers. Thousands of farmers will start from Nashik on December 21 to come and join the protest in Delhi.A group comprising 20 Indian doctors from the USA has delayed its return to provide medical services at Tikri border.Chipko movement leader Sundarlal Bahuguna has extended his support to farmers.Informal talks with farmers going on, says ministry: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an interview to PTI said solution is likely before this year ends. Though official talks between the Centre and the farmers have not furthered after five rounds, informal talks are going on, Tomar said. “Farm leaders, who are concerned about welfare of farmers, should discuss peasants’ problems. Why should it matter if the acts are repealed or not?” Tomar said.Farmers have previously objected to Centre parallelly talking to a few groups of farmers organisations.Farmers our top priority: PM Modi’s messageExplaining the benefits of the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a one-hour long address to Madhya Pradesh farmers where he appealed to farmers with folded hands. His appeal was to not believe in the rumours allegedly spread by the opposition parties. However, if the farmers have concerns, the government is ready to address all, PM Modi said, as farmers are the top priority. BJP ministers addressing farm issuesOn Friday, several BJP ministers addressed the issue of the ongoing farmers’ protest, training their guns on the opposition. “The opposition says that the one who made the bills isn’t a farmer. The one who talks of producing 40-inch potato is he a farmer? Is Sonia Gandhi a farmer? The one who actually did something for farmers is PM Narendra Modi,” Smriti Irani said in Meerut. “Failed political players who have been rejected repeatedly by the people are acting under their depression of defeat and misleading the farmers,” Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said.Meanwhile, the mortal remains of Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh, who was supporting the protest against the farm laws and allegedly committed suicide near the Singhu border unable to bear the “pain of farmers”, were consigned to flames in Karnal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-solution-hopefully-before-year-ends-says-tomar-4-key-points/story-WDoM1LK9oxq4leQxWuOjuM.html
18-12-2020||India||Kashmir Valley reels under freezing night temperature||Kashmir continued to reel under freezing night temperature on Friday even as there was a marginal increase in the minimum temperature in Srinagar city and Gulmarg tourist resort, the meteorological department said.Srinagar - the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir - and the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir were the only places in the Valley where the night temperature improved Thursday night, it said.According to MeT, all the other weather stations across the Valley registered a further decrease in the minimum temperature.Srinagar recorded a low of minus 6.0 degrees Celsius, up from the previous night’s minus 6.4 degrees Celsius which was the coldest night of the season.The mercury in Gulmarg settled at a low of minus 10.6 degrees Celsius, up from minus 11.0 degrees Celsius. The resort continued to be the coldest recorded place in the Union territory.Pahalgam tourist resort in south Kashmir recorded a low of minus 9.2 degrees Celsius, MeT officials said.They said Qazigund - the gateway town to the Valley - recorded the minimum temperature of minus 5.4 degrees Celsius, while Kupwara, in the north, registered a low of minus 6.3 degrees Celsius and Kokernag, in the south, minus 5.4 degrees Celsius.The MeT office said while no major snowfall is expected till the end of this month in the UT, there is a possibility of light to moderate snowfall during December 21-22 at isolated places of Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-valley-reels-under-freezing-night-temperature/story-8WsEiUbrW06zXngTkwP0NO.html
18-12-2020||India||Dissenting voices against ex-Trinamool leaders’ likely entry into BJP||Hours after Trinamool Congress MLA Jitendra Tiwari resigned as chief of Asansol Municipal Corporation and from the party on Thursday, top BJP leaders from the state made it clear that he may not be welcome in the party.At least four TMC legislators have resigned from the party in the last 48 hours. While Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a former minister, has already expressed his interest in joining the BJP, speculations abound that Suvendu Ahikari, another former TMC minister, may join the BJP too on Saturday. Top BJP leaders have already welcomed Adhikari. But as far as other TMC names are concerned some BJP leaders and workers have expressed their reservations. Tiwari, one among the four Trinamool leaders who have quit the party, may not find it easy to switch over to the rival BJP camp. Those against him are Asansol MP Babul Supriyo and BJP’s mahila morcha president Agnimitra Paul.“What my Top Bosses decide is a different thing but I will try my very best with all my might & honesty to ensure that NO #TMC leader who tormented, tortured (both Physically & Mentally) my grass root level BJP colleagues in Asansol, don’t get an entry in BJP,” union minister Babul Supriyo said in a Facebook post. A senior BJP leader said that Supriyo hasn’t named anyone in his post. “Whatever I did in the past, was for the party (TMC). But as I was the MLA, I take the responsibility,” Tiwari said, adding, “I am not going to BJP. I never said that I would be joining BJP. I may go back to my former profession. I was a lawyer. But before that I want to spend some time with my family.” Agnimitra Paul too echoed Supriyo and took a dig at Tiwari, but said that the BJP’s top leadership would take the final decision. “People of Asansol don’t like him. He had heckled Supriyo and had opposed him in every possible way. He didn’t say a word over the past nine and half years and now that elections are just five months away he is saying that Asansol has been deprived because of the TMC. Everyone knows why he is doing this. Some TMC leaders are eager to join the BJP and he may be one of them,” said Paul. “Everyone is welcome. But what is important is what role or responsibility he would get in the BJP,” she added.Meanwhile, at Bishnupur assembly constituency in Bankura district, some BJP workers raised slogans against former Trinamool minister Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. “Suvendu Adhikari is my leader. I am joining the BJP with him,” Mukherjee told reporters after quitting the TMC. BJP leaders maintained that party leadership will decide on the matter. “We have not been intimated from either by the party leadership whether Mukherjee would be joining the party. But when we came to know that he may join, we have informed the state leadership that the people of Bishnupur are peeved with the news that Mukherjee may join BJP. Now the party will take the call,” said a BJP leader from Bishnupur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissenting-voices-against-ex-trinamool-leader-s-likely-entry-into-bjp/story-glW58yRQNn2aOPoWu3nH2N.html
18-12-2020||India||Why am I being chosen for Covid-19 vaccine and 5 other FAQs for frontline workers||From the coronavirus vaccine’s safety to common side-effects, the government has issued six frequently asked questions on distribution of the vaccine for common people, frontline workers and health care providers. The FAQs, released by the health ministry on Thursday, range from answering which groups will be administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase, preventive measures that need to be followed even after receiving the vaccine dosage and the potential common side- effects people should watch out for after taking the drug. Here are the FAQs for health care providers and frontline workers:- Why am I being chosen for Covid-19 vaccine?Government of India has prioritised the most at risk/high risk groups which will get the vaccine first. Healthcare providers have led the battle against Covid-19 from the front. The government wantsyou to be able to continue your work, without the fear of risk associated with the virus. Therefore, healthcare and frontline workers are among the first group of people to be vaccinated in the country.- What are the groups to be vaccinated in the first phase?Based on the potential availability of vaccines the Government of India has selected the priority groups who will be vaccinated on priority as they are at higher risk. The first group includes healthcare workers because they are at high risk of contracting the infection and protecting them helps to sustain essential health services. The vaccination of frontline workers will help in reducing the societal and economic impact by reducing Covid-19 mortalities. The next group to receive Covid-19 vaccine will be persons over 50 years of age and persons under 50 years with comorbid conditions because there is high mortality in this category.The reason for including more than 50 years of age group for vaccination is that it will be able to cover 78% of persons having co-morbidities and thereby reduce mortality on account of Covid-19. More than 50 years of age group is divided into two sub groups. One sub group is 60 years and above, they will be vaccinated first. Second subgroup is between 50 to 60 years age group, they will be vaccinated after the first sub group is covered.The vaccination may not be sequential. It can go in parallel for all beneficiaries depending on the availability of the vaccine.- Will my family members also be given the vaccine?Due to the limited vaccine supply in the initial phase, it will first be provided to people who are at higher risk of contracting Covid-19. In subsequent phases the Covid-19 vaccine will be made available to all others in need of the same.- Is this vaccine safe?Yes. Safety and efficacy of vaccine will be ensured through various phases of vaccine trials and only then a vaccine will be introduced.- Does one need to follow preventive measures such as wearing a mask, hand sanitization, social distancing after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine?Even after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, we must continue taking all precautions like use of face cover or masks, hand sanitization and maintain distancing (6 feet or Do Gaj). These behaviours must be followed both at the session site and in general.- Are there any common side effects of this vaccine?The Covid-19 vaccine will be safe and effective but may have minor side effects like fever, pain, etc. at the injection site. These effects can happen in any vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-am-i-being-chosen-for-covid-19-vaccine-and-5-other-faqs-for-frontline-workers/story-wirLcYs11fOb6EtRINhpIN.html
18-12-2020||India||Rajasthan’s Churu logs minimum temperature of -0.3 degrees Celsius, coldest in plains||Chilly northern winds from the Himalayas brought down the mercury in Rajasthan. The mercury dipped to -2.5 degrees Celsius in Mount Abu, while in the plains, Churu was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum of -0.3 degrees Celsius. The night temperature at other places was below 7 degrees Celsius and many areas reeled under cold wave to severe cold wave conditions in the night. The Met department has predicted several areas in the north and north-west would see a cold wave and the same cold conditions would continue to prevail for the next three days. Sikar and Pilani shivered at 1.0 and 1.5 degree respectively, while Bhilwara at 2.1, Vansasthali (2.7), Chittorgarh (3.5), Ganganagar (5.2), Bikaner (4.3), Jaislamer (5.7), Alwar (6.8), Jodhpur (5.7), Barmer (6.9), Kota (5.3), and Jaipur (6.2) degrees respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-churu-logs-minimum-temperature-of-0-3-degrees-celsius-coldest-in-plains/story-ChoI6mrsr5IXYcnbkUCNVP.html
18-12-2020||India||99.9% Congress members want Rahul Gandhi as President: Randeep Surjewala||Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said on Friday that the party would soon start the procedure to elect a new president and that 99.9% of the party members including hom wanted Rahul Gandhi at the helm. He said that the electoral college of the Congress, All India Congress Committee (AICC) members and Congress workers and members would be involved in the procedure. “Party will soon start the procedure to elect a new party president. Electoral college of Congress, AICC members, Congress workers & members will choose who’s best suited. 99.9% of people including me want Rahul Gandhi to be elected as party president,” he said. The grand old party will be electing its new President ahead of the crucial polls of West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Tamil Nadu. The party’s recent poor performances in the state assembly elections of Bihar and Maharashtra have turned several of its eminent leaders into dissenters. Current party president Sonia Gandhi has called for a strategy meet on Saturday and some of these dissenters are expected to be present. The group includes eminent names like the leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and former Union minister Shashi Tharoor. The party has even sought advice from block- and district-level leaders for suitable candidates for the top posts in states. The move is mainly aimed at checking infighting in states and uniting warring factions, a Congress functionary who did not wish to be named said. The youth wing of the Congress have scrapped the internal polling system that was started by former President and current favourite to take over the party presidency Rahul Gandhi in 2008. The Youth Congress devised a new format that is based on membership enrolment to elect its state unit chiefs. This system was adopted in the Himachal Pradesh selection and will be used for the selection process in Gujarat, Telangana and Mumbai. However, the selection in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh will follow the old procedure. Congress had a dismal showing in the recently contested Bihar Assembly Elections, winning only 19 seats after contesting for 70.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/99-9-congress-members-want-rahul-gandhi-as-president-randeep-surjewala/story-UF9fOsBH0QymqCT0TdPmzL.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19: When, where and how to receive vaccine? All you need to know||Union ministry of health and family welfare has answered many of the public queries in the form of frequently asked questions (FAQs) in its recently released document. The health ministry reiterated that the vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is voluntary, however, it advised people to receive the complete dose of the vaccine to protect themselves from the virus and limit the spread of the disease.“Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of Covid-19 vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers,” the government document reads.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is examining the applications of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute and Pfizer to grant emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines. Earlier this week, the Centre said that DGCI has sought more data from these companies but it will not impact the timeline of vaccine rollout.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, says health ministryHere are some of the important FAQs:Can a person presently infected with Covid-19 (confirmed or suspected) be vaccinated?People with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection may increase the risk of spreading the virus at the vaccination site. The government has advised infected individuals to defer vaccination for 14 days after symptoms resolution.Is it necessary for a person who has recovered from coronavirus infection to take the vaccine?The government has said that it is advisable to receive a complete schedule of Covid-19 vaccine irrespective of the history of infection with the novel coronavirus. It added that the vaccination will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease.How to know whether a person is eligible for vaccination or not?During the initial phase, the Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to health care workers and frontline workers. The government said that people aged 50 and above may also get the vaccination at an early staged based on the vaccine availability. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number regarding the time and location of the vaccinationIs registration with health department necessary to get the Covid-19 vaccine?Yes. Registration of beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination against Covid-19. The information on time and location will be shared with the beneficiary only after the registration.What documents are required for registration of eligible beneficiary?Any of the below-mentioned ID with photo may be produced at the time of registration:Driving License, Health Insurance Smart Card issued under the scheme of Ministry of Labour, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) Job Card, Official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs, PAN Card, Passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, Passport, Pension Document, Service Identity Card issued to employees by Central/ State Government / Public Limited Companies, Voter ID.Will a Photo / ID be required at the time of registration?The Photo ID produced at the time of registration must be produced and verified at the time of vaccination. It is a must for both registration and verification of beneficiary at session site to ensure that the intended person is vaccinatedCan a person taking medicines for illnesses like cancer, diabetes, and hypertension take the vaccine?Yes. Persons with one or more of these comorbid conditions are considered high-risk category. They need to get Covid-19 vaccination.What about the possible side-effects from Covid-19 vaccine?The government has assured that Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced only when the safety is proven. According to the document, the common side effects in some individuals could be a mild fever, and pain at the site of injection. The Centre has asked state governments to start making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery among masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-when-where-and-how-to-receive-vaccine-all-you-need-to-know/story-zWNokrKu6elnyavZbVtsvN.html
18-12-2020||India||Karnataka Legislative Council chairman issues show-cause notice over December 15 ruckus||The Chairman of the Karnataka Legislative Council, K Pratapchandra Shetty, whose removal was sought by the BJP and JD(S) jointly, leading to bedlam in the proceedings on December 15, has issued a showcase notice to council secretary K R Mahalakshmi, seeking an explanation for the melee.On December 15, when a special one-day session of the council was called at the request of the ruling BJP to remove Shetty as the chairman and pass the anti-cow slaughter legislation, there was ruckus leading to it being adjourned sine die. Shetty who belongs to Congress has refused to step down despite the BJP with 31 members and JD(S) with 14 members apart from the support of an independent in the 75-member house being determined to oust him.Citing procedural lapses in the no-confidence motion against him, Shetty had refused to entertain the notice given by the ruling party in the state. Shetty now has asked the council secretary why he was prevented from entering the council chamber in violation of rules. He has also asked for an explanation why the deputy Chairman belonging to the JDS was allowed to preside over the proceedings and also to explain the sequence of events that culminated in the house being adjourned. Shetty has accused the council secretary of dereliction in her duty and has sought a detailed report.CM Yediyurappa had strongly condemned the behaviour of Shetty as well as Congress members and said that in spite of not having the backing of the house, he had adjourned it sine die without the no-confidence motion being taken up. Former CM and leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah had hit back saying “While it is true that we may not have had a majority, there are established rules and regulations on how the house should be run. Since the BJP chose to violate them, we were left with no choice.”A delegation of BJP-JDS leaders has petitioned the Governor to intervene and the Congress has said that Shetty will not resign and is ready for a legal battle. The council secretary has now been given a 48-hour deadline to respond to the Chairman’s notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-legislative-council-chairman-issues-show-cause-notice-over-december-15-ruckus/story-KTPSlbL8UBKdfOfeVyPJFL.html
18-12-2020||India||4 UP govt offices reduce carbon footprint, show how it’s done||A set of government offices in the Agra division of western Uttar Pradesh have significantly reduced their carbon footprint by cutting electricity consumption and by planting trees outdoors and keeping potted plants indoors. National Savings offices at Agra, Mainpuri, Mathura and Firozabad districts have made carbon neutrality their mission, thereby playing their part in reducing global warming. Carbon neutrality refers to achieving net zero carbon dioxide emissions by balancing or removing CO2 emissions. “Power generation and power consumption, fossil fuel burning and reduction of plants are major contributors to carbon emission that leads to global warming,” says Prabhat Mishra, deputy director, National Savings, Agra division.In February, Mishra sent out a circular to the four offices reporting to him to cut power bills and increase the green cover in the office premises. It worked.For instance, Agra office’s power bill in August 2019 was Rs 3,259, which was brought down to Rs 2,525 for the same month this year.“Normally, power bills gradually increase every year, but we have reduced it by a conscious effort,” says Mishra, who, despite being a government official, also runs an environment protection movement called the Red Tape movement. The movement began with tree protection by red-taping trees more than a decade ago.The carbon neutrality mission is also inspired by 17-year-old Greta Thunberg, the Swedish environmental activist known for challenging world leaders to take immediate action against climate change. Greta follows the Red Tape movement on Twitter.“She is the biggest carbon neutrality activist in the world. We thought of making a beginning in the direction. What we did is just a baby step, but if all government offices, institutions, households follow our model, together it can make a huge difference,” says Mishra.The four National Savings offices removed bricks from the paved outdoor areas at their office premises and planted large surface area leafed trees in those spots. Every office planted five to a dozen trees, besides crotons and aloe vera plants-- known as indoor air purifiers-- in pots. Apart from this, the Mathura office roped in savings agents—they promote the habit of money-saving among people—to double up as carbon neutrality agents.“Now, of the 600 agents in Mathura, nearly 100 have also become carbon neutrality agents. When they go out in the field to promote savings, they also tell people to reduce their power consumption, fossil fuel consumption, plant trees, and have air-purifying potted plants indoors,” says Mishra. The movement is growing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-up-govt-offices-reduce-carbon-footprint-show-how-it-s-done/story-Ntyg8bVdeUp56pceWmhwDN.html
18-12-2020||India||Climate change-led migration in India could treble by 2050: Report||Over 62 million South Asian people may have to migrate from their homes due to slow onset climate disasters such as sea-level rise, water stress, crop yield reductions, ecosystem loss and drought by 2050, according to a new report by Climate Action Network South Asia (CANSA) and Action Aid International.In India, an estimated 14 million people may have migrated this year due to slow onset climate change events according to the report. This number is expected to more than treble if current nationally determined contributions are not enhanced and the world heads for 3.2 degrees C warming over pre-industrial levels.The research was undertaken by Bryan Jones, one of the authors of the World Bank’s Groundswell Report on internal climate migration in 2018. He uses a model that projects future changes in the spatial distribution of the population, from which estimates of climate change led migration is drawn. Ecosystem loss and drought have been added as new drivers of climate migration, along with water and agriculture sectors that were included in the Groundswell report.Also read | ‘India will achieve targets, exceed expectations’: PM Modi at UN Climate Ambition SummitThese numbers do not include migration caused by sudden climate disasters such as flooding and cyclone and the report also assumes that countries will start taking action towards meeting their pledges and targets under the Paris Agreement. Some examples of sudden climate disasters that have led to large scale migration in the recent past include cyclone Sidr in 2007 that caused damages to USD1.5 billion in Bangladesh; Amphan earlier this year caused losses worth USD13 billion and 118 lives; cyclone Bulbul, again in West Bengal last year, damaged crops across almost 1.5 million hectares of land, triggered fishery damage worth USD100 million, and killed 13, 286 livestock. However, in India, over 60% of agriculture is rain-fed. The region’s rural communities are thus highly sensitive to crop-destroying climatic shocks and 99.3% of south Asia’s agricultural workers are informal labour which makes them more vulnerable.“Slow-onset climate impacts could cause countries in South Asia to lose nearly 2% of their GDP by 2050, rising to a loss of nearly 9% by 2100, without counting for the losses due to extreme weather events,” the report released on Friday has said. Some climate hot spots will experience displacement due to uninhabitable rising temperatures, eroding rivers and rising seas like the Sundarbans or the Mahanadi delta.In their study of migration patterns, the report found that the poor in south Asia often sell their belongings and take loans at predatory interest rates to fund their migration. Forced movement often takes people to urban areas nearby and then to megacities where they are forced to take poorly waged unskilled jobs. Most of the internal movement within South Asia is considered as seasonal or circular migration, where some members of families migrate for a period of the year to another rural area or urban centre, falling agricultural incomes, rural communities across South Asia is also leading to a combination of incomes from agriculture and remittance sent by migrated members of their family.“Political failure to limit global warming to below 2 degree C, as per the Paris agreement goal, is already driving 18 million climate migrants from their homes in 2020. New analysis, released today, estimates climate migration will treble in South Asia alone, a region badly affected by climate disasters including floods, droughts, typhoons and cyclones, a statement by CANSA said.Harjeet Singh, global climate lead at Action Aid said that the migration patterns emerged from the 2011 census have been used to model impacts of climate change on movement of people for the report. “The Indian government hasn’t woken up to the reality of climate change yet. It doesn’t know how badly people and livelihoods are going to be impacted. We need to take various climate scenarios into account for the policies we develop which isn’t happening. The rich countries have historical responsibility but we have to prepare ourselves for the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-change-led-migration-in-india-could-treble-by-2050-report/story-RbSV0Dl7mzEMN8fhftBCnL.html
18-12-2020||India||KPCC chief DK Shivakumar offers silver helicopter replica at Bellary temple||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar who has been on a temple-run ahead of the two-phase gram panchayat polls on December 22 and 27, on Friday offered a helicopter replica to the famous Mylaralingeshwara temple in Hoovina Hadagali of Bellary district.Shivakumar said that in 2017, he had flown in a helicopter to visit the temple. “I subsequently came to know from the swamis and spiritual advisors that this is not a done thing and therefore as an offering gave this in penance,” he said after a darshan at the temple. The helicopter replica in silver weighs a little over a kilogram.Defending the move to offer the chopper replica in silver, Shivakumar said that religion and beliefs is an individual matter and is between the believer and God.According to people close to Shivakumar, the KPCC president who is an adherent of astrology and rituals believes that some of the setbacks including being jailed by the ED in a disproportionate assets case were because of this violation of temple custom. Therefore on their advice, he visited the temple and gifted the silver helicopter model. Later, Shivakumar visited and took blessings of Dingaleshwar Mutt Swami in Shirahatti taluk of neighbouring Gadag district. The panchayat polls which are being fought without a party symbol will have their results declared on December 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kpcc-chief-dk-shivakumar-offers-silver-helicopter-replica-at-bellary-temple/story-ClOKyGDc1bIiJyWIzyQApN.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod) warns of blocking road entry to Dehradun||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod), a farmers’ body, has warned of blocking road entry to Dehradun, the capital of Uttarakhand, if the Centre doesn’t roll back the three farm laws. A final decision on the exact date from which road passage will be blocked will be taken in a meeting on December 20 in Roorkee. Chaudhary Padam Singh Rod, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rod), said, “It’s time to intensify the agitation and in our union meeting, we will decide the date and points of protest as well as blocking the entry roads into Dehradun. Both the Central and state BJP-led government has taken an anti-peasant stance and are playing in the hands of the corporates which we will not tolerate any cost.” While other major farmer unions Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), BKU (Ambawat) and BKU (Tomar) are also opposing the three farm laws, they have not decided to carry out road or rail blockade in any part of the state. Farmer leader and ex-legislator Ambrish Kumar said that despite braving inclement weather conditions, farmers’ agitation has spread in the country. Major trade unions of Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited (BHEL) and industrial sector of SIIDCUL have also extended their support to the ongoing agitation of farmers. BHEL Majdoor Trade Union, Devbhoomi Shramik and Inqalabi Majdoor Trade union have also assured their support to the agitating farmers in the district against the farm laws. BHEL Majdoor Trade Union representative Brajraj said labour unions have extended support to farmers’ fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-bharatiya-kisan-union-rod-warns-of-blocking-road-entry-to-dehradun/story-XWWFUMOy9gKs0ljFvBWhdI.html
18-12-2020||India||Self-regulation in social, traditional media needed: Vice President||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said there was need to ensure “sanity” in the use of the rapidly expanding social media platforms, given the implications for social harmony, common good, peace and national security.He said the freedom of expression does not mean unfettered outburst of anger and hate against each other that may lead to chaos in society.Journalism by nature, the vice president said, is supposed to be critical of the order of the times based on facts and supported by evidence. But he emphasised that this should not slip into “complete negativity”.Media should use a standard set of reporting and analytical tools that captures the changing narrative without imposing respective positions, and should not be seen by the public as discrediting the changes taking place, the vice president said.Pointing out that advertisement revenue is key to the viability of any media organisation, Naidu said with the mushrooming of media outlets and the shrinking revenue pie, the traditional norms and principles of journalism are being forced to be compromised with serious consequences.Speaking at the 6th MV Kamat Memorial Endowment Lecture on ‘Journalism: Past, Present and Future’, he said the disruption caused by technology has resulted in a serious crisis for the media and appropriate revenue sharing models need to be evolved for the survival of traditional media.“Technology giants have emerged as the algorithmic gate keepers of information and the web has emerged as the main vehicle of distribution of information and news. We are witnessing the consequences,” the vice president said.According to the the text of his speech made available by his office, Naidu said while the democratisation and decentralisation that followed the rapid expansion of social media enabling freedom of expression is welcome, the world is witnessing the downside of it in the absence of self-regulation and protocols.In this era of saturated information and over abundance of news, the very news is getting devalued, he felt.While the traditional print media is “sincerely endeavouring” to adapt to the technological disruption by going online, it is struggling to come out with viable revenue models, he pointed out.“The information and reports generated by the print media at substantial cost is being hijacked by the social media giants. This is unfair. Some countries are taking measures to ensure revenue sharing by the social media giants with the print media. We too need to take a serious look at this problem and come out with effective guidelines or laws to enable print media get their share from the huge revenues of the technology giants,” Naidu said.Over a period of time, media in our country has acquired a certain orientation which is broadly termed by the commentators as “left leaning and liberal”, Naidu said. “Nobody can make an issue out of this. But the problem arises if the media is keen to stick to the perspectives acquired earlier and stayed with them for long and refuses to acknowledge the changing narrative,” he said.“I am not suggesting media to be like a chameleon. Media should use a standard set of reporting and analytical tools that captures the change without imposing respective positions. Media should not be seen by the public as discrediting the change that is happening since such a change is contrary to their long held positions,” he noted.The vice-president said while journalism by nature is supposed to be critical of the order of the times based on facts and supported by evidence, “this should not slip into complete negativity”. “I am not suggesting that media is completely cynical. We have opted for parliamentary democracy for negotiated socio-economic transformation and nation building. As a bridge between the people and the governments, media need to focus on the development taking place on various fronts.” “Governments are the principal catalysts of this change for the better. Development journalism does not mean beating the trumpet of the governments. It is about examining and reporting on the triggers of change, partnerships built and participation of people and other stakeholders, challenges faces and the way they were overcome this kind of positivity reinforces the trust of the people in the institutions of our body polity,” he said.Till the advent of modern media, print media played an important role in furthering the cause of independence by promoting the spirit of nationalism and nation building through socio-economic transformation subsequently, he said.The country is committed to uphold the Constitutional values of liberty, equality, fraternity and justice for all, he said, adding that the changes happening in the country over the last few years are within the framework of the Constitution.Discredited media is nobody’s interest, he opined, adding that the norms of objective journalism demand that personal views and positions should not impact reporting of events and issues.“Viewers and readers too should not look for only such information and reports that suits them,” he said.A newspaper or any other media outlet should report the facts as news, present different perspectives on a debatable issue besides conveying their own view appropriately. The aim shall be to leave it to the reader or the viewer to take his own position without seeking to influence his mind, be said. “News and views should be strictly separate. One can’t masquerade as the other,” Naidu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/self-regulation-in-social-traditional-media-needed-vice-president/story-sb4SoXpd9wBFTii9S20HfO.html
18-12-2020||India||India says ready to soon start voluntary Covid-19 vaccination||India’s government said on Friday it could soon start voluntary inoculation against the Covid-19 disease as it considers emergency use authorization for three vaccine candidates including those from AstraZeneca and Pfizer.Indian company Bharat Biotech has also applied for emergency approval.The country recorded 22,890 new coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours, taking the total to near 10 million, with 144,789 deaths. It has the world’s second highest number of cases after the United States, though the gap between them is now widening as India is reporting fewer cases since a mid-September peak.The government says it could take more than one year to administer two doses of vaccines - 28 days apart - to most of India’s 1.35 billion people.“The government of India is geared to launch a vaccine for Covid-19 soon,” the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a public advisory.“Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of Covid-19 vaccine.”It also said that even those who have been infected by the virus should be vaccinated.India plans to deploy its vast election machinery to deliver 600 million doses of the vaccines to the most vulnerable people in the next six to eight months through conventional cold chain systems, a government expert told Reuters last week.The country already runs one of the largest immunization programmes in the world, catering to more than 26 million newborns and 29 million pregnant women a year.“The programme mechanisms are being strengthened/geared up to effectively cater to the country’s large and diverse population,” the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-ready-to-soon-start-voluntary-covid-19-vaccination/story-2JZzxwLYUUvMlyYSAF13rL.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19 has spread like wildfire, observes Supreme Court, calls for more tests, intermittent rest for healthcare workers||The Supreme Court on Friday observed that Covid-19 pandemic has spread like wild fire owing to the lack of implementation of guidelines and SOPs. “Everybody in the world is suffering one way or the other. It is a world war against Covid-19,” a Supreme Court bench comprising Justice Ashoke Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah said. Calling for more vigilance and surveillance, the bench said if the authorities decide to impose curfew or lockdown, it must be announced in advance so that people may make provisions for their livelihood. The apex court said strict and stern action should be taken against those who are violating Covid-19 guidelines and SOPs, irrespective of their position.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine would need registration, says centreThe bench said there should be more police personnel at food courts, eateries, vegetable markets, sabzi mandis, bus stations, railway stations etc as these are the places which are seeing gathering of people.No permission shall be granted for any celebration as far as possible, the SC noted adding that there should be mechanism in place to check the number of people attending such gathering. The bench also observed that there shall be more and more testing and the focus should be to declare correct facts and figures. “One must be transparent in number of testing and declaring the facts and figures of the persons who are Corona positive. Otherwise, the people will be misled and they will be under impression that everything is all right and they will become negligent,” the bench noted.India says ready to soon start voluntary Covid-19 vaccinationCurfew on weekends/night may be considered by states where it is not in place. However, any decision to impose curfew or lockdown must be announced long in advance so that the people may know and make provisions for the livelihood, like ration, the Supreme Court said.“Another issue is the fatigue of the frontline healthcare officials. They are already exhausted physically and mentally due to tireless work for eight months. Some mechanism may be required to give them intermittent rest,” the apex court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-has-spread-like-wild-fire-observes-supreme-court-calls-for-more-tests-intermittent-rest-for-healthcare-workers/story-MEZP7loS0K1W1bhFbCszZJ.html
18-12-2020||India||2 Uttarakhand Congress leaders face police case for stopping minister’s car||A First Information report has been filed against two Congress leaders in Uttarakhand for allegedly stopping state education minister Arvind Pandey’s car and hurling bangles while he was on his way to attend the BJP’s farmer rally yesterday. Those named are former Congress party district president Preet Grover and Gadarpur unit president Siddharth Bhusari. The complaint was made by Kheemanand, minister Pandey’s gunner, said police. The complainant has alleged that the accused stopped the minister’s fleet, shouted abusive slogans and intimidated him. “An FIR has been lodged against two Congress leaders for deterring a public servant from discharging his duties, illegal restraint and criminal intimidation. Action will be taken accordingly after the probe,” Arvind Chaudhary, in-charge, Gadarpur police station in US Nagar, said. The FIR has been registered under section 341 (punishment for wrong restraint), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) 353 (criminal force to deter public servant for discharge of duty) and 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code, said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-uttarakhand-congress-leaders-face-police-case-for-stopping-minister-s-car/story-or5cblJjuMccAmXiMy8tTL.html
18-12-2020||India||No signs of breakthrough after latest India-China WMCC meeting||India and China on Friday held another round of diplomatic talks on the standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after a gap of more than two months though there were no indications of an immediate breakthrough. The virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs was co-chaired by Naveen Srivastava, joint secretary (East Asia) of the external affairs ministry, and Hong Liang, director general of the department of boundary and oceanic affairs of China’s foreign ministry. The last meeting of WMCC held on September 30 too had failed to take forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC. Also read | China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in DelhiThe external affairs ministry said in a statement that the two sides reviewed developments on the LAC since the last meeting of WMCC and agreed to “continue to work towards ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector at the earliest”, in line with the guidance from senior leaders and agreements reached by the two foreign ministers and Special Representatives on the boundary issue. The two sides also noted the seventh and eighth round of meetings between senior army commanders held on October 12 and November 6 had held in-depth discussions that had “contributed to ensuring stability on the ground”. “Both sides agreed to maintain close consultations at the diplomatic and military level. They agreed that the next (9th) round of Senior Commanders meeting should be held at an early date so that both sides can work towards early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols, and fully restore peace and tranquillity,” the statement said. A readout from the Chinese embassy said the two sides had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views on the situation” along the LAC and agreed to continue dialogue and consultation via diplomatic and military channels. The readout added the two sides had decided to hold the 9th meeting of senior army commanders “as soon as possible”. The Chinese embassy’s readout further said the two sides had “agreed to earnestly implement the five-point consensus reached between the foreign ministers of both countries” when they met in Moscow on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in September. Friday’s meeting also “focused on the disengagement of frontline troops” and “concrete measures to deal with the issues on the ground to further deescalate the border situation”, the readout said. The two sides “spoke highly of the outcomes of the 8th round of Senior Commanders Meeting” and also agreed to “properly deal with the outstanding issues on the ground, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas”, the readout added. Tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in along the LAC in sub-zero conditions after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks failed to take forward the disengagement process at key friction points in Ladakh sector. People familiar with developments in Beijing said the focus of Friday’s negotiations was on troop disengagement. The WMCC meeting was held on the same day that China’s foreign minister Wang Yi is scheduled to address an online event organised by Mumbai-based Asia Society Indian Centre. Wang is expected to talk on the crisis in Sino-India ties triggered by the eight-month standoff. Between September 30 and now, the two sides held military talks, which too failed to take the disengagement process forward. India on Thursday had called for further discussions with China to reach a “mutually acceptable solution” on complete disengagement at all friction points on the LAC. “It is our expectation that further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. At the end of the last virtual WMCC meet on September 30, both an Indian statement and a readout from China’s foreign ministry had said the two sides “positively evaluated” the outcome of the sixth military commanders’ meeting on September 21. Army commanders of the two sides last held military talks on November 6, an indication that neither side is willing to budge from their respective positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-signs-of-breakthrough-after-latest-india-china-wmcc-meeting/story-NTLHe7LmLPreTYjsN7zhpK.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi’s Varanasi office listed on OLX for ‘sale’; 4 arrested||Four people have been arrested for allegedly posting an online advertisement listing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Varanasi office for “sale”, police said on Friday.The accused had taken a picture of the “Jansampark Kaaryalay (public relations office)” of Modi, who represents Varanasi in the Lok Sabha, and put it “up for sale” on OLX website, they said.The office is located in the Jawahar Nagar locality of the city, and it falls under the Bhelupur police station limits, Varanasi Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Amit Pathak said.“Yesterday, it came to our notice that the prime minister’s office here has been put up on sale on OLX website. An FIR was immediately lodged at the Bhelupur police station, and the matter is being investigated,” Pathak said.“Four people involved in the case have been taken in custody,” the SSP said, adding that the person who took the picture and put it on the website is among them.The accused are being questioned, and further legal proceedings are being carried out, he said.Prime Minister Modi, a four-time chief minister of Gujarat, was first elected to the Lok Sabha from Varanasi in 2014 and then re-elected from the constituency in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-varanasi-office-listed-on-olx-for-sale-4-arrested/story-uVLg7t0nW72QTouj5dOG3I.html
18-12-2020||India||Over 4.5 crore in India will be forced to migrate from homes by 2050: Report||Over 4.5 crore people will be forced to migrate from their homes in India by 2050 due to climate disasters including floods, droughts and cyclones, three times more than the present figures, according to a new report. In 2020, the number of people displaced in India is 1.4 crore, it said.The report  ‘Costs of climate inaction: displacement and distress migration’ assessed climate-fuelled displacement and migration across five South Asian countries -- Bangladesh, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka -- and calculates a devastating likelihood of over 6 crore people being homeless and displaced by 2050 in South Asia alone.It is based on a study conducted by International agencies ActionAid International and Climate Action Network South Asia.Quoting figures, the report claimed that 4.5 crore from India will be forced to migrate from their homes by 2050 due to climate disasters.“Political failure to limit global warming to below 2 degrees Celsius as per the Paris agreement goal is already driving 18 million climate migrants from their homes in 2020,” the report said.The report released on Friday, estimates that climate migration will treble in South Asia alone, a region badly affected by climate disasters, including floods, droughts, typhoons and cyclones.The research was undertaken by Bryan Jones, one of the authors of the inaugural Groundswell Report on internal climate migration in 2018.The report called for strong leadership and ambition from developed countries to cut emissions and support for developing countries to adapt to climate change and recover from climate disasters.  It recommended a holistic approach that places the onus on rich countries to provide support and urges developing countries to scale up efforts to protect people from climate impacts.Harjeet Singh, Global Climate Lead at ActionAid, said, “We are facing melting glaciers in Nepal, rising seas in India and Bangladesh, cyclones and inhospitable temperatures. Climate change is increasingly forcing people to flee their homes in search of safety and new means to provide for their families.“Rich countries need to take greater responsibility to reduce their emissions and support South Asian countries in cutting emissions and dealing with climate impacts. The human cost of inaction is too high,” he said.The research reveals that in all five countries, women are left dealing with the negative fallout from climate migration. “They are left behind to take care of household chores, agricultural activities, look after children and elderly and manage livestock. Women who migrate to urban settlements are often then forced to take up work in precarious settings where workers’ rights violations are rife,” it said.Sanjay Vashist, Director, Climate Action Network South Asia said, “South Asia is geographically vulnerable to climate disasters and is regularly lashed with floods and cyclones, but poverty and environmental injustice are also determining factors in this climate migration crisis.“South Asian leaders must join forces and prepare plans for the protection of displaced people. They must step up and invest in universal and effective social protection measures, resilience plans and green infrastructure to respond to the climate crisis and help those who have been forced to move,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-5-crore-in-india-will-be-forced-to-migrate-from-homes-by-2050-report/story-kLUxJe23ms47rZvGQjdakL.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, says health ministry||Vaccination against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as part of national vaccination drive is voluntary, reiterated Union ministry of health and family welfare in its recently released document to answer public queries in the form of frequently asked questions (FAQs). “Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of Covid-19 vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers,” says the government document.A senior health ministry official, in the know of things, who did not wish to be named, said, “The government never said it was mandatory to take the vaccine shot; it is absolutely on voluntary basis even for the population group. However, the government is ensuring that whatever choice people make is informed, which is why a lot of effort is being directed towards awareness generation.” While ideally, the government would like to cover everyone in phases, the priority group for Covid-19 vaccine delivery in phase 1 is being drafted keeping in mind vaccine availability. Also read | China to vaccinate 50 million people for Lunar New YearOn phase 1 priority list are people at higher risk. The first group includes healthcare and frontline workers. The second group to receive Covid-19 vaccine will be persons over 50 years of age and persons under 50 years with comorbid conditions such as hypertensive, diabetic, people with chronic liver and kidney disease, as per the recommendation of technical experts handling Covid-19 vaccine management.The reason for including the more than 50 years of age group for vaccination is that it will be able to cover 78% of persons having comorbidities and thereby, reduce mortality on account of Covid-19.The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number regarding the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time for vaccination, to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination.On getting all doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the beneficiary will receive a text on their registered mobile number, informing about completion of the process. A QR code-based certificate will be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary.However, the vaccine is not advisable for people who are presently infected with Covid-19. “Person with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection may increase the risk of spreading the same to others at vaccination site. For this reason, infected individuals should defer vaccination for 14 days after symptoms resolution,” says the document.Those recovered from the disease can take the shot. “It is advisable to receive complete schedule of Covid vaccine irrespective of past history of infection with Covid-19. This will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease,” the document says.Two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken by an individual to complete the vaccination schedule. Protective levels of antibodies are generally developed two weeks after receiving the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine.To allay safety concerns among people regarding the vaccine, the document says, “Vaccines will be introduced in the country only after the regulatory bodies clear it based on its safety and efficacy.”The safety and efficacy data from clinical trials of vaccine candidates are being examined by the national drug regulator before granting the license for its use on public at large. Hence, all the Covid-19 vaccines that receive license will have comparable safety and efficacy. However, it is necessary that the entire schedule of vaccination is completed by only one type of vaccine as different Covid-19 vaccines are not interchangeable. Any of the following identification details with photo can be produced at the time of registration: driving license, health insurance, smart card issued under the scheme of labour ministry, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, official identity cards issued to MPs/MLAs/MLCs, PAN card, passbooks issued by bank, post office, passport, pension document, service ID issued to government employees, and Voter ID. Those vaccinated will have to rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. In case of any discomfort or uneasiness, they will have to inform the nearest health authorities, auxiliary nurse midwife, accredited social health activist.“As is true for other vaccines, the common side effects in some individuals could be mild fever, pain, etc. at the site of injection. States have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any Covid-19 vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery among masses,” says the document.People will have to continue following key Covid appropriate behaviours, such as wearing of mask, maintaining hand sanitisation and physical distance, even after vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccination-is-voluntary-says-health-ministry/story-Xma7WplbVH9XktqoINh1FM.html
18-12-2020||India||A day before Amit Shah’s tour, Centre versus West Bengal intensifies | 10 points||Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to reach Kolkata late on Friday night and, for the next two days, the BJP leader will visit Paschim Medinipur and Birbhum. The Centre versus West Bengal tussle has, meanwhile, intensified, running parallel to several exits from the Trinamool — ahead of the assembly election in 2021.Here are the latest updates:> The tussle between the Centre and the state revolves around the law and order situation of the state, which has come to the fore after BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in Bengal. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the attack was staged as BJP leaders always come with their own security.> The Centre sought a report from West Bengal Governor who in his report criticised the Mamata government for the deterioration of the situation.> The Centre also summoned the chief secretary and director-general of police of West Bengal regarding the law and order situation. The state government decided to ignore the order.> Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote to the Centre that the state government was already addressing the issue with utmost seriousness.> The Centre on Friday has again summoned the officials who might present themselves via video-conference.> This tug-of-war between Centre and West Bengal is running parallel to the tussle between BJP and the Trinamool Congress as the latter is experiencing back-to-back exits.> After the exit of former minister Suvendu Adhikri who represents Nandigram that was a major linchpin behind Mamata Banerjee’s coming to power in 2011, Jitendra Tiwari and Silbhadra Datta resigned from the party in the last 24 hours.> The Union home ministry has announced Z category security to Suvendu Adhikari in West Bengal and Y+ in other states.> West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee said he has not accepted Suvendu Adhikari’s resignation as it was not clear whether the “resignation” was voluntary. The letter was not personally handed to the Speaker.> The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim protection to five BJP leaders, including Mukul Roy and MPs Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arjun Singh, in criminal cases lodged against them in West Bengal and directed the state police not to take any coercive action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-day-before-amit-shah-s-tour-centre-versus-west-bengal-intensifies-10-points/story-SZMW6CQ2RIhiJMFSkEW3nM.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chinese firm behind Hambantota port project gets first contract in Sri Lanka’s port city and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Chinese firm behind Hambantota port project gets first contract in Sri Lanka’s Port CityOne of China’s largest state-run firms that was behind the controversial Hambantota port project has bagged the first contract in Sri Lanka’s planned $13-billion Port City. Read more Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat tests positive for Covid-19Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and isolated himself at his residence. Read more ‘No coercive steps against BJP leaders’: SC notice to Bengal govt, policeThe Supreme Court on Friday protected BJP leaders Arjun Singh, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Pawan Singh, Mukul Roy and Saurav Singh from any coercive steps to be taken by the West Bengal Police in FIRs registered against them which are pending investigation. Read more UP’s anti-conversion law premised on overturned court verdict, hears HCThe Allahabad high court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file a counter-affidavit to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the constitutional validity of the new ordinance against forced and dishonest religious conversions that some right-wingers term as ‘Love Jihad’. Read more India vs Australia 1st Test, Day 2: McGrath unhappy with Australia’s defensive battingGlenn McGrath was part of an Australian team that has gone down in the history of Test cricket as the best ever. The team was full of attack minded batsmen who loved to put the opposition under pressure, whatever be the situation of the match. Read more Neha Kakkar will be the most on-trend mommy-to-be, her latest picture provesSinger Neha Kakkar recently took to her Instagram account to share an image of herself flaunting a baby bump with husband Rohanpreet Singh. Read more Barack Obama shares his annual list of favourite books. How many have you read?Former US President Obama recently took to Twitter to share a post involving books. His tweet has now captured people’s interest and sparked an online chatter. Read more The Mandalorian season 2 review: Sensational Star Wars show is appointment TV at its finestWhen he isn’t hunched over a kitchen counter with Roy Choi, geeking out about sourdough starter, Jon Favreau is spearheading $200 million productions for the biggest movie studio in the world. Read more Watch: SC issues show-cause notices to Kunal Kamra, cartoonist Rachita Taneja||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chinese-firm-behind-hambantota-port-project-gets-first-contract-in-sri-lanka-s-port-city-and-all-the-latest-news/story-kQJ71PD11ruB70lWYGZKUP.html
18-12-2020||India||UP: Sambhal administration scraps Rs50 lakh notices for farm protests||The Sambhal district administration in western Uttar Pradesh has decided to scrap the notices issued to the national president and five other office bearers of Bhartiya Kisan Union(Asli), or BKU (Asli), wherein they were asked to submit personal bonds of Rs50 lakh each on the charge of inciting farmers against the three new farm laws. The sum was later revised to Rs50,000 each, but now the notices would be withdrawn altogether, an official said.Notices to over a dozen farmers seeking personal bond of Rs5 lakh each are also being scrapped. Sambhal sub-divisonal magistrate (SDM) Deependra Yadav issued the notices on December 12 and 13 for personal bond of Rs50 lakh each to BKU (Asli) president Harpal Singh, youth wing state in charge Rishabh Chaudhary, divisional general secretary Sanjeev Gandhi, Sambhal district president Rajpal Singh Yadav and two others on charges of inciting farmers to participate in the movement. Likewise, over a dozen other farmers were issued notices of Rs5 lakh each on similar charges. SDM Yadav said he issued notices to 20 to 25 farmers on the basis of reports submitted by different police stations amid the farmers’ agitation.“We first revised the amount, but eventually decided to scrap all the notices after farmers’ written assurance that they would carry out their protest peacefully,” SDM said.Also read | Will bow my head in front of farmers, will discuss every issue, says PM ModiHowever, BKU(Asli) president Harpal Singh said, “We were protesting peacefully since the beginning and no farmer has given anything in writing. They are scrapping it (notices) to save their skin.”Additional superintendent of police, Sambhal, Alok Kumar Jaiswal also confirmed that notices issued against the farmers would be scrapped.SDM Yadav said issuing notices during a protest was a routine exercise, but it was blown out of proportion in this instance. He accused the farmers of blocking roads, caused inconvenience to people.Reacting to SDM’s comment, BKU (Asli) national vice-president Surendra Singh held the administration and the police responsible for road blocks. “We wanted to go to Delhi to join the ongoing farmers’ movement. They (police) stopped us, compelling us to sit on the roads,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sambhal-administration-scraps-rs50-lakh-notices-for-farm-protests/story-7YyLCgT35zali9szJVQWHP.html
18-12-2020||India||‘Request with folded hands’: 10 things PM Modi said on farm laws, protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday requested all the political parties to stop misguiding farmers on the farm laws cleared by the government in September this year and said that games are being played for political gains.PM Modi also said that by clearing the farm bills, he just wants to ease the life of farmers. He was addressing a state-level ‘Kisan Kalyan’ event in Madhya Pradesh’s Raisen district, wherein Chief Minister Shivraj Singh will transfer the relief amount of Rs 1,600 crore into the bank accounts of nearly 35.50 lakh farmers for the damaged kharif crops.The prime minister’s address comes amid staunch rejection of three farm laws by thousands of farmers who have erupted in protest in and around the national capital. The farmer’s claim that the laws cleared by the government will reduce their earnings and give a leverage to corporations.As the protests enter their 22nd day, there has been no signs of resolution in the standoff between farmers and government even after five rounds of talk.Here are the 10 things PM Modi said on the laws and agitated farmers:- I am happy that farmers all over the country have not only embraced the new agricultural reforms but are also rejecting those who are spreading. I will ask the farmers who still have a little apprehension to think once again.- I say this with confidence that there is no reason for mistrust in the recently introduced agricultural reforms, there is no room for lies.- Our government did the work of implementing the report by Swaminathan Committee. If we had to remove the MSP, then why would the Swaminathan Committee report be implemented?- Our government is so serious about the MSP that it announces MSP every time before sowing. This makes it easier for the farmers because they also learn first about the MSP of their crop.- The previous government had purchased about 1,700 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers in its five years. Our government has purchased 3,000 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers in its five years at MSP.- Our government has not only increased MSP, but has also bought a lot from farmers on MSP. Its biggest advantage has been that more money has reached the farmers’ account than ever before.- Another example of how the people who used farmers for politics is farming of pulses. Recall the time of 2014, how the country faced a pulses crisis. Pulses used to be sourced from abroad amidst chaos in the country.- Today, farmers growing pulses are also getting more money, pulses prices have also come down, which has directly benefited the poor. Those who could not give MSP to the farmers, nor could buy it on the MSP, they are misleading the farmers on the MSP.- Another lie related to agricultural reforms is being spread about the APMC i.e. our mandis. What have we done in law? We have given freedom to farmers in the law, a new option. In the new law, we have only said that whether the farmers sells in the market or outside, it is their choice. Now, the farmers can sell their produce only where they get profit.- Swaminathan Commission report is biggest proof of how ruthless these people can be. These people sat on Swaminathan Commission report recommendations for 8 long years. They ensured that their government doesn’t have to spend much on farmers, so they kept the report under wraps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-with-folded-hands-10-things-pm-modi-said-on-farm-laws-protest/story-k0dQRiOOi3mOgQ13P8HSmO.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi says Oppn intentionally did not work on Swaminathan Commission recommendations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday requested political parties with “folded hands” to keep all the credit for their “old election manifestos” which had reportedly promised agriculture sector reforms and urged them to stop misguiding the farmers over the new farm laws. “I request all political parties with folded hands, please keep all the credit. I am giving credit to all your old election manifestos. I just want ease in the life of farmers, I want their progress and want modernity in agriculture,” said PM Modi while addressing farmers at the ‘Kisan Kalyan’ event in Raisen through video conferencing.“Political parties should stop misguiding farmers. It’s been six to seven months since farm laws were implemented. But now suddenly, games are being played to plough one’s own political land through a web of lies,” he added.The Prime Minister further said, those who have started this movement in the name of farmers, when they had a chance to run the government or become part of the government, what they did back then, the country needs to remember.“Swaminathan Commission report is the biggest proof of how ruthless these people can be. These people sat on Swaminathan Commission report recommendations for 8 long years...They ensured that their govt doesn’t have to spend much on farmers, so they kept the report under wraps,” said PM Modi.“Today, I want to bring their deeds in front of countrymen and farmers,” PM Modi said. “I assure every farmer of the country that like MSP was given earlier, it will continue to be given, MSP will not be ended. Those who could not give MSP to farmers, they are misleading farmers over MSP,” he added. In the new farm laws, Centre has only stated that whether the farmer sells his produce in the market or outside, it will be his will, PM Modi stated.“The previous government had purchased about 1700 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers in its five years. Our government has purchased 3000 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from farmers in its five years at MSP,” he said. “Another lie related to agricultural reforms is being spread about the APMC i.e. our mandis. What have we done in law? We have given the freedom to farmers in law, given them a new option,” said PM Modi. Not a single market has been closed after the new laws, the Prime Minister asserted. “Then why is this lie being spread? The truth is that our government is spending more than 500 crore rupees on modernising APMC, computerisation of them. Then where did this thing about the closure of APMC come from?” asked PM Modi. “Another big lie about new agricultural reforms is about the farming agreement. Is there anything new in the farming agreement in the country? No. The farming agreement has been in operation in our country for years,” he added. The Prime Minister assured that there is no reason for mistrust in the recent agricultural reforms we have done, there is no room for lies. PM Narendra Modi’s statement comes at the time when farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-oppn-intentionally-did-not-work-on-swaminathan-commission-recommendations/story-6uch4FL6L6anIVvv19yjgK.html
18-12-2020||India||Domestic air passengers in November 51% lower than last year: DGCA||A total of 63.54 lakh domestic passengers travelled by air in November, 51% lower than the corresponding period last year, the country’s aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday.As per the DGCA, 39.43 lakh and 52.71 lakh people travelled by air domestically in September and October, respectively.While IndiGo carried 34.23 lakh passengers in November, a 53.9% share of the total domestic market, SpiceJet flew 8.4 lakh passengers, which is 13.2% share of the market, according to data shared by the DGCA.Air India, GoAir, AirAsia India and Vistara carried 6.56 lakh, 5.77 lakh, 4.21 lakh and 3.97 lakh passengers respectively in November, the data showed.The occupancy rate or load factor of six major Indian airlines was between 66.3% and 77.7% in November, it stated.“The passenger load factor in the month of November 2020 has shown some recovery due to increased demand after the opening of Lockdown and onset of festive season” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said.The occupancy rate at SpiceJet was 77.7% in November, the regulator noted.Meanwhile, the occupancy rate for other major airlines IndiGo, Vistara, GoAir, Air India and AirAsia India was 74%, 70.8%, 70.8%, 69.6% and 66.3% respectively, according to the DGCA. ndia resumed domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. ndian airlines are allowed to operate a maximum of 80% of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights.The DGCA data mentioned that in November, IndiGo had the best on-time performance of 97.5% at four metro airports -- Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai.In a statement, IndiGo said, “As we chart a recovery path, we are pleased to be the leader in On Time Performance, one of our core service values. We hope to continue this lead and provide the best OTP to our customers.” AirAsia India and Vistara were at number two and three at these four airports in November with 95.6% and 94.8% on-time performance, respectively, the DGCA said.The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic.All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to tide over the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-air-passengers-in-november-51-lower-than-last-year-dgca/story-grRdCxAt0LyXP8FzJrzgiN.html
18-12-2020||India||‘You can keep all the credit’: PM Modi attacks opposition over farmers’ protests||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday accused the opposition parties of creating distrust between the farmers and the government and also of instigating them against the laws which the Centre believes will bring reforms to the agricultural sector. PM Modi was addressing farmers in Madhya Pradesh virtually during the Kisan Kalyan event.PM Modi told the opposition parties that they can keep all the credit when these recently passed farm laws will bring reforms to the agricultural sector. He also said that the opposition parties can take the credit as their old election manifestoes mentioned these agriculture promises. He said, “I request all political parties with folded hands, please keep all the credit. I’m giving credit to all your old election manifestos. I just want ease in the life of farmers, I want their progress and want modernity in agriculture.”HT EXCLUSIVE| Those who believe in status quo can’t make history: Narendra Singh TomarModi also accused the opposition parties of using the farmers as a vote bank and political tool. He said that the opposition parties are spinning a web of lies to misguide farmers as the implementation of these laws have been in discussion for the last several years. The prime minister also reiterated that the system of MSP will remain unaffected by these new laws.Taking a jibe at former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, the prime minister said that the farm loans were not waived as was promised before the Madhya Pradesh Assembly elections. He said, “Those who’ve started this movement in the name of farmers, when they had a chance to run the govt or become part of govt, what they did back then, the country needs to remember. Today, I want to bring their deeds in front of countrymen & farmers.”I come from farming family,’ Tomar writes open letter to farmers; PM Modi urges to readBJP has several times in the past few weeks raised the issue of how opposition parties were in favour of implementing the very same laws the NDA introduced during the monsoon session.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an exclusive interview with the Hindustan Times said that the current government had the willpower to implement the new laws. He said that the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had also wished to bring these laws but lacked the willingness to do so. He said, “Those who believe in status quo cannot create history. Even the UPA wanted to make these reforms but they couldn’t.”A PTI report quoting government sources was released in early December where it was seen that Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar had wanted states to implement the APMC Act in order to increase farmers’ incomes by allowing private players to take steps to reform the agricultural sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-keep-all-the-credit-pm-modi-attacks-opposition-over-farmers-protests/story-glmR8UoCTPMe5S6aQuyYNI.html
18-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and isolated himself at his residence. Sharing this on his Twitter handle in the afternoon, Rawat tweeted, “I had got Covid test done. And my report has come positive. My health condition is fine and I don’t have any symptoms too. On the advice of doctors, I will remain in home isolation. I request all those who have come into contact with me in last few days, to isolate themselves and get themselves tested.” This is not the first time Rawat has isolated himself during the epidemic. In September, he had isolated himself after his Officer on Special Duty had tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier on August 26, the chief minister had gone into self-isolation after three of his staff tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier this year on June 1, Rawat and two of his ministers had decided to quarantine themselves after Cabinet minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive for Covid-19. Rawat had attended a Cabinet meeting with Maharaj. Later on June 6, Rawat had tested negative for Covid-19. Many senior government functionaries have also tested Covid-19 positive in the state in the past week or so. On Wednesday, Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Singh Negi tested positive for Covid-19. On December 8, Amita Upreti, director general of the health department, had also tested positive for Covid-19. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 84,000 Covid-19 positive cases and 1,384 deaths. The positivity rate in the state stands at 5.4% and case fatality rate at 1.63%. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum 25,012 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (12,905) and US Nagar (10,787).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-hjevePXtendH3LWOBCFLyO.html
18-12-2020||India||DRDO can play important role in making India superpower, says Rajnath Singh||Noting the importance of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that we want to make India a superpower and DRDO can be pertinent in this endeavour.Addressing the DRDO officials, Defence Minister Singh said DRDO has tested many successful defence systems including multirole fighter aircraft Tejas and ballistic missile systems, that has helped increase the capability of country’s Armed forces.“We want to make India a superpower and you (scientists) can play an important role in this,” Defence Minister said. Amid the standoff with China, Rajnath Singh stated that “Challenges at our (northern and western) borders at this time also present a challenge to our resources. I am confident that our government, our Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make sure that there is no lack of resources at the borders.” Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat also spoke at the event. He said DRDO has helped the armed forces to become self-reliant to face the emerging challenges while adding that the country will win the future war with indigenously-developed weapons.General Rawat said, “For the past few years, DRDO has helped the armed forces to become self-reliant to face the emerging challenges ahead of the country. Currently, we are facing several challenges at the northern and western borders. The way in which we are heading towards self-reliance, it is pertinent for DRDO to keep working ardently in that direction.”Besides the address to the DRDO officials, Rajnath Singh handed over Navy Chief- Indian Maritime Situational Awareness System, Air Force Chief- ASTRA MK- missile and Army chief- Border Surveillance System (BOSS) made by DRDO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-can-play-important-role-in-making-india-superpower-says-rajnath-singh/story-KqGnl4qbbfelpZHkjGtkGO.html
18-12-2020||India||Odisha didn’t profit from ecotourism fest, reveals RTI; ‘it’s fine’, says govt||Billed as eastern India’s first ‘Glamping’ festival or glamorous camping, the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat spread out on a kilometre-long stretch of Ramchandi Beach near Sun temple at Konark went on for almost 2 months between December 2019 and February 2020.The Eco-retreat camp, advertised as an attraction for high-end tourists, offered double occupancy tents priced between Rs 6,000 to Rs 22,000 per night that covered for private dining area, spa as well as non-alcoholic minibar facilities apart from several other water sports activities.Closely modelled on the annual Rann Utsav held at Rann of Kutch, where the Gujarat government organises tented accommodation for tourists, the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat plans to showcase the best of Odisha’s food and culture for high-end tourists.However, an RTI application filed into the expenditure incurred on last year’s eco-retreat festival has revealed that the government has not made any profit on its maiden eco-retreat venture. RTI activist Pradip Pradhan, who had filed an application seeking details of the expenditure on the first-ever eco-retreat camp, was told by the tourism department that the government spent at least Rs 4.5 crore on paying the event management company Lallooji & Sons while it got Rs 3.8 crore as revenue.The tourism department however, was silent on the total amount of money spent on the festival, though an amount of Rs 12.13 crore was sanctioned for the purpose. The RTI activist alleged that the government’s loss from the festival is likely to be higher and that’s why the tourism department did not specify how much more was spent apart from the money paid to the event management company.Though the tourism department did not make any profit from last year’s eco retreat camp at Konark, similar camps are being held at 4 more places including at Konark, Satkosia, Bhitarkanika, Daringbadi and Hirakud this month.Director of Odisha tourism department, Sachin Ramchandra Jadhav, said not much should be read into the losses incurred by the government in holding such events. “While hotels in Puri last year did not see much occupancy, we saw more than 70% occupancy. These events are essentially promoting the state’s tourism potential. It would take 7-8 years to break even and make money. Even in Gujarat, where the Rann of Kutch festival started, they did not make money for 7-8 years. After seeing our success, even Jharkhand has decided to hold similar eco-retreat camps,” said Jadhav.Also Read: Odisha seeks forced retirement of top forest officer with over 400% unaccounted wealthJadhav said the criticism that the government was spending money ‘unnecessarily’ in such festivals was a bit unwarranted as it was the responsibility of the government to promote the state’s tourism potential.“How many tourists would come to places like Daringbadi and Satkosia and spend Rs 9,000 a day if such events are not organised? High-end tourists who visit such places would help the local economy as they would hire vehicles from local travel operators. Through such programmes, the interiors of Odisha are being promoted,” he said.JK Mohanty, president of hotel and restaurant association of Odisha said it is important to make a noise in the tourism circuit and the government is taking the right step. “The pandemic has affected the tourism industry adversely. Through such events, the tourism and travel industry in Odisha would get a leg up,” said Mohanty.In 2019-20, 15.5 lakh domestic tourists and a little more than 1 lakh foreigners had visited Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-didn-t-profit-from-ecotourism-fest-reveals-rti-it-s-fine-says-govt/story-3cBZ0HHvVIAwSNs3xJOrtN.html
18-12-2020||India||Hathras woman was gang-raped, killed, says CBI, names four in chargesheet||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday filed its chargesheet in the alleged gangrape and murder case of a Dalit woman at a special SC/ST court. Four upper caste men Sandeep, Luvkush, Ravi and Ramu, who are in judicial custody now, have been charged with gang-rape and murder. The court has taken cognisance of the chargesheet, Munna Singh Pundir, lawyer for the accused, told news agencies.The chargesheet has been filed under Sections 354, 376 A, 376 D and 302 of IPC and SC/ST Act. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment, and was cremated in the dead of night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out “as per the wishes of the family”.The incident, and the subsequent action of local police in alleged attempt to hush the case, sparked protests and outrage across the country. Facing flak over the handling of the case, the Uttar Pradesh government recommended CBI probe into the case. The central agency initiated the probe in October. The CBI looked into the role of the four men who were also put through different forensic tests at the Forensic Science Laboratory in Gandhinagar.Investigators had also met doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital, where the victim was treated after the alleged gangrape on September 14, before she was brought to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-woman-was-gang-raped-killed-says-cbi-names-four-in-chargesheet/story-A0QFpQxXyvNxIZRiErLndL.html
18-12-2020||India||Goa Liberation Day 2020: All about its history and significance||Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year in India and it marks the day Indian armed forces freed Goa in 1961 following 450 years of Portuguese rule. The Portuguese colonised several parts of India in 1510 but by the end of the 19th-century Portuguese colonies in India were limited to Goa, Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Anjediva Island. The Goa liberation movement, which sought to end Portuguese colonial rule in Goa, started off with small scale revolts.On August 15, 1947, when India gained its Independence, Goa was still under the Portuguese rule. The Portuguese refused to give up their hold over Goa and other Indian territories. Following a myriad of unsuccessful negotiations and diplomatic efforts with the Portuguese, the former prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, decided that military intervention was the only option. The 36-hour military operation, conducted from December 18, 1961, was code-named ‘Operation Vijay’ meaning ‘Operation Victory,’ and involved attacks by the Indian Navy, Indian Air Force and Indian Army.According to the Indian Navy website, Indian troops reclaimed the Goan territory on December 19 with little resistance and the deposed governor general Manuel António Vassalo e Silva signed the certificate of surrender thus bringing Portuguese rule in the region to an end. This made India completely free from foreign rule. “The War Memorial at Indian Naval Ship Gomantak was constructed in memory of seven young gallant sailors and other personnel who laid down their lives on 19 Dec 1961 in the “Operation Vijay” undertaken by the Indian Navy for the liberation of Anjadip Island and Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu,” the website said.Goa Liberation Day is marked by an abundance of events and festivities in Goa though this time because of the pandemic the celebrations are expected to be muted. A torchlight procession is ignited from three different locations in the state, eventually all meeting at the Azad Maidan. This is where a tribute is made to those who lost their lives in the takeover of Goa. Various cultural programs like Sugam Sangeet — an Indian musical genre with poetry in the Kannada language — are also held to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-liberation-day-2020-all-about-its-history-and-significance/story-2NhWxIZfOP2l6SBeC8pEeN.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19 vaccine would need registration, says centre||Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary, the Union Health Ministry has said while underlining that the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries.The ministry further stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of past history of infection with Covid-19 as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. It also said that protective level of antibodies generally develop two weeks after receiving the second dose. The ministry listed a series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday night and responded to questions like if taking a vaccine was mandatory, how long does it take for the antibodies to develop and if it was necessary for a Covid recovered person to take the vaccine.“Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting one-self against this disease and also to limit the spread of this disease to the close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers,” the ministry said in response to a question on if it is mandatory to take the shot. The ministry said that vaccine trials are under different stages of finalisation. The government is geared to launch a vaccine for Covid-19 soon, it said. Six vaccines- one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, second one developed by Zydus Cadila, third one by Gennova, Oxford vaccine, trial of which is conducted by Serum Institute of India, Sputnik V vaccine which is being manufactured by Dr Reddy’s Lab, Hyderabad, in collaboration with Russia’s Gamaleya National Centre and the sixth one manufactured by Biological E Ltd, Hyderabad, in collaboration with MIT, USA are undergoing clinical trials in India.On whether a vaccine will be safe as it is being tested and introduced in a short span of time and what can be the possible side-effects, the ministry said vaccines will be introduced in the country only after the regulatory bodies clear it based on its safety and efficacy. “Covid-19 vaccine will be introduced only when the safety is proven. As is true for other vaccines, the common side effects in some individuals could be mild fever, pain, etc. at the site of injection,” the ministry said in the FAQs.It said states have been asked to start making arrangements to deal with any vaccine-related side-effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery.Two doses of vaccine, 28 days apart, need to be taken by an individual to complete the vaccination schedule, it stated. The ministry said anyone taking medicines for illnesses like cancer, diabetes, hypertension etc, can take the Covid-19 vaccine as persons with one or more of these comorbid conditions are considered high-risk category and they need to get vaccination.In response to a question on whether the vaccine will be given to everyone simultaneously, the ministry said that based on the potential availability of vaccines, the government has selected priority groups to be vaccinated as they are at higher risk. In the initial phase, Covid 19 vaccine will be provided to the priority group- health care and front-line workers. The 50 plus age group may also begin early based on vaccine availability. The eligible beneficiaries will be informed through their registered mobile number regarding the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the scheduled time. This will be done to avoid any inconvenience in registration and vaccination of beneficiaries, the ministry said in the FAQs.On why healthcare providers and frontline workers are being chosen for receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said the government has prioritised the most at risk/high risk groups which will get the vaccine first. Healthcare providers have led the battle against Covid-19 from the front. The government wants them to be able to continue your work, without the fear of risk associated with the virus. “Therefore, healthcare and frontline workers are among the first group of people to be vaccinated,”‘ it said.The ministry said registration of a beneficiary is mandatory for vaccination for Covid-19. Only after registration the information on the session site to visit and time will be shared.Following online registration, beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number on the due date, place and time of vaccination. ID with Photo such as driving license, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) job card, PAN Card, passbooks issued by Bank/Post Office, passport • Pension Document , service identity card issued to employees by Central/ State Govt./ Public Limited Companies and voter ID may be produced at the time of registration.On getting due dose of vaccine, the beneficiary will receive SMS on their registered mobile number. After all doses of vaccine are administered, a QR code based certificate will also be sent to the registered mobile number of the beneficiary, the ministry said.On preventive measures and precautions, the ministry said, “We request you to rest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the Covid-19 vaccine. “Inform the nearest health authorities/ANM/ASHA in case you feel any discomfort or uneasiness subsequently. Remember to continue following key Covid Appropriate Behaviours like wearing of mask, maintaining hand sanitization and physical distance,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-vaccine-would-need-registration-says-centre/story-kwfyPDfkDDtTTOPhjtiBVO.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest traffic updates: One side of Chilla border opens, Tikri, Dhansa and others closed||Delhi Traffic Police on Friday said the Chilla border for commuters travelling from Delhi to Noida is now open while the other carriageway is closed. They also alerted in a tweet that the Tikri and Dhansa borders are closed for any movement while the Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians. Traffic Alert,Chilla Border one carriageway from Delhi to Noida is open for traffic however other carriageway from Noida to Delhi is closed.COVID PRECAUTIONS :-WEAR MASK, MAINTAIN SOCIAL DISTANCING, KEEP HAND HYGIENE.Commuters on the Delhi-Haryana route can take Jharoda (only single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders as they are currently open.“Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders. *Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders,” the traffic police tweeted.The traffic police also asked the commuters to take an alternate route through Lampur, Safiabad Saboli and Singhu school toll tax borders as Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Mangesh borders are closed amidst the farmers’ stir. Police have diverted traffic from Mukarba and GTK Road and have asked commuters to avoid the Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and National Highway 44.“Singhu,Auchandi,Piau Maniyari, & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur,Safiabad Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Pl avoid Outer Ring Rd,GTK road & NH 44,” the police’s tweet said.The Chilla and Ghazipur borders for commuters travelling to and from Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad were closed in lieu of the farmers’ protest. Commuters were asked to take alternate routes for Delhi through Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders. The police had earlier in the morning suggested the same routes due to the closure of Ghazipur border.Also Read | Farm laws have not been introduced overnight, says PM Modi addressing Madhya Pradesh farmersPeople in Delhi have been facing traffic troubles while commuting to neighbouring states as thousands of farmers from all across India have been sitting on the Capital’s borders since the last 23 days. They have been protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September. Farmers believe the laws are for corporates and will leave them vulnerable, to be exploited by them. Even after extensive rounds of talks between the farmers’ leaders and the Centre, the deadlock over the issue continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-traffic-updates-one-side-of-chilla-border-opens-tikri-dhansa-and-others-closed/story-q1444FKp6FnL9qEdSdlLhK.html
18-12-2020||India||High Court issues notice to Delhi Police after AAP MLAs denied permission to protest||Delhi High Court on Friday issued notice to the city police over pleas filed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Raghav Chadha and Atishi who were denied permission by the department to protest outside the residences of Union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal over alleged misappropriation of funds by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC).The two AAP MLAs had moved the court on Thursday after they were denied permission by Delhi Police to stage a sit-in protest at each of the two sites against the alleged misappropriation, which amounts to over Rs 2,500 crore. Chadha and Atishi were among four leaders who were detained on December 13 after they tried to stage a protest outside Shah’s residence.Advocate Gautam Narayan, appearing for the Delhi Police, argued during the hearing on Friday that by an order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority ( DDMA) of September 30, all political activities are banned in the national capital. This order has been extended till December 31.Responding to this, the counsel for the AAP’s MLAs said they want to hold a peaceful protest with limited people for a limited period of time, without any tents or loudspeakers. On argument by the Delhi Police counsel that Jantar Mantar and Ramlila Maidan are the only two designated protest sites in the city, the MLAs’ counsel said, “with utmost respect,” the place where farmers are protesting is also not a designated place of protest.The AAP’s lawyer was referring to protests by farmers, most of whom are from Punjab, on the borders of Delhi which have going on for more than three weeks now against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September. This has emerged as yet another flashpoint between the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, and the AAP, with the Arvind Kejriwal-led party extending its support to the agitation. At a special session of the Delhi assembly on Thursday, Kejriwal and AAP MLAs had torn copies of the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-issues-notice-to-delhi-police-after-aap-mlas-denied-permission-to-protest/story-EYRRv4uuRKshLvhBv7fUmJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh’s mortal remains cremated in Karnal||Mortal remains of Sikh preacher Baba Ram Singh, who is believed to have taken his own life in support of farmers’ agitation against the three Central farm laws, were consigned to flames at Singhera village of Karnal district in Haryana on Friday.Thousands of his followers, including politicians, religious gurus, farmer leaders, especially from Punjab and Haryana, reached Singhera to pay their last tribute to the 65-years old preacher.Baba Ram Singh had reportedly died by suicide at Delhi’s Singhu border on Wednesday afternoon since he couldn’t bear “the pain of farmers” and government’s alleged insensitivity towards their concerns. Singh had left behind a note, which was read out along with some pages of his personal diary during the last rites. His followers claimed that Ram Singh was writing about the farmers’ unrest after he visited the protesters on December 9 for the first time.Akali leaders and a large number of his followers paid their last respects to him at his gurdwara in Karnal on Thursday.Also Read: Farm laws have not been introduced overnight, says PM Modi addressing Madhya Pradesh farmersHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar termed the 65-year-old preacher’s death as ‘an irreparable loss’. Khattar’s Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh also expressed grief over Sant Ram Singh’s death.A handwritten note in Punjabi, purportedly left behind by the deceased, said he was unable to bear the “pain of farmers” who have been protesting against the Centre’s agriculture reform laws. The note is being verified by the police.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other states have been protesting near Delhi’s borders for over three weeks, demanding that the Centre’s new farm laws be repealed.Many recalled that Sant Ram Singh dedicated his life to serving humanity and used to organise ‘satsangs’ (prayer meetings) and ‘langars’ (community kitchen) for thousands of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikh-preacher-baba-ram-singh-s-mortal-remains-cremated-in-karnal/story-Csdx79FfUC7i0FUKQAQpoK.html
18-12-2020||India||Will bow my head in front of farmers, will discuss every issue, says PM Modi||In an hour-long address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers and explained how the three farm laws against which several thousands of farmers are protesting for the last three weeks are a step towards making farmers’ lives better. The laws in question have not been passed in Parliament in hurry; there have been decades of discussions, PM Modi said beginning his speech. Towards the conclusion of his speech, PM Modi said the welfare of the farmers is the utmost priority of the government. Farmers should not believe the lies being spread over the new farm laws. “But still after all these, if our farmers have any concern, we will bow our heads in front of them and will listen to what they have to say. Their benefit is our utmost priority,” he said concluding his address.PM Modi says Oppn intentionally did not work on Swaminathan Commission recommendationsIn between, he slammed the opposition, debunked the rumours around the farm laws and compared his government’s agriculture report card with that of the previous government.“Farmers of India can’t be left behind while other countries are moving towards new technologies. Now, a lot of discussions are going on over farm laws. These should have been done long ago. And these have not been introduced overnight. Our farmers have been demanding these for decades. If today we see the past manifestoes of the political parties, we will find the same promises,” PM Modi said.Taking a swipe at the opposition parties for “misleading” farmers for gaining back the lost political ground, PM Modi said, “I don’t think they have a problem with the farm reforms. They have problems with the fact that what they promised and could not deliver has been now done by Modi. I am folding my hands in front of all political parties. Please, take all credit you want. I will give credit to the manifestoes of the political parties.”“When they were in power, they junked Swaminathan Commission report. We dug out the report and implemented the recommendations,” PM Modi said adding that Madhya Pradesh farmers are well aware of Congress’s false promises. “You know better as they had promised loan waiver to Madhya Pradesh farmers. But have all of you got that?” he said.Congress’s promise of farm loan waiver never includes small farmers who can’t even go to banks and loan waiver was only applicable to a few big farmers, PM Modi said.Reiterating the government’s commitment towards the MSP system, PM Modi said, “Had we actually wanted to do away with MSP, why would we implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission? The laws came into force few months ago. But MSP system is continuing. There can be no bigger lie, bigger conspiracy than this that we are abolishing MSP. This system will not end.”Comparing the minimum support prices on various crops between now and the previous government, PM Modi said, “The previous government used to give an MSP of Rs 1,400 per quintal of wheat and Rs 1,310 per quintal of paddy. Our government offers an MSP of Rs 1,975 per quintal of wheat and Rs 1,870 per quintal of paddy.”“If I start telling you what all our government has done for the welfare of farmers, I may run out of time. But I am quoting these figures so that you can understand the commitment of this government towards farmers,” PM Modi said.Debunking “lies” spread regarding agriculture laws, PM Modi said, “After MSP and APMC, the third greatest lie regarding laws is farming agreement. We are not doing anything new. What we did is we brought a provision for farmers’ security. We have made it sure that sponsors won’t be able to escape their responsibilities. So many cases are now coming up that farmers are approaching SDMs and are getting their dues. The agreement is only on the produce. The agreement is not for land.”“The agreement has provisions that if there is more benefit than that was agreed upon in the contract, farmers will get share of the additional benefit. And also it is on the farmers whether they want the contract or not. A farmer can also end the contract whenever he wants,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-have-not-been-introduced-overnight-says-pm-modi-addressing-madhya-pradesh-farmers/story-A08hwK5P5o4bvoNhVgr51H.html
18-12-2020||India||Digvijaya Singh, Kamal Nath regimes were the most corrupt: MP Home Minister||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Friday said that the Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath governments in the state were the most corrupt.“State governments that were under former Chief Ministers Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath’s regime were the most corrupt. Many reports had stated the same,” the Minister said at a press conference.Talking about the impact of Naxals in the state, he noted that during his tenure the activities of the group have reduced.“During Digvijaya Singh’s tenure, the Congress was unable to prevent attacks by Naxals. Such attacks had risen in their regime. We will not let any of their activities succeed. I appeal to all the citizens to not worry,” he added. Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ protest he said, “The tukde tukde gang is running campaigns only based on apprehensions. Firstly, they protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and now these farm laws. This gang will not succeed.”Speaking on the forthcoming West Bengal Assembly elections, he alleged, “Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is running coal mafias, drug mafias and poll mafias in the state. I hope she no longer remains the Chief Minister of the state.’He stated that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s government follows only the Constitution and nothing else.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digvijay-kamal-nath-regimes-were-the-most-corrupt-mp-home-minister/story-CjNmiPZQOAGjJNEyExD42M.html
18-12-2020||India||Walnuts - Making everyday healthy!||Might not be a normal Christmas this year but some things never change - endless amounts of tasty food and not to forget, the quintessential walnut plum Christmas cake. There’s nothing more festive than cracking open a box of walnuts with family and ensuring good health for them all. A handful of these nuts are packed with plant-based omega-3 fatty acid ALA,  protein and fibre - more than any other nut.  Walnuts are an easy choice with nutrients to support the heart, brain and gut and healthy immune system. Walnuts are loaded with nutrients and can be consumed daily to meet the necessary nutrition. California Walnuts’s campaign Making Everyday Healthy is here to make people aware about the myriad benefits that this wonder nutpossesses. With their combination of excellent nutrients, its no surprise that walnuts can make everyday healthy. They are an exceptionally nutritious nut and eating a handful of them daily is imperative for optimum health.Ishi Khosla, Nutritionist says, “Walnuts have a unique distinction of being rich in a valuable fat - the omega-3 fats. They also contain a number of potentially neuro-protective compounds like vitamin E, folate, melatonin, polyphenols and antioxidants. What’s interesting is that they delay ageing. Perhaps, it’s shaped like the brain is no coincidence.” Crunchy yet dense, and with a mildly sweet flavour, they add bite, creaminess and earthiness to both sweet and savoury dishes. Often eaten as a snack, chopped walnuts are also added to sweets, breakfast cereals, baked products, soups, pasta and salads to enhance their flavour.. Garima Bhandari, Yoga, wellness and fitness influencer and expert, says, “ It’s true, nuts play a role in the body’s healing and recovery owing to its protein content. Incorporating walnuts into meals and snacks is a simple, tasty and convenient way to add important nutrients to your diet.” Besides flavour and texture, walnuts offer a host of health benefits for the brain and heart and overall gut health of the body. Dr TS Kler, chairman, Fortis Memorial Research Institute and medical advisor, SeekMed, says, ”Walnuts have a unique type of acid called ellagic acid which gets converted by intrinsic enteric flora into compounds with antioxidant power, which may help reduce the risk of various cancers. They help in building resistance for insulin, control blood glucose levels and lower the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.”He adds, “Walnuts are rich in biotin, thereby, preventing hair fall, improving hair texture and strengthening them. Also, eating walnuts makes you feel full, which reduces appetite and helps with weight management.”The nut has been linked to a stronger immune system, a happier mood, increased energy, and other aspects of physical, mental and emotional well-being, sounds just like the superfood of this year. California Walnuts presents HT CITY Spotlight In conversation with Nutritionist, Ishi Khosla, cardiologist and chairman, Fortis Memorial Research Institute,medical advisor, SeekMed , Dr TS Kler and Yoga, wellness and fitness influencer and expert, Garima Bhandari. When: Today; Timing: 6pmLive on: https://www.facebook.com/hindustantimes/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ht-spotlight/walnuts-making-everyday-healthy/story-SpggGl207xAOqzGdUIjg5M.html
18-12-2020||India||‘No coercive steps against BJP leaders’: SC notice to Bengal govt, police||The Supreme Court on Friday protected BJP leaders Arjun Singh, Kailash Vijayvargiya, Pawan Singh, Mukul Roy and Saurav Singh from any coercive steps to be taken by the West Bengal Police in FIRs registered against them which are pending investigation. The 3-judge bench headed by Justice SK Kaul issued notice on petitions filed by the senior BJP leaders who claimed that false cases were being foisted on them in order to prevent them from entering the state ahead of assembly elections early next year. All the cases followed a similar pattern where criminal cases were lodged against most of these petitioners after they left the ruling Trinamool Congress and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. BJP leader Arjun Singh listed 64 criminal cases lodged against him in 2019 which were related to petty offences of breaking public order and causing injury. The apex court dealt separately with the case of Kabir Bose, who is the BJP spokesperson and who was earlier with TMC. He sought for a report from CISF against an incident where he was arrested as an accused in an attempt to murder case. Bose claimed that he was protected by CISF’s Special Security Group and thus called for the report submitted by CISF, SSG to the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Supreme Court directed the report to be placed before it in a sealed cover on the next date of hearing fixed in January. Senior Advocate Mukul Rohtagi appeared for the four BJP leaders including BJP vice president Kailash Vijayvargiya while senior counsel Mahesh Jethmalaani represented Kabir Bose. Except in Kabir Bose’s petition, in the rest of the matters the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, said, “Till the next date of hearing, no coercive steps in any cases should be registered against the petitioners.”The notice has been sent to the West Bengal government and the West Bengal police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coercive-steps-against-bjp-leaders-sc-notice-to-bengal-govt-police/story-2HGOLAtDvHBfUtSk0fCAyK.html
18-12-2020||India||China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in Delhi||Satellite imagery and communication intercepts along the 3,488 kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) shows that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is undertaking a significant road and building infrastructure upgrade across Karakoram Pass and Aksai Chin to ramp up military capacities and capability against India.It is quite evident from the surveillance data available to conclude that despite Beijing’s verbal commitments of mutual military disengagement and de-escalation from friction point on Ladakh LAC, the PLA has no intentions of troop or equipment withdrawal from the area.While the government is tight-lipped about the developments, the number of military vehicles and troop hutments have increased along the 597-km Ladakh LAC with a number of fresh dug-outs indicating that the PLA is prepared for a long haul with Indian Army.Indian officials said what was a matter of serious concern was that China has built an alternative 8-10 metre wide road to Karakoram Pass that would shorten the distance to the strategic gateway into Daulet Beg Oldi sector by two hours.Also Read: India, China to resume diplomatic talks on Friday over Ladakh disengagement“Nearly all the kutcha (unmetalled) roads have been surfaced in the Aksai Chin area with the axis being widened for bigger vehicles carrying heavy equipment,” said a senior military commander.The Chinese infra building activity has also increased in depth areas with a new logistics depot that will have an underground petroleum and oil storage facility coming up at Golmud. The new depot is nearly 1,000 km from the LAC but is linked to Lhasa via Tibet Railway. It will enhance the capacity and capability of the PLA to deploy in Tibetan border with India for a long time and feed the troops in case of a worst-case scenario.While there is continuous activity on Sikkim border, the new concern is the building of two new underground facilities at the Pang Ta air base across Arunachal Pradesh. The PLA uses underground tunnels inside mountains for housing aircraft rather than blast pens on the air bases. A similar tunnel park has been noticed at Lhasa Gonggar air base with an increase in the number of military aircraft.The 1962 Xinjiang military command town of Kangxiwar across Karakoram Pass and on the banks of Karakash River is being revived with a direct highway connectivity to Hotan, a critical air base of PLA Air Force for dominating the restive Uighurs and a launch pad of fighter operations in case of a worst case scenario in East Ladakh. Hotan is located 320 kilometres from the Ladakh LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-new-road-cuts-travel-time-to-karakoram-pass-raises-red-flags-in-delhi/story-Ye3F9fgGmLzQ1NgZLXsqeO.html
18-12-2020||India||Security-related issues may come before us in future, says Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said that with changing times, the nature of threats and wars is also changing, adding that in the future, more security-related issues may arise before India.Attending the Military Literature Festival-2020 via video conferencing, the Defence Minister said, “From another point of view, I find this event very important. With changing times, the nature of threats and wars is also changing. In the future, more security-related issues may come before us.”On the issue of military literature, the Defence Minister said, “I myself have been deeply interested in linking military literature with the common people. My wish is that future generations understand the history of our country, especially the border history.”“Soon after assuming office, I set up a committee. It is working towards bringing our border history and its associated wars, to the people in a simple way,” he added.Rajnath Singh further said, “The think-tanks associated with the Defense Ministry publish offline and online researches, journals and periodicals related to military, strategy, so that people interested in this subject can reach such materials.”Talking about the benefits of the festival, Defence Minister said, “Here people can get the information related to the Army through books. By communicating with the officers and jawans, one can get to know about army personnel’s experiences. One can also learn about their systems of work.”Speaking about the literature on nationalism, he said, “In our country, there is an old tradition of writing literature in the spirit of nationalism. Be it Hindi or Punjabi, or Gujarati, there have been writings in almost all languages that have awakened and developed a sense of love for country among people.” “In ancient times, there have been scholars like ‘Chanakya’ who have written about warfare, which is still relevant in many respects,” said Defense Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-related-issues-may-come-before-us-in-future-says-rajnath-singh/story-Rn6gVFpRSTP15oKjzMK02J.html
18-12-2020||India||Mercury dipped the lowest in these places in India||Winter is here with its cold chilly waves freezing north India. The national capital of Delhi has been recording severe dips in mercury since past few days and is projected to record colder days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The Capital is not alone in witnessing a massive drop in temperatures accompanied by chilly waves but most parts of North India including states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh are also witnessing severe winter waves.IMD head Kuldeep Srivastava has said that strong western disturbances caused widespread snowfall in the Western Himalayas with cold waves blowing towards the northern plains. IMD considers a cold day in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or lower and maximum is 4.5 degrees less than normal for two consecutive days.Met officials have said that the strong northwesterly winds will continue and sweep the rest of the northern plains under it till December 21. A bit increase in temperature is projected after December 21.Here are the coldest places in India as of today:1. Sikar in Rajasthan was the chilliest place with the minimum temperature of 0.5 degrees Celsius, while the night temperature in Mount Abu dipped to -1 degree Celsius.2. In Delhi, the lowest temperature was recorded in the Ridge area where the mercury dipped to 3.5 degrees Celsius.Also Read | Day temperatures likely to drop below normal today over Delhi, other parts of NW India3. In Haryana and Chandigarh, Narnaul was the chilliest with the minimum temperature of 2.6 degrees Celsius. 4. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded the minimum temperature of 4.2 degrees Celsius.5. Bareily in Uttar Pradesh recorded the lowest dip with 3.3 degrees Celsius minimum temperature.6. Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong was the coldest place on Thursday, shivering at minus 8 degrees Celsius, MeT Shimla centre director Manmohan Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dipped-the-lowest-in-these-places-in-india/story-gg8wvaMsX1KfZnUNQGKMUL.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: DMK, allies observe one-day fast in support of agitating farmers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.DMK, allies observe one-day fast in support of agitating farmersThe Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) led by MK Stalin and its allies on Friday observed a day-long fast in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm bills passed by the Centre in September. Read more Centre calls top Bengal officers again after state’s strong reactionThe Centre has once again summoned the chief secretary and director general of police of West Bengal to Delhi regarding the law-and-order situation in the state after they skipped the last meeting on December 14, officials said on Friday. Read more SC issues show-cause notices to Kunal Kamra, Rachita TanejaThe Supreme Court on Friday issued show-cause notices to stand up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja, on separate petitions seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against them for allegedly denigrating judiciary and judges. Read more Blatant interference, says Kejriwal on transfer of 3 IPS officers from BengalAam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Friday criticised the Central government’s decision to recall three IPS officers posted in West Bengal. Read more Brett Lee flies back home after Fresh Covid-19 outbreak in Sydney, Cricket Australia on high alertA fresh Covid-19 outbreak in Sydney sent Cricket Australia on high alert. The Sydney outbreak - the number of cases in the northern beaches outbreak in Sydney reached 28 on Friday. Read more Kareena Kapoor Khan flaunts baby bump in beautiful midi dress worth Rs 15kWe have lately been seeing a lot of impeccable maternity fashion and the original IT girl of Bollywood, Kareena Kapoor is to be thanked for that. The actor, during her second pregnancy, is making a statement with her sartorial choices and we cannot help but get inspired. Read more Watch: Swarnim Vijay Mashaal reaches Late Brig KP Pande’s home; family felicitated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dmk-allies-observe-one-day-fast-in-support-of-agitating-farmers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-w8i2Z1WqqF4WW04Z9dHY8L.html
18-12-2020||India||India, China resume diplomatic talks over Ladakh disengagement||India and China have resumed diplomatic dialogue on Friday, December 18, after a gap of nearly 11 weeks to resolve the ongoing border standoff in the Ladakh sector.Diplomats from both sides are holding a virtual meeting under the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs (WMCC) where they are likely to discuss disengagement of troops, thousands of whom have dug in on either side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in sub-zero conditions.The last WMCC meeting was held on September 30 – the 19th overall since the mechanism was set up in 2012 -- which had failed to take forward the negotiations focussed on troop disengagement.Confirming the Friday talks, diplomatic sources in Beijing said the focus of the negotiation will be on troop disengagement.Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in DelhiThe latest round of WMCC talks will coincide with a virtual address to be delivered by Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister, Wang Yi, at an online event organised by the Mumbai-based Asia Society Indian Centre.Wang is expected to talk on the ongoing crisis in Sino-India bilateral ties, triggered by the eight month-long military standoff.Between September 30 and now, the two sides have held military-level dialogues, which too failed to take the disengagement process forward.India on Thursday had called for further discussion with China to reach a “mutually acceptable solution” on complete disengagement at all friction points on the LAC.“It is our expectation that further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing.Also Read: India wants further talks with China for ‘mutually acceptable solution’ to LAC standoffAt the end of the last virtual WMCC meet on September 30, both the Indian statement and a readout in Mandarin from China’s foreign ministry said the two sides “positively evaluated” the outcome of the sixth military commanders’ meeting on September 21. “They emphasised the need to implement the steps outlined in the joint press release issued after the last meeting of the senior commanders so as to avoid misunderstandings and to maintain stability on the ground,” the Indian statement said. Also Read: Ready to help India defend itself, says Israel envoyThe two sides last held a military-to-military talk on November 6, an indication that neither side is willing to budge from their respective positions.A joint statement issued at the end of the 8th round of the China-India Corps Commander level meeting, held in Chushul, had said the “…two sides had a candid, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the LAC in the Western Sector of China-India border areas.”“Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, ensure their frontline troops to exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation,” the statement had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-resume-diplomatic-talks-on-friday-over-ladakh-disengagement/story-wP9cG7GKD1ogbmc795GeiK.html
18-12-2020||India||DMK, allies observe one-day fast in support of agitating farmers||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) led by MK Stalin and its allies on Friday observed a day-long fast in support of the farmers protesting against the three farm bills passed by the Centre in September. Stalin condemned the statement of the government that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals and said he supports the farmers. “The central government said that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals. We condemn it,” the DMK president said while addressing a gathering. “The central government led by the BJP have passed three laws against farmers. The farmers are protesting continuously for 23 days against it. We took the decision to support protesting farmers. As a part of it, we are doing fasting and protest today,” he said.’Also Read: Late to join but Khaps of western UP pledge a mega push to farmers’ protestThe leader also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and AIADMK of passing laws that were not in favour of the people and said the coronavirus pandemic was used as an excuse to pass the three farm laws in a hurry. “The central government is not thinking about farmers or people. The BJP and AIADMK governments pass laws against them. They use Covid-19 pandemic as an excuse and passed them in a hurry. Especially the three farm laws,” he told the gathering. “They don’t care for the people and only support and give subsidies to the corporates,” he said.“Everybody in India is in an agitative mode, particularly those in Delhi. They (the BJP) are doing drama in the name of discussion,” he said, adding that he welcomed all his party members and alliances to participate in the protest and observe a two-minute silence for the farmers who lost their lives in the protest.Also Read: Farmers in UP get Rs 50 lakh notice over protests, sum revised to 50,000Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 - that were passed in Parliament in September.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-allies-observe-one-day-fast-in-support-of-agitating-farmers/story-WfET1VVaYs563FCUNz6fNK.html
18-12-2020||India||Cases drop, Manipur to discontinue Covid testing of passengers flying into state||Manipur has decided to discontinue Covid-19 testing of incoming air passengers at the Imphal International Airport with effect from Friday, officials said.“However, thermal screening surveillance will be made more vigorous by increasing the number of screening counters at Imphal airport from one to four,” said principal secretary (health & family welfare) V Vumlunmang in an order on Thursday. “Covid testing will be done for any symptomatic persons .Further, any traveller with history of contact with a Covid positive person will be tested.”The state Covid task force took the decision during its meeting on December 14, the order said, adding that the percentage of air passengers testing positive for Covid-19 has reduced to about 1 % and targeted testing is not considered essential when the positivity rate is below 2 %.In another development, with Manipur’s Covid-19 active cases declining for the past couple of days, the state authority has decided to close down six Covid Care Centres (CCC) opened in five districts.The CCCs identified for closure are UNACCO and RD Wing in Imphal West district, Bal Bhavan in Imphal East district, Lamding Higher Secondary School in Thoubal district, Model Higher Secondary School in Noney district and Sadbhavna Mandap in Churachandpur district.The total number of Covid-19 active cases in Manipur fell below the 2,000 mark in the past two days, taking the state’s total active cases tally to 1,872.Chief minister N Biren wrote in a Facebook post on Thursday, “No. of Covid positive in the state is decreasing day by day, earlier it was above 3000/3300 but since 2/3 days, positive no has been decreased below 2000/.Thank God. My dear friends please follow SOP strictly and take more care. Let’s bring down to 0 (Nil).”As of Thursday, the state’s total number of Covid-19 cases is 27,454 while the total number of recovered cases is 25,250. The recovery rate of the state stands at 91.97%. There also have been 332 Covid-19 deaths in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-drop-manipur-to-discontinue-covid-testing-of-passengers-flying-into-state/story-DgigLr5C4spHDIunSIw2JJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Late to join but Khaps of western UP pledge a mega push to farmers’ protest||The ongoing farmers’ movement against the three Central farm laws is likely to intensify in western UP after the heads of Khaps or caste panchayats extended support to the agitation and decided to join the protests in large numbers in two weeks time after the current wheat-sowing season ends.On December 17, heads of these Khaps with several of their clansmen, marched to Delhi, where farmers from UP, Punjab, Haryana and other places are protesting against the laws and seeking their repeal.Subhash Baliyan, secretary of Sarv Khap, claimed that “hundreds of farmers accompanied the Khap heads in their march on Thursday and they held a mahapanchayat at Ghazipur border led by BKU chief Naresh Tilait, who is also the head of Baliyan Khap, with clansmen in 84 villages in Meerut region”, said Baliyan. Western UP has been known to be the cradle of farmer movements under the leadership of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) stalwart, the late Mahendra Singh Tikait. However, the region has been late to galvanise against the farm laws passed in Parliament earlier this year.Manvendra Verma, divisional coordinator of the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti, suggests the delay in extending support to the agitation in western UP was due to the farmers’ affinity for the BJP, especially after the Muzaffarnagar riots of 2013, which saw former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh’s son Ajit Singh and grandson Jayant Choudhary lose polls on their home turf of Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. “The BJP’s Hindutva card worked and farmers, mainly the Jats, voted for the party. Initially, it was difficult for farmer leaders and people of the region to accept that the BJP could bring laws against their interest. It took them time to rise to protect their interests as farmers,” Manvendra Verma said.Also Read: In a letter to farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar reiterates assurance on MSP BKU divisional general secretary Naresh Chaudhary said it took time for farmers to understand the disadvantages of the new laws. Now, more than 80% farmers and villagers were convinced that these laws were brought to benefit the corporate sectors, he added.Subhash Baliyan said that before convening a meeting of the heads of Khaps at the Sarv Khap Chaupal at Soram village in Muzaffarnagar district on December 14, he sent a request for the government to convene a high-level meeting with the Khap leaders. “We received no response and, after waiting for over a week, the meeting was convened at Soram,” said Baliyan.He said residents of 84 villages in the region owed their allegiance to the Baliyan and Deshwal Khaps. Similarly, 52 villages were loyal to the Gathwala Khap. Other Khaps also have their followers and clan members in different villages.“They will join the movement in large numbers after completing the sowing of wheat,” said the farmer leader.Currently, the farmers in the region were providing milk, vegetables and other essential items to the agitating farmers on the Delhi border.Chaudhary Diwakar Singh, national vice president of BKU (Bhanu), has been leading the protest in Amroha district since its beginning. He said western UP had a population of over 10 crore and sugar was the main industry of the region and farmers were busy reaping the sugarcane crop to clear farmland so that they could sow wheat.“Over 80% farmers of the region have small land holdings. They sow wheat only after harvesting sugarcane. The sowing of wheat would conclude in next two weeks and farmers (would) join the movement in big numbers thereafter,” Singh said.Meanwhile, farmers associated with BKU (Bhanu) blocked traffic on the Delhi-Noida border at Chilla on Wednesday. Its state president Yogesh Pratap blamed the government and a section of the media for misleading farmers by spreading fake news about their movement.“We cleared one lane for the convenience of commuters and misleading news was spread that we have withdrawn our movement,” said Pratap who has been on a hunger strike at the Chilla border since December 14. “I have given up food and am surviving only on water,” he said. He alleged the government was not allowing farmers to join the protest and their leaders were being placed under house arrest or taken to police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/late-to-join-but-khaps-of-western-up-pledge-a-mega-push-to-farmers-protest/story-Y1mkUy6rzA9KKNXwaE3HYL.html
18-12-2020||India||JP Nadda gives ‘6-point agenda’ to BJP cadres for Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has directed all its state units to actively take part in “Good Governance Day” to celebrate former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birthday on December 25.Party President JP Nadda has asked party leaders and cadres to perform six programmes on this occasion.The party has issued an advisory to all its state unit chiefs, state in-charges and all organisational leaders to actively take part and celebrate the late Prime Minister’s birth anniversary as “Good Governance Day”.The internal circular issued by BJP office in charge and General Secretary Arun Singh reads: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Union Ministers and senior leaders of the party will pay floral tributes at the Sadaiv Atal Samadhi of the late Prime Minister in Delhi.Circular issued by Singh carries six-point agenda item of programmes to be taken up by central to the booth level.Floral tribute along with the discussion about the life and mission of Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee should be organised at every booth, the advisory read. Webinars at the district level should be organised to discuss the achievement and welfare scheme of the Central government and BJP state government.Kavi Sammelan (Kavyanjali) through video conferencing to recite the poems of Atal Bihari Vajpayee should be organised. Blood donation camps and fruit distribution in hospitals and other social activities keeping in view the pandemic should be organized.Party has also asked its leaders to submit a report about these programmes to the central office. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-gives-6-point-agenda-to-bjp-cadres-for-atal-bihari-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary/story-oUuDkfUoPxruYxTRdAlycI.html
18-12-2020||India||Ensure that Suvendu Adhikari isn’t implicated in false cases: WB Governor urges Mamata||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has urged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take steps so that former TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, who recently deserted the party and is likely to join the BJP, is not implicated in false criminal cases. “Please take urgent note and all expected measures on the representation to me from former minister Suvendu Adhikari, seeking my intervention ‘so that police and administration apparatus in the state is dissuaded from implicating’ him and his associate followers ‘in criminal cases out of political motivation and vendetta’. Such apprehensions emanating from your one time associate for long, call for retrospective reflections and correctional therapy to uphold constitutional values and rule of law,” Dhankhar wrote to Banerjee on Thursday.Adhikari had submitted his resignation from MLA’s post on Wednesday and he quit the party the next day.The buzz is that he may join the BJP on Saturday at Union home minister Amit Shah’s rally. A few other TMC leaders close to Adhikari have also expressed their disgruntlement against the party’s top leadership. While a few have sent their resignations, some have warned of quitting the party. “The Governor can send multiple letters to the CM. But it is not right to upload each and everything on social media,” said minister and TMC spokesperson Tapas Roy. Dhankhar has uploaded both his letter to the CM and Adhikari’s letter to him on social media. Adhikari’s letter on Wednesday sought Dhankhar’s intervention as the constitutional head so that police don’t implicate him in politically motivated cases. “Surely political bonhomie with the ruling party or dispensation cannot be essential requisite for enjoying liberty and human rights, as is the situation presently,” Adhikari, who spent more than two decades with the TMC, wrote in his letter to Dhankhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-that-suvendu-adhikari-isn-t-implicated-in-false-cases-wb-governor-urges-mamata/story-TKzgLlEZOcZFGxJ7xYlrnM.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers in UP get Rs 50 lakh notice over protests, sum revised to 50,000||The Sambhal district administration in Uttar Pradesh has issued notices to six farmer leaders asking them to submit personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each, as a police report warned of breach of peace during the protest against the new farm laws, an official said on Thursday.The six farmers who were served notices include Bharatiya Kisan Union (Asli) district president Rajpal Singh Yadav and farmer leaders Jaiveer Singh, Brahmachari Yadav, Satendra Yadav, Raudas and Veer Singh. They have been organising protests in the district over the Centre’s three contentious farm legislations. “We’ve got a report from the Hayatnagar police station that some persons are inciting farmers and there can be breach of peace, and they should be asked to fill personal bonds of Rs 50 lakh each,” Subdivisional Magistrate Deependra Yadav said. The farmers said the amount was too much, following which the police station incharge gave another report and they were asked to submit personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each, according to Yadav. The notices have been issued under Section 111 ((magistrate order against any person who is likely to commit breach of peace) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the basis of a report submitted by police, the official said. “We’ll not fill the bonds come what may,” BKU (Asli) leader Rajpal Singh Yadav said. “They can hang us or send us to jail. We’re fighting for the rights of farmers.” BKU (Asli) division president Sanjeev Gandhi said none of them or their family members had signed on the bonds. “We’re doing peaceful protests, not any crime,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-up-get-rs-50-lakh-notice-over-protests-sum-revised-to-50-000/story-m3OWCH9xsPRul5xUu2cVIJ.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi to focus on this year, 2021 on his Mann Ki Baat on Dec 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will host this year’s last edition of Mann Ki Baat on December 27, on Friday asked for suggestions for his monthly radio programme. The Prime Minister tweeted to say that people can reach out to him on the MyGov website, NaMo mobile application or record their messages over the phone.“How would you sum up the year gone by? What do you look forward to the most in 2021? Share this, and more in the final #MannKiBaat of 2020 on 27th December. Write on MyGov, NaMo App or record your message on 1800-11-7800,” PM Modi tweeted.In the 71st edition of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi had said culture helps people overcome the trauma of a crisis and that it acts as emotional recharge. “This coincided with Heritage Week which provides the culture enthusiasts with an opportunity to look back into the past and discover the important phases of history. Despite the Covid-19 crisis, we saw people celebrating the Heritage Week in innovative ways,” he had said on November 29.Also read | ‘Sharing a good news’: PM Modi spotlights return of statue on Mann Ki BaatHe had also emphasised on strong, vibrant and active alumni network and urged educational institutions to adopt innovative methods and develop creative platforms for engagement with alumni. The Prime Minister had said that a strong vibrant and active alumni network is needed not only in big Colleges and Universities but also in schools of our villages.Before that, PM had on October 25 urged people to buy local products during the festival season, and talked about Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir which is emerging as a hub for making pencils. “Today, Pulwama is playing an important role in educating the entire nation. Today, if the students across the nation do their homework, prepare notes, it is because of the hard work of the people of Pulwama,” Prime Minister Modi had said.“Almost 90 per cent of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley. And Pulwama has a big share in that. At one time, we used to import the wood for pencils, but now, Pulwama is making the country self-reliant in this field,” he had said.Mann Ki Baat is the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme to the nation and is aired on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-focus-on-this-year-2021-on-his-mann-ki-baat-on-dec-27/story-MnY3WhMKjZUqXR4otIxqqK.html
18-12-2020||India||Case against Kangana Ranaut for ‘showing RLSP leader Kushwaha in bad light’ through re-tweet||The Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) has lodged two cases against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly portraying its national president and former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha in a bad light through a picture which she had retweeted. The cases have been lodged at Patna and Gaya civil court under different sections of IPC and IT Act.“The case against Ranaut has been lodged by our legal cell state president Awadh Bihari Singh in the court of CJM on Friday,” said RLSP national general secretary Fazal Imam Mallick. A similar case was lodged by a party worker at Gaya civil court on Thursday. The original tweet, which came from the Twitter handle of one YOYO Funny Singh, used Kushwaha’s election meeting photo and showed Kushwaha as Azad Kashmir while the other people, posing with him, were marked as Liberal, Jihadi, Urban Naxals and Khalistani. Ranaut re-tweeted it on December 3. “Ranaut’s tweet was re-tweeted by nearly 5,000 people; 6,000 people reacted to it and more than 37,000 people saw it. This has presented a wrong picture of our leader Kushwaha and is an attempt to spread hatred in the society and country,” alleged Mallick. Kushwaha also objected to the re-tweet and wondered whether such activities will help her get an entry in politics. He also tagged the Bihar and Maharashtra DGPs, requesting them to take strong action against all those involved in it. Mallick said though police of both Maharashtra and Bihar as well as Twitter India officials were aware of the matter, no cognizance had been taken in the matter. “We were left with no option but to lodge a complaint in this regard. The tweet shows her mindset and is an attempt to get cheap publicity,” said Mallick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-against-kangana-ranaut-for-showing-rlsp-leader-kushwaha-in-bad-light-through-re-tweet/story-z67aCbJ7hhOjQKeIfV7nlI.html
18-12-2020||India||Couple ties knot, hours after bride injures back in an accident in UP’s Prayagraj||Just hours after a woman injured her back in an accident, a couple tied a knot in a hospital in Prayagraj, on Thursday.After accidentally falling from a roof, the woman injured her spine and legs at her home. The bride’s parents believe that she got saved only by God’s grace. Speaking to ANI, Dr Sachin Singh, a doctor at the hospital said, “The woman had accidentally fallen from the roof due to which there was a minor injury in her spine. Her legs cannot move as of now. Since she was about to get married, we have given her permission to carry out the rituals. We have also advised her to avoid locomotion of the legs.”“It is beautiful to see the bride and the groom getting married despite the bride being bedridden.”Awdhesh, the groom says, “Whatever happened was destiny. I have decided to be with her and support her in times of trouble.”Aarti, the bride, says, “Initially, I felt a bit apprehensive. But, later, my husband told me he will be there for me even if I don’t recover. I felt happy knowing that.”The family members of the couple were seen offering their blessings to them at the hospital itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-ties-knot-hours-after-bride-injures-back-in-an-accident-in-up-s-prayagraj/story-gocWPYug023Mr2tfCq556J.html
18-12-2020||India||Mumbai: Passengers with tickets for long-distance train can travel by locals||Passengers with a confirmed ticket for a long-distance train can now travel to the boarding station by suburban locals in the Mumbai region, the railway authorities said on Thursday.Similarly, those arriving in the city by long-distance trains can also travel by local trains within six hours.Currently only certain categories of commuters, including those providing essential services, can travel by local trains in the Mumbai region after obtaining a special pass, in view of the coronavirus pandemic.As per a joint statement issued by the Central Railway and Western Railway, those with valid confirmed tickets for any outstation train will be allowed to buy a non-return local train ticket. They can travel by local train to the boarding point from anywhere in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region six hours before the time of departure.Similarly, passengers arriving in the city by outstation trains can also travel by local trains within six hours from the station where they get down.On December 15, the Maharashtra Government had proposed to the railways that outstation train passengers be allowed to travel on suburban locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-passengers-with-tickets-for-long-distance-train-can-travel-by-locals/story-iXFTPDzV1g2rI3IYD3HOKL.html
18-12-2020||India||Amit Shah’s two-day Bengal visit to be marked by road show, rally||With an eye on the crucial assembly polls, Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to camp in West Bengal over the next two days addressing a public rally, attending a road show, and having lunch with the family of a farmer and a baul singer. The buzz is that Suvendu Adhikari, former transport minister and heavyweight TMC politician, could also join the BJP at Shah’s rally in East Midnapore. A few other TMC leaders could also join the BJP. According to BJP leaders, Shah would be reaching Kolkata around 11.30pm on Friday. On Saturday, he is expected to address a rally in Midnapore, where Adhikari and a few other TMC leaders may join the party. On Sunday, Shah is likely to attend a road show in Birbhum district and visit Visva-Bharati university. Also read | Second setback: Jitendra Tiwari quits TMC ahead of Amit Shah’s visit; may join BJPThe Union home minister has set for the state unit the target of 200+ seats out of the 294 in the assembly. The BJP had won 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Earlier this month, when BJP’s national president JP Nadda visited the state, his convoy was attacked allegedly by some TMC supporters at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district, a TMC stronghold. Meanwhile, with Adhikari deserting the party, the TMC is planning to hold a rally in the former’s home turf at Contai in East Midnapore to show its strength and also boost the morale of ground level workers. Senior TMC legislators are expected to address the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-s-two-day-bengal-visit-to-be-marked-by-road-show-rally/story-hv2e3Qe9cCLl9DbHBntZQO.html
18-12-2020||India||Centre calls top Bengal officers again after state’s strong reaction||The Centre has once again summoned the chief secretary and director general of police of West Bengal to Delhi regarding the law-and-order situation in the state after they skipped the last meeting on December 14, officials said on Friday. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla sent a letter in this regard to West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and DGP Virendra on Thursday evening, they added.The meeting has been scheduled for 5pm, according to officials. The summons have come after an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda’s convoy earlier this month.Bandopadhyay had written to the Union home secretary earlier, saying he was directed to request to “dispense with the presence of the state officials” in the meeting in Delhi on December 14. In his two-page letter Bandopadhyay wrote, “While further reports are being obtained and compiled, in the circumstances, I am directed to request you to kindly dispense with the presence of the State officials in the meeting, considering that the State Government is already addressing this issue with utmost seriousness.”Also read | Top UP BJP leaders drafted for ‘Mission Bengal’ with key responsibilitiesHe added that incidents regarding Z-category protectees were already being examined and that the West Bengal police had provided a bulletproof car and a pilot to Nadda, along with the escort vehicle by the state government, personnel and personal security officers (PSOs) by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “While the central protectees had their own central protection arrangements, these arrangements were made over and above the same from the end of the State,” Bandopadhyay wrote.The cavalcade was attacked at Serakhol in Diamond Harbour, the Lok Sabha constituency of Abhishek Banerjee, who is chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew.Amid the tussle between the Centre and the eastern state, Union home minister Amit Shah is set to visit West Bengal for two days from December 19. Shah had visited Bengal last month - on November 4 - to formulate campaign strategy for the assembly polls due early next year and also took part in outreach programmes. The Union home minister condemned the attack on cars of several party leaders, including that of BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh which were part of the convoy. “The attack on BJP president JP Nadda is condemnable. No matter how much we condemn, it will not be enough. The Centre is taking this very seriously. The West Bengal government will be answerable to the peace-loving people of the state for this,” Shah tweeted in Hindi on Thursday.The Union home ministry has also asked state governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to submit a report on law and order situation in the state and steps taken by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government to maintain peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-calls-top-bengal-officers-again-after-state-s-strong-reaction/story-qbJtPRRZppk5SZFwotXtHI.html
18-12-2020||India||After Suvendu Adhikari and Jitendra Tiwari, TMC MLA Silbhadra Datta resigns from party||In yet another blow to West Bengal chief minister-Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of next year’s assembly elections, another MLA resigned from the party on Friday, news agency ANI has reported. Silbhadra Datta, TMC MLA from Barrackpore assebly constituency in North 24 Parganas, tendered his resignation from the party. West Bengal: TMC MLA Silbhadra Datta resigns from the partyDatta’s resignation comes just a day after another MLA, Jitendra Tiwari, resigned from the TMC. Also on Thursday, former minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari, too, had resigned from Banerjee’s party. The two are among a host of TMC leaders who are allegedly in touch with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and are likely to join it in the next few days. Adhikari, in fact, is expected to join the BJP on Saturday, when Union home minister and former BJP president Amit Shah visits the poll-bound state. In next year’s elections, the BJP is aiming at denying Banerjee a third consecutive term as the chief minister and, in process, form its maiden government in the state. As such, several top party leaders, including national president JP Nadda, state in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya, youth wing chief Tejaswi Surya etc. have campaigned in West Bengal in recent days. Nadda’s convoy was attacked last week, allegedly by TMC supporters; while Nadda was unharmed, Vijayvargiya sustained injuries which led to his security being upgraded.The incident has triggered a tussle between the Centre, where the BJP is in power, and the Banerjee-led West Bengal government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mla-silbhadra-datta-resigns-from-party/story-0sJwQO31iQcvGWbTTsn1UP.html
18-12-2020||India||Parliamentary panel questions Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra for failing to ensure women’s safety||The Parliamentary panel on home affairs on Thursday came down heavily on the Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu government for failing to ensure the safety of women in the state, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. “Questions were asked why the governments had failed to reduce the number of atrocities against women and children,” a person familiar with the matter said. “The panel also wanted to know why so little of the fund earmarked for the safety of women had been used so far.” Chaired by Congress MP Anand Sharma, the panel will convene again on Friday to adopt a report on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. The person mentioned above added that the Maharashtra government had failed to respond to the increase in the number of cases of missing women. The question, people familiar with the matter said, was raised by BJP MP Rakesh Sinha. “Sinha pointed out that the number of cases of missing women went up from 27,316 in 2016 to 33,964 in 2017,” said the person mentioned above. “This clearly shows that the police have failed to ensure women’s safety. These missing women are often trafficked within the country or abroad. The menace has to be stopped.” Also read | Row over Rahul Gandhi’s walkout from House panel meeting escalatesThe panel also emphasised that nearly 100,000 sex workers are illegally operating in Tamil Nadu, with 14,000 working out of Chennai alone. “Yet, barely any action has been taken,” the person mentioned above said. Concerns regarding women’s safety came to the fore again as the Covid-19 pandemic set in. The country saw an increase in the number of cases of domestic violence lodged with the National Commission for Women during the lockdown period. Reports also indicated that there had been a rise in the number of children trafficked during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-questions-tn-maharashtra-govts-on-women-s-safety-in-states/story-XkrUgEq4wyEtsk9erqZ7lI.html
18-12-2020||India||Harsimrat Kaur Badal slams Kejriwal for insulting farmers’ struggle with ‘cheap theatrics’||Former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for insulting the farmers’ struggle with “cheap theatrics by tearing copies of the farm laws” which he was among the first to notify in the country.In a statement here, Badal said the Delhi Chief Minister was known as a “dramabaaz” but this time he had indulged in unparalleled hypocrisy by tearing the same laws in the Vidhan Sabha which he had notified on November 23.Asking Kejriwal to have mercy on the farmers, she said it was strange that the Delhi CM had only suddenly discovered that farmers were sitting out in the open in cold wave conditions and that more than twenty farmers had passed away. “The Delhi chief minister is only shedding crocodile tears in a desperate bid to wipe away the blot he has put on his name by rushing to notify the farm laws on the directions of the central government. These dramas however will not help. Farmers know that Kejriwal and AAP have never supported their struggle and that Kejriwal has always danced to the tune of the central government”.The Bathinda lawmaker said asserted that it was not the first time that Kejriwal had tried to “befool” farmers. “Earlier also the Delhi Chief Minister first notified the hated farm laws secretly and when this fact came out in the open he tried to win the sympathy of farmers by going in for a farcical inspection of a few toilets near the Singhu border. This latest antics of tearing copies of the farm laws has also been done to save AAP’s sinking ship in Punjab where the party has been thoroughly discredited and become redundant. Such low-level tactics will not help. Punjabis have seen through AAP and will never trust the party every again”, she added. While tearing the copies of the three recently enacted farm laws in the special assembly session, Kejriwal on Thursday had accused BJP of bringing these laws to get funds for elections. “BJP has made the elections very costly in the last few years. The farm laws have been made by the BJP for getting funds for elections,” he had said.Hundreds of farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsimrat-kaur-badal-slams-kejriwal-for-insulting-farmers-struggle-with-cheap-theatrics/story-qvdYUIsha9pE5EtB8dvQCI.html
18-12-2020||India||Arvind Kejriwal slams Centre over transfer of IPS, calls it ‘assault on federalism’||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday slammed Centre over the transfer of IPS officers from West Bengal and said that it is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilize.Taking to micro-blogging site Twitter Delhi CM said “I condemn the Centre’s blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilize.”Earlier on December 12, in a move conveying its concern over the attack on BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy on December 10, the MHA had summoned three IPS officers, at the level of ADG, DIG and SP, from West Bengal to serve in the central deputation.Government sources had said that the three officers were called for central deputation for the alleged lapse in providing security to Nadda during his two-day visit to West Bengal.Sources said the Centre can call central services officers on central deputation and they may also face some serious disciplinary action for any lapses.They said the state has no role as cadre controlling authority of these IAS and IPS officers is the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) and MHA respectively.The convoy of Nadda was attacked on December 10 and several BJP leaders including Kailash Vijayvargiya were injured when protesters pelted stones at their vehicles at Diamond Harbour in West Bengal.The MHA had earlier summoned state Chief Secretary and Director General of Police (DGP) over the law and order situation in the state. However, the West Bengal government decided not to send them.The MHA had yet earlier sought a report from West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar over the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-slams-centre-over-transfer-of-ips-calls-it-assault-on-federalism/story-CxiLJR2c2Hs10oK07ayQNM.html
18-12-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally at 9.9 million, recoveries touch 9.5 million||With 22,889 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 338 fatalities in the last 24 hours, India’s infection tally has gone up to 9,979,447, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Friday morning. The country’s death toll had mounted to 144,789 and there are 313,831 active cases of the coronavirus disease so far.According to the health ministry’s data at 8am, 9,520,827 have recovered from the respiratory disease with 31,087 new discharges between Thursday and Friday morning across the country. The national recovery rate has improved slightly to 95.40% from 95.31% on Thursday. The gap between recovered and active cases has also been increasing consistently and stands at 9,206,996.“With focussed strategy and proactive as well as calibrated measures of the Union Government along with the States and UTs, India has sustained a very high Recovery Rate along with rapidly declining Active Cases and low mortality rate,” the health ministry had said on Thursday.Also read | Babies born to Covid-19 mothers have antibodies, Singapore study findsOn Thursday, of the 33,291 new recoveries, 75.63% were recorded by 10 states and Union territories. The health ministry’s data showed 5,728 patients recovering from Covid-19 in Kerala, making the southern state with the maximum number of recoveries. Maharashtra registered 3,887 daily recoveries and West Bengal registered 2,767 new recoveries.The ministry also said that India’s recovery rate is amongst the highest in the world. “While the global figure for Recovery Rate is 70.27%, India is recording 95.31%. USA, Brazil, Russia, and Italy are reporting lesser recovery rates,” it said.Also read | Oxford says Covid-19 vaccine has good immune response with 2-dose regimeOf the 24,010 daily cases on Thursday, 10 states and Union territories contributed 78.27% of the new cases. Kerala reported 6,185 cases, West Bengal 2,293 and Chhattisgarh registered 1,661 new cases on Thursday. The ministry data also showed that 79.15% of the 355 fatalities that were reported on Thursday morning were from 10 states and Union territories. Of these, 95 deaths were from Maharashtra, West Bengal saw a fatality count of 46 and Delhi reported 32 new deaths.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know today“India has registered a steady decline in the number of daily Deaths. The case fatality rate is sustained at 1.45% and is consistently decreasing. India’s Fatality rate is one of the lowest in the world,” the ministry said in its release.Meanwhile, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said15,89,18,646 samples tested for Covid-19 up to Thursday and of these 11,13,406 samples were tested on the same say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-at-9-9-million-recoveries-touch-9-5-million/story-MQ37bTh32NRvkEL42do9eI.html
18-12-2020||India||26 wild rusty-spotted kittens reunited with mothers across Maharashtra farms over 6 years||After numerous examples of leopard cubs being reunited with their mothers in the wild in Maharashtra, a team of researchers and wildlife rehabilitators managed to successfully reunite 26 rusty-spotted kittens with their mothers over a period of six years (2014-2019) in the Junnar forest division of the state.The achievements of the team, part of wild animal conservation group Wildlife SOS, were published in a research paper in the Journal of Threatened Taxa on December 14.This is the first report from India on multiple reunion efforts for this cat species. Prior to this, a report in 2007 was the only one that highlighted a natural reunion.All reunions were carried out with the Maharashtra forest department. “There is a large population of rusty-spotted cats across Junnar, Ambegaon and Shirur due to the favourable habitat for these species home to sufficient water and hiding places in sugarcane fields. In 2020, we rescued and reunited three such kittens with their mothers,” said JR Gowda, deputy conservator of forest, Junnar.Authors of the study included wildlife veterinarians and researchers Ajay Deshmukh, Yaduraj Khadpekar, Mahendra Dhore, and MV Baijuraj, some of whom have spent almost two decades in leopard conservation and conflict management in Junnar.Endemic to India, Sri Lanka and areas along the Indo-Nepal border, the rusty-spotted cats are the smallest cat species in the world protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and listed as near threatened by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. With no specific conservation action plan for the habitat of these cats in India or an official census, IUCN estimates a 75% decline in their habitat over the next 10 years.Kittens are generally separated from their mothers during the night considering their nocturnal activity pattern, during sugarcane cutting, their mothers stray in search of food or human disturbances. All kittens were examined for injuries followed by a medical check before the reunion process.The study concluded that such reunion protocols could be replicated for kittens or cubs of other wild cat species. “The rusty-spotted cat is very rare to spot in the wild and is a hidden jewel in Indian biodiversity. We have had the opportunity to successfully rescue and reunite these kittens with their mothers and have utilised the same reunion model that we follow for reuniting leopards cubs with their mothers,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder, Wildlife SOS.All 26 kittens found in sugarcane fields, aged between 30 and 60 days, were reunited through 18 reunion events with three cases reported every year from 2014 to 2019 during early summer or early winter months of the sugarcane harvesting season. “Locals from these areas are aware about these cats and how they are different from domestic ones. We are ensuring their protection with the help of around 300 village volunteers across Junnar, Ambegaon and Shirur that inform the forest department after any sighting,” said Gowda, adding that a population estimation exercise had not yet been planned.The key to successfully reuniting the mother and kittens is to ensure it is done as quickly as possible after separation, the paper read. “All reunions happened on the evening of the same day as the mother cats were in the vicinity where the kittens were found, and presumably returned on hearing the kittens’ mewing sounds,” one of the authors said.Among all the reunion efforts, the maximum time gap between finding a kitten and taking it back for reunion, was around six hours and 45 minutes. After the kittens were brought to the location for the reunion, the minimum time for completion of a reunion was an hour and five minutes, while the maximum was four hours and 20 minutes. No kitten was lost to predation. If a reunion fails, the displaced young animal is either moved to zoological park or a rescue centre where it is hand-raised in captivity. For example, in September, two three-week-old rusty spotted kittens, a male and a female, were brought to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai after a failed reunion with their mother at Daund, Pune. SGNP presently has five rusty spotted cats. These cats have a lifespan of 12 to 14 years in captivity but their lifespan in the wild is unknown.Independent experts have appreciated the reunion efforts and their parallel documentation over six years. “This is also an example of identifying these species abundantly present in croplands and not forests due to the presence of rodents as their prey. This shows how adaptable these species are, and also calls for focused research in these areas,” said Vidya Athreya, wildlife biologist with the Wildlife Conservation Society-India.The world’s smallest catIts common name is rusty-spotted cat and scientific name is Prionailurus rubiginosus. It resembles a domestic cat but is smaller in size with the average weight of 1kg. In India, it is under severe threat and it is feared that the species may lose a large portion of its population and 75% of its current habitat over the next 10 years. In India, it is found in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu-Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-wild-rusty-spotted-kittens-reunited-with-mothers-across-maharashtra-farms-over-6-years/story-LSvXVhJYm3DA67p6mk5tMN.html
18-12-2020||India||Odisha seeks forced retirement of top forest officer with over 400% unaccounted wealth||In its first ever recommendation of compulsory retirement for an all-India service officer, the Odisha government has recommended the Centre for the compulsory retirement of 1987-batch IFS officer Abhay Kant Pathak, who is accused of amassing disproportionate assets worth several crores, terming him ‘very corrupt and high-flying’.Pathak, who served as the additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), plan, program and afforestation, would have become the next principal chief conservator of forests of Odisha in June next year as per his seniority.However, it all changed when the vigilance officials raided his residence and other premises last month to find he had amassed disproportionate assets worth Rs 9.35 crore, which was 435 % of his total income. The vigilance department also found cash deposits worth Rs 17 crore in the bank accounts of his engineering graduate son Akash Pathak, who is also behind bars for impersonation, forgery and cheating of youths with the promise of jobs in Tata Motors.A case under several sections of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018, has been registered against both Pathak and his son, Akash.“Pathak was making cash deposits of his ill-gotten wealth in his son Akash Pathak’s bank accounts and further helping his son in fraudulently posing as MD of Tata Motors,” stated the CM in his recommendation letter to the centre.In September last year, the Naveen Patnaik government had issued a circular saying the service records of employees who reach 50 years of age will be reviewed and premature retirement order will be handed out to employees if he/she is clearly lacking in integrity. Since then dozens of state government employees have been handed out premature retirement, but this is the first time a central government official would be given such a punishment. Pathak would however get pension if he is handed out compulsory retirement after Centre’s approval.Also Read: Maoists, opposing road construction in Odisha, kill contractorDuring lockdown when regular commercial flights were not allowed, the father-son duo along with former BJD minister Pradeep Panigrahy, junior Pathak’s prospective father-in-law, took 14 chartered flights to various cities in the country. They also stayed in star hotels at least 15 times this year with room rents going beyond Rs 2.3 lakh per day. Akash Pathak, who posed as the managing director of Tata Motors passengers division, reportedly defrauded more than a hundred youths promising them jobs in the company where he never worked. Though he kept insisting that he worked in Tata Motors, two days ago he finally confessed the truth to CID officials.The biggest-ever disproportionate assets case in Odisha has come at a time when the Naveen Patnaik government is stressing on accountability in government works through a fancy slogan of 5T( Teamwork, Transparency, Technology leading to Transformation in Time). It also started the Mo Sarkar programme on Gandhi Jayanti last year to bridge the trust deficit between government officials and common people due to large-scale corruption in government offices over the last decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-seeks-forced-retirement-of-top-forest-officer-with-over-400-unaccounted-wealth/story-svMF9SbLUsUTvD1AA4tmcN.html
18-12-2020||India||J-K DDC polls: Shahnawaz Hussain holds ‘successful’ rally after terrorists attack in Bijbehara||BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain on Thursday held a rally in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag where terrorists lobbed a grenade on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel amid the ongoing District District Council (DDC) polls in the Union Territory.Hussain’s rally was in the run-up to DDC elections which will conclude on November 19. Taking to Twitter, the former Union Minister said that attack will not reduce the passion and commitment of Jammu and Kashmir BJP workers.On Thursday, a CRPF personnel sustained injuries after terrorists lobbed a grenade in the Bijbehara town.“Today, while going to address a rally at Bijbehara, terrorists in their frustration attacked RoP Jawans of CRPF with grenades on the way. Everybody is fine and this attack will not reduce the passion and commitment of Jammu and Kashmir BJP karyakartas,” he tweeted.He stated that the terrorists are so afraid of the democratic process and Kashmiri participation that they attacked at two locations -- Bijbehara and Avantipora. “However, Kashmiris have made up their mind and are totally with development policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji,” Hussain said in another tweet.The BJP national Spokesperson called his rally a “great success”. “Inspite of the attack, the rally at Bijbehara, which is the home town of Mehbooba Mufti was a great success and Kashmiris attended the rally in huge numbers,” Hussain tweeted.“Mehbooba Mufti used to say that after abrogation of Art 370 no one would hold the Tiranga in the Valley. But today, in the home town of Mehbooba Mufti, not just me but everyone in the rally proudly held the Tiranga,” he said.Elections for the DDCs, which are being held in eight phases, will conclude on December 19 and the counting of votes be held on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-ddc-polls-shahnawaz-hussain-holds-successful-rally-after-terrorists-attack-in-bijbehara/story-UScASqDbViJIw7yxuTHRfK.html
18-12-2020||India||Sikar coldest in Rajasthan, records minimum of 0.5 deg C||Chilly northerly winds from the Himalayas brought down the mercury in Rajasthan, the night temperature dipped to -1 degree Celsius (C) in Mount Abu, whereas in plains, Sikar was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum of 0.5 degrees C. Meteorological department director Radhey Shyam said under the impact of northerly winds, several areas in north and north-west would reel under cold wave and the same cold conditions would continue to prevail for the next three days. He said districts of Shri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Churu, Alwar, Bharatpur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Bundi will face cold wave/severe cold wave or cold day. After December 21, the temperatures are likely to increase by a few notches, he added. Churu and Pilani shivered at 2.2 and 2.5 degrees C respectively. Temperatures were higher in Jaislamer (5.2 degrees C), Alwar (6.6 degrees C), Jodhpur (7.1 degrees C), Barmer (7.5 degrees C), Kota (8.1 degrees C), and Jaipur (8.4 degrees C) respectively. Meanwhile, an earthquake of the medium intensity of magnitude 4.2 hit Alwar district of Rajasthan on Thursday at 11.46 pm. No casualty or damage to property was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikar-coldest-in-rajasthan-records-minimum-of-0-5-deg-c/story-VrNrguVWyImF033RdZSUkM.html
18-12-2020||India||Lord Ram the key theme as Chhattisgarh’s Congress govt celebrates two years in office||Amid tribal protests in Bastar, the Bhupesh Baghel government in Chhattisgarh marked its two years in office with a four-day bike rally and a Rath Yatra that ended on Thursday. Interestingly, the event culminated in Raipur’s Chankhuri town, the birthplace of Lord Ram’s mother Kaushalya, amid allegations that the Congress was politicising the deity.The government started Paryatan Rath Yatra and a bike rally on December 14 from Sitamarhi-Harchaika in Koriya district in north of the state and Ramaram in Sukma district, covering a distance of 1,575 kilometers.“Lord Ram spent most of his time in Chhattisgarh and hence, we have decided to develop those places...It is part of our culture and identity and people of the world should know this,” said Baghel, addressing the event in Chankhuri. “ … Nowadays, people who want to collect money and votes also take the name of Lord Ram... No one can teach us about Lord Ram, He is of the poor and farmers,” said Baghel. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the party was dividing Lord Ram for political gains. “The Congress is dividing Ram as ours and theirs for political gains. It is the same Congress which rejected the presence of Lord Ram. It is a welcome move that now, they have accepted that they cannot move ahead without Lord Ram’s blessings,” state BJP president Vishnu Deo Sai said.In August this year, the state government had launched an ambitious Ram Van Gaman tourist circuit project in the state in which nine sites were selected for the first phase.The sites are: Sitamarhi-Harchaika (Koriya), Ramgarh (Ambikapur), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Baloda Bazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariaband), Sihawa-Saptarishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar) and Ramaram (Sukma).The December 14 rally was organised to collect soil from these cities for the plantation work in Chankhuri town to mark two years of Congress government.The rally was opposed by tribal leaders in Sukma and Kanker district of Bastar region, who claimed that the development of these under the Ram Van Gaman project was against their customs.“Bastar comes under PESA hence no one can collect soil or anything without the permission of locals. Secondly, the development of these sites will encourage the entry of outsiders who will, over time, dominate tribal culture. We don’t want anyone to interfere with our customs and culture,” said Sohan Potai, former Member of Parliament and leader of Sarv Adivasi Samaj, Kanker district.Responding to the allegations, chief minister’s advisor Vinod Verma said, “There is some misinformation.. We are developing the places which are already there and trying to encourage tourism in the area. Secondly, there are ancient Hindu temples in Bastar which suggest that Hinduism isn’t new to the region... Both Hindu and tribal culture have existed for ages.” Political commentators said that Congress is trying to project Lord Ram as a religious symbol to connect with the majority. “Besides being a religious symbol to help the Congress present a majority-friendly face, Ram has become a sort of economic exigency for the fund-starved government in Chhattisgarh. The state has got more landmarks and mythological footprints of Ram and other characters from Ramayan than any other state,” said Parivesh Mishra, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.Mishra added that the prospects of religious tourism makes economic sense for Chhattisgarh. “The subject has the potential of becoming the USP (Unique Selling Proposition) for tourism. It is not a coincidence that Dandakaranya forest -- where Ram is believed to have spent most of his time during the 14-year exile -- is the core area of Maoist activities. The development of tourism will perhaps be the most non-intrusive vehicle of development in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-the-key-theme-as-chhattisgarh-s-congress-govt-celebrates-two-years-in-office/story-tNKgWoqrmtWEpyDsT3b6wI.html
18-12-2020||India||Top UP BJP leaders drafted for ‘Mission Bengal’ with key responsibilities||Senior BJP leaders in the Uttar Pradesh government and the party unit have been tasked with preparing the ground for the party’s ‘Mission Bengal’ ahead of the 2021 WB assembly elections, when the BJP is hoping to unseat the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and party’s UP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal would be in West Bengal this weekend where they, along with other leaders from various states, are expected to be given key tasks.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, is expected to visit WB. The BJP, having re-elected Dilip Ghosh as Bengal party chief, is aiming to ready a booth-level party structure to bolster its electoral strategy, party leaders said.“While BJP party leaders from across the country would be tasked with ‘Mission Bengal’, it’s in UP where the BJP successfully engaged with two influential caste groups, Dalits and OBCs, ahead of the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as well as before 2017 UP polls. In West Bengal, too, the BJP is attempting to connect with fishermen and Matuas, a Dalit refugee group with origins in Bangladesh and whose influence is spread over 50 assembly seats in the state,” said a party leader, who didn’t wish to be named. Maurya, an OBC leader, is likely to visit at least 30 assembly segments in West Bengal, including key regions like Howrah, Serampore, Arambagh and Uluberia.Leaders from Uttar Pradesh handling political assignments in the crucial eastern state are expected to report to BJP chief JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah and senior RSS leader, currently in the BJP, BL Santosh, party leaders said.Also Read: BJP, GNLF join hands for Bengal polls During his visit this month, Union home minister Amit Shah had set a target for BJP winning 200 of the 294 assembly seats in the Mamata Banerjee ruled state. Shah will visit Bengal again over the weekend.“It’s not at all an ambitious target. In the 2019 LS polls in West Bengal, we won 40% of the vote share, against 43% of the TMC, and bagged 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats (against TMC’s 22 seats) in the state. Now, several leaders of the ruling TMC have joined us,” said UP BJP spokesman Navin Srivastava.Also Read:EC team in West Bengal to oversee poll preparedness; officials to set off for Tamil Nadu next weekHe went on to say that, and TMC was rattled by BJP’s growing popularity which was evidenced in the violent attacks on party leaders and cadre.“But, this time, the writing on the wall is clear. We will create history in WB now,” Srivastava added.Union minister and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Balyan, a Jat (OBC) leader, is also expected to visit West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-up-bjp-leaders-drafted-for-mission-bengal-with-key-responsibilities/story-qQzMTQzU8PO8G12tN7250I.html
18-12-2020||India||World Arabic Language Day: Theme, significance, history||The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) observes December 18 as the World Arabic Language Day every year, honouring a language that is spoken by more than 290 million people around the world. World Arabic Language Day commemorates the role Arabic played in promoting the dissemination of the sciences and philosophies of ancient civilisations such as the Greeks and the Romans, and in giving birth to the European Renaissance.Arabic is a strongly pronounced language, which manifests in particular in the 15th letter of its alphabet Ḍād. The sound does not exist in any other language around the world and this is why Arabic is called the language of Ḍād. The language of the Quran, Arabic does not only hold a symbolic value among Muslims but is spoken in many churches in the Arab world. A significant part of Jewish history was also originally written in Arabic.The event was established by Unesco in 2010 seeking “to celebrate multilingualism and cultural diversity as well as to promote equal use of all six of its official working languages throughout the organization”. Unesco has celebrated the day since 2012. December 18 was chosen as the date coincides with the United Nations General Assembly’s decision in 1973 to adopt Arabic as the organization’s sixth official language.This year the theme of World Arabic Language Day is “Arabic Language Academies: Necessity of Luxury?” Audrey Azoulay, Unesco’s director general, will deliver a message on the international day describing Arabic as a “bridge between cultures and across borders,” according to an official statement. Unesco has also expressed its concern about the gradual decline of the use of Arabic in the academic field against global languages such as French and English, prompting the organization to call on academies to preserve the language.In order to address the issue and celebrate World Arabic Language Day, Unesco will organise a webinar meeting with academics and professionals in the Arabic language to discuss the role of academic figures in preserving the language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-arabic-language-day-theme-significance-history/story-4aTQ5BJe7IXHpsaG9B9DdO.html
18-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Unity sphere’, tech dome in New India garden plan under the Central Vista project and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Unity sphere’, tech dome in New India garden planThe New India Garden or Nav Bharat Udyan proposed to be built on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of Centre’s plan to extend the Central Vista axis from India Gate till the river will house a “sunflower plaza”, a “Growth Plaza” representing all states and UTs of India. Read moreDay temperatures likely to drop below normal today over Delhi, other parts of NW IndiaThe temperature at 6.10am today was around 4.5 degrees Celsius (C) at Safdarjung station. The minimum temperature data for today will be updated by India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 9am. Read morePM Modi to address MP farmers today amid protests against farm lawsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will speak about the “beneficial provisions” of the new farm laws in his address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh as part of a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan on Friday. Read moreVirat Kohli lost his momentum as Cheteshwar Pujara was caught at one end: Brad Haddin after Day 1 of India vs Australia first TestIndia finished the opening day of the first Test against Australia in Adelaide on 233/6 and although at stumps, the match was even-sided, it could have remained titled in India’s way had it not been for the run out of Virat Kohli. Read moreVarun Dhawan says he was ‘rejected’ by girlfriend Natasha Dalal 3-4 times: ‘I didn’t give up hope’Actor Varun Dhawan and his girlfriend, fashion designer Natasha Dalal, met in the sixth grade but their friendship did not immediately translate into love. In fact, she ‘rejected’ him multiple times before they got into a relationship. Read moreNokia phones aren’t the only affordable ones with Zeiss cameras anymoreUntil now we have all have been associating Zeiss lenses with Nokia-branded smartphone cameras. But that exclusivity was long gone when the optics firm joined hands with Sony earlier this year. Read moreMan sings to bird in a heartfelt voice, it ‘joins’ inA video of a man singing a song to a bird perched on a car has now left netizens emotional. It’s the heartfelt voice of the singer which has earned him applauds from people. Read moreNCB asks Karan Johar to explain 2019’s viral video of party, issues noticeNCB issued a notice to filmmaker Karan Johar seeking details of his parties. As per reports, no date for summon has been mentioned in the note. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-unity-sphere-tech-dome-in-new-india-garden-plan-under-the-central-vista-project-and-all-the-latest-news/story-WRZfWMuUaVfOXT8PhQww7K.html
18-12-2020||India||12 mild earthquakes since June, Delhi feels tremors again||A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.2 on the Richter scale hit several parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Thursday night, prompting people to rush out of their homes. Strong tremors were felt in Delhi and surrounding areas for several seconds. The earthquake struck at 11:46pm at a depth of 7.5km from the surface. There was no report of any damage to life or property as earthquakes of magnitude four or below hardly cause any damage.The epicentre of the earthquake was Haryana’s Rewari, according to India’s National Center for Seismology(NCS). “Earthquake tremors in Delhi NCR. Tremors felt in Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad. As per the National Centre for Seismology, the epicentre was suggested to be 48 kilometres southwest of Gurugram,” Skymet Weather tweeted. As per the National Centre for Seismology, the epicentre was suggested to be 48 kilometres southwest of #Gurugram.The #earthquake measured 4.2 on the Richter scale https://t.co/VwHjewLsqiDelhi, which lies close to a faultline, is susceptible to big earthquakes, geologists say. The city falls in seismic zone IV - a very high-risk zone.In June, an earthquake of magnitude 2.1 was detected near Delhi. It was the eleventh minor earthquake recorded in and around Delhi since May. On 15 May, a quake of magnitude 2.2 on the Richter Scale hit 13km NW of New Delhi. On May 10 a magnitude 3.4 earthquake shook the national capital, epicentre in Wazirpur area of NCR, which was the strongest this year until the earthquake reported on Thursday. On April 12 and 13 also there were quakes of magnitudes 3.5 and 2.7 respectively in Delhi region.These recent earthquakes have triggered discussions on the possibility of increased seismicity around Delhi, and fears of an impending big earthquake sometime soon. None of these apprehensions has any scientific basis as rarely has Delhi been the epicentre of any earthquake. Delhi experiences tremors even when an earthquake occurs as far as in Central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, that are seismically the most active regions and because of large population and high density, an earthquake in Delhi sets an alarm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-mild-earthquakes-since-june-delhi-feels-strong-tremors-again/story-sm0uCBJKRYfHzQCHgDdTcL.html
18-12-2020||India||EC team in West Bengal to oversee poll preparedness; officials to set off for Tamil Nadu next week||The Election Commission of India (EC) has begun poll preparation for assembly elections in April-May next year. While senior officials of the poll body are already in West Bengal,a team would visit Tamil Nadu next week, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. Deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain is already in Kolkata and EC secretary general Umesh Sinha and deputy election commissioner Ashish Kundra will leave for Chennai next week. They will assess the preparedness of the states, which are among the five that will go to polls next year. The other states where elections are scheduled are Kerala and Assam, and the Union Territory of Puducherry.The officials will conduct consultations with various stakeholders, including meetings with all state level EC officials who will be briefing the poll panel on the preparations. After the success in conducting the elections to the 243-member assembly in Bihar amid the Covid-19 pandemic, election commissioner Sushil Chandra had told Hindustan Times that the other five poll bound states would vote on schedule. The EC may issue similar guidelines as it had for the Bihar elections, if need be. Also read | Will join hands with Rajinikanth if our ideologies match, says Kamal HaasanThe poll bound states are likely to see a heated battle, with BJP campaigning in full swing in Bengal. On Tuesday, a BJP delegation met chief election commissioner Sunil Arora to apprise him with the recent attack on the convoy of party president JP Nadda. The party has taken on the Mamta Banerjee-led government, in what promises to be a high-pitched political contest. In Tamil Nadu, the latest entrant into the political fray is actor Rajinikanth, who has announced that his party will contest all 234 seats. The BJP and AIADMK are yet to finalise their alliance and negotiations between the Congress and DMK are also underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-team-in-west-bengal-to-oversee-poll-preparedness-officials-to-set-off-for-tamil-nadu-next-week/story-fg3yxLCvXtPwOwWTjxCi8M.html
18-12-2020||India||Day temperatures likely to drop below normal today over Delhi, other parts of NW India||The temperature at 6.10am today was around 4.5 degrees Celsius (C) at Safdarjung station. The minimum temperature data for today will be updated by India Meteorological Department (IMD) at 9am.There is a wind speed of 11 kmph. Though cold wave conditions haven’t been recorded, day temperature is likely to be below normal today.Both cold day and cold wave conditions are likely to persist over pockets of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan and Delhi for the next two days. The minimum temperature is likely to rise by 2-3 degrees C after that and 5-6 degrees C in maximum temperatures during the subsequent three days, according to IMD.Minimum temperature is likely to fall by 3-5 degrees C over East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh and by 4-6 degrees C over east India during the next three days. Most parts of the western region are likely to record a fall in minimum temperature by 2 to 3 degrees C.Dense fog is likely over pockets of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during the next three days.On Thursday, the day temperature fell to only 15.2 degrees C, 7 degrees below normal, categorised as a severe cold day by IMD. Minimum temperature recorded on Thursday around 8.30am was 4.6 degree C, 4 degrees below normal. The gap between maximum and minimum temperature on Thursday was only around 10 degrees C. Thursday was the fourth consecutive cold or severe cold day in Delhi.According to IMD, a cold day or severe cold day is considered based on two parameters—a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees C and maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees C or 6.4 degree C below normal respectively.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next three days and decrease thereafter, according to IMD’s bulletin. Cold day to severe cold day conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, north Rajasthan and northwest Uttar Pradesh during the next two days and decrease thereafter. Dense fog is likely in some pockets over Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during the next three days.The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi is in poor category at 293 bordering on very poor. It is likely to start deteriorating marginally from today but remain largely in poor to very poor category, according to air quality early warning system for Delhi under ministry of earth sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-temperatures-likely-to-drop-below-normal-today-over-delhi-other-parts-of-nw-india/story-B9JiSlAB7gUhs9f3rAyw3H.html
18-12-2020||India||BKU chief Naresh Tikait asks Centre to call all party meet to resolve farmers’ stir||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief and head of Baliyan Khap Naresh Tikait advised the Union government on Thursday to resolve the issue of farmers’ stir over three farm laws by calling an all party meeting. Tikait was interacting with mediapersons after a meeting with khap heads in Baraut area of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. He later left for Delhi to attend the BKU’s Mahapanchayat at Ghazipur border on Thursday. Tikait said that the government should resolve the issue of protests over the farm laws through dialogue instead of adopting a stiff attitude. He added that since six rounds of talks between farmers and the government had yielded no results, the government should call an all party meeting to resolve the impasse. The farmer leader accused the government of a stubborn attitude while farmers were braving acute cold under the open skies since the past 21 days. He said that the government wanted a confrontation between different groups of farmers. “They are farmers who want a solution for their problems, not confrontation, either with the government or with each other,” he said and explained that the farmers might be associated with different organizations but they had a common goal. Tikait’s comments come at a time when Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has reached out to protesting farmers with an open letter, saying a “misunderstanding” has been created among some farmer unions and “white lies” are being spread on the issue of minimum support price for crops.Also Read: ‘Talk to each other’: Supreme Court allows farmers protest to go onProtesting farmers fear the new farm laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the ‘mercy’ of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.Hundreds of farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-chief-naresh-tikait-asks-centre-to-call-all-party-meet-to-resolve-farmers-stir/story-yW0YTTuRQTLQXJFZIDQd8I.html
18-12-2020||India||Supreme Court to decide on contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra today: All you need to know||The Supreme Court will on Friday pronounce its order over a clutch of petitions seeking initiation of contempt of court proceedings against stand-up comic Kunal Kamra for his tweets “mocking” the top court and, especially Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justice DY Chandrachud. A three-judge bench, comprising justice Ashok Bhushan, justice RS Reddy and justice MR Shah, had reserved its order on Thursday.Here’s all you need to know about the case:1. The controversy pertains to Kamra posting a series of tweets on November 11 after a two-judge bench, comprising justice Chandrachud and justice Indira Banerjee, granted interim bail to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in a 2018 alleged abetment to suicide case.Also Read | Will Kunal Kamra face contempt proceedings for his tweets? Supreme Court to decide tomorrow2. The same day, law student Skand Bajpai wrote to Attorney General KK Venugopal, seeking his consent that contempt proceedings be initiated against Kamra. In a tweet on November 12, Bajpai posted on Twitter a letter from AG, in which Venugopal gave his consent. In reply to my letter dated 11.11.2020, the Ld. Attorney General for India has given kind consent to initiate criminal conttempt of court against @kunalkamra88. @barandbench @LiveLawIndia @legaljournalist @scconline_ @Talwarious @manuvichar @answeringlaw pic.twitter.com/p0Y9RGCpyG3. In the letter, Venugopal wrote that he had gone through Kamra’s tweets and found these insinuated that the “Supreme Court is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but is, on the other hand, a Court of the ruling party, the BJP.” The insinuation, Venugopal wrote, was “gross.”4. Reacting to this, Kamra refused to apologise. In a statement on Twitter, he said, “The tweets I recently put out have been found in contempt of court. All that I tweeted was from my view of the Supreme Court of India giving a partial decision in favour of a Prime Time Loudspeaker.”5. “My view hasn’t changed because the silence of the Supreme Court of India on matters of other’s personal liberty cannot go uncriticized. I don’t intend to retract my tweets or apologise for them. I believe they speak for themselves,” Kamra added.6. Days later, AG Venugopal gave fresh consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Kamra, this time over a November 18 tweet in which the stand-up comic allegedly mocked CJI Bobde.7. A total of eight petitioners, including law students and lawyers, have sought initiation of contempt proceedings against Kamra in the two cases, as per Bar and Bench.8. Under section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, consent of AG or that of the solicitor general, is needed for initiating contempt proceedings against a person.9. Kunal Kamra is a vocal critic of Arnab Goswami. In January, Kamra had confronted Goswami on a flight, following which he was barred by several airlines, including IndiGo, on whose Mumbai-Lucknow flight the incident took place.10. Kamra moved Delhi High Court challenging the flight ban. The court, however, declined to entertain his plea, disapproving his behaviour on the flight and noting that such behaviour can’t be allowed on an airline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-decide-on-contempt-proceedings-against-kunal-kamra-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-ynZVU9IAYbheHGkYI9mAQI.html
18-12-2020||India||60-year-old from Bihar’s Siwan cycles 1,000km to join farmers’ protest in Delhi||Satyadev Manjhi, a 60-year-old man from Bihar’s Siwan reached Tikri at Delhi-Haryana border on Thursday after completing a journey of nearly 1,000 kilometres in 11 days on a bicycle to participate in the ongoing farmers’ protest against agricultural laws.Speaking to ANI, Manjhi urged the Central government to repeal the three farm laws.“It took me 11 days to reach here from Siwan, my home district. I urge the government to take back the three farm laws. I will be here until the movement is not over,” Manjhi told ANI.Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-from-bihar-s-siwan-cycles-1-000km-to-join-farmers-protest-in-delhi/story-IenZieaEDmCoQSbb0Qy0AL.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address MP farmers today amid protests against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will speak about the “beneficial provisions” of the new farm laws in his address to the farmers of Madhya Pradesh as part of a Kisan Kalyan Sammelan on Friday. This comes a day after hundreds of farmers from the state started a foot march from Morena in support of the agriculturists who have been protesting in Delhi for three weeks now against the controversial farm laws implemented in September.“PM Modi will address the farmers of the state around 2 pm through video-conference and explain to them in detail the beneficial provisions of the new agricultural laws,” an official of the Madhya Pradesh public relations department on told news agency PTI on Thursday.The PM’s address will be telecast live across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh, the official said. Rs 1,660 crore will be transferred to the accounts of 35 lakh farmers by the state government to compensate for crop loss, he added.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also attend the programme from Raisen. “The previous Congress-led state government did injustice with the farmers by not transferring relief funds into their accounts. The previous Congress government did not even deposit the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna. But BJP is determined to work for the welfare of farmers. We have already deposited the premium of Fasal Bima Yojna and are now going to transfer relief funds,” the chief minister said.The Kisan Kalyan programme is being organised in four levels — gram panchayat, block, district and state. Nearly 20,000 farmers will take part in the state-level programme in Raisen.The PM’s address comes in the backdrop of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana protesting at Delhi borders since November 27, demanding that the three farm laws -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- be scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mp-farmers-today-amid-protests-against-farm-laws/story-uPM8qu40ey2wdhFRZYEqlO.html
18-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest LIVE updates: All India Kisan Sabha extends support to farmers’ protest against new laws||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 23 on Friday and, as of now, impasse continues between the government and farmers’ unions. Amid the continued deadlock, prime minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually address the farmers of Madhya Pradesh in a ‘Kisan Kalyan Sammelan.’ The program will be telecast across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh.Also Read | PM Modi’s virtual address to MP farmers to be telecast live across 23k villagesOn Thursday, the Supreme Court resumed hearing petitions seeking immediate removal of protesting farmers from the borders of Delhi. The 3-judge bench, headed by chief justice SA Bobde, which had taken up the pleas on Wednesday, said the apex court would not interfere with the protests, adding that these should be allowed to go on as long as these are peaceful and do not result in damage to life and property of other citizens. Also on Thursday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who has been leading the government in its talks with the protesters, wrote an open letter to farmers in which he said that misunderstanding had been created among them regarding the reforms. Tomar further wrote that several other farmers’ unions had welcomed the reforms and were happy with the laws.Also Read | ‘I come from farming family,’ Tomar writes open letter to farmers; PM Modi urges to readFollow all live updates here:All India Kisan Sabha extends support to protesting farmersThe All India Kisan Sabha on Friday said it would join farmers protesting in Delhi against the new farm laws introduced by the Centre, reports PTI.Why can’t farmers rally in Delhi if Anna Hazare can, asks Congress leader SurjewalaCongress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, on Friday, slammed the Centre by questioning that if social activist Anna Hazare can rally in the national capital, then why farmers are not allowed to enter Delhi and stage the protest, reports PTI.Union minister Irani slams opposition on farmers’ stir, says PM Modi did something for farmersThe opposition says that the one who made the bills isn’t a farmer. The one who talks of producing 40-inch potato is he a farmer? Is Sonia Gandhi a farmer? The one who actually did something for farmers is PM Narendra Modi, said Smriti Irani, Union Minister of Textiles in Meerut, report ANI.Congress leader and boxer Vijender Singh distributes food at langar for protesting farmers Delhi: Congress leader & boxer, Vijender Singh distributes food at langar organised by Jamindara Student Organization (JSO) for protesting farmers at Tikri Border"We are here to serve the farmers of our country. Our fight is not against the govt but the 3 black laws," he says pic.twitter.com/FPu4i1i8R2Govt is serious about MSP: PM Modi on farmers’ stir  during Kisan Kalyan address If we'd to remove MSP, why would we implement Swaminathan Commission report? Our govt is serious about the MSP, that's why we declare it before sowing season every year. This makes it easy for farmers to make calculations: PM Modi virtually addressing Kisan Kalyan event in Raisen https://t.co/Y6s3GG1f3H pic.twitter.com/kiniQGKtVSPolitical parties misguiding farmers for their benefit: PM Modi on farmers’ stir Political parties should stop misguiding farmers. It's been 6-7 months since Farm laws were implemented. But now suddenly, games are being played to plough one's own political land through a web of lies: PM Modi addressing Kisan Kalyan event in MP through video-conferencing https://t.co/CUsXWvFVGu pic.twitter.com/BzyumYLLo0Ready to meet farmers to end deadlock, says agriculture minister TomarOpen to meet protesting farm unions anytime to end deadlock, address all genuine concerns, says agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reports PTI. Changed rules to make Kisan credit card available to all farmers: PM Modi to MP farmers Today, several farmers have been given Kisan Credit Card. Earlier, they were not available to all farmers. But we changed rules to make Kisan Credit Card available to all farmers across the country: PM Modi addressing MP farmers through video conferencing https://t.co/d0idM94WmY pic.twitter.com/BwRfqqOzIxPM Modi to shortly address Madhya Pradesh farmersPM Narendra Modi’s virtual address to farmers of Madhya Pradesh to begin shortly.Fasting on behalf of UPA in support of farmers, says Puducherry CM Narayansamy“Today on behalf of the UPA, the leaders of the Congress party, CPI, CPI(M), MDMK, DMK and other parties are sitting on one-day hunger strike in support of farmers protesting against the three farms laws in Delhi,” says Pudcuherry CM V Narayansamy.Chipko movement leader extends support to farmersChipko movement leader Sundarlal Bahuguna extends his support to farmers protesting against the three farm laws, says, “I support the demands of the ‘annadatas’ “.DMK observes one-day fast in support of protesting farmersDMK observes in Chennai, one-day fast in support of the protesting farmers. “We condemn the Centre’s statement that protesting farmers are anti-nationals,” says party chief MK Stalin. The central government said that those protesting against the farm laws are anti-nationals. We condemn it. We stand in support of the farmers: DMK President MK Stalin in Chennai https://t.co/X7qPFc18uq pic.twitter.com/aC7OtcHMtSPM Modi should talk to farmers and repeal the laws, says Bharatiya Kisan Morcha leader“PM Modi should talk to the farmers and take back the farm laws. We will not give up our fight against these laws,” says Dayal Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Morcha (BKM).Ghazipur border closed completely; Chilla border blocked from one side, tweets Delhi Traffic PoliceIssuing a traffic advisory, the Delhi Traffic Police has tweeted that the Ghazipur border is completely blocked while the Chilla border is open only from the Delhi to Noida side.PM Modi to virtually address Madhya Pradesh farmers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Friday virtually address farmers in Madhya Pradesh. The program will begin at 2pm via video conferencing, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s office said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmers-protest-live-updates-december-18-2020/story-MQV862NXt9fhVSCWAhKSfL.html
18-12-2020||India||‘Talk to each other’: Supreme Court allows farmers protest to go on||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed farmers amassed at Delhi’s borders to continue their protest against the three contentious laws that seek to open up trade in agriculture, emphasising that to protest against a law was a fundamental right.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde shot down a plea by the Centre as well as some petitioners, refusing to restrain the farmers as long as the protests are non-violent and do not result in damage to the life and property of other citizens.At the same time, the bench implored the farmers and the government to “talk to each other”, as it underscored that every protest must also pave way for a “meaningful discussion” between the two sides.“We clarify that this Court will not interfere with the protest in question...We are of the view at this stage that the farmers’ protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace either by the protesters or the police,” ordered the bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.The order came after senior advocate Harish Salve argued on behalf of a Delhi resident that blockades by protesters have held the entire national capital hostage and violate other citizens’ fundamental right of movement.Salve contended no right was absolute, and the right to protest cannot extend to deny others their right to move freely or the right to life, given the farmers have come in droves and increased the risk of infection by the coronavirus. He added that the prices of commodities had also gone up due to restrictions on the free movement of the goods vehicles.“We are all Indians and we are familiar with their problems. We are also sympathetic to their cause. But you (farmers) need to alter your way of protest. And we can tell you that we will see to it that a discussion through an independent and impartial committee takes place. We will have experts from the field of agriculture in this committee,” the bench said.But due to the absence of most of the farmers’ unions spearheading the protests, the bench could not proceed with the constitution of a committee of representatives of both sides to discuss and resolve the dispute.Later on Thursday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tried to dispel the protesting farmers’ misgivings in an impassioned letter to the them, reiterating his commitment to resolve issues and a written assurance on state-set minimum support prices. He said confusion had been created by some political forces to derail the reforms.“I belong to a farmer’s family and since childhood, I have experienced the tough life of farmers. It is very satisfactory that after implementation of the law, MSP procurement has set a new record this time,” Tomar wrote.The farmer unions said in a media briefing at the Singhu border protest site that they would consult senior lawyers on the Supreme Court proceedings before taking any decision on whether to “implead” as a party in the matter.“All farmer unions had a meeting today and we have decided that we will consult four Supreme Court lawyers – Prashant Bhushan, Dushyant Dave, HS Phoolka and Colin Gonsalves – about the ongoing proceedings in the Supreme Court… We will neither comment on the matter nor announce any decision without consulting these lawyers,” the coordinator of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, KV Biju said.In the Supreme Court, attorney general Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, drew a parallel with a “war-like situation” while complaining that the protesters had blocked all major entry points to the Capital.“They need to disband, go back to their villages and we can talk to their leaders. The damage done in last 22 days is enormous. Worst of it all, they are here, brushing shoulders despite the Covid situation. When they will go back to their villages, they will be spreading the infection in Punjab, Haryana, etc. They will be a danger to themselves and others too,” Venugopal told the bench.In a bid to end what it called a “stalemate”, the bench observed: “A protest has to have a purpose. You cannot just sit on a protest and then do nothing. We understand it is a perfectly constitutional protest. It has a purpose; a goal but that goal cannot be achieved by simply sitting in protest. They have to talk to each other; doesn’t matter even if it fails. And we want to facilitate this.”The court adjourned the hearing until after a fortnight to wait for the farmers’ unions to show up and present their views. It also sought comments of the other parties regarding the constitution of the committee while making it clear in its order that “the pendency of these matters will not prevent the parties from resolving the issue amicably”.The proceedings witnessed a reluctance on the part of the government to promise suspension of the laws in view of the pendency of the matter before the SC. When asked by the court if the government is willing to assure that the operation and the executive actions under the new laws can be put on hold, both the attorney general and solicitor general refrained from offering such commitments.“We cannot do so (suspend the laws). Also, if we do it, farmers will not come to talk,” said Venugopal. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said “it will be tough” to give an assurance such as this.The attorney general rued that the unions’ demand is to repeal the laws and they insist that they do not want to discuss them clause by clause. “They (unions) or the committee (to be set up by the court) should discuss the clauses so that we can identify what exactly is the problem. It cannot be like repeal all laws or nothing,” he said.The bench responded that it was constrained to observe a day ago that the negotiations between the government and the farmers’ unions are bound to fail again in view of recent events.When Venugopal said the issue was not being resolved because of the farmers’ “adamant stand”, the bench replied: “They will think you are adamant.”The court also told Venugopal and Mehta that till the time this protest is constitutional and does not turn violent, the police should be equally bound not to use any violent means. “You (police) cannot initiate violence nor can you blockade the city,” it added.Meanwhile, advocate AP Singh, representing a faction of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, (BKU-Bhanu), demanded that farmers should be allowed to enter Delhi and be allowed to protest at Ramlila Maidan.But this plea was quickly shot down by the bench: “Who is here in the court or on the spot to guarantee there won’t be injury to anyone or destruction of properties if they are allowed? Is it not for the police to decide these issues based on relevant inputs as a law-and-order situation? Courts don’t have the wherewithal to control a mob that goes on a rampage. This is for the police to decide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talk-to-each-other-supreme-court-allows-farmers-protest-to-go-on/story-orBcjQQ5JGnaUirRvJdi0L.html
18-12-2020||India||Are we undercounting India’s women workers?||India needs more women to join the workforce. According to the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), only 25.9% of women between the ages of 15 and 49 were either working or looking for work. This number is 78.3% for men. Unless the gender gap in employment is bridged, the economy will not able to exploit the full potential of its young workforce. This has a direct bearing on per capita income levels. An HT analysis of per capita worker incomes and per capita incomes in China and India showed that India’s gap with China was much larger when it came to per capita incomes than per worker incomes. According to World Bank data, China’s per capita GDP was 2.4 times that of India in 2016. In terms of per worker GDP, this ratio was just 1.7. The gap between China’s lead over India in terms of per capita GDP and per worker GDP has been increasing over the past three decades.While there can be little doubt about the need for bringing more women into the workforce, two government reports suggest that there is significant ambiguity about the number of women workers in the country. PLFS seems to be a large underestimate of working women in many states Last week, the ministry of health and family welfare released summary statistics for 17 states and five union territories for the 2019-20 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS). The state-wise fact sheets give information on the share of women of age 15-49 years who worked in the last 12 months and were paid in cash. For seven out of the 17 states for which the 2019-20 NFHS findings have been published, this number is greater than not just the female work force participation rate (WPR) but also the labour force participation rate (LFPR) in the 2018-19 PLFS for the same age group. LFPR is defined as the share of population which is either working or looking for a job, while WPR is the share of population which actually employed. Unemployment rate is the difference between LFPR and WPR. In states like Bihar, the number reported by the NFHS is more than three times the female WPR in the PLFS. To be sure, the NFHS number for states such as Himachal Pradesh is much lower than the PLFS stats.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The mismatch between PLFS and NFHS numbers is not new. The 2015-16 NFHS says that 25.6% of women worked and were paid in cash in the last one year. The 2017-18 PLFS puts the LFPR and WPR of women at 24.8% and 23.1%. What explains the discrepancy between NFHS and PLFS estimates? There could be two possible explanations. By focusing on cash, the NFHS might be excluding workers who are paid in kind or not salaried at all Because the NFHS factsheets publish the share of women who were paid in cash in the last one year, it should exclude women workers who were paid in kind or not paid at all. The economic census (2013-14) shows that more than 70% of economic enterprises in the country did not even have one hired worker. A women worker working in a household enterprise might not be recorded in the NFHS estimates of working women earning cash. This could explain why the NFHS numbers are lower than the PLFS numbers for share of working women in some states.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The PLFS follows a more rigorous criterion for being qualified as working The PLFS follows a more rigorous criterion when it comes to counting a person as working. For example, the usual status criterion of work requires that a person should have worked for majority of the past 365 days. The current weekly status of work tracks a person’s activity in the last seven days preceding the survey. If a woman took up some paid work for less than six months, months before the PLFS was conducted, she might not get counted in the PLFS as employed but could show up in the NFHS numbers as having worked for cash payment. This could explain why the NFHS numbers are higher than the PLFS numbers. A 2018 report by the Azim Premji University reported a finding from a survey in West Bengal which found that non-availability of work in the area was the biggest reason why women did not take up paid employment. Data from the 2011 census shows that gender gap worsens for women as distance to workplace increases (https://bit.ly/3pcX0R5).  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-we-undercounting-india-s-women-workers/story-u8C3cjGpr62UMAkig7osDL.html
18-12-2020||India||‘Unity sphere’, tech dome in New India garden plan||The New India Garden or Nav Bharat Udyan proposed to be built on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of Centre’s plan to extend the Central Vista axis from India Gate till the river will house a “sunflower plaza”, a “Growth Plaza” representing all states and UTs of India, a “sphere of unity,” a “techno dome” an open air theatre and a maze showcasing the “journey of India” apart from an “iconic structure” as the new symbol of the Capital, according to a presentation by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), reviewed by HT.The Nav Bharat Udyan will also have an entrance inspired by the Martand Sun Temple, the famous ruins of which are in the Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir.The complex is being built as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The Nav Bharat Udyan will come up on 20.22 acres on the western bank of Yamuna. It is expected to be unveiled to the public by August 15, 2022, when India turns 75.A government official familiar with the plans said the garden will be iconic, represent the values of a new India, and that it can be experienced through hi-tech. “At the entrance gate we will have a digital layer, where you can pair your smart watch and go through various levels of the complex. After the entrance you will see the ‘sphere of unity’ where ‘India @75’ is being inscribed in different languages. The bronze sphere will be mounted on a ‘mandal’, then you will go through the ‘milestone walkway’ depicting each year of Independence with its most significant achievements highlighted.”The government in November announced that the length of the Central Vista axis which extends from the Rashtrapati Bhawan, through the North and South Blocks, over Rajpath and to India Gate, would double from 2.9km to 6.3km – right up to the riverbank.“At the centre is the Sunflower plaza is where the iconic tower or structure, a new symbol of the Capital is being planned. This falls on the axis of the Central Vista. Along this will be a ‘growth plaza’ with 36 columns representing each state and UT of India. There will also be a maze depicting the ’journey of India’, focusing on the past, present and future – who we were, are and what we aspire to be as a nation,” the official added.On November 12, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) announced a design competition to construct an “iconic structure” on the bank of the river Yamuna as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project to commemorate 75 years of independence. A total of 98 entries have been received from which the final design will be chosen.CPWD’s proposal dated November 12 said the structure so built must “realise the grand vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India), symbolising emerging New India with equitable growth opportunities, rooted in values of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikaas, Sabka Vishwaas (with everyone; for everyone’s progress; and trusted by everyone – one of the mottos of the government) and representing the aspiration of clean India, free from poverty, corruption, terrorism, communalism and casteism”.The CPWD proposal mandated that only such material and technology should be used to build the structure that would endure like “Ashoka’s edicts, the Iron Pillar in Qutub Minar complex etc.” This was in reference to a competition called by the CPWD to design the “iconic structure.”“The structure should be iconic in design and represent the national capital. For example, India Gate erected by the British in the Central Vista in the early 20th century prominently signifies Delhi. The proposed iconic structure being built in the independent India should now become a new symbol of the national capital,” CPWD’s proposal said.The Central Vista redevelopment plan, being handled by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, also involves having a new Parliament building in place by India’s 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project is slated to be finished by 2024.Meanwhile, Centre has also narrowed down on five construction firms for the next phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project – the redevelopment and restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue, which includes the majority of the Rajpath stretch and the row of government offices that are parallel to it, HT reported on December 14.The work on the second phase of the project comes at a time when the apex court last week directed the Centre to immediately stop all construction and ancillary activities in the historically significant Central Vista area of New Delhi where a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and union ministries’ offices are planned to be built. The Supreme Court allowed the government to proceed with the foundation stone laying ceremony on December 10, and paperwork.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unity-sphere-tech-park-in-new-india-garden-plan/story-y0nCLHdkKB0XYGvPrmnhpI.html
18-12-2020||India||At Delhi airport, automated immigration process on anvil||Delhi’s international airport on Thursday began a pilot programme to automate immigration clearance for passengers travelling out of the country through gates that will scrutinise them and their documents without any human intervention — a move the authorities hope will cut down travel time and address staffing issues.The facility, called the Trusted Travelers Program (TTP), has been designed on the lines of the US’s Global Entry Program, which allows pre-approved immigration clearance for low-risk travellers.Experts, however, warned that without proper awareness, the facility could lead to congestion at the gates instead. An officer involved in the process said on condition of anonymity that to get immigration clearance at the “e-gates”, passengers will need to scan their passports and boarding passes themselves.“After reading that the passport and the boarding pass are genuine, a camera attached to the scanner will click a picture of the passenger’s face. The passengers will also require recording their biometrics by scanning their fingerprints. Within seconds, this information will be matched with a database of the prohibited or blacklisted passengers. Once found cleared, the e-gates will open, allowing the passenger to proceed,” the officer said. An IB official, who asked not to be named, said: “Yes there is a plan to have technology-based immigration centres, which usually have long queues due to shortage of manpower in immigration.”On Thursday, a team of officials from the ministry of home affairs visited the Indira Gandhi International Airport, where four such e-gates have been installed on a trial basis for three months. Another officer said the initiative will be made fully operational in three phases.In the first phase, the e-gates will be used by diplomats, government officials and foreign dignitaries. In the second phase, it will be made available for all Indian passengers, and in the third, foreign passengers will be able to use the facility. The first phase is likely to begin by March 2021, the official added.On average, the immigration clearance process currently takes about 1.5 minutes for a passenger at counters staffed by immigration officials at the Delhi airport. “This is the time taken at the counter, not inclusive of the time taken in the queue. With the e-gates in place, as manual intervention will be zero, a passenger will be able to gain immigration clearance within 30-40 seconds. Initially, there will be staff present to assist the passengers in the process,” the officer said. The passengers’ data will also be recorded with the bureau of immigration for future usage, he added.However, aviation expert Mark D Martin said the concept works well at airports in Singapore, Dubai and in European countries. He added that e-gates for India at this juncture is premature. “E-Gate is excellent for frequent flyers and airline crew but offering such a service to a country that has a large expat worker diaspora will be a handing nightmare, with the clearance time exceeding more than 10 minutes per passenger...,” Martin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-delhi-airport-automated-immigration-process-on-anvil/story-Ib1mTy98aKgC6QgNZVdHWP.html
18-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday, December 16, the world saw 715,068 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to worldometers.info. The seven-day average of daily cases on the day was 637,090, the highest to date. The world saw 13,450 deaths from Covid-19 on December 16; and the seven-day average of deaths was 11,285, again, the highest to date. The discovery of vaccines that can prevent the disease, their approval in some countries, and imminent approval in some others, and frenetic preparations by governments everywhere to source vaccines, set up infrastructure to store and transport them, identify who will be the first to receive doses, and train those who will be administering the shots, has pushed news of the pandemic itself to the background; but the bad news is that, almost out of sight, it is raging.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn India, especially, it’s easy to overlook this because our own numbers are so much better. India saw 28,415 new cases of Covid-19 on December 16. The seven-day average of cases was 27,672. India also saw 356 deaths on December 16; the seven-day average of deaths was 382. The case numbers are almost 70% lower than peaks seen in September; the death numbers, 67% lower than peaks seen in September. All India numbers are from the HT dashboard. Sure, India remains among the 10 most affected countries currently, according to data from the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Center (the US, Brazil, Turkey, Russia, the UK, Germany, Italy, France, and Ukraine are the other nine). And it is among the six countries in this list where the average of daily cases is trending down (it is trending up only in Turkey, Russia, the UK, and Germany). The only reason the US isn’t in that list of countries where cases are trending up is because of a statistical anomaly, a blip that will likely correct itself as the week goes by.On Wednesday, according to the New York Times, the US saw 244,365 new cases, the highest in a day in any country in the world (in fact, no other country has even crossed the 100,000 cases-a-day mark). The country also saw the most daily deaths on Wednesday with 3,607. That’s roughly 40% of the daily cases around the world, and a little over a fourth of all deaths, so it is clear which country is driving the global numbers. The only good news for the US in the dark days ahead will be that it can soon be among the few countries in the world to start keeping another count – the number of those vaccinated. The third wave of the pandemic has ravaged the country, though, and will likely continue doing so till the end of the month – hospitalisations are at an all-time high (a little over 100,000), and critical care units are filling up fast.It isn’t just the US that is pushing up case numbers though. With a seven-day average of around 42,000 daily new cases, Brazil is seeing a strong second wave of infections; with a seven-day average of around 22,000 daily new cases, Germany’s second wave, which seemed to be coming under control in the second half of November, has only strengthened in intensity, forcing the country to declare a lockdown between December 16 and January 10; and the UK, which seemed to have seen off the second wave in early December, is seeing a spike in daily new cases (up to a seven-day average of around 20,000). Mexico, too, is seeing a strong second wave, with the seven-day average of daily new cases rising to over 10,000. And while Italy, France, and Spain would appear to be past the second wave, they are still seeing a substantial number of daily cases (a seven-day average of close to 10,000 in France, 8,000 in Spain, and over 15,000 in Italy).As India exhales during its current welcome respite, it would do well to keep an eye on these numbers – if only to remember how quickly things can turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-y2IMoXxPeBMIBCBV4ySq5M.html
18-12-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects UP plea against Kafeel Khan’s release after detention under NSA||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government that sought to overturn a Allahabad high court order releasing Dr Kafeel Khan from detention under the stringent National Security Act (NSA), but observed that the criminal cases against Khan will be decided on merits without being influenced by the observations made in the high court’s judgment.On September 1, the Allahabad high court put an end to the continued detention of Khan since January 29 over a speech given last December at Aligarh Muslim University on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Kafeel Khan thanked the court and said that he “will continue to raise voice against injustice done to anyone anywhere”.The state accused him of disturbing public order and creating an atmosphere of fear and insecurity among the residents of Aligarh. He got bail in the case on February 10, but before his release, the charge under NSA was added against him and on February 13, and the District Magistrate ordered his preventive detention under this Act. Appearing for the state, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said, “The high court observations are exonerating him even in the criminal prosecution pending against him. We are only on this limited concern.” The bench headed by CJI SA Bobde said, “We see no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment and order passed by the high court. Accordingly, the special leave petition (by Uttar Pradesh government) is dismissed. However, we make it clear that the observations in the judgment [by the Allahabad High Court] will not determine the outcome of the prosecution. The criminal cases will be decided on their own merits.”Senior advocate Indira Jaising who appeared for Khan’s mother Nuzhat Perveen, insisted that the latter part of the order was not required. However, the bench refused to alter its order. “SC has dismissed Uttar Pradesh government SLP to quash my Allahabad court order... Bench was of the view that it is a good order and there is no reason to interfere with it... I’ll continue to raise voice against injustice done to anyone anywhere,” he tweeted.Khan was the nodal officer of the Acute Encephalitis ward at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College where more than a hundred children died reportedly due to shortage of oxygen in 2017. He was suspended, and later arrested after the deaths but was released on bail. A state government probe cleared him of all major charges. Khan had alleged that an institutional failure led to the deaths of the children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-up-plea-against-kafeel-khan-s-release-after-detention-under-nsa/story-09tDVYULmzFCFmKSYvKZCJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Vijayvargiya comment on fall of Congress govt in Madhya Pradesh fans row||A political row erupted on Thursday over a statement by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya linking PM Narendra Modi to the collapse of the then Congress government in Madhya Pradesh earlier this year, even as the senior leader clarified that he was only joking. At a farmer’s meet in Indore on Wednesday, Vijayvarigiya said, “I am telling you something, don’t disclose it to anyone... If someone played an important role in dethroning Kamal Nath’s government, it was Prime Minister Modi... not Dharmendra Pradhan.” Vijayvargiya laughed aloud after the statement. On Thursday, Vijayvargiya clarified that he cracked a joke and that even before the government fell, Congress leaders were already under pressure because of the “excellent work” of PM. “I was talking about the Congress MLAs resigning because of the good work done by the PM.” But the Congress insisted it was clear that BJP leaders hatched a conspiracy against the government. MP Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “We’ll take legal action so that nobody will think of shaming democracy in this way.”The BJP rejected this statement and said Nath was only to blame for his partymen deserting the government. Party spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Kailash Vijayvargiya has already cleared what he said. And it was a duty of Kamal Nath to save the then state government. The MLAs and ministers left the party for the development and to fulfil the promises made to voters, not for any other reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayvargiya-comment-on-fall-of-congress-govt-in-madhya-pradesh-fans-row/story-uEiNKS3gNLLzaQgmbX5gyM.html
18-12-2020||India||Top court takes exception to selective disclosures by media in criminal trials||The Supreme Court on Thursday took serious exception to “selective disclosures” by the media in a criminal trial, pointing out that it ends up affecting the rights of both the accused and the victim.The apex court was hearing a case related to the suicide of a doctor in Agra on August 6, following which her father registered a dowry harassment case against her husband and in-laws on August 7. Within a couple of days of the death, the alleged suicide note was published in local newspapers.While examining the issue, the three judge bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee said the investigating officer had a duty to investigate when information about the commission of a cognisable offence is brought to their attention. Unfortunately, this role is being compromised by the manner in which selective leaks take place in the public realm, it said.“The sequence in this case appears to follow familiar patterns. Immediate publicity was given to the alleged suicide note. These examples are now becoming familiar. Selective disclosures to the media affect the rights of the accused in some cases and the rights of victims’ families in others.”The bench found this “selective leak” to be a disturbing trend and found it proper to transfer the investigation of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-takes-exception-to-selective-disclosures-by-media-in-criminal-trials/story-OIKS1yJR5WZWLS1DisceUN.html
18-12-2020||India||PM Modi writes to Nawaz Sharif, condoles his mother’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote a letter to former Pakistani premier Nawaz Sharif to extend condolences on the death of Sharif’s mother last month, according to Pakistani media reports on Thursday. The letter was forwarded by chargé d’affaires Gaurva Ahluwalia at the Indian high commission in Islamabad to Sharif’s daughter Maryam Nawaz on December 11 with a request that it should be conveyed to her father, who has been living in the UK since last year. Shamim Akhtar, the mother of Nawaz Sharif and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) president Shehbaz Sharif, died in Britain on November 22. Her body was brought to Pakistan for burial at the family’s estate at Jati Umra in Lahore. Modi’s letter dated November 27, which was accessed by Dawn News TV channel, stated: “I am deeply saddened to learn about the demise of your mother Begum Shamim Akhtar on 22 November in London. My heartfelt condolences are with you in this hour of intense grief.” Addressing Sharif as “Mian Sahib”, the name usually used in Pakistan’s political circles for the former premier, Modi wrote: “Her simplicity and warmth was indeed very touching. In this moment of profound grief, I pray to the Almighty to bestow strength upon you and your family to bear this irreparable loss. May the departed soul rest in peace.” This is perhaps Modi’s first outreach to a Pakistani leader since ties between the two countries hit a low following the terror attack on Pathankot airbase in January 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-writes-to-nawaz-sharif-condoles-his-mother-s-death/story-qY7IaDg5vT6D2ltbXlRY8N.html
18-12-2020||India||Chilly spell in Delhi-NCR intensifies, no relief till Dec 21: IMD||The cold spell in Delhi further intensified on Thursday, as the maximum temperature dropped to 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below normal, which was exacerbated by fast icy winds blowing through the day, leaving city residents shivering.A departure of seven degrees from normal meant that the India Meteorological Department (IMD) categorised Thursday as a “severe cold day”. This was the fourth consecutive “cold” or “severe cold day”, with weather scientists predicting no relief over the weekend.Minimum temperature of the day was recorded around 8.30am on Thursday — 4.6 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal. This means that the gap between maximum and minimum temperature on Thursday was only around 10 degrees Celsius.Scientists say temperature numbers alone are not able to capture the bitter chill most people are experiencing through the day because the “perception of the temperature” is likely even lower due to the icy cold winds. For example, the “feels like” temperature of Thursday’s minimum temperature is around two-to-three degrees Celsius. “The ‘feels like’ temperature is much lower because of the icy cold winds that are blowing at 15 to 20 kmph. We don’t expect relief from the bitter cold till December 21. A western disturbance is approaching around that time which will not have much impact on the plains. But the relief will be marginal, an increase of only one-to-two degrees Celsius,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.The ‘feels like’ temperature takes into account wind speeds and humidity to assess how the human body actually feels temperature. “For example in winter a strong wind can feel much colder than the measured temperature would indicate. Conversely on a humid day in summer it can feel uncomfortably hotter than the air temperatures would suggest on their own,” explains the UK Met Office.Many stations in northwest India recorded extremely low minimum temperatures on Thursday — Churu recorded 2.2°C; Bikaner 3.1°C; Mt Abu -1°C; Sikar 0.5°C; Bareilly 3.3°C; Delhi Ridge 3.5°C; Narnaul 2.6°C; Ranichauri -1.4°C; and Gulmarg -11°C. Day temperatures were also unusually low — on Wednesday (maximum temperature data has been tabulated for Wednesday) Jammu recorded 14.4°C; Kathua 10; Keylong 3.3; Dalhousie 1.5; Amritsar 8.2; Bathinda 10; Hisar and Karnal at 15; Churu 16; Ganganagar 13.4.“Icy winds are blowing from the snow-clad mountains towards Delhi now. Around December 15 to 20 climatologically also we see a sharp fall in temperatures as sun rays are falling slightly slanted and not vertical. There is also uplifted fog in some regions over northwest India which is also not allowing the surface to warm up during the day. Overall the icy winds due to heavy snow cover over Himalayas are the primary driver for extremely cold days,” explained Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.IMD had warned on Wednesday that “cold wave” to “severe cold” conditions may have a number of serious impacts on health that shouldn’t be ignored. There is an increased likelihood of various illnesses like flu, stuffy nose or nosebleed, shivering which is a first sign of the body losing heat. Prolonged exposure to extreme cold can cause frostbite, which leads to the skin turns pale, hard and numb and eventually black blisters appear on exposed body parts such as fingers, toes, nose and or earlobes. Severe frostbite needs immediate medical attention and treatment.The impact-based warning issued by IMD for cold wave recommends that people wear insulated shoes, moisturise skin, increase vitamin C intake, limit outdoor activities, maintain ventilation while using heaters, avoid drinking alcohol as it reduces body heat etc.Some of those exposed to dense fog could also suffer health impacts. Dense fog contains particulate matter and other pollutants which can get lodged in the lungs leading to episodes of wheezing, coughing and shortness of breath. Those with asthma and bronchitis are particularly vulnerable.According to IMD, a “cold day” or “severe cold day” is considered based on two parameters — a minimum temperature of under 10 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature that is 4.5 degrees Celsius or 6.4 degrees Celsius below normal respectively.A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree C in the plains. Witnessing a cold day and cold wave together means the gap between day and night temperatures was lower than normal.“Cold wave to severe cold wave” conditions are very likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during next three days and decrease thereafter according to IMD’s bulletin. “Cold day to severe cold day” conditions are likely in some pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan and northwest Uttar Pradesh during next two days and decrease thereafter. Dense fog is likely in some pockets over Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram during next three days.“There was heavy and widespread snowfall in the Western Himalayas from December 11 to 13 and then dense fog started being recorded in many places which has led to cold day conditions. Due to extremely chilly winds, we have issued an impact-based warning for the first time which tells people what to do during cold wave and cold day conditions,” added RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chilly-spell-in-delhi-ncr-intensifies-no-relief-till-dec-21-imd/story-OhxknXZvwYkYUNlIeHAaxJ.html
18-12-2020||India||Ahead of PM Modi’s address, AMU faculty calls for unity||The Aligarh  Muslim University (AMU) administration bolstered security and senior faculty members called for unity on Thursday after some campus student groups opposed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the chief guest of the institution’s centenary celebrations on December 22. On Wednesday, AMU vice chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor announced that Modi will attend the online function with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank via video conference on December 22. Extending gratitude to the Prime Minister, Mansoor said that the outreach will help in the growth and development of the institution.Modi will be the first PM to address an AMU event since Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. He will be speaking to the university and its members for the first time. The PM is also expected to release a commemorative stamp on AMU’s centenary year during the interaction.  But some groups on campus opposed the announcement, prompting the administration to step up vigilance and senior professors to appeal for calm. “We need to work together in the interest of the university. We appeal to everyone to celebrate the centenary programme above politics…centenary celebrations are to be kept above differences,” read a statement signed by 12 of the senior most faculty members. The university has also taken steps to ensure that the programme is not disrupted, and avert any disturbance on campus.  “It would be an online programme with links issued through NIC (National Information Center) and participants from AMU would be at registrar office,” stated Shafey Kidwai, the public relation officer for AMU. The faculty members requested protesting students to come on board. “We must not lose sight of the fact that the centenary is a great landmark achievement in the history of any university. Our unity on the occasion will bring greater confidence among various university units and alumni associations, who are engaged in organising programmes with illustrious people as the guests,” they wrote.This came after former AMU Students’ Union (AMUSU) vice-president Nadeem Ansari, now a Samajwadi Party leader, opposed invitation to PM Modi. “Vice Chancellor Tariq Mansoor’s vested interest will be served through PM Modi’s participation. If anything goes wrong, the V-C will be responsible,” said Ansari. Other student groups also pointed out that the Centre opposed the university’s minority status appeal in the Supreme Court. The university and its students hit the headlines in recent years for opposing several government moves, including the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Last year, on December 15, the university turned into a war zone as protesting students clashed with security forces, resulting in several injuries||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-modi-s-address-amu-faculty-calls-for-unity/story-qXdKSW9FZ3ufNFYWZacbHK.html
18-12-2020||India||Lucknow diocese moves HC on Sherwood College control||In a new twist to the controversy over control of Nainital’s famous Sherwood College, the Diocese of Lucknow has moved the Uttarakhand High Court on Thursday stating that it is the real legal guardian of the institute, not the Diocese of Agra. Rakesh Sobti, the legal advisor of Bishop Vijay Mantode, bishop of Church of India, Lucknow Diocese, said: “The Diocese of Agra is trying to take charge of the college illegally by posting an interim principal. They are not the legal guardians of the college. We have now kept our stance in front of the Uttarakhand High Court and our management committee is the only registered committee.” He added that Allahabad High Court in 2010 ordered that the bishop of Church of India is the legal guardian of the management of the College and “this order is valid today also”. The Uttarakhand High Court will hear the matter on Tuesday along with other parties, the Diocese of Agra and current principal of the Sherwood College, Amandeep Sandhu. The storied college’s alumni include actors Amitabh Bachchan, Kabir Bedi,and Ram Kapoor, and legendary soldier Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw . Over the weekend, police were deployed in the college campus after newly appointed interim principal, Peter Emmanuel, went to take charge but was denied entry by college staff. In October, Amandeep Sandhu was suspended by the college’s management over various issues including a pending inquiry into allegations of lapses in statutory compliances; and Emmanuel was appointed as interim principal. Sandhu challenged the appointment in the local court saying the Agra diocese has no powers to remove the principal and only chairman of the college society has appointment powers.The Sherwood Diocesan College Society is run by the Diocese of Agra, (Church of North India) since 1976. Emmanuel was appointed as an interim principal by the chairman of the Sherwood Diocesan College Society.The dispute started in 1976 after the Lucknow diocese was divided into two parts, Lucknow and Agra, with the latter covering western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The college came under the diocese of Agra, a claim disputed by Lucknow diocese. Speaking about the new controversy, Emmanuel said, “The Diocese of Lucknow was divided in 1976 and since then the Diocese of Agra has been managing the college. It was decided then and all legal procedures have been followed since then. The claim that they are making now is illegal and the court will decide it on Tuesday.”Sandhu, the current principal of Sherwood College said, “We will follow the Hon’ble Court’s orders. All parties have been called for hearing on Tuesday and everyone will present their points to the court; and whoever is declared as the legal chairman of the college, we will hand over the managerial work of the college to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-diocese-moves-hc-on-sherwood-college-control/story-K4vUvm0b1cCjFd7U78gNiI.html
18-12-2020||India||Global push: Centre recognises yoga as competitive sport||The government on Thursday offered official recognition to yoga as a competitive sport, preparing the ground for the ancient discipline’s inclusion in national, state and university level championships organised in the country.Yoga sporting leagues on the lines of the Indian Super League, which is the professional football league, may also be introduced as part of an effort to boost yoga’s popularity. The government’s ultimate aim is to push for yogasana to be made a part of the Olympic Games. The ministries of Ayush and sports have worked in collaboration towards making it happen with the aim of spreading awareness about yoga, the benefits it offers and the discipline’s spiritual background among the young. The ministries are also working together to ensure yogasana is recognised as a competitive sport globally.“Now that yogasana has been formally declared a competitive sport by the government, it will be made a part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Khelo India initiative that will ensure states will work towards organizing sports events including for yogasana in an organized manner, like it happens for other sports,” said Kiren Rijiju, minister of state for youth affairs and sports.“Yoga has already been popular enough so the next step was to recognize it as a competitive sport. The ultimate goal is to make it a part of the Olympic Games. To begin with, a pilot national-level traditional yogasana championship has been proposed in February next year, and later in the year there is a plan to conduct a World Yogasana championship that India will host,” the sports minister added.India also recently established the National Yogasana Sport Federation of India (NYSFI) for the development of yoga as a competitive sport.Extensive consultations over the past 3-4 years preceded the official recognition of yoga as a competitive sport.“The necessary work on this initiative has been going on for long, and this year in August NYSFI was established for the purpose on the lines of other sports federations active in the country under the ministry of sports. In November this year, the sports ministry also formally recognized the federation,” said Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary, Ayush ministry.Rijiju explained that like other federations, NYSFI will also now be eligible for financial assistance from the sports ministry.“Now that Yogasana has been formally declared a sport, its federation, like other national sports federations, will also get financial assistance from the sports ministry for preparing their annual training and calendar that will have an idea on what all they plan to organize during the coming calendar year. We want to produce quality athletes performing yogasanas,” he said. An exhaustive document containing rules and regulations and syllabus for the yogasana competitions has been prepared by experts in the field. The technical committee has also made a detailed list of asanas, both compulsory and optional, from traditional yoga literature.About 51 medals are being proposed in four events and seven categories for the events to be conducted at sub-junior, junior and senior level for both men and women. The events include traditional yogasana, artistic yogasana, rhythmic yogasana, free flow (group) yogasana, and individual all round championship and team championship.Experts are coming up with an information technology-enabled, automation scoring system for these competitions for marking participants objectively.The government will also be training and certifying coaches, referees, judges and directors of these competitions. The Sports Association of India is trying to recruit such personnel largely from the pool of former and retired sportspersons in India. “Training of athletes is one thing but we will also be training the technical team which is equally important. Sports Authority of India is trying to recruit more retired Indian sportspersons for the purpose of coaching,” said Rijiju.Naik said thatmission was to create athletes, and eventually achieve Olympic success.Dr Ishwar Basavaraddi, director of the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, said: “Yogasana involves rigorous training and the postures are quite elaborate that need to be performed with the right technique. Many people, especially youngsters, are likely to come forward to participate now that it has been officially declared a sport, especially those from villages. It is a good way to promote yogasana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-push-centre-recognises-yoga-as-competitive-sport/story-EVbG3FhEanyuCwXsNKV1OM.html
18-12-2020||India||‘Soft-spoken, altruistic’ farmers’: Followers pay respects to priest who died by suicide||Baba Ram Singh had barely turned four years old when his parents noticed that their son had the traits of an ascetic. The devout Sikh couple handed over the toddler to Gurudwara Nanaksar, located in Kaleran village of Jagraon in Ludhiana district of Punjab, to pursue the path of spirituality. Gurudwara Nanaksar was his abode for many years. A little before 1990, he left Jagraon to spread the message of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. And his next destination, and permanent abode, became Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera--a small Sikh shrine then spread across one acre in Karnal, Haryana. On Thursday, shocked admirers and followers of Singh came in droves to Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera to pay their last respects to the Sikh priest. Singh, 65, died after allegedly shooting himself on Wednesday at the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu where he had joined the farmers’ protest against three farm laws. He was unmarried and is survived by his sister and a brother, who live in Punjab. The soft-spoken Baba, known for his sense of charity and in-depth knowledge of Sikhism, had a huge following across religions, castes, communities and countries. Singh became head of Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera in 1990 following the death of his predecessor Baba Jang Singh. He worked relentlessly to expand the shrine and visited many places in India and abroad to encourage people to donate to the gurdwara, said Gupal Singh, a follower from Peont village.His efforts paid off .From the small shrine it was in 1990, the gurdwara is now spread over 16 acres. It has a huge langer (community kitchen) hall with the capacity to serve meals to hundreds of visitors every day. The campus has residential buildings for about 400 sewadars (volunteers) and visitors, a sprawling lawn and parking lot. According to Satnam Singh, who has been with the Sikh priest since 1995, the Baba also set up two gurdwaras in Ulhasnagar of Mumbai and Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. He is credited with the construction of gurdwara also in Jalandhar district of Punjab. “He was very polite and always available to all. We never saw him angry,” recalled Jasvinder Kaur,70, a follower. She said she has been a regular visitor to Gurdwara Nanaksar Singhera for the past 20 years and he also had followers from the Hindu and Muslim communities. A confidant of the Baba, Satnam Singh, said that on December 9, he had visited the protesting farmers for the first time and donated Rs 5 lakh to farmers’ organisations spearheading the agitation. On December 15, he again visited the protest site and donated blankets to farmers. “After returning from Delhi on late night on December 15 he was very upset and told me that the farmers were being forced to spend their nights in open in harsh winter conditions and the government was insensitive to them”, said Satnam Singh. Satnam Singh said on December 16, the Baba again decided to go to the protest site and that his driver Gurpartap Singh and his aide Manjeet accompanied him. “At the dharna spot, Babaji asked his driver to bring tea... when the driver returned he found Babaji dead with a bullet injury on his forehead... but the driver did not find the weapon,” said Satnam Singh, who hails from UP and who is considered the successor to the Baba.“In fact, Sant ji never carried a weapon with himself,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soft-spoken-altruistic-farmers-followers-pay-respects-to-priest-who-died-by-suicide/story-2Iq9yf3bge24TdZE076YfK.html
18-12-2020||India||Widening of Char Dham road: Govt cites China border link||Dehradun: The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has increased the width of the main Char Dham Road to 7 metres by modifying a 2018 regulation, citing its strategic national importance as a link to the India-China border, restoring it to its original width after the Supreme Court ordered that it be reduced it to 5.5 metres. In the modification to the regulation that dealt with highways in hill areas, the ministry said the width of the main carriageway should be 7 metres. In 2018, the ministry reduced the width of the main carriageway of roads in hilly terrain to a maximum of 5.5 metres to reduce the environmental impact of road development.“For roads in hilly and mountainous terrain which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border or are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7m with 1.5m paved shoulder on either side,” the ministry said in an order issued on Tuesday and made public on Thursday. It added: “The standards prescribed therein have been further reviewed in the Ministry in light of the issues raised by Ministry of Defence.”“We will now be following this new circular with carriageway width of 7 metres. Following these new norms, the total road width would come up to be 10m. Before the Supreme Court’s order in September, the total road width of 10m was being followed,” said VS Khaira, chief engineer at the regional office of MoRTH in Uttarakhand and project in-charge of the Char Dham Road project, He said that through an affidavit filed by the defence ministry in the Supreme Court, the Centre had been able to explain to the court the importance of the road and “we hope that the court will allow us” to build a 10 metre wide road. The Supreme Court in September ruled that the width of the Char Dham highway, an ambitious 900-kilometre project that promises to offer all-weather connectivity to four Hindu pilgrimage centres in Uttarakhand, and the ancillary benefit of facilitating rapid movement of Indian military forces to areas adjoining its border with China, shall not exceed the 5.5 metres specified in 2018 by MoRTH for roads under construction in mountainous terrain.The order came at a time when the Indian Army was locked in a tense military standoff with the People’s Liberation Army of China in the Eastern Ladakh theatre.On December 2, the SC was told by the defence ministry that the court order limiting the width of the Char Dham Road to 5.5 metres posed serious repercussions for the country’s defence preparedness along the border points with China and Nepal.Both the road transport and defence ministries were aggrieved by the SC’s September 8 order mandating that the width be restricted to the 5.5 metres recommended by five members of a 26-member high-powered committee (HPC) headed by Ravi Chopra. The members, part of a faction opposed to the project on environmental grounds, had written to the court on October 5 and November 2 that constant tree felling by the Uttarakhand government was causing landslides along the Char Dham route.The defence ministry, in an affidavit filed in the he Supreme Court on the Char Dham road project, said the national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, Rishikesh to Gangotri and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh were also strategic and feeder roads for the India-China border. These roads are also a part of the Char Dham road project which means their width too can increase. The court asked the HPC to examine the concerns of the two ministries and submit its report within two weeks. The next hearing on the matter is on January 18, 2021.When asked if the new road width would be followed for the whole project, Hemant Dhyani, a member of the faction of the HPC opposed to the project, said: “We have discussed the new circular issued by MoRTH in our recent meeting, but we cannot comment on anything as the matter is subjudice. The HPC will be submitting a report to the Supreme Court within a week’s time.”Environmentalists are opposed to the Central government going ahead with the project in violation of the environment norms and challenged the project in the Supreme Court. The project was separated into 100 parts to escape a comprehensive environmental review by the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee, activists alleged. The government has claimed that it followed all environmental norms.The project is being developed by the Uttarkhand government’s Public Works Department, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO), and National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL). The road will provide all- weather connectivity to the Hindu pilgrim centres of Gangotri, Yamnotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widening-of-char-dham-road-govt-cites-china-border-link/story-8JXEqnYM6L8o2f2AooH5II.html
18-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi calls Congress strategy meet tomorrow, dissenters to attend||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has called a meeting of senior leaders, including a few from the group of 23 dissenters, on Saturday to discuss the party’s strategy for the upcoming assembly elections besides the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the government’s decision not to hold the winter session of Parliament, people familiar with the development said. A Congress functionary said the first in-person meeting between the party chief and senior leaders during the Covid-19 pandemic could extend to Sunday as well. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are also expected to attend the meeting.Among the dissenters, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy Anand Sharma and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda have been called for the meeting to be held at Sonia Gandhi’s 10, Janpath residence. So far, all party meetings during the pandemic have been held virtually. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also been invited to the meeting, said to have been called at the insistence of Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath who had met Sonia Gandhi last week and also interacted with some of the dissenters. Another dissenter and former union minister Shashi Tharoor will also meet the Congress president as he had sought an appointment with her to discuss the local bodies elections in Kerala, the functionary quoted above said. He said party leaders from states going to polls early next year had offered their suggestions on potential alliances and other election-related matters to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi over the past few weeks. Rahul Gandhi had told them that he would convey their suggestions and proposals to the Congress president as he cannot take such important decisions, added the functionary. Assembly elections are scheduled to be held in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Puducherry and Assam in March-April next year. Sonia Gandhi returned to Delhi on December 6 after staying in Goa for over a fortnight following doctors’ advice to shift out of the national capital because of heavy pollution and poor air quality that had aggravated a chest infection. In her upcoming meetings, she is expected to discuss the party’s dismal show in the assembly polls in Bihar and by-polls to 58 seats in 11 states apart from the setbacks in the local bodies’ elections in Rajasthan, a state ruled by the Congress, ane Telangana, Goa, Kerala and Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam. Apart from seeking suggestions on the party’s strategy for the upcoming assembly polls, she will also discuss with her party colleagues the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three new farm laws enacted in September this year and also the government’s decision to skip the winter session of parliament and club it with the budget session that begins at the end of January, the functionary said. A second Congress functionary said Sonia Gandhi was also keen to see an immediate end to the ongoing internal crisis in the party and discuss the steps needed to strengthen the organisation in the wake of a series of electoral setbacks. She wants to bring all the warring leaders together and end the current impasse in the party. “She wants all the leaders to work in close coordination with Rahul Gandhi in strengthening the party,” he said. The second functionary added that the Congress president did not want to isolate the dissenters pushing for an organisational overhaul and internal elections from top to bottom. The group of 23 signatories, also known as G-23, had written to the Congress president in August, seeking a full-time and active leadership and introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. Apart from Azad, Sibal, Sharma, Tharoor and Hooda, the other key signatories included Mukul Wasnik, Jitin Prasada, Manish Tewari and Prithiviraj Chavan. The dissenters reiterated their demand following the party’s poor show in recent elections. However, there has been a visible softening of their stand on both sides after senior leader Ahmed Patel’s death on November 25. The second functionary quoted above said the party’s central election authority (CEA) was in the process of finalising the schedule for the organisational elections. Once that is done, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet to ratify it after which the All India Congress Committee (AICC) session will be held. He said the CEA, mandated under the party constitution to hold the organisational polls, had in its last meeting decided to restrict the electoral college to the AICC members and not include co-opted constituents. It is also in the process of preparing digital identity cards for the AICC members to use them in case the session is held virtually. The functionary said the organisational elections and the AICC session are expected to be held by February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-calls-cong-strategy-meet-tomorrow-dissenters-to-attend/story-wLPctvFQg6WaKDSSeWoqpI.html
18-12-2020||India||India calls for further talks over LAC||New Delhi India on Thursday called for further discussion with China to reach a “mutually acceptable solution” on complete disengagement at all friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) against the backdrop of the nearly eight-month-long border standoff between the two nations in the Ladakh sector. The eighth and most recent round of talks between senior military commanders of India and China was held at Chushul along the LAC on November 6, and the two sides haven’t held any discussions since then as they were unable to bridge reported differences on pulling back troops and armoured vehicles from key friction points. “It is our expectation that further discussions will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the Western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquillity as early as possible,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. Responding to a question on possible talks with China either between diplomats or military officers, Srivastava said several rounds of discussions held so far had led to a better understanding on both sides. “The two sides continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. These discussions have helped both sides to enhance understanding of each other’s positions,” he said. India and China recently blamed each other for the situation along the LAC, where tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in for the winter. New Delhi has maintained that attempts by Chinese troops to unilaterally alter the status quo on the LAC and violation of several agreements for maintaining peace and tranquillity on the disputed border triggered the standoff. External affairs minister S Jaishankar said on December 9 that China had given “five differing explanations” for deploying thousands of soldiers on the LAC and pushing bilateral ties into their most difficult phase ever. He also said ties were “very significantly damaged” by Beijing’s violation of border agreements. In response to another question regarding media reports that a member of the Communist Party of China (CPC) was hired by the Indian consulate in Shanghai through a Chinese state-owned recruitment agency, Srivastava said the ministry wasn’t in a position to independently verify the information. “In certain countries, the hiring of local staff requires the approval of local authorities. However, all our missions and posts ensure due security precautions in this regard,” he added. Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement that such allegations of “CPC infiltration” were groundless and made out of “ideological prejudice”. She added: “The members of the CPC are not ‘monsters’...It is absolutely ridiculous and wantonly smearing to maliciously label CPC members [for] ‘espionage’.” Responding to another question on Indian crew members of cargo vessels stranded at Chinese ports due to the China-Australia trade row, Srivastava said 23 Indian nationals were on board the MV Jag Anand, anchored near Jingtang port in Hebei province since June 13, and another 16 Indian nationals were on board MV Anastasia, anchored near Caofeidian port since September 20. Both vessels were waiting to discharge their cargo. Chinese authorities have said crew change is not permitted at these ports because of Covid-19-related restrictions, and owners of shipping companies and receivers of the cargo were made aware of the delay in unloading the cargo. “The government continues to be in regular touch with Chinese authorities to seek a resolution of these issues at the earliest and to ensure the humanitarian needs of the crew are taken care of,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-calls-for-further-talks-over-lac/story-64R16ztLKl7SCvGrygvLbM.html
18-12-2020||India||In a letter to farmers, Narendra Singh Tomar reiterates assurance on MSP||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday wrote an impassioned letter to farmers protesting against the three farm reform laws, reiterating his commitment to resolve farmers’ issues and again offering a written assurance that the system of state-set minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm commodities will remain place. In the eight-page letter, Tomar said farmers in most parts of the country were happy with the reforms and that confusion had been created by some political forces as part of a conspiracy to derail the laws enacted in September, appealing to the protestors to call off the agitation.“I belong to a farmer’s family and since childhood, I have experienced the tough life of farmers. It is very satisfactory that after implementation of the laws, MSP procurement has set a new record this time,” Tomar said.Tomar didn’t name anyone, but wrote: “A lie is being spread in the name of MSP and Mandis. The fact is that nothing is going to change.”Farmers, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have massed at border entry points to Delhi since November 26 in a massive protest was set off by three laws pushed through by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices. They are also concerned that the government-controlled mandis. or agricultural markets, may be dismantled. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah, claiming a stalemate. The agriculture minister wrote that MSPs and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees that run the mandis will remain in place and the government was ready to offer a written assurance to that effect Tomar alleged that the Congress did not act on recommendations made by a commission headed by agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan t for eight years. “These days, they are working again to create tension. They even questioned our Army and their supreme sacrifice in Leh-Ladakh,” the minister wrote, appealing to the farmers to end the agitation.The farmers’ group spearheading the protest insisted that the laws be withdrawn,“The government (is) repeatedly dishing out old rejected logic. Farmers are ready for talks, but the three Farm Acts and the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 have to be withdrawn,” said Avik Saha of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee.The draft bill has a provision for direct benefit transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly to the agriculture and domestic sectors. Opposition leaders say this will work against the interest of farmers and poor domestic consumers, and insisted that the mode of payment should be left to state governments to decide. The bill also aims to ensure a mandatory minimum purchase of power from renewable sources of energy and enforce stringent penal measures for non-compliance with the provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-letter-to-farmers-tomar-reiterates-assurance-on-msp/story-MLSrylJo2lYvY1EdgkNsrK.html
18-12-2020||India||Ready to help India defend itself, says Israel envoy||New Delhi: Israel won’t be found wanting in meeting India’s requirements to defend itself against all challenges and hostilities though such cooperation is not directed against any other country, Israeli ambassador Ron Malka has said.The normalisation of ties between Israel and key West Asian states such as the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain presents new opportunities for trilateral cooperation with India in areas such as trade and technology, Malka told HT in an interview. In an effort to boost cooperation with India in water management, an area in which Israel possesses the world’s leading technologies and expertise, the country will soon post a “water attaché” at its embassy in New Delhi and undertake an end-to-end project covering 25 villages in a semi-arid region of Uttar Pradesh focused on conservation, purification, recharging groundwater and irrigation techniques, he said. Responding to a question on whether India had made any emergency requests for defence equipment amid the border standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Malka said: “Since we have a strong friendship, whatever India needs from Israel to defend itself, we are there and available to India because this is how we manage our friendships and especially a precious friendship like with India. But I have to stress that we are not against anyone, we have enough [problems of our own], so we are not against anyone but we are in favour of India...and we also trust India and the bold and strong leadership of India, that India knows how to manage its affairs wisely.” He added, “You don’t need us for that, you just need us to share with you the experience and practices since we share similar challenges and similar hostilities. So of course, there is so much we can share but we are not against anyone but only very strongly in favour of India.” India-Israel defence cooperation has advanced from a buyer-seller relationship to a key strategic partnership, Malka said. “We are working on a regular basis with India, sharing research and development, information and experience,” he said. Referring to the Abraham Accords and Israel’s normalisation of ties with the UAE, Bahrain and Morocco, Malka said this has opened new doors for trilateral cooperation. “Given the fact that Israel and the UAE are defined as key strategic partners of India, those distant partners now form relations...and I understand there is a big opportunity for India.” This atmosphere for normalising relations was reflected in the recent decision by Israel and Bhutan to establish diplomatic relations, he said. “Israel is trying to make as many friends as we can, it is part of our vision and values...There have been bilateral relations between Israel and Bhutan for many, many years, this warm freindhsip matured to the stage that we decided to formalise and start a formal relationship between the nations,” he added.Israel, the UAE and India are all focused on innovation and technology, and each country brings “comparative advantages to the table” and a lot of “added value to each other”. Malka pointed out that the Indo-Israeli Chambers of Commerce had opened an international office in Dubai because of the huge potential in trilateral collaboration, and identified water security, food security and health care as potential areas for cooperation. The three countries will work together “to make each other more self-reliant because if there is one lesson that we learnt from this pandemic, every country should be more self-reliant”, he said. To give fresh impetus to Israel’s efforts aimed at water management in India, Israeli foreign minister Gabi Ashkenazi has cleared a long-standing proposal to post a “water attaché” at the embassy in New Delhi. “We have signed a MoU with Uttar Pradesh for a flagship water project that will bring in Israel’s holistic approach for water and agriculture, we are going to work in a semi-arid area with 25 villages on both sides of the equation – the sources and the uses of water – to make it very efficient,” Malka said. A feasibility study for the project will soon be carried out. “It will be successful because it’s a proven concept in Israel. After we finish that, we can just replicate it in many places,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-help-india-defend-itself-says-isreal-envoy/story-kPsYXGcsW399JfB3cJ7puN.html
18-12-2020||India||India, Bangladesh sign 7 pacts, revive railway line||New Delhi: India and Bangladesh signed seven agreements in areas ranging from hydrocarbons to agriculture at a virtual summit on Thursday, a day after the independence anniversary of the latter, and revived a cross-border railway line that was snapped 55 years ago, giving a boost to connectivity initiatives and energy cooperation, . Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his opening remarks at the summit with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina, described Bangladesh as an important pillar of India’s “neighbourhood first” policy. Both countries, Hasina said, could move up global and regional value chains by further integrating their economies, and connectivity initiatives such as the revival of the Chilahati-Haldibari rail link will be catalysts for this process. Hasina used the summit to raise the sharing of Teesta waters and repatriation of Rohingya refugees to Myanmar – two issues on which Dhaka has repeatedly sought greater cooperation with New Delhi. Hasina highlighted the need for the early signing of an interim agreement for sharing Teesta waters, finalised in 2011, and Modi reiterated “India’s sincere commitment and continued efforts” in this regard, according to a joint statement. The agreement on the Teesta, held up by opposition from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, has become an irritant in bilateral ties. Pointing to India’s election as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2021-22, Hasina “expressed Bangladesh’s expectation to see India assist in the repatriation of the forcibly displaced Rohingyas back to Myanmar”, the joint statement said. Modi appreciated Bangladesh’s generosity in sheltering 1.1 million forcibly displaced people from Myanmar’s Rakhine state and both leaders reiterated the importance of their “safe, speedy and sustainable” return. The seven agreements signed on Thursday cover cooperation in the hydrocarbons sector, agriculture and textiles, high impact community development projects to be carried out by India, trans-border elephant conservation, supply of equipment for improving garbage disposal in Bangladesh’s Barishal city, and creation of a CEOs Forum. The agreement on hydrocarbons will help streamline investments, technology transfers and joint studies and promote hydrocarbon connectivity. The two countries agreed to strengthen sub-regional energy cooperation, especially with Nepal and Bhutan, and speed up work on the 130-km India-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline. Both leaders directed officials to speedily conclude a joint study on a comprehensive bilateral economic partnership agreement. Modi began his remarks by greeting Hasina in Bengali on the occasion of Bijoy Dibosh or Victory Day, which marks the surrender of Pakistani forces in Dhaka on December 16, 1971. Hasina, who spoke in Bengali, responded by saying December 17 was a special day for her and her family as it was on that day in 1971 when Major Ashok Tara of the Indian Army freed her, her mother, sister and brother from Pakistani forces. “Bangladesh was freed on December 16, but we were freed on December 17,” she said, paying tribute to three million Bangladeshi martyrs of the war of independence and Indian military personnel killed in action and their families. Tara, then aged 29, had won the Vir Chakra in the battle of Gangasagar when he was assigned the responsibility of freeing the wife and family of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founder of Bangladesh. Tara completed the task with only three more Indian soldiers despite having to take on a numerically superior Pakistani contingent. Modi said strengthening ties with Bangladesh has been of special importance to him since his first day in office, and expressed satisfaction at bilateral cooperation amid the Covid-19 pandemic, including the supply of medicines and equipment. Modi assured Hasina vaccines will be made available to Bangladesh as and when they are produced in India, and also offered a partnership in vaccine production. Hasina referred to several new initiatives, such as trade through rail routes and the first trial run of Indian cargo from Kolkata to northeast India by ship, and said: “We happily recognise the growing dependency of the economies of Bangladesh and India. “A good number of Indian nationals are employed in the manufacturing and service sectors of Bangladesh, and are remittance earners for India. On the other hand, India receives the highest number of tourists and medical patients from Bangladesh.” The two leaders virtually inaugurated the revived rail link, which was snapped during the 1965 war with Pakistan and will connect Assam to Bangladesh via West Bengal, launched a stamp on Bangabandhu Mujibur Rahman, and inaugurated a digital exhibition of Rahman and Mahatma Gandhi focusing on their contributions to the independence movements of the two countries. The joint statement said the filming of a biopic on Rahman, being directed by Shyam Benegal, will begin in January. The two sides also discussed key issues such as terrorism and border management, including Bangladesh’s concerns about the death of its nationals in incidents along the frontier. “Recognising that terrorism remains a threat to global peace and security, both sides reiterated their strong commitment to eliminating terrorism in all its forms and manifestations,” the joint statement said. Modi and Hasina agreed to complete border fencing in all pending sectors of the border at the earliest, beginning from the Tripura sector. “Both leaders also agreed that loss of civilian lives at the border is a matter of concern and directed the border forces concerned to enhance coordinated measures to work towards bringing such border incidents to zero,” it added.The Bangladesh side sought the early implementation of India’s commitment to remove remaining restrictions on use of land ports by Bangladeshi travellers in a phased manner, beginning with checkpoints in Tripura and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-sign-7-pacts-revive-railway-line/story-sVN6uVKCr6brQUDRuS1gMI.html
18-12-2020||India||Row over Rahul Gandhi’s walkout from House panel meeting escalates||A political row between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress escalated on Thursday over Rahul Gandhi’s walkout from a meeting of Parliament’s standing committee on defence in protest on Wednesday, with Union minister Prakash Javadekar saying Gandhi had insulted constitutional institutions even as the former Congress president wrote to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to allow MPs to speak freely.In his letter to Birla, Gandhi said he was “not allowed to speak freely” and sought the speaker’s intervention in protecting the rights of elected members, people familiar with the development said. Gandhi, according to a Congress leader, gave a blow-by-blow account of the proceedings and also the circumstances that prompted him and other party colleagues to walk out of the meeting. Javadekar said Gandhi has remained mostly absent from the committee’s meetings in the past, and that the proceedings of the parliamentary panels are not for delivering speeches or staging political protests. “He has attended only two out of the 14 meetings in the last one-and-a-half years and did not disclose his desired agenda for discussion as he was absent in the meeting to finalise the agenda,” he said in a media briefing. “Rahul Gandhi remains absent and then blames the government and all procedures,” the minister added. “He himself is not attending the meetings and conveying desired agenda, and then making imputation of not discussing important issues is an insult to all parliamentary procedures and constitutional institutions,” Javadekar said, pointing out that such meetings are meant to be confidential.Gandhi, a Lok Sabha member from Wayanad in Kerala, said he was “repeatedly prevented” from speaking by panel chairman Jual Oram. “It is the right of a member to point out digressions from the agenda and the purpose of the standing committee. The committee is free to disagree with what I say, but the fact that the chairman does not even permit a member to speak is a sad comment on how the government handles military affairs,” the Congress cited above leader quoted Gandhi as having said in the letter. Gandhi urged the speaker to protect the rights of elected members to speak freely in parliamentary panel meetings and ensure that the discussions and presentations in the panel on defence are in consonance with its role and objectives. Gandhi and two other members of his party – Rajeev Satav and Anumula Revanth Reddy – had walked out of the meeting on Wednesday, alleging that the panel’s time was being wasted in discussing armed forces’ uniform instead of the crucial issue of national security. The Congress leader said that Gandhi also expressed surprise in the letter that the panel chose to discuss “uniforms in the current military situation”, and claimed that he had given in writing that discussion should be held on India’s strategy against China’s aggressive posture; response to China’s reusable autonomous armed drones; and the agreement on the purchase of Rafale aircraft, among other issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-rahul-walkout-from-house-panel-meeting-escalates/story-WUE1hYyDnnnSaXlo5LVYzH.html
18-12-2020||India||Able to find time for ‘actor’s riyaz’: Anupriya||Anupriya Goenka had a scary start to the lockdown. She was shooting for the sequel of digital show ‘Criminal Justice’ when shooting was stopped. “The shoot halted on March 15, so I wanted to quarantine for two weeks before I went to see my parents who live in Thane, while I stay in Versova. I did not want to come in contact with them for some days. And then, the lockdown began,” the Kanpurite said.It was a tough phase for her as she was not keeping well. “I was having breathlessness, bodyache and all. Now, I realise it was just over-exertion. But then, I did not know what to do as there was so much news of the virus around. When I spoke to a few doctors, they said I should wait and watch. I did what best I could do like steam-inhalation, washing hands and quarantining myself. It was a difficult time with a bit of fear but it passed,” said the ‘Padmaavat’ and ‘Airlift’ actor.She is not stepping out of her house at all and is managing well with her house-help. “I had a lot of pending paperwork to finish from the time when I was pursuing my father’s business in Delhi and Kanpur. I wrapped up his business when I was still in college. Then I de-cluttered my own papers,” she said.The UPite has shot for Prakash Jha’s series ‘Ashram’ in Ayodhya. “The series is complete and in post-production. I have shot for the film ‘Mere Desh Ki Dharti’ with Divendu Sharma and some little work is left in it. We were in the last schedule of ‘Criminal’ and I hope after shootings start once again, this will be the first thing we do. Besides, there were three-four projects which were supposed to start in April, others in May-June,” she said.Her film ‘War’ released in February, which was followed by the OTT series ‘Asur’. “I am happy both the projects did very well. After doing good business in theatre ‘War’ did great in the digital space too,” she said.These days, Anupriya is doing an ‘actor’s riyaz’ which she was not able to on normal days., “I have been reading books on acting, watching ‘master-classes’, working on some accents and am also practising voice modulation. All these are an actor’s ‘riyaz’ that I always wanted to do and was not able to find time. I wanted to pick up painting which I have not been able to yet, but will do some sketching soon,” she promised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/able-to-find-time-for-actor-s-riyaz-anupriya/story-Mt2fxVZMmrRsz321PVx5vN.html
