19-12-2020||India||India bans Covid-19 rapid antigen test kits by Korean company for 7 days||India’s apex drug and medical device regulator – the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) – has announced a seven-day ban on the import, sale, and distribution of the rapid antigen kits manufactured by the South Korean company SD Biosensors for not complying with the minimum requirement of sensitivity and specificity. The CDSCO had served a show-cause notice to the company asking why their import licence should not be cancelled or suspended. For any rapid antigen test kit to get approval for sale and use in India, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) requires it to have a minimum specificity of 95% and sensitivity of 50%. The regulator did not find the company’s response that “sample collection or procedural error during testing which has resulted in the non-compliance” satisfactory. Soon after, a notice was sent to all state drug controllers to recall all the kits of the particular batch number that was found to be faulty on December 7. A copy of the order is with HT. “Therefore, in public interest, under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and Rules thereunder, you are hereby directed to recall the product Standard Q Covid-19 Antigen test lot no. ….and to inform all to whom same has been distributed or supplied to stop further use of it with immediate effect,” the order reads. “And, also you shall not further import or sale or distribute the product Standard Q Covid-19 Antigen Test for a period of seven days,” the order says further. This was the first rapid antigen kit to hit the market in mid-June, which debuted in Delhi when the government was looking to scale up testing fast amid a surge in the number of cases. In an initial assessment by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the kits were found to have a specificity of 99.3% to 100% and sensitivity ranging from 50.6% to 84%. With around 80% of the tests being conducted using the rapid antigen tests, the Delhi government was later criticised as the low sensitivity means that the tests can give a negative report for up to half of all the positive patients. Despite the kits being found to have a lower sensitivity and specificity than the existing norms, the industry body alleged that the government was favouring the company. “ICMR has approved 14 manufacturers for the corona rapid antigen tests with above specifications (Sensitivity 50% and specificity 95%) and various government agencies have purchased (these)…. How come the tender specifications have been modified to now suit only one Korean manufacturer SD Biosensor,” said a letter to the ICMR director general Dr Balaram Bhargava from the Association of the Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMED) on Saturday. “The ministry of health and other states were procuring the rapid antigen kits from the government marketplace, with the tenders not stating any minimum requirement of sensitivity or specificity. This means anyone approved by ICMR could apply. “From two weeks now, the government has changed this to a minimum 85% sensitivity, which is more than the 80% requirement of the US FDA as well. Now, there is only one company SD Biosensor that qualifies,” said one of the manufacturers of the kits. “The company had monopolised the market initially, when there were no India kits for the want of patient samples. And, it will do so again. The prices had been brought down from Rs 500 per kit to Rs 50 per kit,” the person said. The company is yet to respond to queries sent on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bans-covid-19-rapid-antigen-test-kits-by-korean-company-for-7-days/story-WEsjijSftq445ofFUKgjlL.html
19-12-2020||India||My competition has always been with myself: Shilpa Shinde||‘Bigg Boss-11’ winner and ‘Bhabhi Ji Ghar Par Hai’ actor Shilpa Shinde says that she is happier sitting back at home than repeating herself. “For me it has always been about job satisfaction. I don’t do projects for money. My competition has always been with myself only. I have been working since 1999, so I am okay sitting back at home than working just for sake of it,” said the actor on her visit to Lucknow. Shinde gains confidence from her successes. “My shows have been in good TRP range and then ‘Bhabhi Ji…’ happened followed by ‘BB-11’ which I won. I was flooded with offers like ‘Angoori Bhabhi’ but I never repeat myself. I am always like — what better can I do now to set a higher benchmark. When not working, I have so many things to do in personal life. Besides, I keep organising garment workshops and my team keep holding lifestyle exhibitions,” she said.She prefers to keep a gap between her shows. “After ‘Waaris’ and ‘Mayka’ I took a two-year gap before ‘Chidiya Garh’ (and ‘Lapataganj’) happened. Then, after two years it was ‘Bhabi Ji…’ and similar was the gap between them and BB-11.” After that, she did a short stint in stand-up comedy show ‘Gangs of Filmistan’. “I did this small stint which was not a good show.” She prefers not to talk about BB but is amused that her name keeps cropping up in every season.On her upcoming show, she said, “I was not able to find anything interesting and then ‘Paurashpur’ came to me — it’s a historical show with a lot of scheming, mystery, thrill, intimate scenes and politics. It was a different level of experience. I am a daily soap actor while here playing a queen. It was about controlling emotions and expressions. So, I worked as per the director’s vision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/my-competition-has-always-been-with-myself-shilpa-shinde/story-SW0uUtAYhVidXqb9sZQD8I.html
19-12-2020||India||Food joints hope to ring in New Year with a plateful of biz||After a slow start in the unlock phase, Lucknow’s dine-in and food delivery service has started warming up, courtesy the festival season. With Christmas festivities just few days away and people ready to ring in 2021, the food and beverage industry is looking forward to a positive start. A quick evening stroll at city’s popular joints gives an insight on how restaurants are geared up to welcome the guests and serve them. On a positive note, popular joint Royal Café has increased its capacity to 60% of its original capacity. “Thermal scans, touch-free cooking menu, sanitised plates on warmers, covered glasses and back-end sanitisation is giving confidence to our patrons. In October-November we had 45% footfall which has now reached to 75%. We hope within a fortnight we will clock 90% covers,” said its corporate chef, Saurabh Sinha.The welcome desk at Boombox greets with thermal scanning followed by taking note of contact details. Hand sanitisers and foot-mats are in place. Every table has pouch sanitiser. “Staffed is daily scanned for temperature and blood-oxygen level. We encourage patrons for barcode scanning menu, contactless service and digital payment. Following protocols, we were sold-off on Halloween and we expect same on X’mas and New Year days,” said its co-partner Gaurav Singh.Visit Oudh Gymkhana Club, members and guests have to go through scanning and sanitising. The food and bar staff members are seen wearing face shield, mask and gloves. The tables setting are spread out at the sprawling club.Klub Bigg Boss and Sura Vie restaurant owner RK Jaiswal says it has been an up and down journey so far. “My hotel has given a good business in marriage season but at food business is still unpredictable. After Diwali season there has been a slight dip. We hope with news of vaccines coming early, cases going down and new year festivities ahead there is some positivity,” he said.To increase footfall and get volumes Chill & Grill restaurant has floated candle light dinners. “We have launched pocket friend menu meals for dine-in and home delivery. We have introduced membership schemes which enable patrons to get subsidized rates for food and drinks throughout the year,” said consultant chef Zulfiqar Hussain.Recently opened joint Home Sweet Home has started getting packed house during daytime and have introduced events in evening hoping better results, said Radhika Halwasia.Food joint Handi Haat, that opened in the unlock phase, too is witnessing positive sales. “We have expanded our menu and introduced some good regional cuisine for foodies,” said Sumit Ghosh.As years comes to end their lot of optimism. “Industry is recovering and we hope to better sales towards the end of the month and in 2021,” said Manoj Bachani of Richi Rich restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/food-joints-hope-to-ring-in-new-year-with-a-plateful-of-biz/story-c9B8uqbiuYjW1bzDqyLjQO.html
19-12-2020||India||Congress fumes as RJD leader takes a dig at Rahul Gandhi in Bihar||Cracks have appeared in the relationship between the Congress and the RJD in Bihar after senior RJD leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Shivanand Tiwary once again took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said that “he (Rahul Gandhi) is unable to inspire confidence in the public”. This is the second time in two months that Tiwary has targeted Rahul Gandhi leaving the Congress fuming. Earlier in November, Tiwary, an outspoken leader, had attacked the Congress for its poor show in the Bihar assembly polls and targeted Rahul for vacationing in Shimla amid the electoral battle even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a dozen rallies. Rahul Gandhi addressed only eight rallies throughout the three-week long poll campaign for the three-phase election, which ended on November 7. “Rahul Gandhi has never shown any inclination to possess traits of a full-time political worker. He’s unable to inspire confidence in the public. A section of Congress party has vested interests and supports Rahul Gandhi for party’s national president,” said Tiwary, RJD’s national vice president and advised Congress president Sonia Gandhi to overcome “putra moh” (weakness for her son) in deciding her political successor. “This statement is uncalled for and unwarranted. This is not expected from a leader of an alliance partner. I will request Tejashwi Yadav to take note of the statement and remove Tiwary from the party who is speaking the language of the BJP. His statement has created great resentment among Congress leaders. We will wait and see what action Tejashwi Yadav takes,” said senior Congress leader and MLC Premchandra Mishra. Not only that, Tiwary also slammed Congress general secretary and Bihar in-charge Randeep Surjewala for his claim that that almost 100 per cent of party members want Rahul Gandhi to be the party president. “It is not right to put out such numbers before any actual elections and this undermines the democratic principles of an institution,” said Tiwary. However, the RJD leader admired the “spirit of sacrifice” demonstrated by Gandhi in 2004 when she chose not to become the prime minister despite having the mandate. “I had a chance to meet Sonia Gandhi first when Lalu Yadav was a member of the Union cabinet. I was struck by the serenity on her face. She had revived her party which was left by Sitaram Kesri in a bad shape,” Tiwary said. “The choice before Sonia Gandhi today is not between her son and the party but her son and democracy itself. The Congress, which even now is more potent than any regional party, is capable of taking on a hegemonic BJP. But Rahul Gandhi has always come across as an “anichhuk” (reluctant) leader. He simply cannot inspire his supporters,” Tiwary said. The Congress won only 19 seats out of 70 seats it contested. A section of the RJD, preferring anonymity believes that the Congress was responsible for non-formation of the government in Bihar. Tiwary clarified that his opinion about Congress is not with any malafide intention. “We want the Congress to get stronger. Today, democracy is in danger especially the way civil liberties are being curbed and democratic voices are being suppressed in the country under the BJP rule. But I feel the Congress is not making any concerted effort in this direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-fumes-as-rjd-leader-takes-a-dig-at-rahul-gandhi-in-bihar/story-iuSXzR6kQVCg5XTdUkxWtK.html
19-12-2020||India||Manipur sees cold spell with sharp dip in temperatures||Manipur has begun to experience cold weather with the mercury plunging to 2.29 degrees Celsius in Senapati on Saturday, according to reports of the climate change cell of the Directorate of Environment, Government of Manipur.Chilly winds have been sweeping Imphal valley since the last three days after the temperature suddenly dropped in both the hill and valley districts unlike the second week of December this year.The minimum temperature in Imphal decreased to 3.92 degrees Celsius on Saturday against Friday’s 7.3 degrees Celsius, as per reports. Residents in Imphal have been witnessing chilly winds for the last two days.Normally, cold weather is seen in Manipur during December-end and first week of January since the last few years, weather report observers in Imphal said. The minimum temperature in the state has been hovering around 5-7 degrees Celsius since the past few days. The state’s maximum temperature on Saturday was recorded at Noney (27.77 degree Celsius).According to the weather report of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Guwahati of the Indian Meteorological Department through its website the minimum temperature recorded in Imphal on Saturday was 3.2 degree Celsius.The temperature has gradually dipped in Imphal since Thursday (7.5 degrees Celsius) and Friday (6.0 degrees C), sources in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Manipur Centre at Lamphelpat said. The minimum temperature recorded at its centre on Saturday was 4.4 degrees Celsius.Cold weather conditions were also reported from other hill towns of the state. With the sudden fall in temperature, consumption of charcoal and electric heaters to keep warm is on the rise, according to traders in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-sees-cold-spell-with-sharp-dip-in-temperatures/story-mg2LgAK3TFqbBClTzCEO0J.html
19-12-2020||India||What is shigella infection reported in Kerala? All you need to know||As Kerala is battling with Covid-19, a new bacterial infection has been reported from the state spreading fear as the infection can be fatal and is believed to be contagious.An 11-year-old boy has died of the infection and many are reporting the symptoms.Here is all you need to know about this new infection in Kerala:1. The name of the bacteria is Shigella and the infection is known as shigellosis.2. Symptoms include diarrhoea, fever, stomach cramps which can last for seven days. Treatment is generally done through antibiotics, which can shorten the duration of the illness.3. Shigella bacteria spread from one person to another person through various means — even after the infected person is cured of diarrhoea.4. It takes a small number of bacteria to make someone ill.5. Contaminated food, water are the source of the infection.6. The presence of the bacteria is generally confirmed through a stool test.7. Like in the case of Covid-19, this infection can be prevented by maintaining proper hygiene. Washing hands properly is known to ward off the bacteria.8. The bacteria spreads not only through surfaces — touching an infected surface and then touching the mouth — but also from eating food prepared by someone carrying the infection.9. Though people of all ages can get infected, children are more susceptible to the infection. In Kerala too, those who have reported the infection are mostly children. People who are travelling are also vulnerable to the infection as they may get exposed to contaminated water during travelling. Sexual contact with those infected can also cause the disease.10. This is not the first time the infection has been reported in Kerala. In 2019, the bacteria was found in Koyilandy following which the schools were asked to monitor mid-day meal hygiene. 40 children of the West Lower Primary School, Keezhppayyur, were hospitalised in 2019, with similar symptoms.As health officials in Kerala are looking into the present outbreak and are sanitising the local water bodies, it has been found that those who are presently suffering from the disease somehow came in touch with the 11-year-old boy. They had either attended the boy’s funeral or had food from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-shigella-infection-reported-in-kerala-all-you-need-to-know/story-FZ6idraMxFZQnqVFlraowN.html
19-12-2020||India||North Kerala on high alert after 11-yr-old boy dies due to shigella bacterial infection||North Kerala has been put on high alert after an 11-year-old boy died and 20 suspected cases of shigella bacterial infection were reported in Kozhikode on Saturday, district medical officer Dr Jayashree said. She said the death took place two days back and later 20 people with symptoms, mild diaorrhea and fever, were admitted in various hospitals. Most of the infected were people who came in direct contact with the deceased.State health minister K K Shailaja said the health department will conduct a health camp in the area in a couple of days and investigation is on to locate the main source of the infection. She said health experts have said the infection spread through water and food and keeping good hygiene was the primary way to check the spread.What is shigella infection reported in Kerala? All you need to knowWorried health authorities have super chlorinated all water bodies in the area on Friday. Last year over 40 children of the West Lower Primary School, Keezhppayyur, were hospitalised after they complained of vomiting and diaorrhea. The presence of shigella bacteria was confirmed in the stool samples of at least two of these students, who recovered later. Later the district health department traced the presence of the bacteria from the water body in the siblings’ house. According to health experts, shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by the shigella bacteria, which triggers stomach pain, diaorrhea and fever in those infected. Though a worldwide problem, shigella is more often seen in developing countries, especially in crowded locations such as schools, day care centres, nursing homes or regions with poor sanitation. In some cases, people infected with the shigella bacteria do not have symptoms, but are still contagious. Besides water, there is a possibility that the bacteria spread through contaminated food, though the chances of that are less in this case, said officials. The health department has directed the community medicine department to reinvestigate each case and submit a report at the earliest. Health experts said the infection is not that deadly but if it is ignored it will aggravate the health condition and the patient may die of dehydration and exhaustion. But if ignored it may pose serious problems. “It has already been diagnosed. It is not a serious threat. We have to maintain personal hygiene,” said Dr C Anoop Kumar, head of the critical care unit in Baby Memorial hospital in Kozhikode. He was one among the first to diagnose the Nipah virus two years ago The deadly Nipah virus cases were reported in the district two years ago but it was localized and contained effectively though it claimed 17 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-kerala-on-high-alert-after-11-yr-old-boy-dies-due-to-shigella-bacterial-infection/story-yQLHW08dO9W4K23ue9cyeL.html
19-12-2020||India||E Palaniswami launches Tamil Nadu poll campaign from Salem||Tamil Nadu chief minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) co-coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched the party’s 2021 assembly elections campaign from his home constituency of Edappadi in Salem district by highlighting his government’s achievements. The AIADMK, having won two straight assembly elections under their late leader J Jayalalithaa, is aiming for a third term in power. This is the first time that Palaniswami will contest as the chief ministerial candidate.The CM started his day-long campaign by praying at Sendraya Perumal temple in Periyasoragai village in Salem district and inaugurated an ‘Amma mini clinic’. He completed his speech by appealing to people to vote for the two-leaves symbol. Addressing his supporters from an open van, which had a portrait of six-time chief minister Jayalalaithaa, he listed his government’s achievements in education, agriculture, water management, among other fields. The CM emphasised the government’s work in bringing the novel coronavirus under control in Tamil Nadu, which he said received praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He added that they realised the dream of poor students by carving out a 7.5% reservation in medical colleges for government school students who cleared National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET).Palaniswami also promised a hamper for Pongal, a multi-day harvest festival which falls in mid-January, in Tamil Nadu to 2.6 crore people holding ration cards. They will receive Rs 2,500 in cash along with raw rice, cashew, sugar, grapes, cardamom, sugarcane and a cloth bag. Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP Kanimozhi symbolically launched her campaign trail from Edappadi but the chief minister said that this region has been an AIADMK bastion and will remain so. “I didn’t expect to become chief minister, it is a God-given opportunity for me,” said Palaniswami. “After Amma’s death, the opposition was criticising that our government will fall in a month or two but we have ruled for four years amidst several challenges.”The AIADMK announced Palaniswami as its chief ministerial candidate after days of power struggle between Palaniswami and deputy chief minister and party’s coordinator O Panneerselvam in early October. The party is in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), actor Vijayakanth’s Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK), Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and Puthiya Thamizhagam which was formed ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. AIADMK leaders have said that they will continue in this alliance. After the DMK and Kamal Haasan’s MNM, the AIADMK is the third party to have hit the campaign trail. Haasan will start the second phase of his campaign on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/e-palaniswami-launches-tamil-nadu-poll-campaign-from-salem/story-isdfMX5sDJYHbEyrpWgoEN.html
19-12-2020||India||Military intelligence helps Kolkata Police bust illegal telephone exchange||The Kolkata Police have been receiving inputs from the Military Intelligence Unit in Lucknow about an illegal telephone exchange that was being run from Howrah with the help of SIM boxes. On Saturday a team comprising officers from the city police’s Special Task Force, Kasba police station and Howrah Police arrested a 38-year-old man identified as Sunil Shaw from a hideout on Beni Madhab Mukherjee Lane in Howrah. Six SIM boxes each having 16 to 64 SIM slots, adaptors, cables, two laptops, 175 SIM cards and a smart phone were seized by the raiding team. A SIM box routes international calls as local calls, allowing the box’s operator to bypass international rates charged by local mobile network operators. The SIM boxes are fitted with hundreds of GSM SIM cards procured using fake IDs. “Such an illegal exchange set up using illegal SIM boxes may serve as an illegitimate channel through which communication is made that may compromise the security of the nation as they evade regular gateways. They also rob the department of telecommunication of revenue,” said a senior officer of the STF. This is not the first time that such illegal telephone exchanges being run with SIM boxes have been busted in the country. In May this year, the crime branch of Mumbai Police broke up an illegal telephone exchange racket. A probe revealed that several calls were made to defence establishments in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). In February this year, a similar racket was found in Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Changaramkulam in Kerala. Police seized a total of eight SIM boxes and recovered 686 SIM cards from the raids in the two cities. “Further investigation is on,” said a senior STF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-intelligence-helps-kolkata-police-bust-illegal-telephone-exchange/story-s1V2KHWbbPxb82xPUqZc3H.html
19-12-2020||India||Gaya shivers at 3.6 degrees Celsius, cold wave alert for 2 days in parts of Bihar||The Patna Meteorological Centre (PMC) on Saturday issued an orange warning regarding cold wave conditions in various parts of Bihar for the next two days.Icy winds coming from the northern hilly regions made the mercury dip by 5 to 6 degrees in the state. Gaya shivered at 3.6°C, which was six notches below the season’s normal and remained the coldest place in the state with the lowest minimum temperature.According to the daily bulletin issued, Dehri recorded a minimum temperature of 4.5°C, Madhubani 5.9°C, Patna 6°C, Purnea 7.2°C and Muzaffarpur 7.5°C.The weather department said cold wave conditions prevailed in Gaya which recorded 3.6°C on Saturday and 5.1°C on Friday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lower than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Another parameter to ascertain cold wave conditions is when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in the plains.Weather official SK Patel at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, “Northern hilly regions have experienced heavy snowfall which has made the mercury drop to around 0°C. Icy north easterly winds have entered Bihar region resulting in a significant fall in minimum and maximum temperature.”“Even in the presence of medium sunlight, bone-chilling wind in likely to blow in the state. Minimum temperature in the state is likely to hover around 8 to 9°C.Residents are advised to stay indoors and take precautionary measures,” he added.Meanwhile, Patna district administration recently distributed blankets to the poor and firewood for public bonfires.District magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi inspected altogether 27 night shelters in the district and found the arrangements satisfactory.“Blankets have been distributed among the poor and homeless near railway stations. We have arranged for public bonfires at 40 places in the city including Mahavir Mandir, IGIMS Hospital, Langar Toli and Biscomaun,” said Ravi.As per data available with the state disaster management department, over 20 lakh people were affected due to the cold wave across the state last December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gaya-shivers-at-3-6-degrees-celsius-cold-wave-alert-for-2-days-in-parts-of-bihar/story-CoReak1ms0aQQ8s4ADVnxM.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal to lead farmers’ march, quits 3 Parliament panels||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal, an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from Rajasthan, on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws, adding that the party will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 in support of farmers. The route for the Delhi march is yet to be decided but the party claimed that around two lakh people will join them in the effort. “I am a son of a farmer and I have also supported farmers. Immediately after completing local panchayat elections on December 12 we launched a march for Shahjahanpur and had given an ultimatum to the Centre. Today, the deadline has ended after which my party has decided that we will launch a march towards Delhi on December 26 via Shahjahanpur border in which two lakhs farmers and youngsters will participate. The Central government is in the mood to muscle down the farmers’ protest. But this is the issue of sustenance and pride of farmers and we are standing with them,” said Beniwal while addressing a press conference at his residence. The MP from Nagaur was a member of the Standing Committee on Industry, Consultative Committee, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Committee on Petitions. Beniwal said that we are demanding that the government should implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendations so that farmers’ condition can be improved. “The government should roll back the farm laws. When the bills were discussed in Parliament, I was detected Covid positive. Otherwise, I would have torn the copy of the law. This is the time that the Prime Minister should listen to the farmers and get their blessings. He should not take this protest lightly. A saint died by suicide because of the issue,” the RLP chief added. On BJP’s hard stance amid protests, Beniwal said there is no farmer leader in the BJP and that’s why they are not able to understand farmers’ pain. A BJP spokesperson said that the RLP is supporting the protesting farmers to gain political mileage. “The BJP government is dedicated to the welfare of the farmers and majority of them are with us. The RLP had initially supported the farm laws and now taking a U-turn to gain political mileage,” he said on condition of anonymity. State Congress spokesperson Nitin Agarwal said that there is a lot of difference between what Beniwal says and what he does. “Initially, he supported the farmers’ law and now he is against the bills. There is a contradiction in his statements. If he really wants farmers’ benefit then just like the Akali Dal, he should break the alliance with the NDA,” he said. On being asked about his initial support to the farm bills, Beniwal said he had supported the ordinance which was not a detailed one. “But once I read the farm laws, I came to know that they are totally against the interest of farmers, that’s why I am against it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ally-hanuman-beniwal-to-lead-farmers-march-quits-3-parliament-panels/story-K6OVsEOqKmUn2l2zA6QS2L.html
19-12-2020||India||‘No justification for seizures,’ says Omar Abdullah on ED action on Farooq Abdullah||After the Enforcement Directorate attached asset worth Rs 11.86 crore of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Saturday, his son, National Conference leader and also former CM Omar Abdullah said there can be no justification for the action. “They fail the very basic test of having been acquired as the proceeds of the ‘crime’ being investigated,” he tweeted.The ED on Saturday said it has attached Farooq Abdullah’s properties totaling to Rs 12 crore in a case of funds laundering of Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association. The attached properties include three residential houses, one at Gupkar road, Srinagar; one at Tehsil Katipora, Tanmarg, and one at Bhatindi, Sunjwan(Jammu); commercial buildings at posh Residency Road area of Srinagar. Lands at four different places in J&K have also been attached.Omer Abdullah said these properties are largely ancestral, dating from the 1970s. The most recent one among these were built before 2003.“Dr Abdullah is in touch with his lawyers & will fight all these baseless charges in the one place that matters - a court of law, where everyone is presumed to be innocent and is entitled to a fair trial unlike in the court of the media or the court of BJP-managed social media,” he tweeted.He also alleged that the news was published before Farooq Abdullah was given any official notice. “My father has seen the media reports regarding attachment of his properties in the ongoing investigation in to the JKCA matter. Not surprisingly the media was tipped off regarding the seizure before he had received any official notice or documentation,” he wrote.Farooq Abdullah served as the chief minister of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state for several years since 1982. His last stint as the CM was between 1996 and 2002.He was the president of JKCA from 2006 to 2012. The ED has claimed to have found that Farooq Abdullah “misused his position and clout by illegal appointments of office bearer to whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering JKCA funds”.“Despite existing regular bank account of JKCA, six new bank account were opened for parking of JKCA funds and siphoning of the same. One dormant bank account in the name of Kashmir Wing of JKCA was also made operational for the same purposed,” the ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-justification-for-seizures-says-omar-abdullah-on-ed-action-on-farooq-abdullah/story-rskFUdWL4DXXQJ4vExnXqM.html
19-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Court seeks Rajasthan govt’s reply on work in jails given on caste lines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Court seeks Rajasthan govt’s reply on work in jails given on caste linesTaking note of a report that prisons in Rajasthan were allocating work to inmates based on their castes, the Rajasthan High Court has sought the government’s response and called for a complete overhaul of the “archaic” rule book. Read more12 nations reached out to India for Covid vaccine: NITI Aayog’s VK PaulIndia has received requests for vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from 12 countries, said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul on Saturday during the meeting of the high-level group of ministers (GoM) on Covid-19. Read moreJ-K Cricket Association money laundering case: ED attaches assets worth Rs 11.86 crore of National Conference president Farooq AbdullahThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday attached assets worth Rs 11.86 crores of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah in connection with the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) money laundering case. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘People who want to relate this to comfort zone should get a reality check,’ Virat Kohli feels India’s performance ‘not alarming’A dejected Virat Kohli admitted India’s batting performance on Day 3 of the Adelaide Test against Australia was by far the worst he has been part of it, but urged people not to make a ‘mountain out of a molehill’ as his team suffered a crushing eight-wicket defeat to Australia on Saturday. Read moreSmriti Irani shares selfie, Neena Gupta and Mouni Roy reactIf you follow Smriti Irani on Instagram, you may be aware that she often shares snippets of her life on the platform. Read moreKareena Kapoor reveals mom Babita sent her off to boarding school after she broke a lock, snuck out to meet a boyKareena Kapoor Khan said that she was put in a boarding school in Dehradun by her mother Babita Kapoor when she got a ‘bit too naughty and rebellious’. Read more‘Even during pandemic, India got...’: PM Modi on foreign investors’ trustPrime Minister Narendra Modi virtually attended the ASSOCHAM Foundation Week 2020 on December 19. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-court-seeks-rajasthan-govt-s-reply-on-work-in-jails-given-on-caste-lines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-pxd4i6zfIAc49qOAzKWOpJ.html
19-12-2020||India||India capable of appropriate response to transgression on borders: Rajnath Singh||India has the strength for an appropriate response to any transgression or unilateral action on the borders but believes in finding a peaceful solution to any conflict, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday against the backdrop of the border standoff with China. Singh made the remarks while addressing a combined graduation parade at the Indian Air Force Academy at Dundigal in Telangana, a day after India and China agreed to hold another meeting of senior military commanders to take forward disengagement and de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector. “You are all aware of the Indo-China standoff in the northern sector. China’s attitude amid a crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic reflects that country’s intention,” Singh said, speaking in Hindi after reviewing the passing-out parade. “However, we have shown that our India is no longer a weak India. This is a new India that has the strength to give an appropriate and complete reply to any type of transgression or aggression or any type of unilateral action of the borders,” he added. Several big countries, he said, had praised and supported the steps taken by India. “You will also be aware that we believe in finding a peaceful solution to any conflict through dialogue,” he said. India and China are holding talks through military and diplomatic channels, he noted. “I would like to again say on this occasion that we want peace, not conflict. But we will not tolerate any attempt to hurt the self-respect of the country. We are fully prepared to deal with any kind of situation,” he said. Following a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, there were no signs of an immediate breakthrough but the external affairs ministry said the two sides had agreed to hold another meeting of military commanders at an early date. During his speech, Singh also criticised Pakistan for fighting a “proxy war” using terrorists even after being defeated in four conventional wars with India. Referring to last year’s air strike on Balakot within Pakistan, carried out in retaliation for a suicide bombing at Pulwama by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), he said this had shown that India is capable to targeting terrorists outside the country’s borders. “In the same way in the western sector, on the borders with Pakistan, our neighbour is always up to some nefarious activities. Even after being defeated in not one but four wars, Pakistan is fighting a proxy war through terrorism. Our army, security forces and police are fighting the challenge of terrorism with full strength,” he said. “India is taking effective action against terrorists not only within the country but on the borders and even across the borders. By taking effective action against terrorism in Balakot, the Indian Air Force showed the whole world India’s military strength and determination to fight terrorism,” he said. Singh told the cadets who passed out of the academy that the ways of fighting wars are constantly changing and they would have to be scholars and soldiers to fight the wars of the future using advanced technologies and military strategies. “The scope of these challenges too has become comprehensive. The challenges before the country are not just on the borders and on the seas, but they can come through space and cyberspace,” he said. “I believe that defence in the coming days will not be limited to defence of the seas, land and air, this will be a dynamic challenge for which we will have to prepare ourselves.” Singh added: “I advise you to learn from history, know the present and prepare for the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-capable-of-appropriate-response-to-transgression-on-borders-rajnath-singh/story-Sc979ngDWSEqcxS3TTfotM.html
19-12-2020||India||Next round of talks with farmers could be held in the next 2-3 days, says Haryana CM after meeting Tomar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that the central government and protesting farmers’ union leaders will sit for another round of discussions over the recently passed farm bills. Khattar held a meeting with union minister Narendra Singh Tomar to discuss the ongoing protests. The protests which have been going on at the Delhi-Haryana border at Singhu has entered its 25th day and the government expects that the solution can only be achieved through discussions between both parties. “I believe that the talk could be held in the next 2-3 days. A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon,” Khattar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Khattar’s meeting with Tomar comes a day after former Union minister and BJP senior leader Chaudhary Birender Singh participated in a protest in Rohtak supporting the demands raised by the farmers. This is the second meeting between Haryana chief minister and the union agriculture minister. Earlier, both leaders had met on December 8. The Haryana chief minister also raised the issue of Sutlej-Yamuna link canal. Khattar said, “I appeal to farmers of Punjab to seriously consider SYL (Sutlej Yamuna Link) canal matter. Farmers of Haryana are struggling with a shortage of irrigation. I have raised this issue. We demand that construction of SYL canal should be completed.”Earlier on Saturday, BJP leaders from Haryana had observed a fast demanding that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh should allow Haryana access to its share of river waters. BJP MP Arvind Sharma who was a part of the protests told news agency PTI, “After I became an MP, I raised this issue in Parliament. Punjab should look at the demand of people of Haryana.”The Sutlej Yamuna link canal is a contentious issue between Punjab and Haryana. While Haryana has been demanding the completion of the canal to get its share of 3.5 million acre feet of water Punjab continues to raise demands of assessment of the volume of water released from rivers Ravi and Beas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-round-of-talks-with-farmers-could-be-held-in-the-next-2-3-days-says-haryana-cm-after-meeting-tomar-reports-ani/story-vyCFzaZrORErmiDDr6jIWL.html
19-12-2020||India||Court seeks Rajasthan govt’s reply on work in jails given on caste lines||Taking note of a report that prisons in Rajasthan were allocating work to inmates based on their castes, the Rajasthan High Court has sought the government’s response and called for a complete overhaul of the “archaic” rule book.The division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha, while hearing the petition filed by Manoj Yadav, directed additional advocate general Farzand Ali to apprise the court regarding the proposed steps for complete overhauling of the Prison Manual and to ensure that the prisoners are not forced to indulge in menial jobs like cleaning toilets, etc, merely on the basis of their caste and also that no under trial prisoner is forced to perform such jobs in the prison.In the interest of justice, the court urged the state government to consider installation of mechanized/automated cleaning facilities in all the prisons.“We have come across a very disturbing report regarding the existence of a caste-based work assignment system in the prisons in Rajasthan. The report is based on a research paper of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI). The researcher of the CHRI interviewed various prisoners (since released) from prisons in Rajasthan and a shocking finding came out that till date the archaic Prison Manual, which was a gift of the British Rule, is prevalent in the prison system of the State.“As per the report, every person, who enters a prison in the State, is asked about his caste and once identified, menial jobs like cleaning toilets, sweeping the prisons, etc. are assigned to the persons from lowest echelons in the society irrespective of the nature of the offence committed,” the court observed.According to the report, the arrangement was clear – those at the bottom of the caste pyramid did the cleaning work; those high above handled the kitchen or the legal documentation department. And the rich and influential did nothing; they only threw their weight around. These arrangements had nothing to do with the crime that one was arrested for or his conduct in prison, the report added.“Caste-based labour, in fact, is sanctioned in the prison manuals of many states. The colonial texts of the late 19th century have barely seen any amendments, and caste-based labour remains an untouched part of these manuals. While every state has its own unique prison manual, they are mostly based on The Prions Act, 1894. These jail manuals mention every activity in detail – from the measurement of food and space per prisoner to punishments for the “disorderly ones”, the report said.“The report also refers to the fact that the Prison Manuals of various states are still plagued by the archaic and derogatory caste system, which the Constitution of India pledged to eradicate. We are of the firm view that no under trial prisoner can be assigned such duties in a prison,” the bench said.The court fixed February 2 as the next date for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-seeks-rajasthan-govt-s-reply-on-work-in-jails-given-on-caste-lines/story-glMmZyqH54TKZxUgZo4UdP.html
19-12-2020||India||RSS ideologue MG Vaidya dies at 97||MG Vaidya, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue and former spokesman of the organisation, died of age-related complications at a private hospital in Nagpur. He was 97.His son Manmohan Vaidya is the joint general secretary of the RSS, while his second son Dr Shriram Vaidya is a senior official of foreign cell of the organisation.“MG Vaidya, my father breathed his last today at 3.35 pm at Nagpur after completing 97 years of active, meaningful and inspiring life. He was a veteran journalist, a Hindutva “Bhashyakar” and active Sangh Swayamsevak for 9 decades,” tweeted MG Vaidya.A former Sanskrit professor of a local Christian missionary college, MG Vaidya also served the RSS as Akhil Bharatiya Bouddhikh Pramukh (chief of intellectual cell of RSS) and the spokesman of the organisation for over eight decades. He also worked as the chief editor of Tarun Bharat, a mouthpiece of the Sangh Parivar.Vaidya, who was one of the oldest living swayamsevaks of the RSS, had seen it all over the nine-decade-old history of the organisation — the three bans, isolation, internal conflicts over joining politics, ferment and resurgence. He was also a witness to the evolving power equations within the BJP, and its rise to power with an overwhelming majority in 2014 and 2019.A close confidant of former RSS chief, late Balasaheb Deoras, Vaidya was in jail during the Emergency and later became the member of the legislative council of Maharashtra in the late ’70s.Union minister Nitin Gadkari mourned the loss of the RSS veteran.“My humble tribute to Baburao Vaidya. Baburao was fortunate enough to work with all Sarsanghchalaks. It was a firm belief that Baburaoji would be a centenarian, but destiny had something different in mind. It is sad that a pious and sage-like personality has passed away,” Gadkari said in his condolence message.Vaidya is survived by his wife, Sunanda, three daughters, five sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-ideologue-mg-vaidya-dies-at-97/story-2eNjZy28ChqmmXVuwqqN6M.html
19-12-2020||India||12 nations reached out to India for Covid vaccine: NITI Aayog’s VK Paul||India has received requests for vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from 12 countries, said NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul on Saturday during the meeting of the high-level group of ministers (GoM) on Covid-19. Dr Paul informed the GoM about the vaccine candidates in trial in India, the manufacturers, doses to become available and conditions for storage. He also spoke about the target populations who would receive the vaccines once they become available. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by Dr Paul, has recommended that 10 million healthcare staff, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people over the age of 50 or with co-morbidities be given the vaccines on priority once it becomes available. Three companies have already applied for emergency use authorisation of their vaccines – US-based Pfizer which has not conducted any studies in India, Serum Institute of India for the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine that it would be manufacturing, and Bharat Biotech that has developed its vaccine indigenously with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Apart from discussions on vaccines, the GoM, which met for the first time since October, was also provided data on the current situation of the infection in the country by the director of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr Sujeet Singh. He presented an analysis of the pandemic in each state, pointing out critical parameters like positivity rate, breakup of the proportion of rapid antigen test and RT-PCR, concentration of cases in particular districts, and fatality within 48 and 72 hours of hospitalisation. The union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that the health seeking behaviour was the key driver in keeping the fatalities in check. He said there was a paradox with some states and union territories reporting a very high number of cases but minimal fatalities while others reporting low number of cases and comparatively high fatality. “This results from people not coming forward for testing even if they are symptomatic in the second category of states. People in the states and union territories with a vibrant public healthcare system are tracked and encouraged to be tested by grassroots health workers which inhibits the progress of Covid-19 to an advanced stage and keeps their fatality rate at minimum,” he said. The Union health secretary had earlier said that getting tested when symptomatic was also Covid-19 appropriate behaviour along with wearing masks, maintaining social distance and washing hands frequently. He said the government’s policy on allowing testing on demand without prescriptions can help. “We are planning to give the vaccine to almost 30 crore people, we will be able to get rid of the virus as best as possible,” said Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union health minister at the beginning of the meeting, thanking the healthcare workers. He said, despite festivals in the months of October and November, there was no new surge in the number of cases due to testing, tracking and treatment policy implemented on ground. He appealed to people that they follow Covid appropriate behaviours especially at a time when the country is on the verge of authorising the first set of Covid-19 vaccines. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, aviation minister Hardeep Puri, minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey, and minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai were present at the meeting. They were joined virtually by advisors to the PM Amarjeet Sinha and Bhaskar Khulbe, Secretary (Textiles) Ravi Capoor, Secretary (Pharma) S Aparna, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, and other senior government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-nations-reached-out-to-india-for-covid-vaccine-niti-aayog-s-vk-paul/story-M9bpdJxBvYCnRED3wL1HbN.html
19-12-2020||India||India has 223 active Covid-19 cases per million, second surge unlikely, say experts||With fewer new cases being reported and a high number of recoveries, the active cases or those with a current infection of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across India has reduced to just over 300,000 as on Saturday. The country reported 25,152 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and 29,885 recoveries, leading to a decline of 5,080 in the number of active cases, as per data released by the Union health ministry. This puts the number of active cases per million in India at 223. In comparison, the United States has 21,612 active cases per million-population and Russia has 3,513, as per the health ministry’s data. The country’s cumulative positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – has also been on the decline, reaching 6.25% as on Saturday. India has been testing over 1 million samples a day, with 160 million samples having been processed so far since testing began with just one laboratory in mid-January. “The number of new cases and positivity rate in the country are likely to remain low unless there is some mutation in the virus. This is because a large proportion of the population has already been exposed to the infection, I think. Even though some parts of the country – especially rural India -- have reported fewer cases than places like Delhi or Mumbai these are also places where fewer tests happened. And, with a much younger population in the rural areas most people must have recovered with a mild disease,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital. He cited the farmer’s protest as an example where despite thousands of people living in close proximity, a high number of infections were not reported. “In UK and other countries in Europe, there was a second surge in the number of infections when their lockdown or other restrictions were lifted. We had seen the same but our lockdown had ended early on when the number of cases was still high, masking the effect. Now, the numbers have come down,” said Kishore. Since then, the number of labs performing Covid-19 tests has increased to over 2,000. There are 15 states that have positivity rates lower than the national average, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Telangana. In Delhi, despite the current decline in the daily positivity rate to below 2% for four days in a row, the cumulative positivity rate continues to be 8.06%. The city which has seen three surges in the number of infections had reported a positivity rate as high as almost 37% in June. As per the data, there are 34 states which have a recovery rate higher than the national average. Recovery rate is the proportion of people who got the infection and recovered from it among the total who tested positive. The states with the highest recovery rates include Andhra Pradesh with 98.7%, Odisha with 98.6%, Tamil Nadu with 97.3%, Karnataka with 97%, and Delhi with 96.5% among others. Among these states, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Delhi are among the ten states that have reported the highest number of new cases on Friday. Kerala topped the chart with 5,456 infections reported in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-223-active-covid-19-cases-per-million-second-surge-unlikely-say-experts/story-GiDpkXECLQCN92zXV2qoYO.html
19-12-2020||India||Retired IPS officer who runs schools thrashed by TMC leaders in Bengal||Former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Nazrul Islam, who has been running educational institutions and a college in Bengal’s Murshidabad district since his retirement, was allegedly thrashed by some local Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders on Friday. Islam lodged a formal complaint at Domkal police station after the assault. The TMC leadership has condemned the attacked. Islam, who is also a writer, formed a political outfit called the Mul Nivasi Party a few years ago to raise issues related to indigenous communities. He hails from a village in the Domkal area of Murshidabad. It is alleged that on Friday afternoon, Majidul Sheikh, the TMC councillor from Ward 17 in Domkal municipal area and two other men barged into Islam’s office at Ramna-Basantapur and thrashed him. Local people rushed to Islam’s rescue and took him to Domkal hospital. Islam was released after treatment. He lodged a written complaint against Majidul Sheikh, Bhadu Sheikh and Jahangir Sheikh at Domkal police station. The district TMC unit did not try to defend anyone. The coordinator of the ruling party’s Murshidabad unit, Asok Das, said, “We have asked the police administration to arrest all the culprits. We are not going to shield the accused.” Islam, who served in important positions such as head of the detective department of the Kolkata Police, runs some educational and charitable institutions under the banner of the Basantapur Education Society. Local people have alleged that Majidul Sheikh and some local TMC leaders are trying to take over the society for a long time. Islam said, “There was a parent-teacher meeting at the English medium school on Friday. Majidul and his uncle, Bhadu, entered the institution and locked the entrance.” “The two men and some of their associates thrashed me inside my office. They held me by the collar and dragged me to the field and beat me up. They said I have to leave my village forever. But I will not bow under pressure,” said Islam. Some staff members of the school alleged that Sheikh had beaten them up too in the past and a written complaint was lodged against him at Domkal police station. But the police did not take any action against him, they alleged. Sheikh’s aides claimed that he and his uncle work at the school but had not been paid for eight months. Sheikh’s aides said he went to demand his salary and this led to an altercation. Sheikh could not be contacted despite several attempts. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior officer at Domkal police station said, “We have started a probe on the basis of the written complaint. No one could be arrested till Saturday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-ips-officer-who-runs-schools-thrashed-by-tmc-leaders-in-bengal/story-aTlrjVCqWODhiQTVSTs8tM.html
19-12-2020||India||J-K Cricket Association money laundering case: ED attaches assets worth Rs 11.86 crore of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday attached assets worth Rs 11.86 crores of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah in connection with the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) money laundering case. The properties which were attached by the Enforcement Directorate include three residential houses at Gupkar Road in Srinagar, Tanmarg and Sunjwan village. Lands owned by Farooq Abdullah at four different places in Jammu and Kashmir has also been attached by the ED officials. The Enforcement Directorate in its statement also pointed out that residential property attached in Sunjwan was constructed after grabbing state and forest land. ED said that after conducting investigations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, it found out that between the years 2005-06 to 2012, the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association received funding totalling to Rs 109.78 crore from Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI). The ED in its statement said that between the years 2006 and 2012, Farooq Abdullah took advantage of his position in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association by making illegal appointments at the JKCA and alleged that he misused those appointments by giving them financial powers in order to launder JKCA’s funds. ED says that the investigation conducted into the money laundering case revealed that the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister ‘was instrumental as well as beneficiary of the laundered funds of JKCA.’“Despite existing regular bank account of JKCA, six new bank accounts were opened for parking of JKCA Funds and siphoning of the same. One dormant bank account in the name of Kashmir Wing of JKCA was also made operational for the same purpose,” the statement from the central agency further said. The scam came into light in the year 2012 when JKCA treasurer Manzoor Wazir filed a complaint to the Jammu and Kashmir police against former general secretary Mohammad Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Mirza.Following Wazir’s complaint a list of 50 names linked to the financial scandal was out was released following which Farooq Abdullah lost the post of JKCA president after holding it for more than three decades. ED earlier in February had said that it has attached assets worth Rs 2.6 crore in a money laundering case related to the alleged embezzlement of funds of JKCA. The Enforcement Directorate conducted the probe based on the FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) following which general secretary Mohammed Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza were booked. The J-K High Court in 2015 had asked CBI to conduct an investigation into the matter. The CBI filed a charge sheet against Farooq Abdullah, Khan, Mirza, Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali, Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh (former accountant of JKCA) for “misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore” from grants given by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to the association for promoting the sport in the state between 2002-11.(with inputs from Neeraj Chauhan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-cricket-association-money-laundering-case-ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-11-86-crore-of-national-conference-president-farooq-abdullah-reports-pti/story-JBpU9I5D1JM6NU0DAnwxpM.html
19-12-2020||India||Banks pursue UK bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya||A consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) returned to the High Court in London for a bankruptcy application hearing against liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, as they pursue the recovery of debt from loans paid out to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.At a virtual hearing before Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs on Friday, both sides deposed retired Indian Supreme Court justices as expert witnesses on Indian law in support of their arguments for and against a bankruptcy order against Mallya in the UK.While the banks argued a right to waive their security over the Indian assets involved in the case in order to recover their debt in the UK, lawyers for the 65-year-old businessman argued that the funds in question involved public money held by state-owned banks in India which precluded them from such a security waiver.“As a commercial entity, a bank has a right to exercise its commercial wisdom to decide what it wants to do with its security,” noted barrister Marcia Shekerdemian, arguing on behalf of SBI and others.She cross-examined Retd Justice Deepak Verma, who deposed via video link from India on behalf of Mallya to establish that the banks cannot give up their security on the Indian assets and then pursue a bankruptcy order under English law because public money and public interest is involved in the case in India.Retd Justice Gopala Gowda argued the reverse in his cross-examination by Mallya’s barrister Philip Marshall, saying the banks had a right to relinquish their security in pursuit of unpaid dues.The exchange between the lawyers got heated at several points during the course of the virtual hearing, also being followed by Mallya, with Judge Briggs stepping in to urge a focussed question and answer approach to expedite the proceedings.However, the depositions left no time for closing submissions in the case, which has now been adjourned to a yet-to-be-agreed date in the New Year.Meanwhile, Marshall once again raised the issue of access to court-held funds from the sale of a French property for Mallya to be able to cover the legal fees of the next hearing as he no longer has a source of income from his consultancy work.The SBI led consortium of 13 Indian banks, which also includes Bank of Baroda, Corporation Bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd, had initiated the proceedings against Mallya in December 2018.There have been a series of hearings in the case since then as part of their efforts to recoup around1.145 billion pounds in unpaid loans.Mallya, meanwhile, remains on bail as the UK Home Office deals with a “confidential” legal issue before UK Home Secretary Priti Patel can sign off on his extradition sought by the Indian government, on charges of fraud and money laundering related to loans acquired for Kingfisher Airlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-banks-pursue-uk-bankruptcy-order-against-vijay-mallya/story-Y1CERgMpvANZfVhkCyCA6L.html
19-12-2020||India||Air quality ‘very poor’ in Noida; ‘poor’ in Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad||The average air quality was recorded “very poor” in Noida and “poor” in Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad in the national capital region, according to a 24-hour data issued by a government agency on Saturday. Presence of pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 301 in Noida, 295 in Ghaziabad, 292 in Greater Noida, 260 in Faridabad and 260 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB’s Sameer app. The CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure while “poor” may lead to breathing discomfort to people. The average AQI on Friday was 304 in Ghaziabad, 297 in Greater Noida, 288 in Noida, 214 in Faridabad and 224 in Gurgaon. On Thursday, it was 277 in Ghaziabad, 283 in Greater Noida, 267 in Noida, 213 in Faridabad and 241 in Gurgaon. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-very-poor-in-noida-poor-in-ghaziabad-gurugram-faridabad/story-M8JXWLYiA13njK5aWeaMNN.html
19-12-2020||India||First visuals of Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train released||The Embassy of Japan in India has released the first official visuals of what will be called the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train. In official terminology, the project is known as Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Project. So what Japan has released are the photos of E5 Series Shinkansen, which will be modified as a bullet train running between Mumbai and Ahmedabad.The project is scheduled to be completed by 2023. However, it is likely to be delayed as land acquisition has not been done in Maharashtra.Here are the photosOn September 24, the National High Speed rail Corporation had opened the bids for the nearly 1.08 lakh crore project. Larsen and Toubro won the contract outbidding Tata Projects, Ircon International–Afcons Infrastructure–JMC Projects consortium, and J Kumar Infra Projects–NCC-HSR consortium.This tender covers nearly 47 per cent of total alignment of the corridor between Vapi and Vadodara in Gujarat and includes four stations — Surat, Vapi, Billimora and Bharuch — as well as 24 rivers and as 30 road-crossings.No work has begun on the projects Maharashtra stretch so far as the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is not keen on the project.Once the bullet train starts, the distance between Mumbai to Ahmedabad will be covered in two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-visuals-of-mumbai-ahmedabad-bullet-train-released/story-F9OtUStmWzyqGHNHHTDN4N.html
19-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari writes letter to TMC workers; asks them to join hands with him||Former leader of Trinamool Congress, Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday wrote a letter to party workers asking them to join hands with him and “start a new beginning.” In the letter, Adhikari, who recently resigned from TMC and joined Bharatiya Janata Party, said: “Our fight is to restore West Bengal to its glory.”Taking shots at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, he alleged that the TMC is now filled with individuals who do not bother about anyone but themselves. He also asserted that the party was not built in one day with the contribution of one person. It was a continuous effort on a mammoth scale, the culmination of which was the TMC’s coming to power in West Bengal in 2011, he wrotePolitical heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP today at home minister Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore. During the rally, Adhikari vowed to oust the Banerjee regime in the upcoming 2021 assembly elections in West Bengal.He also alleged that the TMC wants to divide the state on the lines of “insider” and “outsider”, while the BJP believes in nationalism and pluralism. “Shame on the TMC for such narrow politics,” Adhikari also said.“I am being called a traitor by those who themselves (TMC) are traitors. Had the BJP not been there, TMC would have never come into existence. In the next assembly polls, BJP will win Bengal and TMC will be defeated,” he also said.Adhikari resigned from the Trinamool Congress earlier this week. He was the legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore district. Along with Adhikari, nine other MLAs of different parties and a TMC MP also joined the BJP. On Friday, Mamata Banerjee held a closed-door meeting at her residence to take stock of the situation where she assured the party leaders not to be “worried about the desertions” as the people of the state are with them, news agency PTI reported.“Our party supremo during the meeting told us not to be worried about the desertions as it is good that the rotten elements are leaving the party on their own. She said deserters were baggage for the party,” PTI reported citing a senior TMC leader.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-writes-letter-to-tmc-workers-asks-them-to-join-hands-with-him/story-SkzqAtZhsHwaNRYngpX0dN.html
19-12-2020||India||Cap on number of visitors to centrally-protected monuments lifted||The restrictions on the number of visitors allowed to access centrally protected monuments was lifted by the Central government on Friday, officials familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times. The Archaeological Survey of India, in its notification issued on Friday, however, said that the number of visitors to the monuments may be limited by the superintending archaeologist with concurrence of the District Magistrate. Selling of personal tickets and sound and light shows have also been allowed to resume. The monuments will be expected to follow the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to prevent the transmission of Covid-19, including norms of social distancing and preventive practices. The cap on the number of visitors was issued to monuments, which after being shut for over two months due to the Covid-19 crisis, were allowed to open from June 8, Hindustan Times reported. The list included temples, mosques and churches, with 114 monuments in the North region, 155 in the Centre, 170 in the West, 279 in the South and a 103 in the East circles. Places of worship were officially closed on March 24, after the nationwide lockdown was announced. The highest number of monuments was allowed to open in Karnataka (153) with 69 in Bangalore, followed by Uttar Pradesh (111) with 65 in Lucknow, Tamil Nadu (77) with 75 in Chennai and Andhra Pradesh (75).The monuments allowed to open included the Taj Mahal, Afsah-wala-ki-Masjid situated outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb with its dalans and paved court, Nizamuddin, the Qutub Minar and Nizammudin dargah in Delhi. According to the list, the Nizamuddin dargah sees nearly 5000-6000 worshippers every day. In Agra, the Taj Mahal masjid sees a footfall of 2,500 worshippers, while the Tomb of Sheikh Salim Chisti, which has also been allowed to open sees 2,500 worshippers daily. The Govind Dev Temple in Mathura (1,500-2,000 worshippers daily) has also been allowed to open. The famous Basilica of Bom Jesus, Old Goa (700-2500) visitors per day depending on the time of the year) has also been allowed to open. The Ambernath Temple, which sees a footfall of 8 lakh a year, will also open.Union Minister for Culture and Tourism had told Hindustan Times that the move would allow the ministry to observe and gauge the way forward as the Central government eases restrictions.“Hotels and restaurants have also been allowed to function starting tomorrow,” Patel told Hindustan Times. “The standard operating procedures issued by the health and home ministry will be followed at the places of worship that have been allowed to open.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cap-on-number-of-visitors-to-centrally-protected-monuments-lifted/story-0xHrd6weRuDlXnXnwqCTTL.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP ropes in cabinet ministers to win West Bengal||Ahead of the state assembly polls in West Bengal scheduled for next year, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to deploy several of its senior cabinet ministers to take on the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC).With Union Home Minister Amit Shah already on a two-day visit to the state, the party is soon likely to finalise tours of several of its ministers to West Bengal, a few of whom have already started working. The tour of Shah is seen as a game-changer. As many as 11 MLAs, one former and one sitting MP of TMC are set to join BJP today.Among the ministers likely to visit the state are Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Prahlad Patel, Sanjeev Balyan, Arjun Munda and Mansukh Mandaviya to name a few. The party has also roped in Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Madhya Pradesh’s home minister Narottam Mishra in the process. The senior leaders are expected to interact with the party cadre and also attempt to garner grassroots level sentiment prevalent in the state apart from wooing TMC leaders in its fold to damage the ruling state government. The Union Ministers are expected to visit different parts of the state and apprise the party workers regarding the various central schemes that have benefited the state. They are also likely to inform them about the various schemes that have not been implemented in the state by the TMC government. Earlier, BJP had sent its party’s national office bearers to collate a detailed report on ground situation and issues that can echo in assembly polls. While BJP chief JP Nadda is currently in self-isolation due to Covid-19, he is also expected to send teams of organisational functionaries to the state to oversee the poll preparedness. BJP hopes to do well in the forthcoming West Bengal assembly polls likely to take place next year.BJP had stunned the Trinamool Congress in 2019 Lok Sabha polls as it wrested 18 parliamentary constituencies in the state, coming up with its best-ever performance in the state with 42 lower house constituencies.Post the historic Lok Sabha victory of BJP under a Narendra Modi-led campaign, the party considers winning upcoming assembly polls as crucial and wants to send out a strong message to the opposition by winning in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-ropes-in-cabinet-ministers-to-win-west-bengal/story-ooGKysnepBvPrxJv8lwU1O.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Nobody was critical of Rahul Gandhi’: What happened in Congress leaders’ meet with Sonia Gandhi amid overhaul calls||For the first time since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Congress president Sonia Gandhi met a group of party leaders who questioned the leadership of the party and wrote a letter to Gandhi. The four-hour-long meeting was held at 10 Janpath. Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi were also present at the meeting.Here is all you need to know:> In August, 23 Congress leaders wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi calling for “full time and effective leadership”. The signatories included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Vivek Tankha, Mukul Wasnik, Jiitin Prasada, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Rajender Kaur Bhattal, M Veerappa Moily, Prithviraj Chavan, PJ Kurian, Ajay Singh, Renuka Chaudhary, Milind Deora, Raj Babbar, Arvinder Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Kuldeep Sharma, Yoganand Shastri, Sandeep Dixit.> The letter pointed out at the uncertainty of leadership in the party which has demoralised workers.Also Read: Congress to hold Chintan Shivir to discuss way ahead: Leaders after key meet> The simmering disgruntlement came to the fore after Congress’s abysmal performance in the Bihar election.> The in-person meeting came in a series of attempts to streamline the party, which will soon see election for the post of the president.> Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday said majority of the Congress wants Rahul Gandhi as the president. “It is my belief and the belief of the overwhelming majority, 99.99 per cent of the Congress leaders and workers that Rahul Gandhi is the right person to lead the Congress party and to take on the Modi government,” he said.Also Read: 99.9% Congress leaders, workers want Rahul Gandhi as chief: Surjewala> The issue that Rahul Gandhi enjoys massive support was raised in today’s meeting as well to which Rahul Gandhi said he will work as the party and its all members want. Nobody was critical of Rahul Gandhi, Pawan Bansal said.> Many such meetings like the Saturday’s one will now be held in the coming days.> After Saturday’s meeting, Pawan Bansal said Sonia Gandhi said Congress is one big family. “There is no dissidence in the party. All are committed to work unitedly to energise the party,” he said.> Prithviraj Chavan said there will be a brainstorming session to plan the way ahead while the preparation for election goes on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-big-family-what-happened-in-congress-leaders-meet-with-sonia-gandhi-amid-overhaul-calls/story-W4U0tk5ZHRr9taibnZR96N.html
19-12-2020||India||Amit Shah has lunch at Bengal farmer’s house||Union home minister Amit Shah, along with a section of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s top leaders in West Bengal, had lunch with a farmer’s family on Saturday afternoon before heading for a public rally. On Sunday, the Union minister is scheduled to have lunch with the family of a baul singer in Birbhum district, where he is also scheduled to attend a road show and visit the Visva Bharati. On Saturday’s menu were rice, roti, cauliflower, three types of fried vegetable, dal with bottle gourd, papad, chutney and the Bengal’s iconic sweet rasogolla dipped in jaggery tonic, which is usually found during the winter. “I arranged whatever I could with my limited resources. I am very happy that Shah was coming to my house to have food,” Sanatan Singh, the famer, told media persons at West Midnapore. He owns around 3.5 bighas of land. The last time Shah had lunch with a tribal family at Bankura during his two-day visit to the state in November, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee had alleged that the food was brought from five-star hotels, triggering a controversy. The BJP, however, refuted that allegation, saying that the TMC can stoop to any low to malign the prime minister and home minister. Shah arrived around 1:30 pm after visiting the family members of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose and offering prayers at the Siddeshwari Temple. A festive mood was prevailing in the household at Balijuri village of West Midnapore as the Singh family was eagerly waiting since morning. Shah was served lunch in the courtyard of the mud hut of Singh with plates made of banana leaves and earthen water bottle. The visit comes when thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws in the National Capital Region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-has-lunch-with-bengal-farmer-s-family/story-LW9tVFnnSRT8V4Mj9ByU3M.html
19-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Railways ministry denies reports of no waiting list by 2024 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Railways ministry denies reports of no waiting list by 2024As several news reports claimed that the railways is planning to do way with the provision of waiting lists from 2024, the ministry on Saturday clarified that it is not doing away with waiting lists. On the contrary, it is taking measures so that no passenger is allotted to the waiting list. Read moreMayawati again seeks withdrawal of new farm lawsBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday reiterated her demand that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre should withdraw the three contentious farm reform laws that have triggered protests by farmers. Read moreWhen I was Covid-19 positive, Amit Shah called me twice, says Suvendu Adhikari, recalls his first meeting with ShahThe cynosure of Amit Shah’s public address in Medinipur was former Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari who officially joined the BJP on Saturday. As he started addressing the crowd ar Midnapore College Ground, Amit Shah himself said the star of today’s show was Adhikari. Read moreCongress to hold Chintan Shivir to discuss way ahead: Leaders after key meetA crucial meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and dissenters along with senior leaders on Saturday decided to hold a ‘Chintan Shivir’ (brainstorming session) to discuss the way forward and steps needed to strengthen the party. Read more‘Attempting to cover up’: 5 key findings by US senators after Boeing 737 Max crashesBoeing officials “inappropriately coached” test pilots during efforts to recertify 737 Max aircraft after they were grounded in March 2019 following two fatal crashes that killed 346 people, US Senate investigators said in a report. A simulator test was conducted for over a year by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) as a part of the recertification process to ensure that the aircraft could fly safely. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Hazlewood, Cummins star in Australia’s sensational comeback win in pink-ball TestAustralia pacers Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins scripted a sensational 8-wicket comeback win for their team as they left the India batting order stunned early on in the first session on Day 3 of the first Test in Adelaide. Indian bowlers had done well to bowl out the hosts for 191 in the first innings, and to give their side a solid 62-run lead at the end of play on Friday. But Hazlewood and Cummins weaved their magic to ensure they do not let the visitors take a heavy lead. Read moreGauahar Khan, Zaid Darbar’s wedding card reveals all about their ‘lockdown love story’. WatchGauahar Khan, who is all set to the knot with beau Zaid Darbar on December 25, has finally shared her digital wedding card with the hashtag #GAZAbkahaiDin. The video reveals all about their ‘lockdown love story’, from how they fell in love to the marriage proposal. Read moreHealthcare workers celebrate arrival of Covid-19 vaccine by dancing. Uplifting video goes viralHealthcare workers have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. Now, with many vaccines getting approvals from different governing bodies across the globe and rollouts beginning in certain countries, it seems like this battle is finally approaching its end. Read moreWatch: DRDO successfully test-fires ATAGS Howitzer at Odisha’s BalasoreDRDO successfully test-fired its Advanced Tower Artillery Gun System Howitzer. It tracked the target accurately and successfully at Odisha’s Balasore firing range. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-railways-ministry-denies-reports-of-no-waiting-list-by-2024-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6ANBGzYiWxex33KNlKlIeP.html
19-12-2020||India||Kerala govt warns of surge in coronavirus cases following local body polls||Kerala health minister K K Shailaja on Saturday warned of a spike in Covid-19 cases, days after the local body elections in the state, and asked people to be ‘extremely careful’ for the next few weeks.The health minister also advised the public to self- quarantine and remain patient until a vaccine for the pandemic is made available. “It’s not time yet to go shopping with kids or to entertain huge gatherings for weddings and festivities. We need to remain patient until a vaccine is available.So until then, the political parties, families and individuals should ensure that such gatherings are avoided and the health protocol is adhered to,” Shailaja said during a Facebook live event.Citing expert opinion that Covid-19 cases may increase after the elections, she asked people to get themselves tested in case of any symptoms.“Experts opine that an increase in cases can be seen after the elections. We need to be extremely careful for the next two weeks. People should not think that elections are over and the Covid-19 has gone.Even though the government has lifted the restrictions, people should restrain themselves and follow the Covid-19 health protocol,” she said.The three-phase polling was held in a total of 21,893 wards in 1,200 local self governing bodies--including six corporations, 941 village panchayats, 14 district panchayats and 87 municipalities on December 8, 10, and 14.The entire election procedure was in compliance with Covid-19 protocols, masks, sanitising and social distancing norms were made mandatory at all polling stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-warns-of-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-following-local-body-polls/story-TwiIUzS9lDG9GIysDRriBN.html
19-12-2020||India||Railways ministry denies reports of no waiting list by 2024, issues clarification||As several news reports claimed that the railways is planning to do way with the provision of waiting lists from 2024, the ministry on Saturday clarified that it is not doing away with waiting lists. On the contrary, it is taking measures so that no passenger is allotted to the waiting list. The ministry said that addressing the availability constraints, efforts are being made to increase the capacity to make trains available on demand that would “reduce the possibility of passengers getting waitlisted” but this does not mean that there will be no waiting lists,The document explained that the provision of the waitlist is there when the demand for travellers for a given train surpasses the number of berths or seats available on the train. “The provision is not being done away. Waitlist is a provision which acts as a buffer to mitigate the fluctuations in demand and availability,” the government clarification added.National Rail Plan is a long-term strategic plan aimed at increasing the infrastructural capacity of the railways.The plan is being circulated amongst various ministries for their views now. The railways plans to finalize the plan by January 2021. The ministry also said that for successful implementation of the plan, it will be looking to engage with the private sector, PSUs, state governments and Original Equipment Manufacturers(OEM)/industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-ministry-denies-reports-of-no-waiting-list-by-2024-issues-clarification/story-KXbZqTIfZKN5u1KgklhJtK.html
19-12-2020||India||Congress to hold Chintan Shivir to discuss way ahead: Leaders after key meet||A crucial meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and dissenters along with senior leaders on Saturday decided to hold a ‘Chintan Shivir’ (brainstorming session) to discuss the way forward and steps needed to strengthen the party. Addressing the media after a marathon four-hour-long meeting, senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal said the discussions centered mainly on strengthening the party. He said the process for holding organisational polls, including to the party president’s post and the Congress Working Committee (CWC) has already been set in motion and the central election authority (CEA) is working on it. “There is already an election process in motion. There is an agenda before the party. The CEA is working on it,” he said. Bansal said Sonia Gandhi told the leaders that all of them are a “very big family” and they should strive to strengthen the party. He said Rahul Gandhi also spoke on similar lines. Bansal also said no one in the party, including the dissenters, has any problem with Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. Former Maharashtra chief minister and one of the 23 dissenters Prithviraj Chavan told reporters that a chintan shivir (brainstorming session) on the pattern of Pachmarhi and Shimla would soon be held.He said the meeting was constructive and more such interactions would be held in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-hold-chintan-shivir-to-discuss-way-ahead-leaders-after-key-meet/story-OBvFaC7O9DXW4FIdZixylN.html
19-12-2020||India||5 killed in accident in Andhra’s Anantapur while trying to rescue another victim||Four persons were killed when a truck ran over them, while they were trying to rescue an accident victim lying on the road in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district on Friday evening. The accident victim, too, succumbed in the incident, the police said. The incident happened at Raghavampalli village of Bathalapalli block at around 7 pm. The deceased were identified as Rajasekhar (20), Srinivasulu (40), Sivamma (50), Suri (45) and Vali Saheb (50). According to Bathalapalli police, Rajasekhar, a farmer belonging to Raghavampalli village, was returning to his village on his motorbike when an unknown vehicle hit him from behind and fled from the spot. “He was flung off the vehicle and fell on the other side of the road. He collapsed on the road and was battling for his life, when some construction labourers and local villagers passing by rushed there to rescue him. Even as they were giving him first aid, a truck laden with cement bags going towards Kadiri hit them,” the police said. While Rajasekhar died of his injuries caused due to the bike accident, Srinivasulu, who runs a chicken centre at neighbouring Narsimpally village and Shivamma of Mushtur village – were crushed to death under the lorry. Two others – Suri and Vali Saheb, both construction workers from Sanjeevapuram village, succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at the Anantapur government hospital. “Another construction worker Raju, who also received injuries, has been rushed to hospital and he is out of danger,” the police said, adding that the cement truck, too, did not stop after causing the accident. This is the second such incident in the Telugu states in the last two weeks. On December 4, a speeding car travelling from Telangana’s Karimnagar to Hyderabad hit the road divider, resulting in the death of three passengers inside. Some passers-by and local police officials rushed to the spot to take up rescue operations, when a truck coming from the opposite direction rammed into the crowd, killing two more people at the same spot. In all, 12 people, including a police inspector and a constable of Siddipet police station, sustained injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-in-accident-in-andhra-s-anantapur-while-trying-to-rescue-another-victim/story-6BOe2120NOvZrnvlLDQgWJ.html
19-12-2020||India||When I was Covid-19 positive, Amit Shah called me twice, says Suvendu Adhikari, recalls his first meeting with Shah||The cynosure of Amit Shah’s public address in Medinipur was former Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari who officially joined the BJP on Saturday. As he started addressing the crowd at Midnapore College Ground, Amit Shah himself said the star of today’s show was Adhikari whose exit from the party is believed to have a future impact on West Bengal Assembly election 2021. As Suvendu joined the BJP severing decades-old ties with the Trinamool, he recalled the first time he met Amit Shah. It was during the Lok Sabha Election 2014. Suvendu met Shah through BJP leader Siddharth Nath Singh . “Now he is the health minister of Uttar Pradesh Cabinet. They never asked me to join the party at that time,” Suvendu said recalling.When Suvendu tested positive for Covid-19, Amit Shah called him twice, he said. “None of my party colleagues with whom I have worked for years called me, But Amit Shah ji enquired about my health,” he said.“I am assuring all local leaders I am not here to dominate or dictate terms to you. I will work as an ordinary worker of the BJP. My background is rooted in student politics. If you ask me to put up posters, I will do that,” he said addressing the local leaders of the BJP.After resigning from the post of the transport minister, Suvendu submitted his resignation as MLA on December 16. The resignation, however, has not been accepted yet. West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Friday said that he has not accepted the resignation as it does not conform to the provisions of the Constitution and the rules of the House.“Unless and until I am satisfied that the resignation is voluntary and genuine, it is not possible for me to accept the same in the light of the provisions of the Constitution of India and the rules of procedure and conduct of business in West Bengal Legislative Assembly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-i-was-covid-19-positive-amit-shah-called-me-twice-says-suvendu-adhikari-recalls-his-first-meeting-with-shah/story-8ZH0kzpN46lpK73G2n0jUK.html
19-12-2020||India||Mayawati again seeks withdrawal of new farm laws||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday reiterated her demand that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre should withdraw the three contentious farm reform laws that have triggered protests by farmers. Mayawati took to Twitter to demand that the Centre should drop its “stubborn attitude” towards the farmers’ demands. The BSP chief had earlier backed the December 8 Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ groups.“The government at the Centre should not adopt a stubborn attitude towards the farmers who are agitated over the three farm laws. It should instead adopt a sympathetic approach towards them by accepting all their demands, including recalling the farm laws,” Mayawati tweeted. This is the third time in the past 20 days that Mayawati has demanded withdrawing farm laws even as the BJP hit back.“She is desperate. It is showing. But all her efforts to mislead the farmers won’t have any impact as the country has full faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has repeatedly assured that farmers’ interests won’t be compromised,” said UP BJP spokesman Navin Srivastava. The BSP chief’s latest demand came a day after the Prime Minister reached out to the farmers to allay their major concerns, including one over the minimum support price (MSP). On Thursday, the BJP government also rolled out a major farmer outreach initiative that included an eight-page letter from union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, in which he had stated that while the government would continue the process of dialogue with farmers, it would not entertain any Opposition agenda. Modi, too, in his appeal to the farmers, had hit out at the Opposition stand on the issue. The Yogi Adityanath government, as well as the ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh, have launched farmers’ meets. On Friday, the government also decided to hold Kisan Samvad Sammelans (dialogue meets with farmers) on former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on December 25. These meets would be held via video conference and would include Modi’s appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-again-seeks-withdrawal-of-new-farm-laws/story-Z7CQLgZm8bTzsoQTxFLhSO.html
19-12-2020||India||After victory in local civic body polls, ruling CPI (M) eyes assembly election in Kerala||Buoyed by the unexpected victory in the local body elections, the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPIM)) has showcased its ambitious plan to retain power in the state. Usually the state never gives a second chance to the incumbent government and tries two dispensations alternately, the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front and Congress-controlled United Democratic Front. But this time the CPI (M) thinks it can rewrite the poll history of the state. To set the ball rolling, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will carry out a state-wide tour from next week onwards and meet important personalities, social leaders and religious heads. The party has asked its cadres not to get victory into their heads and utilise the next three months to the maximum to ensure continuance of the government. “Situation is conducive for continuance of power. We will continue our welfare and development measures with more vigour and commitment. Results have shown there is no room for slander and unnecessary controversies,” said party acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. He said during the state-wide tour, the CM will interact with a cross section of the people and discuss the state’s resource utilization and developmental issues. In Delhi, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury also said situation was favourable for the LDF to continue in power and the party will do everything possible to ensure this. Kerala is the only state where the CPI (M) is in power. The party has also asked the government to continue its food kit distribution for at least three more months. The government has also decided to increase the monthly welfare pension to Rs 1500 from January onwards. “Next three months are crucial for the government. We will continue all welfare measures. Let opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala raise more allegations, they will only cement our victory,” said state law minister A K Balan adding people were more concerned about their day to day life not a series of trumped up charges. The government has also decided to earmark enough funds for sops and big-ticket infrastructure development projects. The CM has also asked all departments to submit a progress report of all ongoing projects. The Left Front’s next manifesto will be based on suggestions and remarks of dignitaries the CM will be meeting on his state-wide tour, said Vijayaraghavan. He said workers were given special instructions to avoid controversies and do enough grassroot work involving local people. In the fiercely-contested local body election out of 941 panchayats, LDF won 514 and UDF 375, 152 block panchayats LDF 108 and UDF 44 and in 6 corporations LDF won in four and in Kochi it is a fractured verdict. The Congress-led UDF managed to win only the Kannur Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-victory-in-local-civic-body-polls-ruling-cpi-m-eyes-assembly-election-in-kerala/story-cUPsp7qZxxmhEwLOy9UUwJ.html
19-12-2020||India||Violence at India Apple plant: What exactly happened at Karnataka unit?||On December 12, several thousand workers of an Apple manufacturing unit in Bengaluru ransacked the office complaining that they were not getting their salaries. The facility of Wistron Corporation, which manufactures iPhone, is located at Narasapura Industrial Area of Kolar district, 51 kilometres from Bengaluru, India’s tech and investment hub. The vandalism by the workers — setting cars on fire, breaking windows, doors etc — raised concerns as it could impact investment in India. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his concern, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said.A week later, the government submitted its report probing what caused the violence and why the workers were disgruntled.Here is what happened:1. Over 150 people were arrested in connection with the violence.2. As industry bodies termed the incident as a blot in the industry-friendly image of Karnataka, the Centre asked the state government to expedite its inquiry. 3. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade asked the state government to ensure that the “investor sentiment is not affected due to such one-off incident”.4. The Karnataka government in its probe has said that the unit could not manage the increased operation. The plant became operational earlier this year. There were 5,000 workers initially. But the number rose to 10,500, according to Karnataka factories department report.5. The HR department has not been adequately set up with personnel of sound knowledge of labour laws, resulting in various violations.6. In October, the plant introduced 12-hour shift replacing the earlier eight-hour shift. There were glitches in attendance system as well.7. Wistron on December 19 decided to remove the vice-president who was in-charge of business in India. In a statement, it has apologised for the payment delays and said some restructuring measures are being taken so that this does not happen again.8. The unit was shut following the rampage but the authorities are hopeful that it could restart function in a few days,9. Wistron said no manufacturing equipment has been damaged, though it lost in the range of New Taiwan Dollar 100 to 200 million, which is about Rs 52 crore. 10. As per a statement issued by Apple, it is putting Wistron on probation and the company is not going to receive any new business from Apple till corrective measures are enforced and completed. Wistron is one of the 16 entities which have received approval for incentives under the government’s production linked incentive plan. Currently, iPhone XR and iPhone 11 are being assembled by Foxconn in Chennai, and iPhone 7 by Wistron in Bengaluru. The Kolar facility assembles the latest version of the iPhone SE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wistron-violence-what-exactly-happened-at-karnataka-apple-plant/story-QJgFDbyPKCSUECw6sb7QIP.html
19-12-2020||India||India, UK hold bilateral discussions on UNSC agenda||India and the United Kingdom on Friday held bilateral consultations virtually regarding United Nations Security Council (UNSC) issues, wherein both sides held discussions on a wide range of issues on the UNSC agenda.The Indian delegation briefed their UK counterparts on its priorities during its upcoming UNSC tenure as a non-permanent member, which includes reformed multilateralism and counter-terrorism, informed the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).The UK delegation also informed India of its priorities during its upcoming presidency of UNSC, including Climate and Security and famine and hunger in conflict situations.According to an MEA release, the Indian side was led by Prakash Gupta, JS (UNP & Summits), Ministry of External Affairs and included other officials from MEA, PMI New York and Indian High Commission in London, while the UK delegation was led by James Kariuki, Director, Multilateral Policy Department of UK Commonwealth and Foreign Office and included other UK Foreign Ministry officials and representatives from their Missions in New York and New Delhi.The UK congratulated India on its election to the UNSC, and both sides agreed to continue their engagement on all issues under the UNSC agenda over the next two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uk-hold-bilateral-discussions-on-unsc-agenda/story-h3oNb2xUuhmqfzQPX8fISK.html
19-12-2020||India||Violence-hit Apple supplier Wistron sacks vice-president who oversees India operations||Taiwanese company Wistron Corporation removed its vice-president who oversees the iPhone manufacturing business in India, days after one of its plants was vandalised in Kolar, Karnataka, by workers over unpaid wages and demands for better working conditions, the company announced in a statement on Saturday. “Since unfortunate events at our Narasapura facility, we have found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time. We deeply regret and apologize to all of our workers,” it said in the statement.“Safety and well being of our team members is always our top priority and core value at Wistron,” Wistron also said.The company also announced that it is restructuring the teams in view of the incident. “We are removing the Vice President who oversees our business in India. We are also enhancing our processes and restructuring our teams to ensure these issues cannot happen again,” Wistron said.Wistron is one of Apple’s top global suppliers. In India, it makes iPhone 7 handsets and second-generation iPhone SE devices.Violence erupted at Wistron’s facility in Kolar where a swarm of workers went on a rampage over non-payment of salaries and pay cuts at around 6:30am during a shift change on December 12. The workers pelted stones, smashed glass windows, damaged vehicles, furniture and other office equipment in the process.The company has claimed it suffered a loss worth Rs 437.40 crore. This included office equipment, mobile phones, production machinery and related equipment worth Rs 412.5 crore, infrastructure worth Rs 10 crore, Rs 60 lakh worth cars and golf carts, smartphones and other gadgets worth Rs 1.5 crore, as per company executive TD Prashanth.Wistron has filed a First Information Report (FIR) with against 7,000 people, including 5,000 of its contract workers and 2,000 that did not work there, the police said.Apple also said it is probing the incident and whether Wistron adhered to its labour practices. It sent its staff and auditors to the site to cooperate with the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-hit-apple-supplier-wistron-sacks-vice-president-who-overseas-india-operations/story-DSLWaL7ouFsDW7MppmQJAN.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Each and every test done in Delhi is true and genuine’: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday when the Capital witnessed a rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) people advised him to reduce the number of tests or indulge in fudging the results but his government did not pay heed to such unethical advice. “Once cases started going up people started wrongly advising me to reduce testing or fraudulently improve testing results,” Kejriwal said during a press conference. Without naming any particular state, Kejriwal said that people who advised him to fudge the numbers were influenced by instances of other regions indulging in unfair testing practices. States fraudulently improved results to show they have successfully controlled the spread of the virus, he claimed. “A video from another state showed one doctor swabbing his nose for 50 negative test samples,” he added. The number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital stands at 614,775 as of Friday. According to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Friday, 88,400 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, out of which 48,180 are RT-PCR tests and 40,220 rapid antigen tests.The Delhi chief minister made similar comments on Twitter on Wednesday, while responding to a report of fake names being registered in order to show increased Covid-19 testing in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly. “Yogi ji, the great work on our corona is being discussed in the street mohallas of UP. Like you, we do not do fake corona tests. Manish ji is coming to Lucknow to debate on 22 December at the invitation of your minister,” he had tweeted. Emphasising that his government’s goal was to get the coronavirus disease under control, Kejriwal said by keeping people’s well being in mind and not increasing numbers the Delhi government soldiered on and now the positivity rate has come down to 1.3% as opposed to 15.26% in November. “If we commit fraud, how will we rein in this disease? How will we properly test and isolate people?” Kejriwal asked. Kejriwal thanked all healthcare workers for sticking to ethical practices as per his instructions and lauded them. “I instructed all the doctors and officers against such acts because numbers are not important for us, people’s lives and health are important. Each and every test done in Delhi is true and genuine. We did not commit any frauds, I salute my doctors for their efforts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/each-and-every-test-done-in-delhi-is-true-and-genuine-arvind-kejriwal/story-vI9fSfCcs0DMbc8abujmxO.html
19-12-2020||India||Over 3.9 million people facilitated via Vande Bharat Mission||Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday informed that more than 3.9 million people were facilitated international travel ever since the Vande Bharat Mission was launched.Taking to Twitter, Puri shared data that showed that on December 18 (Friday) itself 8,546 Indians returned from various locations such as Sharjah, Dubai, London, Toronto, San Francisco, among others.Now in Phase-7, the mission with 23 active air bubbles has transformed into the largest repatriation mission of its kind, he said.However, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava earlier informed that Phase 8 of Vande Bharat Mission has been extended till December 31.The Vande Bharat Mission started in early May to evacuate Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus -induced travel restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-3-9-million-people-facilitated-via-vande-bharat-mission/story-KAbgBbnDcGCekKfo1KgJTK.html
19-12-2020||India||On Bengal trip, Amit Shah takes veiled dig at Mamata’s Trinamool||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is on a two-day visit to West Bengal, launched a veiled attack against the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress for trying to brand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders as “outsiders”. “Today, in Bengal, those who resort to narrow politics, I would like to tell them that (freedom fighter and martyr) Khudiram Bose belongs to India as much as he belongs to Bengal. Ram Prasad Bismil (freedom fighter and martyr) belongs to Bengal as much as he belongs to Uttar Pradesh,” Shah said, while speaking to media after meeting Bose’s family members and garlanding the freedom fighter’s statue at his ancestral home in East Midnapore district. Khudiram Bose was the youngest revolutionary freedom fighter who was executed on August 11, 1908 for his role in the Muzaffarpur conspiracy case. On December 19, 1927, freedom fighters Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaq Ulla Khan and Thakur Roshan Singh were martyred. “These freedom fighters never thought of such narrow politics. Today is their martyr’s day (Bismil, Khan and Singh). We should transcend above such narrow politics,” the Union minister said. Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee and other leaders of her party have been desperately trying to brand the BJP as an outsider trying to come and rule Bengal, and have even tagged them as “Dacoits from Chambal”. “India can never forget the contribution of Bengal and her sons in the freedom struggle. Bose was a bearer of the tradition who kissed the gallows with a Gita in his hand while fighting the British. His popularity across India was such that some people wrote his name in their dhotis, which became a symbol of freedom struggle and inspiration for the youth of Bengal. His slogan of Vande Mataram on his way to the gallows became a slogan of freedom struggle,” Shah said while also saluting Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaq Ulla Khan and Thakur Roshan Singh. “I am fortunate that I could come at the birthplace of Khudiram Bose and touch the soil with my forehead,” he added. Shah also offered prayers at the Siddheshwari Temple in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bengal-trip-amit-shah-takes-veiled-dig-at-mamata-s-trinamool/story-pBZiM54NqBfH3dRZpFPH2M.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP leader and ex-Union minister Birender Singh extends support to farmers’ agitation||Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh has extended his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture-marketing laws passed by the Centre.Singh is grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent politician during the pre-independence era who championed the interest of farmers. Singh, whose son Brijendra is a sitting BJP MP, said it was his moral responsibility to stand with the farmers who he said are “worried” as they fear the new legislations will have an “impact” on their economic condition.“Whatever I have achieved in politics, would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday.“Therefore, it is my moral responsibility to stand with the farmers in their fight today and, therefore, I have decided to support this (farmers’) fight,” said Singh, a prominent Jat leader in Haryana.Singh further said that he along with his supporters will soon observe a symbolic hunger strike in Haryana’s districts bordering Delhi. Under the banner of Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch, the former Union minister along with his supporters had sat on a protest at Rohtak on Friday.Farmers from different parts of the country, including Haryana and Punjab, have been camping at various border points of Delhi for three weeks to demand a repeal of the farm laws.Farmers worry these laws will eliminate the safety net of the Minimum Support Price (MSP), do away with mandi system and will leave them at the “mercy of big corporates”, apprehensions the government has been insisting are misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-and-ex-union-minister-birender-singh-extends-support-to-farmers-agitation/story-JZ1KA2ooFddzzNiSt6uwpN.html
19-12-2020||India||Court orders release of 2 brothers held under anti-conversion law||An Uttar Pradesh court has ordered the release of two brothers who were arrested earlier this month under the anti-conversion law, an official said on Saturday. The Muslim man and his brother were arrested on December 4 after they visited the registrar’s office in Moradabad to record his marriage to a Hindu woman, whose family filed a complaint. A video purportedly showed Bajrang Dal activists asking the couple if the woman had given notice to the district magistrate over her intention to change her religion, a requirement under the new ordinance. The Kanth police had submitted a report that it could not find evidence of the case after Pinki denied the allegations of forceful conversion by Rashid and his brother Salim, following which the chief judicial magistrate ordered the release of the two from jail, prosecuting officer Amar Tiwari said. The jailor of the district jail, Manish, said they had received the releasing order and the two would be be released later in the day. Meanwhile, the mother-in-law alleged that Pinki suffered miscarriage after she was tortured at the government shelter home. The recently-promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion. The state government had on November 24 approved the draft ordinance, which provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for violators. It was promulgated amid assertions by BJP leaders that a strict law was needed against “love jihad”, a term coined by right-wing activists to discredit interfaith marriages by describing it as part of an alleged conspiracy by Muslim men to convert Hindu women in the guise of love. The Allahabad High Court had asked the state government on Friday to respond to a petition challenging the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-jihad-court-orders-release-of-2-brothers-held-under-anti-conversion-law/story-61ccQb1LxjtY4Upj3HMVUJ.html
19-12-2020||India||India is ready for any situation: Rajnath Singh over Ladakh row||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday China’s attitude towards India during the unprecedented coronavirus pandemic shows the intention of the neighbouring country. While noting the military and diplomatic attempts to resolve the current stand-off between the two neighbours in Ladakh, Singh asserted that India wants peace but pointed out that any harm to the country’s self-esteem will not be tolerated.“We are fully prepared to deal with any situation. We have shown that this is no longer our weak India. This is a new India that has the capacity to respond to any kind of transgression, aggression or any kind of unilateral action on the borders,” Singh added.The defence minister was addressing the newly-graduated cadets of Indian Air Force after attending the combined graduation parade at the Airforce Academy in Dundigal during his two-day visit to Telangana. The minister spoke about the history of the air force and its achievements. “The Indian Air Force has a glorious history. It has always displayed episodes of gallantry. From the Battle of Longewala in 1971 to the recent Balakot airstrikes, all these episodes will be considered as golden chapters in our country’s history,” he added.The minister while remembering flying officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon and his sacrifice defending the Srinagar airbase against the Pakistan air force said that this year marks the golden jubilee of India’s war with Pakistan in 1971. Sekhon was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, India’s highest military decoration during wartime, in recognition of his defence of the Srinagar airbase in 1971. He said this is the year to remember all the warriors who wrote the story of valour and might for India and many heroes who have sacrificed their lives for the country.मैं मानता हूँ कि आने वाले दिनों में Defence केवल जल-थल-वायु की रक्षा तक ही सीमित नहीं रहेगा। यह एक ऐसा dynamic challenge होगा जिसके लिए हमें आने वाले दिनों में खुद को तैयार करना होगा: रक्षा मंत्रीThe minister, who was the chief guest and the reviewing officer at the parade, also told the newly-graduated cadets of IAF that the plans for airtime defence and maritime forces have reached an advanced stage and will facilitate the forces to work in an integrated and comprehensive manner. He also said, “While we have induced and operationalised the indigenous ‘Light Combat Aircraft’ Tejas, we have also included the second and Fifth Generation Multirole fighter plane, the Rafale. This has increased the capabilities of the Airforce as well as a new confidence in the Airforce.”“I once again wish you all a bright future. I am confident that you will make your trainers, parents and the whole country proud of your achievements. A golden future awaits you. I wish you all, a bright future and happy landings,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-ready-for-any-situation-rajnath-singh-over-ladakh-row/story-yVScrtRCk37kqw37feH5zJ.html
19-12-2020||India||‘India is not weak, won’t tolerate any aggression’: Rajnath Singh at IAF graduation parade||India is no more a weak nation and has the capacity to give a befitting reply to the enemy resorting to any kind of aggression, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. “This is new India which will not tolerate any aggression, though our objective is to resolve any issue through dialogue rather than conflict,” Rajnath Singh said, while addressing the newly-graduated cadets of the Indian Air Force at the combined graduation parade ceremony at Air Force station, Dundigal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The defence minister recalled the recent aggression by China despite the coronavirus pandemic. “When the country was passing through difficult times of the Covid-19 pandemic, China displayed its poor intentions at the border. But we have proved to them that India is not a weak nation and have given them a befitting reply,” Singh said. He reminded that India had received a lot of appreciation from various countries for its posture during the stand-off with China. The defence minister said India always believed in dialogue and peace. “As of now, both the nations are amid bilateral and diplomatic talks. I am repeating again, we do not want conflict but only peace. But we will not tolerate if there is any harm done to the nation’s sovereignty. In that case, we are well equipped for giving a strong reply,” Singh said. Taking a dig at Pakistan, he said the neighbouring country had not learnt a lesson despite losing four wars with India. “It is still fighting proxy wars with India through sponsoring terrorism,” he alleged. Stating that the Indian armed forces were fighting a relentless battle against terrorism, Singh called upon the forces to be prepared to wage any kind of war, be it on ground, air and water. “There is also another threat in the form of Cyber war. We have to be prepared to face it,” he said. The Union minister lauded the services of the Indian Air Force stating that it had been doing a commendable job in fighting the enemy and protecting the integrity of the country. The arrival of the Rafael aircraft has reinforced the strength of IAF and enhanced its self-confidence, he said. After inspecting the passing out parade, the defence minister conferred the ‘President’s Commission’ to the graduating trainees. The ceremony included presentation of ‘Wings’ and ‘Brevets’ to the Flight Cadets. First in the Order of Merit was flying officer Aishish Khateri, who was awarded the Chief of the Air Staff Sword of Honour for excelling in overall training by the defence minister. The event also had an aerobatic display by the SU-30 aircraft, the famous Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team, Sarang Helicopter Display Team, Pilatus PC-7 trainer and a flypast by formations of PC-7, Kiran and Hawk aircraft. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria also took part in the combined graduation parade ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-not-weak-won-t-tolerate-any-aggression-rajnath-singh-at-iaf-graduation-parade/story-2PoDoBnZWFcwlh1segJiQK.html
19-12-2020||India||Third wave of Covid-19 under control but don’t be complacent, warns Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital has now overcome the third wave of Covid-19 infections and is conducting the highest number of daily tests in the country, even more than the US, to detect the coronavirus disease. Kejriwal said Delhi saw the first wave of Covid-19 in June, the second in August-September, and the third strong wave towards the end of October and November. He also said that pollution induced by stubble burning led to the third wave of coronavirus in November.“It appears that the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi is now ending. Around 90,000 daily tests are being conducted in Delhi today. This is the highest number of daily tests in the country,” he said while addressing a press conference.Talking about the tests, Kejriwal took an aim at other states as well. “When Covid cases started increasing here, some told me that the number of tests should be decreased or to commit fraud in testing. Similar fraud was being committed at other places to show a lower number of cases. I instructed doctors and officers that the lives of people are most important,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief thanked frontline warriors, the central government and the people of Delhi for their cooperation. “With the efforts of the people of Delhi, we have effectively and successfully surpassed the third wave of Corona. I salute Covid-19 warriors, frontline workers; thank Centre, political parties, religious institutions for cooperation,” he said.He also warned the people of Delhi, advised them to be vigilant and observe all safety norms. “We can’t afford to be complacent about Covid-19 situation in Delhi.”CM Kejriwal compared Delhi’s Covid-19 tally with that of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat where he said the daily test numbers are at 670 per 1 million population and 800 per 1 million population, respectively.Delhi on Friday recorded 1,418 new coronavirus disease cases with over 88,000 tests being conducted and the positivity rate stood at 1.6%, as per authorities. The national capital’s death toll mounted to 10,219 with 37 new fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-under-control-but-don-t-be-complacent-warns-delhi-cm-kejriwal/story-aOsHzsL0M1CuiZktXEO5cN.html
19-12-2020||India||SC seeks response from Centre, states on Twitter India’s plea against multiple FIRs||The Supreme Court has issued notices to the Centre and several states on a petition filed by Twitter Communications India Pvt Ltd urging it to quash multiple FIRs registered against it for allegedly promoting a tweet on ‘Khalistan’.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde had on December 17 sought responses from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, governments of Karnataka, Assam, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and the Police Commissioner of Delhi.The apex court also issued notices to the complainants, who have registered criminal complaints against the social media giant. Notice was also issued to one Vinit Goenka, a BJP functionary, who had alleged the firm had taken financial consideration to promote the alleged tweet.Twitter India, in its plea, had said in the past months, Goenka and his supporters have held webinars asking for Twitter to be declared a terrorist organisation, for its officers to be charged with sedition and to encourage a mass filing of cases against Twitter and its employees.Senior advocate Sajjan Poovayya, who appeared for Twitter India, contended that there cannot be multiple FIRs for one incident and sought directions to quash them.Poovayya said Twitter India has no control over the content on the Twitter website and that the same is monitored by the Twitter Inc based in the USA.Multiple FIRs were filed against Twitter Inc in eight states for allegedly promoting the tweet of one Gurpatwant Singh Pannum on ‘Khalistan’. Pannum had reportedly tweeted a Twitter poll on “whether India should recognize Khalistan’2020.”Twitter Inc has further sought clubbing of the FIRs for conducting the trial in one lower court as done in the case of Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-response-from-centre-states-on-twitter-india-s-plea-against-multiple-firs/story-OGxKl9H6nKSsBVNj6bW45J.html
19-12-2020||India||Jairam Ramesh apologises to Vivek Doval in defamation case, says may have gone overboard||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday tendered an apology to Vivek Doval, the son of National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, before a Delhi court in connection with a criminal defamation case in January last year. Vivek Doval had filed a defamation case against Ramesh and Caravan Magazine for their alleged defamatory statements and articles against him. He has accepted Ramesh’s apology. Vivek Doval had filed the defamation case against Ramesh, as well as The Caravan and journalist Kaushal Shroff, after the article The D Companies was published in the magazine. The court had taken cognizance of Doval’s criminal defamation complaint in January 2019 and Ramesh was granted bail in May 2019. Defamation proceedings against The Caravan and Shroff will continue.Ramesh said while tendering the apology that his remarks were based on a news article and said “perhaps some independent verification may have been in order.” The matter was heard by additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sachin Gupta on Saturday. Also read | Court grants bail to Jairam Ramesh in defamation caseThe Congress leader had, in a press conference on January 17, 2019, made certain statements against Vivek Doval, his family and his business venture GNA Asia Fund. “I understand these statements have hurt you deeply. I want to clarify that these statements or accusations, were made drawing conclusions from an Article that was published the previous day in the Caravan magazine. As the case progressed, I realized that perhaps some independent verification may have been in order. However, the General Elections were close, and the questions raised in the article seemed appropriate for being highlighted in public. In retrospect, I may have gone overboard in making certain insinuations against you and your family,” Ramesh said in his letter to Vivek.“Thus, I would like to offer my apologies to you and your family for any hurt the statements have caused. I would also urge the INC to remove the press conference from the press releases available on their website,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jairam-ramesh-apologises-to-vivek-doval-in-defamation-case-says-may-have-gone-overboard/story-9HDIugrxeuxa0gGyFjNYeM.html
19-12-2020||India||NGT extends time for constitution of biodiversity management committees||The National Green Tribunal has extended the time limit for the constitution of biodiversity management committees (BMCs) and preparation of people’s biodiversity registers (PBRs) on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel was assured by the member secretary of the National Biodiversity Authority that monitoring will be faithfully conducted with all the state biodiversity boards concerned and necessary steps for compliance of law will be taken. “We also find that in view of Covid situation, it will be necessary to take a liberal view about the delay caused. Accordingly, the time for remaining compliances is extended up to June 30, 2021, and compensation amounts will stand waived if compliances are ensured by that date,” the bench said. The green panel noted that it has already monitored the matter for the last more than four years and there is substantial progress in compliance with the requirements of setting up BMCs and maintaining PBRs. The order was passed after some states sought extension of time on account of the pandemic and also waiver of the requirement to pay compensation for the delay. The NGT noted that India is one of the recognised mega-diverse countries of the world, harbouring nearly seven to eight per cent of the recorded species of the world, and representing four of the 34 globally identified biodiversity hotspots. “So far, over 91,200 species of animals and 45,500 species of plants have been documented in the 10 biogeographic regions of the country. The indigenous and local community are a repository of traditional knowledge and their knowledge and practices help in conservation and sustainable development of the biodiversity,” the tribunal said. “In the past, India has already faced biopiracy. There is, thus, urgent need to document the knowledge of the local community in the form of PBR,” it added. The NGT was earlier informed by a monitoring committee formed by it that as against 2,52,709 panchayats where biodiversity management committees were to be constituted, a total of 1,44,371 BMCs have been formed, which shows a gap of more than one lakh. With respect to people’s biodiversity registers, 6,834 have been documented so far and another 1,814 are in progress, it had noted. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Pune resident Chandra Bhal Singh seeking implementation of provisions of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 and Biological Diversity Rules, 2004. The Biological Diversity Act, 2002 aims to preserve biological diversity in India and provides mechanism for equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the use of traditional biological resources and knowledge. “The blatant non-compliance of the provisions of the said act and rules has frustrated the whole efforts of enacting such a legislation owing to the International obligation of India while being a signatory to the Rio Declaration and Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992,” the plea had said. It was alleged that various states in the country have failed to give proper attention to the unique biodiversity prevalent in India and they have also not undertaken their statutory obligations with “seriousness and have remained oblivious in discharging the statutory provision in last couple of years”. Seeking constitution of biodiversity management committees at the local level in every state under Section 41 of the Biological Biodiversity Act, 2002, the plea claimed that several state biodiversity boards have not constituted a BMC at the local level “for the purpose of promoting conservation, sustainable use and documentation of biological diversity”. It further said the People’s Biodiversity Register, a document which records diversity of flora and fauna, has not been prepared and maintained by the Biodiversity Management Committee in some of the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-extends-time-for-constitution-of-biodiversity-management-committees/story-kayvufd6tXY8PK99cGJuWL.html
19-12-2020||India||Police probe ordered into Javed Akhtar’s defamation complaint against Kangana Ranaut||A metropolitan magistrate court in Mumbai on Saturday directed police to investigate famous Bollywood lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar’s complaint of defamation against actor Kangana Ranaut for her alleged personal comments made during an interview.The lyricist had approached the magistrate court last month with a complaint of defamation against Ranaut. Earlier this month, on December 3, his statement was recorded by the magistrate for verification of the complaint.On Saturday, Akhtar’s lawyer argued for action on the complaint and asked the court to take cognizance of the same. The Magistrate court after hearing the arguments, directed Juhu police to conduct an inquiry into the allegations made in the complaint and submit a report by January 16.The court’s direction came under section 202 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which empowers a magistrate court to conduct an inquiry either itself or by directing any authority, including the police, into any complaint submitted to it.Also Read: Case against Kangana Ranaut for ‘showing RLSP leader Kushwaha in bad light’ through re-tweetAkhtar, through his lawyer Niranjan Mundargi, had filed a private complaint on November 2 against the actor under section 499 (defamation) and section 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code.Akhtar had alleged that Ranaut had defamed him during one television interview by claiming that he had threatened her to withdraw a case against actor Hrithik Roshan.He added that Ranaut had called him part of an alleged suicide gang and claimed in the interview that Akhtar threatened her that she will have no option but to take her own life, if she didn’t back out.Akhtar claimed that because of such comments, he received so many hate calls and messages and was also trolled on social media. He argued that the messages and comments caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-probe-ordered-into-javed-akhtar-s-defamation-complaint-against-kangana-ranaut/story-d3F3xOjqT19G8QUmB9S89O.html
19-12-2020||India||Over 26% votes polled till 11 am in final phase of J&K DDC polls||An estimated 26.07% votes were polled in the first four hours of voting in the eighth and final phase of the maiden District Development Council (DDC) elections underway across 28 constituencies spread over 18 districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said.The polling, which started at 7 am and is scheduled to conclude at 2 pm, is going on smoothly though it began on a dull note at various polling stations due to early morning chill as most parts of Kashmir are reeling under sub-zero temperature, the officials said.They said the polling picked up as the winter sun shone and long queues of voters were visible outside almost all polling stations across the Union Territory.Over 6.30 lakh electors, including 3,03,275 female voters, are eligible to vote, the officials said, adding a total of 1,703 polling stations -- 1,028 in Kashmir division and 675 in Jammu division -- have been set up.According to the figures released by the office of the State Election Commissioner, the Jammu division recorded 36.37% polling till 11 am, while the Kashmir division recorded 16.08 per cent voting during the same period.In Jammu, Poonch district is leading the voting chart with 43.88%, followed by Samba at 42.01%, Reasi (41.87%), Rajouri (40.68%), Jammu (36.64%), Ramban (36.14%), Kathua (34.45%), Kishtwar (34.15%), Doda (34.02%) and Udhampur (24.56%).Kupwara district with a voter turnout of 33.43% is leading the chart in Kashmir division and is followed by Bandipora at 30.77%, Baramulla (25.56%), Budgam (19.10%), Kulgam (4.66%), Anantnag (4.63%), Pulwama (4.35%) and Shopian (3.79%).In the final phase, 83 candidates, including 31 women, are in the fray for 13 DDC constituencies in Kashmir. In the Jammu division, there are 85 candidates, including 15 women, in the fray for 15 DDC constituencies.Voting is also underway for 369 vacant panch and sarpanch posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-26-votes-polled-till-11-am-in-final-phase-of-j-k-ddc-polls/story-Efgm3x3fDDGKwwcPkebphI.html
19-12-2020||India||Key Rahul Gandhi appointee Ruchi Gupta quits Congress, blames KC Venugopal for delays||Congress party’s headache continues to grow as joint secretary in-charge of the students’ wing, National Students’ Union of India, Ruchi Gupta quit the Congress party on Saturday due to “delays in organizational changes”. Gupta, who is the latest in a long line of leaders to have left the Congress, confirmed to Hindustan Times that she has resigned from her post and quit the national party. Congress has been battling mass defections and internal dissension, with 23 senior leaders asking for a massive organizational overhaul. Repeated losses in the recent elections, from Bihar assembly to local body polls, have left the party scrambling.Interim president Sonia Gandhi is meeting party leaders on Saturday to discuss organizational changes, party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said on Friday.Gupta has laid the blame at the door of general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal, who is known to be a close confidante of former party chief Rahul Gandhi. In her message, Gupta states that Venugopal is responsible for continuous delays in organizational changes and the matter cannot always be escalated to the level of the party president. “Dear all, I am writing to you to announce that I have resigned. As you know, important organisational changes have remained pending for very long: the national committee took 1 year 3 months; state president orders have remained pending for months. Many other state units are waiting for reorganisation to make space for new activists. These continuing delays by the GS(O) are damaging the organisation but in the present circumstances, it is not possible to escalate repeatedly to Congress President. The situation has thus become untenable,” she wrote in her resignation message.“Thank you all for your hard work, especially in these difficult times of the pandemic. I want to make sure that your hard work is not lost in the transition and will be sending a write-up on each of you to Rahul ji. My best wishes for all your future endeavours,” Gupta added. HT reached out to Venugopal for a response via text message but did not receive a reply immediately. In her article in Hindu on Saturday, Gupta said that the party needs to address issues of party organization, address grassroots level connect and establish a strong top-down leadership.“None of the above can be done without a strong and interventionist Congress President. Political parties — the Congress in particular — are defined as much by internal conflicts as external. Politics is dynamic with constantly opening and closing pathways to power. Without a strong leader at the top to take and enforce decisions, the Party will continue to be pulled in different directions,” Gupta wrote. “Moreover, only the active facilitation of the Congress President can create space for substantive deliberation required right now — both as a political process to draw everyone together and to form a political platform expansive enough to accommodate the Congress’s historical big tent positioning.”She added that the “this leadership can only be provided by Rahul Gandhi”. “This is not a sycophantic statement — if any other leader had to emerge in the party, he would have done so over the last year. Instead, different factions prefer status quo rather than allowing one group to ascend and upset the balance of power for everyone. Organisational power thus continues to reside in Mr Gandhi. The way then to revive the Congress and consolidate this power is one and the same — it’s full and frontal exercise,” Gupta adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-rahul-gandhi-appointee-ruchi-gupta-quits-congress-blames-kc-venugopal-for-delays/story-k0L37TCC7qZQMyntNANZhL.html
19-12-2020||India||Over 8,000 security personnel for Arunachal panchayat, municipal polls||More than 8,000 security personnel would be deployed for the panchayat and municipal elections to be held in Arunachal Pradesh on December 22, a senior police officer said.Nine companies of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), besides 7,517 personnel of police, India Reserve Battalion (IRB) and Arunachal Pradesh Police Battalion (APPB) would be deployed for the rural and civic polls, the officer said.The state police have taken several security measures, including tracking those with criminal records, deposition of firearms and night patrolling, to ensure the peaceful conduct of election, Inspector General of Police (Law and Order) Chukhu Apa said.“The deployment of paramilitary forces is as per the classification of the 2,268 polling stations across the state,” he said The IGP said that forest guards and Itanagar traffic wardens would also be engaged in election duties.The state police have identified 258 hypersensitive, 536 sensitive and 702 normal polling stations across the state. Each normal polling station would be guarded by two security personnel, while three personnel would be deployed in sensitive and four in hypersensitive booth, the IGP said.Capital Complex Superintendent of Police (SP) Jimmy Chiram informed that the capital police have been on the job ever since the elections were declared by intensifying night patrolling and erecting 11 nakas in the state capital.The SP said that so far 400 litres of liquor, 177 daos (big knife) and a few firearms have been seized by the capital police.“The check gates in Hollongi, Banderdewa and Gumto will be sealed on December 22, the polling day, in order to ensure free and fair elections,” Chiram added.The state government has declared holiday on December 22.State Election Commissioner Hage Kojeen informed that ballot papers printed for all the panchayat constituencies have been collected by all the districts, while the commissioning of Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) for Itanagar Municipal Corporation and Pasighat Municipality have also been done.Of the total 2,259 polling stations in the state, voting would be held at 1,472 polling stations where 4,89,423 electors would exercise their franchise.“There will be no election in the entire Dibang Valley district as all the segments in both zilla parishad and gram panchayat went unopposed,” Kojeen said, adding that East Siang is the only district where polling would take place at all 120 polling stations.As many as 110 gram panchayat segments in the entire state fell vacant due to various reasons. The State Election Commission would take a final call on conducting by-elections in those constituencies after the electoral process is over in the current phase of election.Counting of votes for both panchayat and municipal elections would be held on December 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-000-security-personnel-for-arunachal-panchayat-municipal-polls/story-4ZGZBwnAddnQmfwKx6FPWN.html
19-12-2020||India||India waits for Pakistan to end terror before resumption of dialogue||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an impromptu landing at the Lahore airport on December 25, 2015, he hugged his then counterpart Nawaz Sharif who had come to receive him. During his four-hour visit, Sharif recalled that his mother Begum Shamin Akhtar had told him that Modi was a good man after she saw the Indian PM on Indian television news channels taking the blessings of his mother Heeraben by touching her feet. PM Modi met Sharif’s mother at a family function in Raiwind near Lahore and exchanged notes with her. Sharif sent an embroidered shawl for Heeraben, which was duly reciprocated by PM Modi for the then Pakistan PM’s mother with Indian High Commission scouring the entire security locked Lahore to secure a gift. It was this gesture of warmth that stuck with PM Modi who condoled the demise of Sharif’s mother Shamim Akhtar on November 22, 2020, by writing a letter to the former PM. The letter was conveyed to Nawaz Sharif through his politician daughter Maryam Nawaz by an Indian diplomat based in Pakistan. “I recall my interaction with her during my brief visit to Lahore in 2015. Her simplicity and warmth were indeed very touching,” wrote PM Modi in his condolence message.Although political detractors of PM Modi accuse him of reaping electoral benefits for blaming Islamabad time and again, the condolence letter shows that India has no ill-will towards the civilian, democratically elected leadership in Pakistan.At a launch of a book on Friday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar made it clear that for India to engage in a dialogue with Pakistan, the neighbouring country must put an end to cross-border terrorism. “As far as PM Modi is concerned, we have shown a lot of clarity that they (Pakistan) can’t continue with terrorism and then expect diplomacy to carry on,” he said at the function. This is no different from the message conveyed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval to his then Pakistan counterpart Nasser Janjua in Bangkok before PM Modi visited Lahore on December 25, 2015.Also read | 4 out of every 5 Pak citizens believe country headed in wrong direction: ReportDoval told Janjua that India will deal with terror but Pakistan must give a commitment that there would be no state protection to the proscribed anti-India terrorist groups in that country. However, the entire bold Indian diplomacy of December 2015 came to a nought with Pakistan based Jaish-e-Mohammed group targeting the Pathankot airbase within a week of PM Modi’s Lahore visit. Documents recovered from the terrorists revealed that the foiled terror attack was planned on the day PM Modi landed at Lahore, showing that the Pakistan deep state was totally opposed to any détente with India and was using Islamists to scuttle any rapprochement.Today, with the Pakistani deep state and army controlling the levers of political power in Islamabad, the Indian establishment is at a loss of a committed and credible interlocutor in the Islamic Republic who has the power to defang the terrorist groups. It is quite evident to the Indian leadership that Pakistan army will not allow any civilian leader to have a dialogue with New Delhi to normalise bilateral relations. Nawaz Sharif tried it twice and failed. His daughter Maryam is now being painted as an Indian agent and there is clearly a threat to her life. Also read | Nearly half of China’s investments in India’s neighbourhood went to PakistanInstead, the Pakistani leadership time and again cries wolf over non-existent impending surgical strikes by the Indian Army in an effort to defame India as an aggressor and reiterate the tired nuclear flashpoint theory. Statement to this effect by Pakistan’s foreign minister in the UAE, duly tweeted by National Security Advisor, on Friday is a case in point.Fact is that the Indian retaliation in the form of surgical strikes in occupied Kashmir and air strikes at Balakot in Manshera came only as a response to terror attacks by Pakistan based proscribed groups after the complicity of Rawalpindi GHQ was established by Indian security agencies.The Pakistani alarm from a non-existent surgical strike came after India was totally unfazed by a Sino-Pak air combat exercise across the Gujarat border in Sindh province earlier this month. The two iron brothers also signed a defence MoU during the visit of Chinese defence minister and State Councillor General Wei Fenghe to Islamabad.Given that Pakistan under PM Imran Khan Niazi is behaving like a tributary state to the Middle Kingdom and proscribed terrorist groups continue to spew poison against India, New Delhi’s desire to have normal ties with all its neighbours will remain an unfulfilled dream.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-waits-for-pakistan-to-end-terror-before-resumption-of-dialogue/story-jEYKFtS5EMltHSfJmKSBwI.html
19-12-2020||India||Five-time Shiv Sena MP Mohan Rawale dies||Five-time Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai, Mohan Rawale, died in Goa on Saturday following a massive cardiac arrest, party sources said.He was 72.In a tweet, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said, “Mohan Rawale died. He was a staunch Shiv Sainikand a big-hearted friend...He was a five-time MP...Tributes to him.” Rawale represented the Mumbai South Central Lok Sabha seat five times between 1991 and 2004.He was expelled from the Sena briefly in 2013 for dissidence, but later rejoined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-time-shiv-sena-mp-mohan-rawale-dies/story-l3Zs8J3a5dKvqHS8HOJXAP.html
19-12-2020||India||Goa CM seeks to allay fears surrounding track-doubling project||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday sought to allay fears surrounding a railway track-doubling project that is facing opposition, saying that environment will not be damaged during its implementation.He also launched a veiled attack on the people opposing the project and said there was no scope for “negative, divisive and anti-national forces” in the state.He was addressing a state-level Goa Liberation Day anniversary function here, hours after some protesters blocked a railway line in a South Goa village to oppose the track- doubling project.“Goans are always happy, positive and optimistic in their approach towards life. There is no scope for negative, divisive and anti-national forces in the state, which is the ultimate truth. It has been proved time and again in the state,” he said.“I take full responsibility of preserving the environment while implementing development projects in the state,” Sawant added.Several protesters blocked the railway track at Arossim village in the early hours of Saturday against the track-doubling project of South Western Railway, saying that the move was aimed at facilitating private companies to transport coal. They said that the government was allowing the state to be turned into a coal hub.Several NGOs and political parties have been opposing the project claiming that it is being done by cutting trees in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the National Park to help the coal handling companies transport the raw material from Mormugao Port Trust to their plants in Karnataka.During the function, Sawant further said that the state government helped the citizens during Covid-19 pandemic by providing essential services, health care facilities to them, besides assisting farmers and conducting school examination, among other things.“The sincere attempts of the state government were acknowledged by the people, which was reflected in the results of the recently-held Zilla Panchayat elections (where BJP won most of the seats),” he said.The chief minister said the government has embarked on a mission to make Goa self-sustainable through its flagship ‘Swayampurna Goa’ programme.He acknowledged the contribution of freedom fighters, health workers and frontline Covid-19 warriors during the speech.Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik, Goa Legislative Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar were present for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-seeks-to-allay-fears-surrounding-track-doubling-project/story-EwVhLnDVohwgzaeoTQHqTI.html
19-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers’ steadfast in their demands as Delhi temperature plummets to season’s lowest yet||Braving the harsh cold of Delhi, thousands of farmers protesting against the three recent agri laws remained steadfast in their demands of repealing the legislations as their agitation entered its fourth week.According to the India Meteorological Department, the national capital recorded its coldest day on Saturday with the minimum temperature dropping to 3.9 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides the representative data for the city.The mercury dipped to even lower levels in some parts of the city, recording 3.3 degrees Celsius and 3.4 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road and Ayanagar, respectively.The agitation has also led to traffic diversions at various border points causing inconvenience to commuters. Taking to Twitter on Saturday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the closure of certain roads and suggested them to take alternative routes.It said the Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad due to the ongoing protest.However, those travelling to Delhi can take alternative routes via Anad Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders, it said. “Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for two wheelers and pedestrian movement,” it said in a tweet.However, for those travelling to Haryana, the Delhi Traffic Police said some borders are opened -- the Jharoda border (only for single carriageway), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera.The Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open for traffic but just one carriageway. However, the other carriageway from Noida to Delhi is closed, according to the traffic police. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi & Mangesh borders are closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road,” the traffic police said.“Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road, NH-44,” it tweeted. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at various border of Delhi for almost four weeks now as formal talks between the government and representatives of farmers’ unions remained deadlocked with protesting peasants refusing to accept anything less than a repeal of the newly enacted laws. The farmers have been saying these new laws will pave the way for a dismantling of the Minimum Support Price mechanism and the mandi system, leaving them to the “mercy” of big corporates, apprehensions the government insists are misplaced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-steadfast-in-their-demands-as-delhi-temperature-plummets-to-season-s-lowest-yet/story-uBtWlg73a8vvPdJpHXP7UN.html
19-12-2020||India||Amit Shah begins 2-day Bengal trip with visit to Swami Vivekananda’s house||Union home minister Amit Shah visited Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral house in north Kolkata on Saturday morning while kicking off his two-day visit to West Bengal. Shah arrived in Kolkata late on Friday night and is scheduled to camp in the poll-bound state for the next two days, during which he will visit two districts, address a rally, hold a road show, have lunch with families of a farmer and a baul singer, and visit Visva Bharati in Santiniketan. “Today I am very happy and fortunate that I am visiting a place which inspires not just Indians but the entire world. This is the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda. Swamiji, during his life, had spread India’s knowledge and culture to the entire world. He acquainted the entire world with universal brotherhood through his speech at the parliament of religions in USA. He was the person who tied modernism with spiritualism. He urged India to worship Bharat mata. Within 50 years, India achieved Independence. Swamiji’s values hold the same relevance today as that time,” Shah said. An 11-member team comprising BJP leaders such as national vice president Mukul Roy, state president Dilip Ghosh and national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya were there with Shah. The Union minister, however, didn’t respond to any media queries. Meanwhile, TMC supporters staged a protest on Sukhiya Street, less than two kilometres away. Top BJP leaders in the state had earlier said that Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda would visit West Bengal every month till the elections, slated for early-2021. While Shah had come to West Bengal in early-November, Nadda was on a two-day visit last week. Some former TMC leaders, who have resigned from the party in the last 72 hours, are expected to join the BJP at Shah’s rally in East Midnapore. The buzz is that former TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikary could join the BJP during Shah’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-begins-2-day-bengal-trip-with-visit-to-swami-vivekananda-s-house/story-tNA30kMd8WfjhgAsEhlv5I.html
19-12-2020||India||We moved from ‘Why India’ to ‘Why not India’: PM Modi says at Assocham||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday reforms brought in by his government have changed the perception about India on the global platform. “This is the time to plan and act and focus on nation-building as the next 27 years will decide India’s global role,” Prime Minister Modi said during his virtual keynote address at the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India’s (Assocham) ongoing foundation week.The Prime Minister also talked about the importance of industry in India’s growth. “There is so much positivity in the world regarding the position of India and this positivity is because of the hopes and dreams of 130 crore Indians,” he said.PM Modi also presented the “Assocham Enterprise of the Century Award” to Ratan Tata, who received the award on behalf of the Tata Group. PM said that the Tata group has contributed to the development of the country under the able leadership of Ratan Tata. Tata thanked the Prime Minister for the award and appreciated his strong leadership during the coronavirus pandemic.“You have been the carrier of leadership in this tough period and for this, we should be much obliged to you,” Tata said. “If we all stand together and follow what you have said and what you have shown, we will have a situation where the world will look at us and say this Prime Minister said it could happen and he made it happen,” he said.The theme of the programme organised by Assocham, one of India’s top trade organisations is, ‘India’s resilience: Atmanirbhar roadmap towards $5 trillion economy.’ The week-long programme, which started on Tuesday, witnessed various speakers this year including Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, Union agriculture and farmers welfare minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union minister for road, transports and highways Nitin Gadkari and Union communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.Assocham was established in 1920 by promoter chambers representing all regions of India. It has over 400 chambers and trade associations in its fold and serves more than 450,000 members across India. The organisation represents the interests of trade and commerce in India and acts as an interface between issues and initiatives with a goal to promote both domestic and international trade and reduce trade barriers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-moved-from-why-india-to-why-not-india-pm-modi-says-at-assocham/story-0lLCcXZAAO5rxmCuhkW7eO.html
19-12-2020||India||Srinagar records 2nd coldest December night of decade as intense cold wave sweeps J-K||Jammu and Kashmir continues to be under the influence of an intense cold wave for the last three nights with the summer capital Srinagar recording the lowest temperature of the season on Friday night, which was also the second coldest December night in the past one decade.The mercury dipped to minus 6.6 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, said a meteorological department officer.Tourist resort of Gulmarg witnessed a temperature of 9.9 degree Celsius. Gulmarg had already four spells of snow this winter and the winter games have already begun on the icy slopes of the resort. The cold wave has left water taps frozen across Kashmir. “Lowest minimum temperatures in the last 10 years in the month of December were -7.7 °c on December 25,2018, -6.6 °c on December 18, 2020, -6.5°c on Dec 21, 2016 and Dec 30, 2019 and -6.4 °c on December 17 ,2020,” said deputy director of Srinagar based meteorological department, Mukhtar Ahmad. Kashmir will get the next spell of snow with the onset of Chillai Kalan, the harsh 40-day winter period starting on December 21. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages, starting with the 40-day intense period from December 21(Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days that are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache). The night temperatures continued to drop in most places of Kashmir. Jammu was also cold at 3.3 degrees. Leh in the Union Territory of Ladakh recorded a low of minus 16.4 degrees Celsius, while Kargil recorded a low of minus 21.1 degrees C and Drass, the second coldest place in the world, observed minus 29.0 degrees C temperature. The night temperatures started dipping in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after snowfall over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-records-2nd-coldest-december-night-of-decade-as-intense-cold-wave-sweeps-j-k/story-ZZt6lKpziMDGhfvzuYI7VO.html
19-12-2020||India||Find content on how agro-reforms help farmers on NaMo App, tweets PM Modi||Amid large-scale protests against the three farm bills passed by the Centre in September, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tweeted that graphics and booklets that talk about how the reforms are beneficial for farmers could be found on the NaMo App.“There is a lot of content, including graphics and booklets that elaborate on how the recent Agro-reforms help our farmers. It can be found on the NaMo App Volunteer Module’s Your Voice and Downloads sections. Read and share widely,” he tweeted. There is a lot of content, including graphics and booklets that elaborate on how the recent Agro-reforms help our farmers. It can be found on the NaMo App Volunteer Module’s Your Voice and Downloads sections. Read and share widely. https://t.co/TYuxNNJfIf pic.twitter.com/BHfE4F410kThe PM’s tweet comes in the backdrop of thousands of farmers protesting against the laws. The farmers’ protests entered day 24 on Saturday as the stalemate between the Centre and agitating farmers continued.Meanwhile, Congress on Friday said the government should stop “deceiving and betraying” the farmers. Party president from Haryana Kumari Selja said, “Farmers of the country have been forced to protest on the borders of national Capital in bitter cold for the last three weeks. But the government is not ready to listen to them under the pressure from the capitalists.”She also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) of spreading misconceptions about the farmers’ protest and accused the party of engaging in politics of division. “The BJP wants to turn farmers into labourers, which cannot be tolerated. The BJP had promised to implement the recommendations of Swaminathan Commission report. It promised to double the income of farmers, but not a single promise has been fulfilled”, she said.Widespread protests are taking place against the three laws— Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. While Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has assured that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism will stay, farmers believe the laws will put them at the mercy of corporate farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/find-content-on-how-agro-reforms-help-farmers-on-namo-app-tweets-pm-modi/story-wUAhanXnjWjoBxnSA5YpUJ.html
19-12-2020||India||India reports 25,152 new Covid-19 cases, 347 deaths in 24 hours||India recorded 25,152 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 347 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking its tally over 10 million mark, according to the Union health ministry on Saturday morning. The country’s number of cases mounted to 1,00,04,599, the death toll rose to 145,136 and there are 308,751 active cases of the coronavirus disease so far.According to the health ministry’s data at 8am, 9,550,712 people have recovered from the respiratory disease with 29,885 new discharges between Friday and Saturday morning across the country. However, the Covid-19 case fatality rate has further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 308,751 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country which constitute 3.08 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.Additional cases in the past 24 hours have dropped from a peak level of nearly 100,000 in mid-September. The pandemic has infected nearly 1% of India’s more than 1.3 billion people, second to the worst-hit United States.According to the health ministry, India had reported 22,889 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 338 fatalities on Friday.India has added 1 million cases in nearly a month, while the total number of recoveries surged to 9.55 million. The country’s Covid-19 tally had surpassed the 2-million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. It went past 5 million on September 16, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, 8 million on October 29, and surpassed 9 million on November 20.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative 16,00,90,514 coronavirus samples have been tested up to 19th December, 11,71,868 of them on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-25-152-new-covid-19-cases-347-deaths-in-24-hours/story-WStq9iCl3Ad19ysAEJX8xL.html
19-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi meets section of Congress dissenters, looks to end crisis||A crucial meeting of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and some dissenters from the group of 23, apart from other senior leaders, began on Saturday morning with an aim to end the ongoing crisis in the party and discuss steps needed to strengthen the organisation in the wake of series of electoral setbacks. Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and one of the 23 Congress leaders who wrote to Gandhi earlier this year seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation as well as internal elections from top to bottom, and another letter writer, Anand Sharma, reached the 10 Janpath residence of the party chief for the meeting. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath, and senior leaders Ambika Soni, AK Antony and P Chidambaram were also attending the meeting. Former Union ministers and letter writers Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tewari, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda (a part of the group of 23 leaders), the Congress general secretary incharge of Punjab, Harish Rawat, and the party’s interim treasurer, Pawan Kumar Bansal, too, reached Gandhi’s residence. Also present were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, party general secretary Ajay Maken, and former Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan.A Congress functionary said Gandhi was also keen to see an immediate end to the crisis and discuss the ways to bolster the party, which suffered setbacks in recent by-elections as well as rural polls in Rajasthan. “She wants to bring all the warring leaders together and end the current impasse in the party. She wants all the leaders to work in close coordination with Rahul Gandhi in strengthening the party,” he said, requesting anonymity. He further said the Congress president did not want to isolate the dissenters pushing for organisational overhaul and internal elections from top to bottom. The group of 23 signatories, also known as G-23, had written to the Congress president in August, seeking full-time and active leadership and introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-meets-section-of-congress-dissenters-looks-to-end-crisis/story-fKi7iAW2B4yrrscDBXTL5H.html
19-12-2020||India||PM Modi, CM Sawant greet people of Goa on state’s Liberation Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended his greetings to the people of Goa on the 60th anniversary of the coastal state’s liberation. “On the special occasion of Goa Liberation Day, greetings and best wishes to my sisters and brothers of Goa. We recall with pride the bravery of those who worked hard to free Goa. Praying for the continuous progress of the state in the years to come,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet. On the special occasion of Goa Liberation Day, greetings and best wishes to my sisters and brothers of Goa. We recall with pride the bravery of those who worked hard to free Goa. Praying for the continuous progress of the state in the years to come.Chief minister Pramod Sawant had on Friday wished people of Goa on the occasion. “On this auspicious occasion of Goa Liberation Day, I extend my best wishes to the people of Goa. It is indeed a remarkable day in Goa’s history, as the State attained freedom from 450 years of Portuguese rule,” Sawant had said in a video message.“Our freedom fighters fought hard, sacrificed their lives to let the future generations of Goa live in peace and happiness. The state has experienced ups and downs since then. Socially, economically, yet, have stood strong, shining like a star, holding tight to its cultural heritage,” the chief minister had said. “As we commemorate the 60th year of its Liberation, let us work together towards the betterment of the State. Let us resolve to keep it Clean and Green, sustainable and a peace-loving place. Happy Goa Liberation day to all,” he added.President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Panaji on Saturday and Sunday to take part in the commencement of Goa’s Liberation Day celebrations, Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement issued on Friday. Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year in India and it marks the day Indian armed forces freed Goa in 1961 following 450 years of Portuguese rule. The state government has organised a special event in Panaji on Saturday evening to mark the 60th Goa Liberation Day, which will be attended by President Ram Nath Kovind who is on a two-day visit to Goa beginning Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cm-sawant-greet-people-of-goa-on-state-s-liberation-day/story-M7Cl91CN4kUxCLt3Qerp0M.html
19-12-2020||India||Why Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat cautioned Nepal about China’s footprint||In a remark aimed at China, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat this week advised Nepal against signing off on loans from other countries in the region and nudged Kathmandu to learn from Sri Lanka’s experience which had signed agreements with “other countries in the region”, a pointed reference to Chinese financial institutions that have quietly extended billions of dollars in loans to developing countries that has been used to gain strategic leverage.In his keynote address at an online event hosted by a Nepal think tank, Gen Rawat underscored the deep and extensive ties between New Delhi and Kathmandu before pointing out that Nepal was opening to other countries including China based on its independent foreign policy.“Nepal is free to act independently in international affairs but must be vigilant and learn from Sri Lanka and other nations which have also signed agreements with other countries in the region,” India’s top military officer said.Also Watch | ‘Learn from Sri Lanka’: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat cautions Nepal on ties with ChinaSri Lanka is just one example. It had to hand over the port of Hambantota to China on a 99-year lease in 2017 after struggling to pay debts incurred from its construction executed by Chinese companies. The $3.3 billion debt outstanding to China is only one part of Lanka’s financial mess made worse by borrowings from international markets by successive governments. Lanka, however, isn’t the only one. A senior Indian government official said China had extended loans to the tune of at least $31 billion to five South Asian countries; Pakistan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal.“These are the reported figures but the real figure could be much higher,” the official said.No one really knows the real figures since Chinese lenders forbid governments from revealing the numbers. Zambia, the first African country to default on its debts since the pandemic, said, according to a report in the Guardian, asset and fund managers wanted transparency over its estimated $3 billion debt to Chinese lenders who had barred them from giving out the details unless recipients of this information sign confidentiality pacts.Zambia has been careening toward a debt debacle for months, even years. Now it has become the first African nation to default on sovereign payments since the pandemic began.A study published in the Harvard Business Review in February this year estimates that nearly 50 per cent of the loans extended by Chinese institutions were not reported. It concluded that the Chinese state and its subsidiaries have lent about $1.5 trillion in direct loans to more than 150 countries around the globe.This makes China into the world’s largest official creditor surpassing traditional, official lenders such as the World Bank, the IMF, or all OECD creditor governments combined, the study said.Add the portfolio debts and trade credits to buy goods and services, and the Chinese government’s aggregate claims to the rest of the world exceed $5 trillion. That implies countries worldwide owe more than 6% of world GDP in debt to China as of 2017, it said.In South Asia, however, it isn’t Sri Lanka but Pakistan and Bangladesh that have taken the biggest loans from China.Bangladesh owes $ 4.7 billion to China and has sought $18 billion in loan on a concessional and preferential basis to implement mega projects. China did promise $ 24 billion in loans a few years ago but has, by July 2019, disbursed only $981, according to the Diplomat website.Pakistan is estimated to have already borrowed $ 22 billion for its mega projects including the China Pakistan Economic Corridor that Prime Minister Imran Khan had questioned before he was voted to power. This week, Islamabad picked up $1 billion more to pay the second instalment of a $3 billion soft loan. Next month, it expects the third instalment to repay Riyadh.For now, the State Bank of Pakistan underplays concerns around Chinese debt, insisting that the loan for CPEC is only about $5.8 billion, which accounts for only 5.3 per cent of Pakistan’s total foreign debt of 110 $ bn.It is Maldives that is worried that the previous Abdulla Yameen regime may have dragged the Indian Ocean island chain into a debt trap. Former president Mohamed Nasheed, now speaker of parliament, has announced that the Chinese debt bill was in the vicinity of $3.1 billion including government-to-government loans, the money given to state enterprises and private sector loans guaranteed by the Maldivian government.Analysts said Maldives may struggle to repay the Chinese loans by 2022-23 given how the $4.9 billion economy was struggling due to drop in tourism revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-chief-of-defence-staff-bipin-rawat-cautioned-nepal-about-china-s-footprint/story-Kts0UwJLTaZqq9aTxyVYON.html
19-12-2020||India||Govt must protect vaccine makers against lawsuits: SII’s Adar Poonawalla||Manufacturers of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) must be protected against liability in case there is any serious adverse reactions or other claims to their shots during a pandemic, Serum Institute of India (SII) chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla has said. Poonawalla, who made the comments during a virtual panel discussion on the challenges to vaccine development, said it is because such issues could potentially increase fear against getting vaccinated and also “bankrupt or distract” companies making these shots. He said his company plans to propose this to the government.“We need to have the government indemnify manufacturers, especially vaccine manufacturers, against all lawsuits. In fact, COVAX and other countries have already started talking about that,” he said on Friday during Carnegie India’s Global Technology Summit. “This is especially important only during a pandemic to indemnify vaccine manufacturers against lawsuits for severe adverse effects or any other frivolous claims which may come about because that adds to the fear (about vaccines),” he added.Also read | Expert panel seeks more data from Serum Institute of India, Bharat BiotechThe government, Poonawalla said, should bring a law as it would help companies focus on developing and manufacturing the vaccines rather than having to address legal issues. “The government can act. The US, for example, has in fact invoked a law, to say that during a pandemic and this is especially important only during a pandemic to indemnify vaccine manufacturers against lawsuits for severe adverse effects or any other frivolous claims which may come about. Because that adds to the fear and also will bankrupt vaccine manufacturers or distract them if they have to just all day just fight lawsuits and explain to the media what is happening,” he said. Also Watch | How to ensure vaccine reaches every Indian? SII’s Adar Poonawalla answersPoonawalla said that when “frivolous” claims crop up and are blown out of proportion, it affects the confidence of not just people opposed to vaccination but the general public too. “Anyone may have a thought and scepticism then sort of sets in (that) definitely something can happen due to the vaccine … to dispel that, the government needs to step in (with) messaging with influencers to spread, also, the right information,” the CEO of the Pune-based SII said.Also read | 10 million Covid+, but India on recovery roadHis comments came after one of the participants, who had taken SII’s Covishield as part of mid-to late-stage clinical trials to test the safety and immunogenicity of the Covid-19 vaccine in India, sent SII a legal notice seeking Rs 5 crore in compensation. The participant had alleged that the vaccine had caused severe neurological side-effects. SII, however, rejected the charges as “malicious and misconceived” and threatened to sue the participant in excess of Rs 100 crore, according to reports.Also read | Covid-19: When, where and how to receive vaccine? All you need to knowSII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, had requested approval for the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, on December 6. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine has shown the efficacy of 62% when volunteers were given two full doses of the vaccine, but a higher 90% when the first was a half-strength dose, according to interim results from trials in the United Kingdom and Brazil. In India, the vaccine’s trials are being carried out by SII, which is also producing a billion doses of the shot.The expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has sought additional safety and efficacy data from SII and Bharat Biotech for their coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, after deliberating upon their applications seeking authorisation for the shots||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-must-protect-vaccine-makers-against-lawsuits-sii-s-adar-poonawalla/story-fKu7pHjM9wBU247xQ7u7IJ.html
19-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to deliver keynote address at Assocham foundation week at 10.30am and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to deliver keynote address at Assocham foundation weekPrime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India’s (Assocham) ongoing foundation week on Saturday at 10.30am via video conferencing. Read moreAmit Shah in Kolkata for a 2-day visit: All you need to knowUnion home minister Amit Shah arrived in Kolkata early Saturday morning for a two-day visit to take stock of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) affairs in West Bengal ahead of the assembly elections scheduled to be held in the eastern state next year. Read moreThe spread of India’s 10 million Covid-19 casesThe number of people confirmed to have been infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 10 million mark on Friday, about 10 months after the pandemic started spreading in the country. The confirmed cases have been reported from almost all states, but are largely concentrated in a select few districts. Read moreMSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyFarmers in fully regulated agriculture markets in Punjab got 30% more price for their produce in 2018-19 than those in totally unregulated markets in Bihar and partially regulated ones in Odisha, a study of the agri markets in three states has found, terming minimum support price (MSP) as only risk-management instrument available for farmers. Read moreSara Ali Khan adds an elegant touch to denim crop top and skirt with Rs 53k heelsAdding a chic touch to a denim outfit can be a little tricky, but that is not the case with Sara Ali Khan. The Kedarnath actor is known for her quirky yet elegant sartorial picks and that is exactly what she has been serving us during the promotional events of her upcoming film. Read moreHappy birthday Ankita Lokhande: Dance video to romance in the snow, her cutest moments with boyfriend Vicky JainAnkita Lokhande never fails to shower love on her boyfriend Vicky Jain on social media. She often shares mushy posts for him, calling him her ‘soulmate’, and thanking her lucky stars that she found someone like him. She usually adds the hashtag ViAnk - an amalgamation of their names - at the end of these posts. Read moreSteve Smith falls for R Ashwin’s straight trapTalk about instant impact. That was R Ashwin bagging the biggest wicket in the match, Steve Smith, with the sixth ball of his very first over of the game. It was classic guile; Ashwin lured Smith into the mistake, triggering the Australian collapse that set up a thrilling day on the field for India. Read moreParents’ note to neighbours on sleep training baby sparks Twitter debateSleep training a baby is not an easy task, and it can leave the parents exhausted. Alongside, it can also be hard on the next-door-neighbours. Knowing this, parents of a four-month-old baby who were about to start the process wrote a note to the neighbours. Read more‘Cong to elect chief soon, 99.99% believe it should be Rahul Gandhi’: SurjewalaCongress leader Randeep Surjewala said the new party president will be elected soon. While addressing a press conference, Surjewala said Rahul Gandhi is the right person to lead congress. He asserted that 99.9 per cent of people including him want party leader Rahul Gandhi to be elected as party president. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-assocham-foundation-week-at-10-30am-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0oR9qz4j4rIsJFzUfODo8O.html
19-12-2020||India||Polling underway for last phase of DDC polls in Jammu and Kashmir||Polling began in Jammu and Kashmir for 28 constituencies in the last phase of eight-phased district development council (DDC) elections amid sub zero temperature on Saturday. Voting is also being held simultaneously for 285 Panch and 84 Sarpanch seats across the Union Territory.After the polling ends on Saturday afternoon, the focus will shift to counting of votes and the political parties in the fray will await the results of the first electoral test of strength on the ground after the scrapping of Article 370, which removed Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and turned it into a Union territory. The results for the 280 seats will be out on Tuesday, December 22.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ran a high octane campaign for the DDC polls while the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration or the PAGD-- an amalgam of six political parties, mainly regional-- left the campaigning duties to their grassroots workers.The polling process was largely peaceful barring a couple of grenade attacks on the security forces and an attack on the Apni party candidate in South Kashmir. A personal security officer (PSO) of a former PDP leader was also killed in Srinagar during the long-drawn electoral process.13 of the 28 seats polling today are from the Kashmir division and 15 are from the Jammu division. A total of 168 candidates are in the fray in the last leg of the elections, according to the State election commissioner (SEC), KK Sharma.For the 13 DDC seats in the Kashmir division, 83 candidates including 31 women are in contention. In Jammu division, a total of 85 candidates including 15 women are contesting the 15 DDC constituencies.Also Read: Kashmir Valley reels under freezing night temperatureA total of 630,443 electors including 327,168 men and 303,275 women are eligible to vote today for the 28 DDC constituencies polling today. A total of 1,703 polling stations have been set up including 1,028 in Kashmir division and 675 in Jammu division.The SEC added that of the 165 sarpanch vacancies notified in the eight phase, 43 have been elected unopposed. “There shall be a contest in 84 constituencies and 249 candidates, including 52 women, are in the fray,” he informed.Of the total 1,457 panch vacancies notified in this phase, 496 have been elected unopposed while 285 constituencies will be contested by 596 candidates including 156 women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-underway-for-last-phase-of-ddc-polls-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-sILtC2vMb1mDDJIKTMZNhM.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP’s Babul Supriyo says entry shouldn’t be open to all||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in the state said TMC rebels may not be welcome in the party, days after several Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLAs quit the party.“What my top bosses decide is a different thing but I will try my very best with all my might & honesty to ensure that NO #TMC leader who tormented, tortured (both physically & mentally) my grass root level BJP colleagues in Asansol, don’t get an entry in BJP,” union minister Babul Supriyo said in a social media post, without naming anyone.Agnimitra Paul, president of BJP Mahila Morcha in the state, too echoed Supriyo but said that the BJP’s top leadership would take the final decision. Barrackpore MLA, Shilbhadra Datta and Kanthi North legislator Banashree Maiti resigned on Friday, while TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari quit the party on Thursday.Former minister Shyamaprasad Mukherjee too has announced on Friday that he would leave the party and join the BJP. “Suvendu Adhikari is my leader. I am joining the BJP with him,” Mukherjee said. However, at Bishnupur in Bankura district, some BJP workers staged a protest and raised slogans against Mukherjee. “...when we came to know that he may join, we have informed the state leadership that the people of Bishnupur are peeved with the news,” said Konai Dutta, a BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-s-babul-supriyo-says-entry-shouldn-t-be-open-to-all/story-JT4NsqrFazsPv1O1SRvRcO.html
19-12-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address at Assocham foundation week||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the keynote address at the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India’s (Assocham) ongoing foundation week on Saturday at 10.30am via video conferencing. “Assocham will call upon the Prime Minister of India to share his perspective about Indian and global economies with Indian industry,” the chamber said in a statement.The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement on Thursday that PM Modi will present the “ASSOCHAM Enterprise of the Century Award” to Ratan Tata, who will receive the award on behalf of the Tata Group. The theme of the programme organised by Assocham, one of India’s top trade organisations is, ‘India’s resilience: Atmanirbhar roadmap towards $5 trillion economy.’ The week-long programme which started on Tuesday witnessed various speakers this year.Speaking on Day 1 of the programme via video conferencing, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Tuesday the pace of disinvestment will now gain a lot of momentum, and those which have already found cabinet approval will be taken up with all earnestness. Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, who also addressed the chamber on Tuesday, said that the first cut of a genuine single window is likely to ready by March or April 2021 to ease the compliance burden on the industry.Union agriculture and farmers welfare minister Narendra Singh Tomar in his address on Wednesday said that there is an atmosphere of excitement about the new farm laws with lakhs of farmers supporting the ‘’historic reforms’’ in India’s agriculture sector and lauded the chamber for its appeal to end the current impasse on the new agriculture laws.Minister for road, transports and highways Nitin Gadkari in his address announced that India would be tollbooth free in a span of two years. Communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in his address on Friday said scaling up of electronic manufacturing in the country can alone contribute $1 trillion to the economy.Assocham was established in 1920 by promoter chambers representing all regions of India. It has over 400 chambers and trade associations in its fold and serves more than 450,000 members across India. The organisation represents the interests of trade and commerce in India and acts as an interface between issues and initiatives with a goal to promote both domestic and international trade and reduce trade barriers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-at-assocham-foundation-week/story-6pA1uBja9n5lOpqbHo5PzK.html
19-12-2020||India||Man held after Odisha family alleges ‘love jihad’: Police||Police in Odisha’s Jajpur district on Friday arrested a 24-year-old Muslim man on charges of forcibly marrying a 21-year-old woman and raping her repeatedly, officials said.Officials said the woman was rescued from Cuttack on Thursday evening, 12 days after she was allegedly abducted by the man while going to college. Police initiated action against the accused following a complaint by the woman’s father.According to Dharmasala police station inspector-in-charge Saroj Sahoo, the father complained that the accused forcibly married the woman after abducting her on December 5 and then raped her several times over 10 days.“The medical examination has proved that the girl was raped by the accused several times. The victim’s statement was recorded before a judicial magistrate today. The accused youth has been forwarded to judicial custody after his bail was rejected,” said Sahoo. A case under sections 366 and 376(2)(n) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.Police on Wednesday arrested the father of the accused after he allegedly threatened the parents of the woman.On December 5, the woman had gone to her college to collect her migration certificate when she was allegedly abducted by the accused. Later in the evening, her mobile phone was found to be switched off. Her father searched for her at various places and later lodged a first information report, or FIR, alleging that the accused abducted his daughter.“He was earlier forcing my daughter to marry him and change her religion. As my daughter refused to do so, he had threatened to abduct her,” the woman’s father said in his FIR. The incident comes in the backdrop of a raging debate over “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, though the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise the term. While Hindu right-wing activists claim gullible Hindu women are being coerced into conversion on the false pretext of marriage, many experts reject these allegations and say that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion.Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states are considering laws against such conversions, with Uttar Pradesh being first off the blocks to promulgate an ordinance to that effect. Arabinda Das, in-charge of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Jajpur and Kendrapara unit, said the organisation has registered an FIR in this connection. “There have been many such cases in Jajpur and Kendrapara districts as the number of minorities here are quite large. Many unsuspecting girls are falling prey to such love jihad conspiracies,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-after-odisha-family-alleges-love-jihad-police/story-Pe8zj402NQeccE94XxG1DK.html
19-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest latest updates: Rajasthan MP Beniwal resigns from parliamentary panel in support of farmers’ stir||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 24 on Saturday as the impasse between the government and farmers’ unions continues. Amid the ongoing deadlock, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday virtually addressed the farmers of Madhya Pradesh in ‘Kisan Kalyan Sammelan’ which was telecasted across 23,000 villages of the country and at all the district headquarters of Madhya Pradesh. During the hour long address, Prime Minister Modi reiterated his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers and explained how the three farm laws are a step towards making farmers’ lives better. Towards the conclusion of his speech, PM Modi said the welfare of the farmers is the top priority of the government. “But still after all these, if our farmers have any concern, we will bow our heads in front of them and will listen to what they have to say. Their benefit is our utmost priority,” he said concluding his address.Responding to PM Modi’s address to Madhya Pradesh farmers, a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said, “The Prime Minister has launched an open attack on the farmers of India by claiming that they are linked to opposition parties. In place of addressing the issue of repeal of the three Farm Acts which erode farmers’ hold on land and farming and establish the MNCs and big business to grow in agriculture, he has reduced himself to a party leader, undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems.”Also read: Farmers’ protest: Solution hopefully before year ends, says Tomar | 4 key pointsAgriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in an interview to PTI on Friday said that the government is hopeful of resolving farmers’ agitation before the new year and is continuing its informal dialogue with various groups to diffuse the crisis. He also asserted that the government is ready to give a written assurance that the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi system will continue.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than three weeks. Several protesting leaders have threatened to step up their agitation and have said that they are prepared to celebrate the Republic Day next year with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders.Also read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyFollow all the latest updates here:Rajasthan MP Beniwal resigns from parliamentary panel in support of farmers’ protestRajasthan’s Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws, reports PTI.Farmers’ union calls for meeting with administration on Sunday over restricting tractors’ movementTomorrow at 11 am there will be a meeting with administration here over stopping the movement of tractors. If our demands are not fulfilled then both side of road will be blocked: Sardar VM Singh, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border), reports ANI.Gujarat CM asks Congress why it allowed contract farming in PunjabGujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday alleged that corporates are allowed to enter into contract farming in the Congress-ruled Punjab while the party is opposing the new farm laws, reports PTI.Protesting farmers at Ghazipur border use solar panel to charge phones, tractors, batteriesAmid the lack of facilities, farmers protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi’s Ghazipur border have started using solar panels to charge their phones, tractor batteries and to carry out other important works., reports PTI.PM says agri reforms have started benefiting farmersSpeaking at an Assocham convention, Modi highlighted reforms spanning from the manufacturing sector to labour to say India has during the last six years emerged as the world’s preferred destination for investment. Record foreign direct investment (FDI) and foreign portfolio investment (FPI) during the pandemic is a testimony to the faith that the world now has in India, he said.“Agriculture reforms initiated six months back have started benefitting farmers,” he said without elaborating.BJP leader and ex-Union minister Birender Singh extends support to farmers’ agitationFormer Union minister and senior BJP leader Birender Singh has extended his support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three agriculture-marketing laws passed by the Centre. Singh is grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent politician during the pre-independence era who championed the interest of farmers. Singh, whose son Brijendra is a sitting BJP MP, said it was his moral responsibility to stand with the farmers who he said are “worried” as they fear the new legislations will have an “impact” on their economic condition.“Whatever I have achieved in politics, would not have been possible had I not been the grandson of Sir Chhotu Ram,” Singh said on Friday.Government needs to resolve farmers’ issue, not Supreme Court: AIKSThe All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Friday said the issue of the ongoing farmers’ protests against three new farm laws needs to be resolved by the government and not the Supreme Court. The AIKS, a key member of the “Samyukta Kisan Morcha” that is spearheading the “Dilli Chalo” agitation against the three farm laws, asserted that no farmer organisation approached the court in the first place and asked for its intervention in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-december-19-2020/story-ulxXNsoLYaLWOMdhEFFvLP.html
19-12-2020||India||Govt ‘fully responsible’ for burdening this court: Supreme Court||The government is “fully responsible” for burdening this court, a bench of Supreme Court judges said on Friday while hearing an intervention sought in connection with cases on seniority and promotion.The top court bench, headed by justice Sanjay K Kaul, expressed displeasure at multiple petitions filed in appeal against job-related benefits to serving or retired government employees.The Union of India was in appeal before the Supreme Court in two such cases where it was aggrieved by the orders by the high courts. In both these matters, the central administrative tribunal (CAT) had ruled in favour of the employees.In the first matter, the government’s case was argued by additional solicitor general Madhvi Divan for the ministry of defence.This was an appeal against a ruling from the Kerala high court, which affirmed benefits of pay upgradation and seniority in favour of an ex-serviceman, who was now working in a civil post in the navy.As soon as the matter was taken up, the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, put forth its disinclination to entertain the matter.“How many such cases will the government bring before the court? Such a matter, we think, is coming for the third time before us. Will it ever end?” it questioned Divan.As Divan sought to mollify the bench by underscoring the repercussion of the high court order of November 2019 in several other cases, the court told the law officer that this explanation was not good enough.“Government is fully responsible for burdening this court. It takes everything to this court irrespective of the merits of the matter. And we have to then examine everything whether or not it has any merit,” said the bench.The judges then asked Divan: “Here is an officer, who has served you for more than 10 years in the army. Now, he is serving you in another wing, the navy. But you drag him till this court on certain benefits. Why would you do this?”A short while later, another appeal by the government came up, represented by additional solicitor general Jayant Sud.This case pertained to granting benefit of seniority to a customs officer, as had been directed by the Punjab and Haryana high court.Before Sud could even begin, the bench was piqued: “What is this now? Mr Sud, there must be an end to the litigation too. It just cannot go on and on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-fully-responsible-for-burdening-this-court-supreme-court/story-jcW5Ux1IfK6viRRUxJAusI.html
19-12-2020||India||Lawmaker’s vote before conviction is valid: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday held that the vote cast by a lawmaker on a day when a court of law convicts them in a criminal case will not be treated as invalid, in a judgement that has far-reaching consequences.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said that the disqualification will follow through from the point in time when the court order convicting and sentencing the legislator was passed and not the entire day.The question came before the court in an election petition filed by rival members of the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and Indian National Congress (INC) who stood for Rajya Sabha elections from Jharkhand in March 2018.On March 23, 2018, the voting for selecting the candidates to the Rajya Sabha began at 9.15 am. One of the members of the 80-member Jharkhand assembly, Amit Kumar Mahto, belonging to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) cast his vote in favour of Congress candidate Dhiraj Prasad Sahu, who was declared elected. The candidate who lost the election was BJP’s Pradeep Kumar Sonthalia. Later that day, at about 2.30pm, Mahto was convicted by a Ranchi sessions court and sentenced to jail. His conviction disqualified him to continue as a member of the legislative assembly under section 8(3) of Representation of Peoples Act. The losing candidate Sonthalia approached the Jharkhand high court to set aside the election of Sahu on the ground that Mahto’s vote should be treated as invalid. The court dismissed the petition on January 17 this year against which he approached the apex court.“Conviction is the cause and disqualification is the consequence. A consequence can never precede the cause,” the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, concluded, and held the vote cast by Mahto as valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawmaker-s-vote-before-conviction-is-valid-supreme-court/story-HWmRrQh1PVirqYblmHQ8rM.html
19-12-2020||India||Quota policy not meant to deny merit, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled against the idea of “communal reservation”, saying the policy of quota is not intended at denying meritorious candidates job opportunities just because they belong to reserved categories.A bench headed by justice Uday Lalit ruled that subject to permissible quota benefits, any method of filling up seats must focus on merit and it should enable meritorious candidates, irrespective of their categories and caste. It said that the contest in the open category must purely be on merit.The bone of contention was the manner in which vacancies under the special classes were to be filled for posts of female constable in Uttar Pradesh. With a policy that all male candidates securing marks more than the cut-offs for the general category will be selected, the same rule was not applicable for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quota-policy-not-meant-to-deny-merit-says-supreme-court/story-dJoUfv4tIowN85ktyDIv3L.html
19-12-2020||India||Allahabad high court stays man’s arrest under ‘love jihad’ law||The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of a man booked under the recently promulgated Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 for allegedly trying to marry a woman with the intention to convert her to his religion.A bench comprising justices Pankaj Naqvi and Vivek Agarwal told police not to take any coercive action against the accused, Nadeem, challenging the constitutional validity of the ordinance. The bench was hearing a criminal writ petition filed by Nadeem, from Haridwar, who was booked by UP Police on November 29 on a complaint filed by one Akshay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar. This is the first time that a person booked under the new law approached the HC.Senior advocate SFA Naqvi, representing Nadeem, argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution and any criminal proceedings initiated under its provisions shall be quashed. “The Special Marriage Act is a central act which provides a special form of marriage for interfaith couples. It provides prohibited degrees for marriages like real brother and sister, etc. Once prohibited degrees for marriage beyond religion and castes are defined by the central act and then by the impugned ordinance new prohibited degrees are created on religious grounds, this amounts to creating a communal and divisive legislation which is not at all permissible in our constitutional scheme. Once the central government has made the law over the subject of marriage then there is no space available for the state government to pass the impugned ordinance,” he said.It was alleged in the FIR that Nadeem developed a relationship with the complainant’s wife with the purpose of converting her religion by marriage.Nadeem has denied the allegations, asserting that he was being falsely implicated merely to avoid payment of some dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-stays-man-s-arrest-under-love-jihad-law/story-N7TxIEJ3YLKQev8BfFj85M.html
19-12-2020||India||COVAX gains access to 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine||COVAX, a global alliance which aims to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines for low income countries, has secured two billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine candidates, and will start rolling-out to eligible countries in the first quarter of 2021, the facility announced on Friday. However, it is subject to regulatory approvals and countries’ readiness for delivery.“We have had promising vaccine candidates in less than a year of the pandemic, and now we are engaging with manufacturers from around the world for procurement to ensure equitable acces,” Richard Hatchett, Chief Executive Officer, Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations said during a press briefing.Also Read: 10 million Covid+, but India on recovery roadAt least 1.3 billion donor-funded doses will be made available to 92 countries eligible for the Gavi COVAX AMC (advance market commitment), targeting up to 20% population coverage by the end of 2021 . “WHO is working on ensuring that in the first year of limited supply of vaccine doses, there is equal distribution among all eligible countries…said Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covax-gains-access-to-2-billion-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-bU6koJPW3L4tTaTIXLyHgO.html
19-12-2020||India||Supreme Court for capping Covid-19 treatment charges at private hospitals||States should make adequate arrangements in government hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients or cap charges in private facilities, the Supreme Court ruled on Friday, saying that the “right to health included affordable treatment”.The court’s direction came on a suo motu case assessing efforts to control Covid-19, a challenge the judges said was like “fighting a world war” against a disease, while also noting that people who violate protocols should be dealt with strongly. The bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, said it is the duty of the State to make provisions for affordable treatment and provisions in hospitals run and managed by them. But when these do not meet expectations, state governments should exercise powers under the pertinent law.“Therefore, either more and more provisions are to be made by the state government and the local administration, or there shall be (a) cap on the fees charged by the private hospitals, which can be in exercise of the powers under the Disaster Management Act,” held the bench, which also included Justices RS Reddy and MR Shah.The court said treatment costs have only risen, and it is not affordable for common people. Even if one survives Covid-19, a person often is ruined financially and economically, the judges said. This is the first time the top court has issued an order favouring a ceiling on charges by the private hospitals.While hearing a bunch of petitions on the same issue, another SC bench, led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, earlier said that it would be inappropriate for the court to impose a ceiling. “We are not equipped with what could be the best model of treatment for Covid patients,” the CJI-bench noted in its order in July, leaving it to the government for issuing suitable advisories.The latest order, however, is unequivocal in stating that when the State is not well-equipped to provide affordable treatment to everyone, it must ensure private hospitals cater to Covid patients at fixed and inexpensive rates. It has also ordered that wherever a state government has issued orders to the private hospitals for reserving a certain percentage of beds, they must comply.In its order on Friday, the bench also sought a crackdown on people not wearing masks or following norms such as social distancing. “They cannot be permitted to play with the lives of the others and they cannot be permitted to infringe the rights of other citizens, like right to health, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.”The bench further said that states may consider imposing night curfew or curfew over the weekend, wherever required, adding people should be informed well in advance of any such decision. It added that local authorities should not ordinarily give permission for gatherings or any function and if a nod is granted, a strict vigil is a must on number of people and if they are following all protocols. About political events too, the top court said that states must issue guidelines in terms of the restrictions announced by the Election Commission of India on such events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-for-capping-covid-19-treatment-charges-at-private-hospitals/story-3CoFVxQXwJuCEDEBg4NmyO.html
19-12-2020||India||Surjewala’s remark upsets section of Congress letter-writers||A section of the dissenters in the Congress was upset late Friday over party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala’s remarks earlier in the day that there were no issues with rebels after the party kicked off the process of organisational elections, a key demand of the 23 leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi in August.Some of the dissenters, including Anand Sharma and Prithviraj Chavan, met at Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad’s residence to decide whether to attend Saturday’s meeting with Sonia Gandhi.“If there are no issues, then why have they called us for the meeting. Also, if you want to discuss every other issue under the sun and not deliberate on our key demands for the revival of the party, then what is the purpose of this meeting?” asked one of the dissenters who refused to be named. “We will now have to decide whether to attend tomorrow’s meeting or not,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surjewala-s-remark-upsets-section-of-congress-letter-writers/story-fkfzaceB5lGCYtosK7JKIP.html
19-12-2020||India||UP Sunni Waqf board to release Ayodhya mosque blueprint today||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) will release on Saturday, the blueprint of the mosque complex coming up in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village on Saturday. The complex also includes a hospital, an Indo-Islamic centre, a community kitchen and a museum.The mosque is coming up on five acres alloted to the board following the November 2019 order of the Supreme Court in the Babri Masjid- Ram Janmabhoomi case. The court ruled in favour of the Hindu parties to the case, and ordered the creation of a trust to build a Ram temple at the contended site. However, it also criticised the demolition of the Babri Masjid.The ground breaking ceremony for the Ram temple happened on August 5 this year.Athar Hussain, spokesperson of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF), said the blueprint of the entire complex will be shared on Saturday. “In Islam, there is no concept of holding a ground-breaking ceremony for a mosque...it’s just going to be a formal launch,” Hussain clarified. IICF is the trust formed by the UPSCWB to ensure the construction of the mosque complex. Trust officials speaking on condition of anonymity said chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be invited for this ceremony.The blueprint will be released in the presence of Professor SM Akhtar, a Lucknow-based architect and town planner who is also founding dean, faculty of architecture, Jamia Milia University, Delhi, hired to design the mosque complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sunni-waqf-board-to-release-ayodhya-mosque-blueprint-today/story-LuNXRfssTXOVw7QCvV5j5H.html
19-12-2020||India||Farm laws led to jump in agri firms: Govt data||There has been nearly a 54% jump in incorporation of new agribusinesses this year, the most since June when three agricultural laws came into force, even as thousands of farmers protest the changes in policies to liberalise the farm sector. Agricultural firms are leading a revival in new businesses set up this year, buoyed by the farm laws and a national farm investment firm, as the economy starts emerging from a pandemic-induced slump. New agribusiness registered as companies and limited liability partnerships in 2020 so far, especially since the promulgation of three farm laws, has jumped 53.6%, from 5,104 to 7,840, the highest in five years, according to data from the corporate affairs ministry. Also Read| ‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams OppositionFirms set up in the farm sectors lead the growth of new incorporations following those in manufacturing, overtaking registrations in construction, finance and ‘others’ categories, the data show. Registration of firms under the broader ‘agriculture and allied activities’ category has increased 35%, the highest in any category. Entrepreneurs are borrowing steadily from the Rs1 lakh-crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, part of the first Covid-induced economic stimulus package, to build assets in India’s food supply chain, according to separate data obtained from the agricultural ministry. The brisk investments by the agri-led firms have been aided by laws aimed at liberalising the agriculture sector, incentivised funding and easing of restrictions on food trading farms, analysts say. Official data shows that 161,589 companies and limited liability partnerships were incorporated from January to November 2020 on the whole, the most after June when the new laws came into force and a nationwide lockdown was lifted. This represents an 8% rise over the corresponding period of 2019. Investors have so far borrowed Rs1,566 crore from the agri infrastructure fund, showing a preference to invest in long-neglected post-harvest facilities, such as warehouses, cold chains, food grading-cum-sorting units and processing units. The fund was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 9. Also Read: MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new studyA deficit of post-harvest infrastructure, crucial for a resilient food-supply chain, causes physical wastage and annual loss of food items worth Rs2.15 lakh crore, according to data from the ministry of food processing. The fund is designed to address this investment gap because of its concessional rates. Besides the Rs1566 crore disbursed, applications for nearly 10,000 new assets worth another Rs993 crore are currently under evaluation or due to be taken up soon, data till November 5 reviewed by HT showed. All of the country’s 12 public-sector banks and nine private lenders are part of the fund. “The Rs1,566 crore tranche has gone to over 3,000 primary agricultural credit societies or PACS,” an official said, requesting anonymity. PACS are village-level credit cooperatives and therefore the most accessible financial institution for a farmer. Additionally, PACS have submitted fresh applications for 9,435 infrastructure projects worth Rs690.56 crore. Banks have also picked another 352 applications from other agri-investors for projects worth Rs302.71 crore. The top five states from where investment proposals have been received are Madhya Pradesh (119 applications), UP (46), Bihar (30), Rajasthan (28) and Odisha (22). The fund aims to offer medium-to-long term debt fina-ncing for investment in farm projects and provide loans on totalling Rs1 lakh crore over four years, starting with a sanction of Rs10,000 crore for 2020-21 and Rs30,000 crore each for three financial years. Borrowers get an interest subvention of 3% per annum up to a loan limit of Rs2 crore for a period of seven years. “The new agricultural laws open up farm trade considerably. The assumption is that a liberalised farm sector will lead to higher private investments,” says Raj Kathpalia, an advisor to Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers, however, are protesting the reforms, saying they would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, under which the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-led-to-jump-in-agri-firms-govt-data/story-Lk8ZHmpGHkLnUAEc4pze2K.html
19-12-2020||India||Amit Shah arrives in Kolkata on 2-day visit||BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in Kolkata after 1 am on Saturday on a two-day visit to take stock of his party’s affairs in West Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections slated to be held in the next few months.In a tweet upon his arrival in Kolkata, he wrote, “I bow to this revered land of greats like Gurudev Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Syama Prasad Mookerjee.” Speculations are rife that Suvendu Adhikari, who gave up his cabinet portfolios and the Trinamool Congress, may join the BJP during Shah’s visit along with a slew of disgruntled TMC leaders, including some MLAs.Shah will address a public rally at Midnapore on Saturday where a number of TMC leaders are likely to join the saffron party.The BJP’s state chief Dilip Ghosh has said that Shah and party president J P Nadda would visit West Bengal every month till the assembly elections, likely in April-May, are over.Nadda was on a day-long visit to north Bengal in October and came on a two-day tour last week, while Shah was in the state for two days in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-arrives-in-kolkata-on-2-day-visit/story-tndlFFlaJfckbrqdgzhqHK.html
19-12-2020||India||Bengal-Centre standoff on House panel radar||The Parliamentary panel on home affairs led by Congress MP Anand Sharma on Friday took up the issue of West Bengal refusing to send three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers on central deputation, said people familiar with the matter.“The issue was raised by (BJP MP Rakesh) Sinha who said that Bengal’s refusal to accept the deputation is against cooperative federalism in India,” said a person familiar with the matter. “It may lead to chain reaction. The deputation is the Centre’s prerogative.” Also Read: Placards welcoming Amit Shah placed Tagore below him, kicks up a rowThe order regarding the transfer of the IPS officers on central deputation came after Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked in West Bengal during a recent visit. The Centre wants them shifted on account of alleged dereliction of duty. The Centre also summoned the chief secretary and director general of police for the second time on Friday to assess the law-and-order situation in the state. The officials, however, have not appeared before the home ministry yet. Also Read: BJP Bengal unit gears up for Amit Shah’s rally todayMeanwhile, TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi asserted the need for the committee to consistently monitor the pandemic. The panel was meeting to adopt a report on the Covid-19 crisis that will tabled in the next session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-centre-standoff-on-house-panel-radar/story-TuBYKycc5ibcBhHYk8VX8J.html
19-12-2020||India||Absconding godman Nithyananda offers 3-day visa to ‘nation’||Controversial self-styled godman Nithyananda, who was reported to be on the run last year after facing charges of rape and kidnapping, and who went on to set up a new “nation” called Kailasa, has now begun issuing special three-day visas for tourists to visit the mysterious island nation, several news websites reported on Friday. Kailasa visa-holders will have to travel from Australia aboard a newly launched private chartered flight service “Garuda”, Nithyananda announced in a recent video. “Today, you can start applying for Kailasa visa. You have to reach Australia on your own. From Australia, Kailasa has its own chartered flight services,” he said in a video from his official Facebook page. “Please do not ask for more than a 3-day visa. Kailasa can accommodate anyone only for three days for now.” Nithyananda said all visitors will be provided with free food and accommodation during the course of their stay but will only be allowed to meet or see him once during their visit. While travellers will have to make their own arrangements to arrive in Australia, airfare to and from Kailasa will be covered by Nithyananda’s organisation, he clarified. The island nation has also created an e-mail ID (contact@kailaasa.org) through which visitors can apply for the visa, reports said.While the exact location of Kailasa is unknown, it is believed to be close to Australia. Several news reports suggested that the “nation” is located in a small private island near Trinidad and Tobago.Nithyananda has also promised that the visitors will be allowed to visit “param Shiva” during their stay. Nithyananda, 42, founder of a trust, Nithyananda Dhyanapeetam, which has temples, gurukulas, and ashrams across many countries, went missing last year after an FIR was registered against him in November on charges of alleged kidnapping and wrongful confinement of children to make them collect donations from followers to run his ashram, Yogini Sarvagyapeetham, in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, police said. He was also an accused in a rape case filed against him in Karnataka.In December, a few days after the Gujarat police confirmed that Nithyananda had fled the country, a website – kailaasa.org – came up that said he had set up a new “nation” called Kailasa that aims to provide a haven for “dispossessed Hindus”.India had dismissed reports of a “nation” being set up, with the then external affairs ministry spokesperson Raveesh Kumar saying: “Setting up a website is very different from creating a nation.”According to the website, Kailasa has its own flag, passport and emblem. In August this year, Nithyananda unveiled freshly minted currency of Kailasa called “Kailashian dollars”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/absconding-godman-nithyananda-offers-3-day-visa-to-nation/story-lnZiV5PSL07tuvOtgsZeTL.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams Opposition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi defended the three new agriculture laws on Friday, saying the legislation would ensure that Indian farmers kept pace with global standards, and attacked the Opposition for misleading cultivators in his strongest appeal yet to break the stalemate with protesting groups. Addressing a farmers’ meeting in Madhya Pradesh virtually, Modi reiterated his administration’s commitment to state-set crop prices and government-regulated market yards, or mandis, and underlined that he was willing to address all concerns of farmers, who have camped outside the Capital for three weeks now. “Even after my words and the efforts of the government, if someone has any concerns, then we are ready to bow our heads humbly and discuss the issues with folded hands, for the welfare of the farmers,” the PM said. “I believe there is no reason for distrust or place for lies in the farm reforms we have passed.”His comments came on a day agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government was hopeful of resolving the crisis by the new year with the help of backchannel talks with farmer groups. Five previous rounds of talks bore no fruit as protesters were firm in their demand of a repeal of the laws, a possibility the government didn’t entertain. Modi said he will again speak on the issue in greater detail on December 25.In his virtual address, Modi said three farm laws weren’t introduced overnight and should have been enacted three decades ago. “The global scenario is changing and it can’t be accepted that Indian farmers lag behind and become helpless in the absence of facilities and advanced technologies…the new laws have not been introduced overnight. Every central government and state governments had discussed it in the past 20-22 years,” he said. He also alleged that the Opposition was using farmers for politicking and trying to win lost political ground by misleading the agriculturists. “I don’t think the opposition has any problem with the farm reforms but have a problem that Modi fulfilled promises that they made and couldn’t fulfil. They didn’t get credit for it. I am ready to give all credit to you and manifestoes of the political parties but please don’t mislead the farmers,” said the PM. The massive farmers’ protest was set off by the three controversial laws pushed through Parliament by the government in September. These allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business, gut the mandi system and gradually end the regime of minimum support prices (MSP) that acts as a protective net for cultivators. Protesters decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with home minister Amit Shah. They have threatened to intensify their strike and block more roads if the impasse continues. In his speech, Modi made a strong pitch for MSPs and said it was a lie to suggest that the government was thinking of ending them. “Opposition leaders are spreading lies about MSP. But I want to assure every farmer that the MSP system will not be discontinued. If we actually want to discontinue this system, why would we implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission?” he asked, referring to a 2004-06 commission headed by agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan and set up for the welfare for farmers. “The laws came into force six months ago and like the past, we still declared MSP…we are so serious about MSP that we declare the prices even before cultivation,” the PM added. He presented a set of statistics to prove that his government declared higher MSPs than the United Progressive Alliance administration that was in power between 2004 and 2014. He also strongly countered the notion that mandis would close due to the new laws. “The Opposition’s second lie is about the closure of mandis. The businessmen have a freedom to sell their products anywhere in the world but even after 70 years, the farmers didn’t have freedom. The government used to instruct the farmers to sell their produce at mandis only. But with this new law we have given freedom to framers to take decision whether they want to sell the produce in mandi or outside,” said the PM. “Has one mandi closed after the new laws? Then why is this lie being spread?” he asked. He took on the Opposition over the contract farming law, which many say will leave small farmers vulnerable. “We have just made the law to save the farmers from fraud. The agreement will be of crop and production and it has nothing to do with the land. We have given rights to farmers to break the contract but the businessmen can’t do so. If they do so, they have to pay money to farmers,” said the PM. Taking a jibe at the Congress, Modi said, “In every 10 years, Congress announced a farm loan waiver scheme. But we all know what they promised and what they gave. In Madhya Pradesh, they promised to waive off loans in 10 days but farmers know what they got. They made the farmers loan defaulters. In Rajasthan too, farmers are still waiting.” During the programme, state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan transferred Rs 1,660 crore to the accounts of 3.5 million farmers as relief for crop loss.Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged the PM was deceiving farmers and added that the Centre should shed its arrogance and repeal the three farm laws at the earliest. “Listen to the farmers, take back the anti-farmer laws,” tweeted Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bow-to-farmers-pm-modi-backs-laws-slams-opposition/story-BLGVqDMJ0x9ceCkHdK5baP.html
19-12-2020||India||10 million Covid+, but India on recovery road||India on Friday became the second country in the world to see the total number of Covid-19 infections surpass 10 million, although this comes at a time when the country is at the best position in months in its fight against the pandemic, and with the roll-out of a vaccine imminent.The only other country to have crossed this mark is the US, which did so on November 7, and which is currently in the grips of a strong third wave of the pandemic that has taken daily cases and deaths, as well as hospitalisations to record highs. The US has seen 17,661,064 cases and 318,522 deaths to date.In contrast, almost all of India’s indicators are exhibiting positive signs – the rate of new cases and deaths are the lowest in at least five months and have dropped over 70% from peak of the first wave, and the positivity rate is the lowest ever recorded.Also Read: The spread of India’s 10 million Covid-19 casesIndia ended Friday with 10,004,807 cases, 145,188 deaths, and a cumulative positivity rate of 6.3%. The global battle against the disease has received a major boost in the last two weeks as two countries – the United States and United Kingdom – have started the rollout of the first Covid-19 vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), said on Thursday it is working “rapidly” to give emergency use authorisation to a second vaccine candidate developed by Moderna Inc. An approval was expected later on Friday, US time. In India, Pfizer is among three companies that have sought an early approval for a coronavirus vaccine. The country’s drugs regulator is assessing these applications, and has asked the other two – Serum Institute of India (which filed for the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate) and Bharat Biotech to present more data. Pfizer is slated to make a presentation to the agency soon, following which its assessment will proceed.The viral disease that began in Wuhan, China, a year-and-a-bit ago has infected at least 75 million people around the world and killed 1.7 million people, although experts say that both numbers are likely underestimations. One in every eight people infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, is from India, but the country fares better in terms of deaths. Its case fatality rate (CFR) — the proportion of infected people who have died from the disease — is 1.45%, which is not only better than the global average of 2.22%, but also better than other countries such as the US (1.8%) and Brazil (2.60%) that have been severely hit by the disease.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIndia’s first wave of infections peaked in the middle of September with the seven-day average of daily cases touching 93,617. This number has been receding at a rapid pace since, and in the last week has touched 26,851 – a decrease of over 71%.This improvement in the case rate has come along with improvement in another crucial metric – the positivity rate, which is at its lowest ever. In the past week, 2.6% of all samples tested in India have come back positive for Covid-19 — the lowest this number has ever touched since the government started releasing testing figures in April. According to the World Health Organization, if the positivity rate remains 5% or below for two weeks, a region can be said to be keeping its outbreak under control and is testing adequately. India’s positivity rate has been below this threshold for 25 days now.This improvement is reflected in every major hot spot state. As recently as October and November, states such as Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Rajasthan were still defying the larger trend and reporting rising cases. But for the first time, numbers are receding in the past three weeks in every major state in the country. States such as Maharashtra, which is responsible for the highest number of infections so far (1,888,767 as on Friday), has seen new infections drop by 83% from mid-September levels. Similarly, new infections are down 88% from peak levels in Karnataka, 95% in Andhra Pradesh, 82% in Tamil Nadu and 73% in Delhi. Experts said they don’t expect another massive wave of infections like the country did in September.“The downward trend in cases has come right after the festive season and the Bihar elections – both factors that many of us were predicting would lead to another spike, but that never happened,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. “Part of the reason for that is that while officially 10 million people have been infected, this number is at least 15-to-20 times more if we look at the findings of sero-surveys. This, and the fact that millions will get the vaccine in the near future, should see us avoiding another wave.”THREAT OF A SECOND WAVETrends in Europe and the United States, however, have shown that subsequent waves are significantly more severe than the first onslaught of the disease. Countries such as the US, France and the United Kingdom have all seen devastatingly strong second (in the case of the US, third) waves. In the US, seven-day average of new cases in the first wave peaked at 32,809 new cases a day. In the second wave, it was 70,511 – a 115% increase from the first wave. And the number is currently at 220,690 – another 213% increase. The trend is just as clear in other nations as well. In Britain, the second wave was 407% more severe than the first wave: the first wave peaked with a seven-day average of cases at 4,999 while the second wave touched 25,331. In France, the second wave surpassed the severity of the first wave by 1,172% — the first wave touched 4,433, while the second wave peaked at 56,377 new infections a day.“This virus is going to stay with us for at least a couple of years. Over the next year or two we will see localised spurts in cases, but it will be nothing of the magnitude of the first wave... The vaccine is really needed because it will help in keeping in check these pockets of infections,” said Dr Jameel.Other experts warned that measures like masks will remain the key defence against the spread of the disease. “A vaccination campaign, anywhere in the world (and much more so in India), is going to take several months to reach the large numbers that would make a strong difference to rates of transmission. So the short-term future of infection spread patterns is still going to be dependent on the use of standard physical distancing steps such as masks,” said Dr Satyajit Rath, immunologist and visiting faculty at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-million-covid-but-india-on-recovery-road/story-3gfrCF9MECGqHqNDJpMtaP.html
19-12-2020||India||The spread of India’s 10 million Covid-19 cases||The number of people confirmed to have been infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India crossed the 10 million mark on Friday, about 10 months after the pandemic started spreading in the country. The confirmed cases have been reported from almost all states, but are largely concentrated in a select few districts.50% of cases from 47 districtsAt least half of the confirmed Covid-19 cases have been reported from only 47 of India’s 700-plus districts, according to a Hindustan Times analysis of data compiled by How India Lives. Delhi’s 11 revenue districts have been clubbed together into one single unit for this analysis because the Delhi government does not release disaggregated figures. These 46 districts are spread across 16 states and Union territories. Delhi, as one single unit, has the highest caseload, 6.3% of the country’s total cases, followed by Bengaluru, Pune, Mumbai, Thane, and Chennai. These six urban centres have together reported more than two million confirmed infections, nearly 22% of the country’s total. The Covid-19 related deaths are even more skewed. At least 50% of deaths have been reported from only 24 districts.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageA majority of the country’s districts have reported less than 5,000 cases so far, while there are only 11 districts which have reported more than 100,000 confirmed cases. While these 11 districts are home to 7.8% of India’s population, they account for nearly 28% of the total confirmed cases so far. Urban to slightly rural, to urban againThe coronavirus pandemic first started spreading in India from highly urban areas such as Delhi, Mumbai, and Chennai. It later spread to the hinterland as the country opened up from a complete lockdown and people started travelling. This led to a surge of cases in rural areas. In May and June, 45% of all new cases were reported from 16 entirely urban districts (where more than 80% people live in urban areas). Entirely rural districts (where more than 80% people live in rural areas) reported only about 12% of new cases in these two months. This changed with time. In August, only about 13% new cases came from the entirely urban districts while more than 20% cases came from the entirely rural districts. However, the trend seems to be reversing now with the share of cases rising in urban areas again. In November, nearly 25% of new cases came from the entirely urban districts. This has happened even as the number of new cases, which peaked in September, has significantly dropped across India. The drop in cases is way steeper in the less urban regions compared to the entirely urban districts. Entirely urban districts reported the least number of new cases in September but the highest number of new cases in November. Trajectory in urban areasRecent trends from most of these districts show that cases are actually on a decreasing trend. For example, Delhi has recently passed its third wave of cases; and cases in other districts such as Bangalore, Kamrup Metropolitan (Guwahati, Assam) and Chennai have also significantly decreased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-spread-of-india-s-10-million-covid-10-cases/story-HgHpG3TKozHOwIqX7DsXHP.html
19-12-2020||India||Hathras horror: CBI files charge sheet against four||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday charged four Thakur men with the gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district in September, basing its findings on the dying declaration of the victim and rejecting earlier statements by state government officials and the police that disputed the occurrence of rape.After a two-month-long investigation into the crime that galvanised India and sparked street protests, CBI filed the charge sheet in the court of the special judge in Hathras. The document said the four men — Sandeep, Ravi, Luv Kush and Ramu — allegedly gang raped and murdered the woman when she went to the fields to collect fodder in the early hours of September 14. They were charged under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections pertaining to assault, rape, murder and gang rape, apart from those under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The maximum sentence under these charges is death.“It took time but the truth prevailed. Now, we are getting the impression that justice would be delivered to us,” said the victim’s brother. “My sister’s soul would be at peace when the guilty are punished.” “It has been a period of agony for us but if CBI finds these four accused guilty of gang rape and murder of my sister, we are optimistic about getting justice in the near future,” added the victim’s brother. Opposition parties attacked the UP government and blamed senior administration and police officials, who had claimed there was no rape in the case on the basis of medical tests that experts deemed faulty. These comments were also seen as undercutting the investigation, especially at a time when state police was under fire for its alleged delay in responding to the victim, forcibly cremating her body, and blocking media access to the Dalit family even as upper-caste Brahmin and Bania communities held massive gatherings to corral support for the four accused men. The government rejected the charges.“In the Hathras case, immediately after the victim’s statement, the UP police altered the sections in the FIR and arrested the four accused and sent them to jail. The chief minister himself announced recommending a CBI probe. On October 3-4, the government sent a letter asking for CBI probe and on October 10, CBI took over the case and began probe on October 11. Before CBI took over the case, the UP government submitted an affidavit in Supreme Court saying that the government wants CBI probe. The government had requested to the SC to get the case probed in whichever way it wants (including under its supervision) by the CBI so that the truth comes out and victim get justice,” said a state government spokesperson. The woman was gang raped on September 14 and rushed to a hospital in nearby Aligarh town, where she also recorded her statement. As her condition deteriorated, she was moved to Delhi on September 28, and died in the early hours the next day at Safdarjang hospital. Later that evening, her body was taken to the village, and against the wishes of the family, she was forcibly cremated in the middle of the night by local officials. The next day, the village was barricaded and the family cut off from speaking to the media. The restrictions were only lifted a couple of days later amid growing outrage over the heinous crime and the alleged police laxity.Senior administration and police officials also disputed that the victim was raped, pointing out that no proof was found in the medical examination. But experts pointed out that the examination was conducted in violation of protocol and too late to find any conclusive evidence. CBI, whose investigation is being overseen by the Allahabad high court, appeared to have not gone by the statements of the officials and concluded that the victim suffered gang rape. Its findings were based on the dying statement of the woman — in which she named the accused and the crime committed on her — in addition to scientific and forensic evidence, and statements of witnesses and the victim’s family.“The public is reminded that the above findings are based on the investigation done by CBI and evidence collected by it. Under the Indian law, the accused are presumed to be innocent till their guilt is finally established after a fair trial,” read a CBI statement. Days after the crime, the state government constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the case, but the matter was handed over to CBI on October 10. On October 27, the Supreme Court asked the Allahabad high court to monitor the probe conducted by CBI. The court took suo-motu (on its own) cognisance of the incident and the controversial cremation and criticised local officials. The UP government is conducting a separate probe into an alleged international plot to defame the state administration. MS Pundheer, the counsel for the four accused, said, “The charge sheet has been filed against all four accused namely Sandeep, Luv Kush, Ramu and Ravi. The court has taken cognisance.”The Opposition attacked the government over the case.“The BJP government, despite its reluctance and resistance, had to refer the Hathras case to CBI because of immense pressure from people, the Opposition and the media. Now, finally, on the basis of the dying declaration of the victim, charge sheet has been filed against four accused. Without struggle, one can’t get anything under BJP rule, be it justice or rights,” said former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who visited the victim’s family in October along with her brother Rahul Gandhi, said the charge sheet raised serious questions about the Yogi Adityanath government.“This development raises serious questions on the Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh, UP police, ADG law and order, district magistrate of Hathras and senior functionaries of the state administration,” said Gandhi Vadra in a statement. “The state left no stone unturned to deny the victim dignity in life and death…however, the entire might of the Uttar Pradesh government and police could not suppress the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-horror-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-four/story-ZHmlyi1fXE0cWaggR6YPnK.html
19-12-2020||India||‘Learn to accept rejections — in work & life!’||Actor Poulomi Das broke the shackles of fair-skinned obsession in modelling and glamour industry. Her successful stint on the ramp, then on TV and now on OTT, are fair examples of how the dusky actor carved a niche for herself. During her visit to Lucknow, the ‘Kartik Purnima’ actor described her journey. “Every industry has different requirements; so to our industry. One needs to find out where one fits and how one can change people’s perspective and perception. In my case, I am very ‘dheet’ (firm in belief) so I give my best wherever I feel like it.”Das said one needs to accept rejection not just in work but in life too. “If you don’t accept rejection, you’re gonna be nowhere! It’s part of life. As a kid, no one thought I would be a model or an actor, but today, I am one.” The strength she got was from her parents. “I am blessed that my mom and dad always said ‘you are the best!’ I always kept that in mind and marched ahead. I was a national institute student and one day I said that I have to go to Mumbai. They were surprised but supported my belief. So, I will say parents should support their children’s calling and dreams. And, once they do, it does not matter what others say.”She played the parallel lead in OTT series ‘Dil Hi Toh Hai’ and a negative character in ‘Baarish’ starring Sharman Joshi.Having done both TV and web she said, “As we have to shoot an episode every day, so somewhere quality is compromised, whereas on OTT, we shoot very high quality content like a movie. Also, our audience is different so is the treatment.” Das is excited for her upcoming show that was shot during the unlock phase. “I play a ‘dasi’ in ‘Paurashpur’ who becomes queen. We shot in extreme Covid conditions where we were being tested every two days. I learned sword fighting and even hurt my leg as it was too heavy to handle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/learn-to-accept-rejections-in-work-life/story-iaoT32Nqj25RLVUYd4f4fM.html
19-12-2020||India||Placards welcoming Amit Shah placed Tagore below him, kicks up a row||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) drew people’s ire after placards bearing Union home minister Amit Shah’s picture above Rabindranath Tagore were found all over Bolpur and Shantiniketan in Bengal’s Birbhum district on Friday. Shah, who will be on a two-day tour of Bengal this weekend, will visit Bolpur on Sunday. He will take part in a roadshow and address a rally. He will also have lunch at the village home of a folk singer. The placards also had bold images of Bolpur’s former Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Anupam Hazra who joined the BJP in 2019 and is now the party’s national secretary. Hazra was also a student and teacher at Visva Bharati. The images were printed against a saffron background. The placards bore the name of a cultural organization as the sponsor. On December 9, BJP’s Bengal unit quoted JP Nadda as saying that Tagore’s birthplace is Visva Bharti. The tweet was later deleted. The TMC, however, used the tweet to criticise the BJP chief for not knowing the land’s history. The Nobel laureate was born in erstwhile Calcutta’s Jorasanko. BJP leaders quickly removed the placards after local people, for whom Tagore is cultural pride, and students of Visva Bharati, Bengal’s only national university set up by the poet, raised objections. Hazra, who has been put in charge of the arrangements being made to welcome Shah, claimed that the placards were neither made nor put up by the BJP. “This was planned by the TMC. We were brought up in Shantiniketan. I was a student here. We know how to pay respects to Tagore. This was a sabotage. In this same manner a bust of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar was vandalised (in 2019) in Kolkata during a roadshow of Shah. The placards were placed around the spot where the roadshow and rally will be held,” said Hazra. “Our men are removing the placards because we cannot see Tagore insulted. The TMC should have removed these. The organization named in the placards does not even exist,” said Hazra. Bikash Mishra, the BJP’s Bolpur town unit president however said the placards, and similar ones with photos of Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, had been made for the rally. Anubrata Mondal, the TMC district president known for his provocative speeches, said, “Is Tagore’s place below Amit Shah? Can Bengal be insulted like this? People will not tolerate this.” Hours after the TMC shared photos of the placard on social media, the Bengal BJP tweeted an old old photo showing a placard with a life-size image of Mamata Banerjee hanging against the trunk of a tree with a little bust of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose kept below it. “Don’t teach us about respecting Bengali icons! Be it Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose or Rabindranath Tagore, TMC cadres have scant respect for Bengali culture. All they do is compete with each other to appease Pishi at the cost of dishonouring national heroes like Netaji or Kabiguru,” the BJP tweeted at 11.36 pm. During the day, Visva Bharati students owing allegiance to several Left organisations also protested against Shah’s proposed meeting with vice chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Sunday. Shah will also be visiting some sites inside the sprawling university campus. Stating that Rabindranath was the face of the fight against fascism, the organisations submitted a memorandum to Chakraborty. “We appeal to our VC and other officials not to welcome this kind of a person (Shah) to Shantiniketan and tarnish the ideology of Rabindranath and Shantiniketan,” they said in a letter to the VC. The Visva Bharati authorities did not react to this till Friday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/placards-welcoming-amit-shah-placed-tagore-below-him-kicks-up-a-row/story-sLy1RV8aG4R2Mv6urEDZ6L.html
19-12-2020||India||88% of Covid-19 fatalities, 40% of cases in 45+ age group: Govt data||Nearly nine in every 10 people (88%) who lost their lives due to Covid-19 in India till December 16 were above the age of 45, even only four out of every 10 (40%) reported infections fell in that age group, according to yet-to-be-released case and mortality data from Union ministry of health and family welfare accessed by HT.People under the age of 45 years accounted for 60% of all Covid-19 infections in the country, but constituted only 12% of total deaths, the data showed. The findings from India reflect global trends that show the disease is disproportionately fatal for those who are older, even though it infects people in the younger age groups far more.Also Read: 10 million Covid+, but India on recovery roadThe data also showed that men are a lot more likely to be infected as well as die from the disease, accounting for 63% of all cases and 70% of all deaths. The numbers suggest that more than half (52%) of the people infected in India so far were between the ages of 18 and 44 years, while a majority (55%) of those who died of the viral disease were 60 years and older. People in between the ages of 45 years and 60 constitute 33% of all fatalities, while about 10% of the deaths were among people between the ages of 26 and 44. Those between 18 and 25 years, and those below 17 years of age, account for only 1% of fatalities each.Also in line with the global pattern, at least 70% of the deaths were in patients with at least one more underlying medical condition such as hypertension, diabetes, or cardiac, liver or kidney disease.Also Read: The spread of India’s 10 million Covid-19 cases“The pattern visible in India is not really different from the data that is coming from other countries; and it says that the infection is relatively less common among children, and mostly affects the adult population. Elderly people, and those with comorbidities, are at a higher risk of developing severe form of the disease. The trend largely has remained the same over the months with slight variation in numbers,” said a health ministry official familiar with the findings who did not want to be identified.India’s cumulative case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of patients dead among those having tested positive, currently stands at 1.45%, which is far lower than the global CFR of 2.26%. Immunology experts say that because of the high transmissibility of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, the infections could rise in future but with less severity. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“Since it is a highly contagious virus, everyone runs the risk of exposure. However, we are seeing lower severity of the infection, because of which our death rate is also very low, and that could be attributed to the fact that our immunity levels are modulated to fight any infections better as compared to say Europeans or Americans. Young population getting infected could also be movement related as we have managed to quarantine to a large extent our vulnerable population,” said Dr NK Mehra, immunology and immunogenetics expert, who was formerly associated with New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Doctors also attribute the low death rate to standardised treatment protocol that hospitals had started following in hospitals across the country based of Union health ministry guidelines. The technical wing of Union health ministry prepared 30 training modules on various topics -- such as clinical management, ventilator support, infection prevention and control, and quarantine management -- to train its frontline health care workers. “We know a lot more about the disease now then we knew in the beginning of the outbreak, and government guidelines have also been upgraded from time to time based on the latest evidence emerging from across the globe that also helped in knowing what worked better. These protocols are being followed across the board, and have managed to save more lives,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director, department of pulmonology and sleep disorders, Fortis Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/88-of-covid-fatalities-40-of-cases-in-45-age-group-govt-data/story-0RvZ2kT1CXMRonZjl6pGlL.html
19-12-2020||India||BJP Bengal unit gears up for Amit Shah’s rally today||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) geared up on Friday for Union home minister Amit Shah’s rally in Midnapore on Saturday where he is expected to induct leaders from the ruling party in the poll-bound state into the saffron camp even as defections in the ranks emerged as a headache for the Mamata Banerjee regime.Till Friday night, efforts were on to ensure that at least a dozen leaders of significance join the BJP on Saturday, according to party insiders aware of the developments.“I cannot tell you the exact number because hectic calls are being made and this will continue till the last minute. Many TMC leaders are willing to quit the party but quite a few of them are under pressure from ruling party leaders,” a senior BJP state leader told HT on condition of anonymity on Friday night. Shah’s plane was scheduled to land in Kolkata around 11.30pm. He will be staying in a hotel in New Town in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata and attend rallies and internal meetings of the party in Kolkata, East Midnapore and Birbhum districts on Saturday and Sunday. He will also have lunch with local villagers in the two districts, BJP leaders said. Shah will return to Delhi on Sunday afternoon. Security arrangements were beefed up by the Union home ministry and the state police in view of the stone pelting on BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy on December 10. Shah will fly to the districts by helicopter.Suvendu Adhikari, former minster from East Midnapore district, is the most prominent name among those likely to join the BJP on Saturday. Adhikari remained tight-lipped before the media even as BJP leaders said Z-category security was being provided to him by the Centre. Adhikari drove to Bhubaneswar on Friday and took a flight to Delhi to meet Shah. “Suvendu and Shah will arrive in Kolkata on the same flight,” the former TMC leader’s close aide Kanishka Panda said on Friday night. Panda was expelled by the TMC earlier this week. Adhikari and his family are residents of Kanthi town. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari is the local Lok Sabha MP while his elder brother Dibyendu Adhikari is the Lok Sabha member from Tamluk in the same district.Meanwhile, Banashree Maiti, the TMC lawmaker from the Kanthi North assembly seat in East Midnapore, resigned on Friday night and said she will join the BJP on Saturday. Retired army colonel Diptangshu Chowdhury, who quit the BJP in 2017 and joined the TMC, has stepped down from the posts of chairman of the South Bengal State Transport Corporation and advisor to the monitoring cell on programme implementation of government welfare services in the chief minister’s office. There was speculation that he, too, might return to the BJP. Making things difficult for Adhikari, state assembly speaker Biman Banerjee announced on Friday afternoon that he will not accept the resignation of the TMC legislator on technical grounds. When Adhikari went to the assembly house on Wednesday afternoon to submit his hand-written letter, the speaker was not present in his office. Though received by the assembly secretary, the letter raised several questions since Adhikari did not put any date on it and did not write or sign it before the speaker, something anti-defection rules of the assembly demand. “I have asked Adhikari to appear before me at 2pm on December 21 and declare whether he voluntarily wrote the letter and when it comes into effect. If I am satisfied with his answer, I will accept the resignation,” said Banerjee. “There is no hard and fast rule that one has to resign from the assembly before joining the BJP. They may resign later,” said a senior state BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-bengal-unit-gears-up-for-shah-s-rally-today/story-GUaEs46WRFEvMw4RArbd2N.html
19-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to meet dissenters today, discuss key issues||Congress  president Sonia Gandhi is scheduled to meet on Saturday, in one of the most anticipated internal meetings for the party, at least seven of the 23 signatories to an August letter seeking more hands-on leadership and a clearer revival path. The decision to have the first discussion on the issues raised by the senior leaders in the letter was taken more than a week ago, according to the two leaders invited for the meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity. Gandhi was open to the idea but she did not want it to be a big meeting since she has been avoiding large gatherings, one of the leaders said. “Since the pandemic started, Mrs Gandhi has not had any in-person meetings. Even when someone went to see her at home, they sat in different rooms and spoke on the phone,’’ said one of the two leaders. Also Read| 99.9% Congress leaders, workers want Rahul Gandhi as chief: SurjewalaA spike in pollution levels in Delhi even forced the Congress president to leave the city for some time for Goa. Rajya Sabha MP and senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad (one of the signatories to the letter) drew up a list of representatives, a second leader said, adding that Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma, Lok Sabha MPs Shashi Tharoor and Manish Tiwari, Haryana CLP leader and the state’s former chief minister Bhupinder Hooda, Maharashtra’s former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan and Vivek Tankha were expected to attend. Tharoor confirmed his attendance. Another Congress leader and signatory to the letter, Kapil Sibal, will be travelling outside the country (he leaves Saturday morning) and will therefore not attend. The meeting will be held on the lawns of her residence at 10, Janpath. HT learns that all leaders attending the meeting have undergone testing for Covid-19. The meeting will also be attended by other senior Congress leaders. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath confirmed that both he and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram will be attending. The party’s general secretary ( organisation) KC Venugopal, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and former defence minister AK Antony are also scheduled to attend. While Rahul Gandhi’s team didn’t confirm his attendance, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is expected to attend.“We expect to have sincere engagement,’’ said one of the two leaders. “A discussion on the road map to revive the party is required because our footprint cannot be diminished. We are concerned and the results of various elections, Bihar, Kerala and UP, have vindicated what we said.’’He added: “The letter was triggered by the fact that Mrs Gandhi’s interim term of a year was coming to an end and Rahul had indicated he didn’t want to come back as president. So, we all wanted to know what’s next.’’One of the other signatories to the letter said he does not expect much to come out of the meeting. But many of the others are more hopeful and see the meeting as an indication that the party’s leadership is willing to listen to their concerns. While the letter didn’t attack Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi directly, it did point out the failure of the party to discuss the real reasons behind the 2019 Lok Sabha election loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-to-meet-dissenters-today-discuss-key-issues/story-0993jCnvZB9oitMWCNSa3O.html
19-12-2020||India||99.9% Congress leaders, workers want Rahul Gandhi as chief: Surjewala||Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday said that the process to elect a new party chief was underway and 99.9% of its leaders and workers wanted former president Rahul Gandhi to return. “The president of the party will be chosen by the electoral college, AICC (All India Congress Committee) members and Congress workers,” Surjewala said addressing a press conference. “Congress workers will choose a person best suited for the post. 99.9% of the party workers and I believe Rahul Gandhi should be elected president.” Surjewala added that Gandhi belonged to the rare brand of leaders willing to take on the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government. “This has endeared him to Congress workers and the common people alike,” he said. Surjewala dismissed suggestions that interim chief Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with a host of party leaders, including some from the group who wrote a letter asking for an organisational rehaul, was a meeting with “rebels or dissenters”. The meeting is scheduled to be held on Saturday. “On account of Covid-19 protocols, the Congress president was unable to conduct meetings,” Surjewala said. “She has decided that over the next fortnight, a number of meetings will be held to address organisational issues. This is not a meeting of rebels or dissenters because we in the Congress party believe everyone is a part of the same family.” He added that the issues of the G-23, as the leaders had come to be referred, had been resolved with the announcement of party elections. “The BJP continues to propagate such insinuations, we are one family and we will stay united and work to strengthen the Congress party,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/99-9-cong-leaders-workers-want-rahul-gandhi-as-chief-surjewala/story-IL9KnriDB0uJA3lOr9jAeM.html
19-12-2020||India||Accused acquitted, Manipur cop returns medal awarded for busting drugs racket||A recipient of Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Gallantry in ‘war against drugs’ on Friday decided to return her medal after a special court in Imphal acquitted seven people who were arrested in a 2018 drugs haul case. The officer, Thounaojam Brinda, is an additional superintendent, Manipur police.The Special Court (ND&PS) in Imphal on Thursday acquitted Lhukhosei Zou, former chairman Chandel Autonomous District Council, and six others stating that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges levelled against them.“In recognition for this case as part of the Hon’ble Chief Minister’s ‘War against Drugs,’ I was conferred the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Gallantry on the occasion of Patriots’ Day,13th August,2018,” says Brinda in a letter addressed to chief minister N Biren Singh, who also holds the home portfolio.“.. . I feel morally inclined that I have not conducted my duty as ‘per the wishes’ of the Criminal Justice Delivery System of the land. Hence, for the reasons cited above, I do not consider myself deserving of the honour bestowed upon me by your good self. I, therefore, return the same to the state Home Department so that it may be given to a more deserving and loyal police officer,” she added.However, the court convicted two others, Thangminlun Zou from Churachandpur district and Tung Khan Mung Zou alias Mung alias Aric from Tengnoupal district, under the NDPS Act, 1985 and fixed December 21 for hearing of sentence.It may be recalled that in June 2018, a Manipur police team seized 4.595 kg of heroin and 2.80 lakh World is Yours (WY) amphetamine tablets worth around Rs 27.79 crore from eight persons during an operation in and around Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cop-returns-medal-after-court-acquits-accused-in-drug-case/story-kbYrVXbdOzNgzjaEsrmUiK.html
