20-12-2020||India||Dense fog alert for 6 districts of Rajasthan, cold wave likely in another 3||The Met department has issued a Yellow Alert of dense fog for 6 districts and another alert of cold wave for 3 districts for Monday. Three cities of Rajasthan are reeling under freezing temperatures, and the meteorological department has predicted an increase in the minimum temperature in the next 48 hours to provide some respite to the state.As per the met department, there could be dense fog for 3 days from December 21 to 23 December in Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Churu, Bikaner, Shri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh. Also the met department has issued a Yellow Alert of cold wave in 3 districts of Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Churu districts for Monday.The cold wave which is continuing in Rajasthan from the last 5 days is continuing to keep mercury levels low. Only the hill station of Mount Abu remained coldest in the state on Saturday night recording -1.4 degrees, whereas Churu was recorded as the coldest place in the plains with a minimum of -.1 degrees Celsius followed by Fatehpur town with -0.8 degrees on Saturday night. Jaipur’s Jobner town also recorded 0.8 degrees Celsius temperature.Mt. Abu, Sikar and Churu districts are witnessing freezing point temperatures since the last 3 days.Meanwhile, the temperature in over a dozen districts remained below 5 degrees Celsius. Frozen dew was reported in these areas of the state.State capital Jaipur also reeled under a cold wave with 6.6 degrees.The Met department has forecast that the desert state will get relief from cold wave conditions in the next 48 hours from tomorrow onwards where the minimum temperature will increase from 2 to 3 degrees Celsius. Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Sikar, Udaipur and Pilani shivered at 1.6, 2.5, 3.5 and 3 degrees Celsius respectively on Saturday night. However, the Barmer, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer districts of Rajasthan have witnessed temperatures above 10 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-alert-for-6-districts-of-rajasthan-cold-wave-likely-in-another-3/story-r40orlkReEBt8HLEByC8VL.html
20-12-2020||India||Two Manipuri films selected for Indian Panorama of IFFI 2020||Two Manipuri films -a feature film ‘Eigi Kona (Stallone My Pony)’ and a non-feature film ‘Highways of Life’ have been selected for the Indian Panorama of the 51st International Film Festival of India (IFFI 2020).The 90 minute ‘Eigi Kona (Stallone My Pony)’ was among 20 feature films selected from a wide pool of 183 contemporary Indian films by a jury of 12 members headed by acclaimed filmmaker and screenwriter John Mathew Matthan.It’s a film by Swarna Kamal awardee Bobby Wahengbam and national awardee filmmaker Maipaksana Haorongbam and it was produced by Dr K Sushila Devi.The film is an index of how polo players and ponies are leading pathetic lives in the birthplace of polo. On the other hand ‘Highways of Life’ was among 20 non-feature films selected from a diverse pool of 143 contemporary Indian non-feature films by a jury of seven members headed by acclaimed feature and documentary filmmaker Haobam Paban Kumar.The 52-minute film- Highways of Life is a detailed look at the high octane lives of Manipur’s highway truckers. The film travels with a group of truckers through these unfavourable highways putting their lives on the frontline, ferrying essential commodities to serve the three million people of Manipur.The film is directed by young and energetic filmmaker Amar Maibam and it was produced by the Films Division.‘Highways of Life’ has been recently conferred with the best film award at the Liberation Docfest 2020, Dhaka and has been shown in the competition section of many other reputed film festivals including the Kathmandu International Mountain Film Festival.On the selection of his film for IFFI 2020, filmmaker Amar Maibam said, “It’s an honour for us. But more importantly, I will be happier as our issues of highways and its relationship with the people is acknowledged among a wider audience. I thank the crew members and everyone who supported the film.” Echoing a similar sentiment, well-known film critic Meghachandra Kongbam who is the President of the Film Society of Manipur, said, “It is a great achievement of Manipuri cinema, the leading cinema of Tibeto-Burman languages in the country that two Manipuri films were selected in the feature and non-feature sections of the Indian Panorama of the 51st IFFI 2020.”Last week, ‘I Rise’, a short film on ace boxer Laishram Sarita Devi, directed by Manipur’s National award winning filmmaker Borun Thokchom, had bagged the Best documentary award at the 9th Mumbai Short International Film Festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-manipuri-films-selected-for-indian-panorama-of-iffi-2020/story-KSifBvZqfEC5IvaOX7WQrL.html
20-12-2020||India||MP govt eyes policy to give more jobs to women in industries||With the aim of providing jobs to more number of women in the industries in Madhya Pradesh, the state government will prepare a policy, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Sunday.The government will seriously consider increasing the percentage of women’s participation in industries and consult with the industrialists about it, he said.“The employment of women in industries will increase. A policy will be prepared in this direction after discussion with industrialists. Our daughters are fully qualified to work in industrial units,” Chouhan said.He made the statement while inaugurating a large diameter welded pipe manufacturing unit of Welspun Group at Jamunia Khejda in Raisen district, the state Public Relations Department said in a statement.Chouhan appreciated the company’s move of providing about 50 per cent jobs to women at the newly-started plant.He said that the roadmap of Aatmanirbhar (self- reliant) Madhya Pradesh has been prepared during the coronavirus outbreak period.“The Madhya Pradesh government is also focusing on skill development. For this, an initiative has been taken to start Global Skill Park in Bhopal,” the chief minister said.Chouhan said that the employment potential cannot be realised only through agriculture as there is a limit of the farm sector.“Therefore, there is a need to focus on other areas for employment. For this, skill is necessary, so that people get employment. And for this, Global Skill Park will be set up at a cost of Rs 600 crore,” he said.He said that despite the difficulties posed by the coronavirus outbreak this year, the farmers in MP have surpassed those in Punjab by producing 1.29 crore metric tonnes of wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-eyes-policy-to-give-more-jobs-to-women-in-industries/story-fecRHlr4z9YmJZ8I4iaWhN.html
20-12-2020||India||Weeks before birthday, Mayawati asks BSP workers to help needy||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has started preparing to celebrate party chief Mayawati’s 65th birthday on January 15 next year as Jankalyankari Diwas in a simple manner in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a party leader said.The BSP, which used to celebrate the occasion in a grand manner when the party was in power in Uttar Pradesh, began the practice of marking Jankalyankari Diwas after being voted out of office in the 2012 assembly elections. This time, Mayawati has directed party leaders and workers to assist migrants, farmers, labourers and the poor people who are facing problems due to the economic slowdown. She has also asked the party leaders to follow the Covid-19 protocol announced by the government during the birthday celebration. There would be no gathering or assembly of workers, the party said.Mayawati is camping in Delhi, where she is holding regular review meetings to gear up the party cadre for the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. She has directed the party officers to expedite the strengthening of the party organisation at the booth level. To regain lost ground, the BSP has plans to win back the support of Brahmins, backward classes and Muslims, the party leader said.The BSP did not win any seat in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. It bagged 19 seats in the 2017 UP assembly polls and 10 in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, when it had an alliance with the Samajwadi Party but parted ways soon after the results were declared.The party chief’s birthday programme would be finalised soon, the BSP leader said, adding that earlier the main function used to be organised at the party’s state unit office in Lucknow. Later in the evening, she used to leave for Delhi to celebrate her birthday with the office bearers of the party’s national unit.Under the Jankalyankari Diwas programme, the BSP leaders will assist the needy, poor and the handicapped. “We will visit hamlets or hospitals to distribute sweets and fruits,” said a BSP leader.About two years after Mayawati became UP chief minister for the fourth time in 2007, there was a grand celebration across the state on January 15, 2009. The display of opulence was quite palpable, the city was draped in blue and a massive stage was set up on the ground near the chief minister’s residence. The BSP supporters were transported from all the districts and neighbouring states to participate in the programme.Over the years, party MPs, MLAs and workers have been donating funds to the party for the occasion. The fund-raising drive is termed ‘arthik sahyog’ (economic cooperation) by the BSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weeks-before-birthday-mayawati-asks-bsp-workers-to-help-needy/story-xPSOZFnpyPZVkVRPnFKwqO.html
20-12-2020||India||BHU student makes it to Guinness World Records||A student of Banaras Hindu University has made it to the Guinness World Records by creating the world’s largest painting using natural colours, a senior official said here on Sunday. Ballia District Magistrate (DM) Shrihari Pratap Shahi said, “Neha Singh has made the largest painting in the world using natural colours, measuring 62.72 sq metres. Neha has painted a ‘moksh ka vriksh’ (tree of salvation), for which her name has been included in the Guinness World Records.”  Neha, a resident of Rasra tehsil, is a student of Vedic Science at Banaras Hindu University (BHU). The DM on Sunday honoured Neha Singh at a function in Dehri village, her native place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhu-student-makes-it-to-guinness-world-records/story-J1nCxDP8B6QxhpPS3YcOcK.html
20-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu increases grant for Christians to visit Jerusalem||Tamil Nadu is increasing the grant given to Christians for their pilgrimage to Jerusalem from the present Rs 20,000 to Rs 37,000, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced on Sunday at a Christmas function organised in Chennai.This comes a day after Palaniswami kicked off the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) campaign from his home constituency in Salem for the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. On the first day of his campaign, Palaniswami had announced a dole for 2.06 crore ration card holders to receive Rs 2,500 along with raw rice, sugarcane, cashew, grapes and sugar for the harvest festival of Pongal celebrated in Tamil Nadu in January. Ahead of the elections, where the AIADMK is seeking a third consecutive term, the party has made efforts to appease different caste groups and minority communities.Earlier in December, during his inspection in flood-affected areas after Cyclone Nivar and Buveri in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Thiruvarur districts, Palaniswami offered prayers at the Nagore Dargah and Vailankanni Church. In February, the state government had invited applicants from Christians to avail the financial assistance to visit the holy land in Jerusalem for a period of ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-increases-grant-for-christians-to-visit-jerusalem/story-1TbOBmxnI5MQjPsAC8cfVI.html
20-12-2020||India||‘Maybe in January’: Harsh Vardhan on first Covid-19 shot||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that people of the country could get a Covid-19 shot in January. His remarks comes days after the health ministry released a document, answering public queries on vaccination.“Our first priority has been safety and effectiveness of vaccines. We don’t want to compromise on that. I personally feel, maybe in any week of January, we can be in a position to give first Covid vaccine shot to people of India,” news agency ANI quoted Vardhan as saying.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is examining the applications of Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer to grant emergency use authorisation for their Covid-19 vaccines. Last week, the Centre had said that the DGCI has sought more data from these companies but it will not impact the timeline of vaccine rollout.Also Read: Second Covid-19 vaccine authorized in US ships outThe National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul, has recommended that 10 million healthcare staff, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people over the age of 50 or with co-morbidities be given the vaccines on priority once it becomes available.The high-level group of ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 met on Saturday where Dr Paul made a presentation on three critical aspects of vaccination as well as the details of the six vaccine candidates undergoing trial in India.Apart from discussions on vaccines, the GoM, which met for the first time since October, was also provided data on the current situation of the infection in the country by the director of the National Centre for Disease Control Dr Sujeet Singh.Also Read: Health ministry calls urgent meeting of key group after new strain of Covid-19 found in UKHe presented an analysis of the pandemic in each state, pointing out critical parameters like positivity rate, breakup of the proportion of rapid antigen test and RT-PCR, concentration of cases in particular districts, and fatality within 48 and 72 hours of hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maybe-in-january-harsh-vardhan-on-first-covid-19-shot/story-yw1eVlwMy0bOZfr5nWedwI.html
20-12-2020||India||To save Mahanadi river, NGT orders setting up expert panel to lay down norms||Taking a dim view of Naveen Patnaik government’s attempts to reclaim the river bed of Mahanadi near Cuttack to expand the SCB Medical College and Hospital, the National Green Tribunal has formed a panel of experts from the Central Water Commission, National Institute of Hydrology and state and central pollution control board for laying down norms to ensure that the construction of the medical college and river front development takes place without damage to the flood plains of the river.“The (Mahanadi) riverbed is likely to be affected by setting up of the medical college or other permanent constructions in the floodplain of the river. Encroachment of Kathajodi and Mahanadi rivers and construction in floodplain area may adversely affect the riverine ecology. There is a need to prevent irreversible damage to the riverine ecology by enforcing the applicable rules. Flood plain zones need to be identified and demarcated in the light of such norms. The Committee may identify the extent of floodplain zone/active floodplain zone from the edge of the river. The committee may complete its exercise within four months,” the four-judge bench of NGT headed by chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said.The NGT order came in response to a petition filed by Dilip Samantray, a Cuttack-based citizen to the state government’s plan of transforming the state-run SCB Medical College and Hospital into an “AIIMS Plus” institute with an expenditure of Rs 1000 crore earlier this year. Samantray in his petition had alleged that illegal construction activities such as Panchamukhi Hanuman Temple, paddy threshing ground and proposed structures such as toilet, graveyard, market complex, Kalyan mandap and other activities adversely affect the river ecology and disturbed the flow of Mahanadi river.“The reclamation of land from our lifeline Mahanadi has created once in a lifetime opportunity to breathe fresh life into the core of our ancient city,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik had said while unveiling the plan in January this year. As per the plan, 424 acres of land were to be reclaimed from Mahanadi river for expansion of the medical college though the state government in its affidavit before the NGT said a new campus of SCB medical college is proposed on 25 acres of land reclaimed from the river.The NGT said there is no central legislation to regulate the flood plains, except an October 2016 notification issued by the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development, and Ganga Rejuvenation, with respect to Ganga river, under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, prohibiting any construction in the active floodplain area of river Ganga or its tributaries.“The Water Resources Ministry circulated a model Bill on the subject in 1975 but the same did not fructify into law. There are some State Acts like Manipur Flood Zoning Act, 1978 and the Uttarakhand Flood Plain Zoning Act, 2012. The Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017 prohibit any permanent constructions within 50 meters of the Wetlands, from the mean high flood level in the past 10 years from the commencement of the rules. In Maharashtra, there are norms for demarcating regulatory and prohibitory zones in the floodplains of the rivers. There are also similar restrictions in certain Master Plans like the Revised Master Plan of Bangalore restricting constructions in catchment area of the lakes,” said the NGT bench observing that Odisha did not appear to have any legislative and administrative measures regulating and prohibiting activities in the floodplain zones of the rivers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-save-mahanadi-river-ngt-orders-setting-up-expert-panel-to-lay-down-norms/story-sL4SUwQklBXBfCiTz17NoO.html
20-12-2020||India||Gorkha leader Bimal Gurung, TMC’s new ally, holds first rally in Darjeeling||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s (GJM) founder-president Bimal Gurung held his first public meeting in Bengal’s Darjeeling town on Sunday afternoon and announced that he will help the Trinamool Congress (TMC) win at least 18 assembly seats in north Bengal when elections in the state are held next year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 with support from the GJM and other parties demanding creation of a separate state since it promised to find a permanent political solution to the hill issue and accord scheduled tribe status to 11 Gorkha communities. “I have joined hands with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. We will win 17 to 18 assembly seats in north Bengal. The BJP betrayed the Gorkhas and wasted our 12 years,” Gurung said at the meeting. He said Banerjee has assured him that she will find a permanent political solution to the Gorkhaland issue. There are six assembly seats in the Darjeeling hills, of which the TMC holds one while the BJP has none. The CPI (M) has one seat, the GJM has two while the remaining two are in the control of the Congress. The Gorkha community has presence in the adjoining districts in the plains as well. The two GJM legislators from Darjeeling offered support to the BJP after the 2016 assembly polls but Gurung has now withdrawn his support. Gurung went into hiding in 2017 after being charged under the anti-terror law by the Mamata Banerjee government for the violent Gorkhaland movement. He appeared before the media in Kolkata in October and announced that he was shifting his allegiance to Banerjee. Since then, the rivalry between Gurung and Binoy Tamang, his former lieutenant who has been heading a pro-TMC faction of the GJM since 2017, has intensified. Though Tamang and his men are opposed to Gurung’s entry into Darjeeling, the erstwhile fugitive leader was received with a warm welcome on Sunday. Gurung told his followers that he will start calling the shots in hill politics very soon. Without directly naming Tamang and his associate Anit Thapa, chairman of the board of administrators in Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), Gurung said, “They cannot deliver anything despite all the support they have.” Since the TMC failed to wrest the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat from the BJP in 2019 despite having the support of Tamang and Thapa, Gurung targeted the duo. “Why should they be supported (by the TMC)?” he said. “The two must leave within 10 to 12 days,” Gurung said. Local people said Gurung hinted that he wants Tamang and Thapa to step down from the GTA. Gurung returned to Siliguri town on December 6 and addressed a rally. He was waiting for the right time to visit Darjeeling. Political equations in the Darjeeling hills suddenly changed after Gurung pledged support to the TMC. “The BJP should be defeated at any cost and I will ensure that keeping the chief minister in front of us,” Gurung said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorkha-leader-bimal-gurung-tmc-s-new-ally-holds-first-rally-in-darjeeling/story-n60Fosqf4GazyBWXnyVU4M.html
20-12-2020||India||Armed with data, TMC counters Shah’s claims on BJP workers’ killings||A day after Union home minister Amit Shah welcomed seven Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLAs, including Suvendu Adhikari and three MLAs from other parties into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a rally in Midnapore, the TMC on Sunday hit back with what it called a fact sheet. Shah, at the rally, brought several charges against the ruling party and the state government.TMC leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, circulated data on social media to counter Shah’s claims. Shah’s Sunday visit to Visva Bharati, Bengal’s only Central university that was set up by Rabindranath Tagore, was also criticized by the TMC and Left student unions.“Shah claimed on Saturday that 300 BJP workers have been killed in Bengal in one and a half years. This is a lie. Many BJP workers are being killed in faction feuds. Even suicides are being passed off as political killings. Fact is that since 1998, 1,027 TMC workers have been killed. It is also on record that 116 BJP Lok Sabha members have criminal record,” said senior TMC leader and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee.On Saturday, Shah defended Adhikari who was branded by the TMC as a traitor. “Didi (Mamata Banerjee) didn’t you leave the Congress and came to the TMC? Wasn’t it changing allegiance?” Shah said.“Mamata Banerjee did not leave the Congress to join another party. If a Union Minister tried to sell off the history of our country one needs to protest. Banerjee was not a defector. She set up the TMC, a new party, in 1998,” said Mukherjee. Also read: Health ministry body to hold urgent meeting over new Covid-19 strain in UK“Shah also claimed that people in Bengal do not get benefits under the Centre’s Ayushmann Bharat healthcare scheme. He does not know the facts. Banerjee started the Swasthya Sathi programme two years before Ayushmann Bharat was launched. Under this scheme, 1.4 crore families have been provided health insurance that covers expenses up to Rs 5 lakh per annum,” said Mukherjee.“Shah claimed that farmers in Bengal are deprived of Rs 6,000 per annum under the Prime Minister’s central scheme. Reality is that Bengal provides farmers annual assistance of Rs 5,000 per acre under the Krishak Bandhu programme. The Central scheme provides only Rs 1,214 per acre. Also, the Bengal government pays full insurance premium under Sasya Bima whereas the Centre takes part of premium from farmers,” said Mukherjee. “Shah had food at a villager’s home on Saturday and said the house was provided under the Prime Minister Awas Yojna scheme. This is another false claim,” said Mukherjee. “The Centre pays 60 per cent of the money under this scheme while the state pays the rest. Between 2011-2020, the state has built 33,87,000 houses costing Rs 39,993 crore. Under the state’s own Geetanjali Prakalpa, 3,90,000 houses were built at an expense of Rs 3,550 crore. Under the ‘Housing for All’ scheme, 4,30,000 houses were built. This cost the state exchequer another Rs 7,000 crore,” said Mukherjee. The TMC also countered Shah’s claim that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent food grains for people of Bengal and it was misappropriated by TMC workers. “Reality is that under Bengal’s Khadya Sathi programme, around 10 crore people will be provided free ration till June 2021. No government in the country has ever done this. This is an all-time record,” said Mukherjee. During the day, chief minister Mamata Banerjee condemned the Centre’s move to send three Indian Police Service officers to other states. These officers were in charge of the security of BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy that was stoned in South 24 Parganas district on December 10.TMC leaders said chief ministers from non-BJP-ruled states have called up Banerjee and expressed their solidarity on this issue.“Centre is brazenly interfering with State Govt functioning by transferring police officers. My gratitude to @bhupeshbaghel @ArvindKejriwal @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 & @mkstalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal & reaffirming their commitment to federalism. Thank you!” tweeted Mamata Banerjee on Sunday.On Sunday, Shah’s visit to Visva Bharati was also criticized by the TMC.Also read: Microsoft to kill passwords by 2021; Here’s what it will doTMC leaders in Kolkata staged a protest against placards, with images of Shah placed above Tagore, that were found all over Bolpur town on Friday. This triggered a strong reaction among residents. Claiming that the TMC had put up the placards to sabotage Shah’s visit, BJP workers quickly removed them. The TMC set up a podium outside the Tagore family’s palatial home at Jorasanko in north Kolkata and staged a protest. “The placards demeaned Tagore’s rich heritage,” said Mukherjee. The Students Federation of India, the students’ wing of the CPI(M), alleged that students who opposed Shah’s visit to Visva Bharati were pressured by the university authorities to withdraw the agitation. “When the students refused to comply, the police put two student leaders under house arrest. SFI condemns this. We have always fought against saffronisation of educational spaces,” said SFI national general secretary Mayukh Biswas. An official from the Santiniketan police station said the police took no such action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-with-data-tmc-counters-shah-s-claims-on-bjp-workers-killings/story-FFePW4vd8zWlOnIIa7ATGM.html
20-12-2020||India||Kerala to call special session of assembly to reject new farm laws||The Kerala government has decided to convene a special session of the assembly on Wednesday to reject the new farm laws being enacted by the Union government that have triggered large-scale protests in the country.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office said the government will approach Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to call a special session of the assembly. Opposition Congress and other parties have also pledged their support for the move. In the 140-member house the Bharatiya Janata Party has a single legislator. During the one-hour session a motion will be introduced to reject these bills and it will be put to vote. Earlier, the Delhi assembly had rejected all three farms laws, which had turned into a bone of contention, and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal later tore the copies of the bills in the house. Like Delhi, Kerala has also taken a consistent position from the beginning and announced its decision to move the Supreme Court against these laws. After its recent victory in the local body polls, the government has decided to be more vocal against the Centre.But the BJP has criticised the move saying it was a politically motivated decision. “It is nothing more than a political stunt. It is as futile as passing a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Both the CPI (M) and Congress are wasting public money for cheap political stunts,” Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-call-special-session-of-assembly-to-reject-new-farm-laws/story-6sdSiyL0VubS00aIx2EDFJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Health ministry calls urgent meeting of key group after new strain of Covid-19 found in UK||The Union health ministry on Sunday called an urgent meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) after a new strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surfaced in the United Kingdom, news agency PTI reported.PTI further reported that the JMG, chaired by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS), will hold a meeting on Monday morning to discuss the issue of the mutated variant of the coronavirus reported from the UK. WHO’s India representative Dr Roderico H Ofrin, who is also a member of the JMG, is likely to participate in the meeting.According to health ministry website, the JMG has been formed to review regularly the global/ Indian situation, and provide recommendations on technical matters to the ministry. It would also monitor outbreak situation.British health secretary Matt Hancock on Sunday raised the prospect that London could be under lockdown for months as he has warned it will be “very difficult” to keep a virulent new strain of the coronavirus under control until vaccinations are rolled out.“It is going to be very difficult to keep it under control until we have the vaccine rolled out,” he said. “We know with this new variant you can catch it more easily from a small amount of the virus being present.”“All of the different measures we have in place, we need more of them to control the spread of the new variant than we did to control the spread of the old variant,” he said. “That is the fundamental problem.”On Saturday, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced the new tier four of Covid-19 restrictions for London and other parts of England to combat an alarming surge in infections linked to a new virulent strain.“New variant may be up to 70 per cent more transmissible,” he said.A number of European countries have banned flights from the UK as the British government warned that the potent new strain of the virus was “out of control” and imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-calls-urgent-meeting-of-key-group-after-new-strain-of-covid-19-found-in-uk/story-i6QRyFuLu9zhmUeMaErXdJ.html
20-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Haryana CM asks protesting farmers to demand construction of Satluj-Yamuna Link and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jal Adhikar rally: Khattar says agitating farmers should also demand construction of Satluj-Yamuna LinkHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday asked farmers protesting against the agriculture laws to include construction of Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) in Punjab as one of their demands. Read MoreBan on UK flights: Here’s how countries have reacted to new Covid-19 variantWhile some countries have decided to ban flights from the United Kingdom, some are still mulling over the action after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday confirmed that a new strain of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is rapidly spreading in certain areas. Read MoreIndia rejects Pakistan’s allegations about targeting of UN vehicleIndia on Sunday dismissed Pakistan’s allegations about a UN vehicle being deliberately targeted by Indian troops on the Line of Control (LoC) as false and said such fabricated allegations .Read MoreShigella infection: Experts try to trace source in north Kerala’s KozhikodeThe rising number of suspected shigella bacterial infection cases triggered panic in Kozhikode district in north Kerala but the state health department maintained that there was no need for panic and experts were at work to find the source of the infection. Read MoreBengal’s next CM won’t be an ‘outsider’, says Amit ShahLaunching a blistering attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the way TMC workers attacked BJP national president JP Nadda during his Bengal tour proves the law and order situation of the state. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘He put the team on the backfoot,’ Adam Gilchrist identifies a major worry for IndiaThere were many flaws identified in India’s performance from the first Test in Adelaide, with batting and fielding emerging the biggest of the lot. Read MoreMicrosoft to kill passwords by 2021; Here’s what it will doLooks like Microsoft is about to completely change how we unlock our laptops and smartphones. In the latest blog post the company has spoken about its efforts in moving towards a passwordless future and its intentions to reach that stage in 2021. Read MoreKareena Kapoor-Saif Ali Khan host birthday bash for son Taimur, cousin Inaaya joins him in a princess dress. See picsKareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan celebrated their son Taimur’s fourth birthday on Sunday and ensured that they made it special for the little one. Read MoreWatch: Car rams into hospital repeatedly in Gurugram, caught on CCTVA vehicle rammed repeatedly into a hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram on December 18. The incident was caught on multiple CCTV cameras installed on the hospital premises. The incident occurred at the Balaji hospital. The cause was reportedly a tussle between members of the same family over the treatment of 2 elderly patients. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-haryana-cm-asks-protesting-farmers-to-demand-construction-of-satluj-yamuna-link-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xl5SYPn8SBqxpI6soI1syO.html
20-12-2020||India||Bengal has set 3 dangerous trends in Indian politics: Amit Shah||West Bengal has set three trends in Indian politics - politicization of administration, criminalization of politics and institutionalizing corruption – Union home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday alleging that the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress had turned into a family-party. “West Bengal has set three dangerous trends in Indian politics - politicization of administration, criminalization of politics and institutionalizing corruption. All these three trends are dangerous for democracy and people of the state,” Shah said while urging the people to join the BJP juggernaut so that there could be change. He was on a two-day visit to West Bengal to bolster the BJP’s campaign in poll-bound Bengal. Shah has set a target of winning more than 200 out of the 294 seats in the state assembly. While the Trinamool Congress is desperately trying to highlight the development-work made by the Mamata Banerjee-administration in the past 10 years, Shah attacked the successive Left Front and TMC governments alleging that the rank of West Bengal has been sliding on various fronts including per capita income, state’s share in GDP and industrial production among others over the past few decades. “West Bengal used to rank number 1 on many fronts. But today its rank is below 20 on most fronts. Today the state is number one in corruption, nepotism, violence, in bomb making and explosion and killing of opposition workers,” Shah said. He said that not a single farmer has received central funds because the state didn’t send the list. The TMC supremo has been supporting the farmers’ protest against farm laws and Shah also attacked the state’s ruling party on that. “At least 2.3 million farmers from Bengal have applied online for Rs 6,000 a year from the Centre. You (Mamata Banerjee) just have to certify them but you are not even doing that. Sign them assuming that you are giving an autograph. Send a letter assuming that it is your nephew’s birthday. It would help many farmers,” he added.He alleged that the TMC’s main slogan of Ma Mati Manush (Mother, Soil and People) had given way to corruption, nepotism and appeasement. “Such things happen when the state’s leader instead of thinking about the 100 million voters thinks about her nephew and how to make him the next chief minister,” he added. Shah said that Bengal accounted for 30% of India’s industrial production during Independence and today it has come down 3.5%. Bengal’s per capita income was double than that of Maharashtra in the 1960s and today it is just half of Maharashtra. In the 1950s Bengal had registered 70% of India’s pharmaceutical production and today it is just around 7%. “I am sure TMC will challenge these data. Let me know the place and our youth wing leader will meet you there for a debate and tell you the source of this data,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-has-set-3-dangerous-trends-in-indian-politics-amit-shah/story-kFp9bdxWavePK4B0ZTedgP.html
20-12-2020||India||Now, 5,000 visitors can visit Sabarimala in day; RT-PCR test mandatory||The Sabarimala temple in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district opened for 5,000 pilgrims on Sunday after the high court gave a nod to increasing the daily cap on visitors. Earlier the limit was set to 2,000 pilgrims a day. The temple was shut for nearly seven months due to the coronavirus pandemic. In November, the shrine reopened for the annual two-month-long Mandala-Makaravilakku. Under the revised guidelines, The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which runs the hill shrine dedicated to Lord Ayyappa, also mandated that the visitors will need to show RT-PCR certificate to order to visit the temple.Here is the all you need to know about the guidelines:- Post-December 26, devotees will be allowed to visit Sabarimala hill shrine only after producing a Covid-negative certificate following an RT-PCR test. Earlier, a negative certificate from antigen test was enough for the devotees to visit the shrine.- An RT-PCR test certificate should not be more than 48 hours old prior to the visit to the temple.- Pilgrims still need to register online before visiting the temple. The online booking will be done on first-come-first-served basis.- Strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol is mandatory for all pilgrims as authorities will keep strict vigil that social distancing of at least six feet is being maintained and masks are being properly worn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-5-000-visitors-can-visit-sabarimala-in-day-rt-pcr-test-mandatory/story-yzn3nRJmWfcry2gdcVfuXK.html
20-12-2020||India||Kisan Diwas on Dec 23, toll collection to be halted in Haryana from Dec 25: Farmers intensify stir||The farmers, protesting near Delhi seeking the repeal of contentious farm laws, are intensifying their stir by announcing they will halt toll collection in Haryana from December 25 to 27. Before that, the protesters will celebrate Kisan Diwas on December 23. The farmers have urged people to skip cooking their lunch to show their solidarity with the movement, ANI reported citing Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. Meanwhile, Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India Party who has been supporting the protests, announced that farmers will hold a 24-hour relay hunger strike starting December 21 at all protest sites.Farmers have been intensifying their demonstrations against the three farm laws enacted by Parliament in September as the unions said that they are seeing any pragmatic changes from the government’s side. “The government is delaying our matter unnecessarily. They should have repealed the laws by now and send the farmers back to their homes. Although the government has stated that before the new year begins there would be a solution, however pragmatically speaking, we are not seeing anything hopeful or even close to that,” ANI reported Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Manjit Singh Rai as saying.Several protesting leaders demanding the complete withdrawal of the laws also threatened to step up their agitation and said that they are prepared to celebrate the Republic Day next year with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders.The three farm laws have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-diwas-on-dec-23-toll-collection-to-be-halted-in-haryana-from-dec-25-farmers-intensify-stir/story-weTAubr2r3OwuIUoZyeYZM.html
20-12-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee thanks CMs, MK Stalin for backing Bengal govt on IPS officers’ transfer issue||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said that the Centre is interfering with her government by transferring three IPS officers, and expressed gratitude to her counterparts of Punjab, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan for voicing solidarity with the state on the issue.She also thanked Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M K Stalin who has described the “unilateral transfer” of three West Bengal IPS officers by the BJP-led central government as “autocratic and anti-federal”.Captain Amarinder Singh, Arvind Kejriwal, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot, chief ministers of Punjab, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan respectively, recently alleged that the Centre’s order transferring the officers is interference in the functioning of West Bengal’s administration.While Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan are governed by the Congress, Delhi is ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP).In a tweet, Banerjee said, “Centre is brazenly interfering with State Govt functioning by transferring police officers. My gratitude to @bhupeshbaghel @ArvindKejriwal @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 & @mkstalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal & reaffirming their commitment to federalism. Thank you!” Centre is brazenly interfering with State Govt functioning by transferring police officers. My gratitude to @bhupeshbaghel @ArvindKejriwal @capt_amarinder @ashokgehlot51 & @mkstalin for showing solidarity to people of Bengal & reaffirming their commitment to federalism.Thank you! The three IPS officers were responsible for the security of BJP national president J P Nadda whose convoy was attacked by alleged Trinamool Congress activists during his recent visit to West Bengal, where Assembly polls are due next year. The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the state is opposing the Centre’s move.In another tweet four days ago, Banerjee had termed the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, seeking the deputation of three IPS officers of West Bengal cadre, a misuse of power and her government would not cow-down before “expansionist” and “undemocratic” forces.In the same tweet, the Trinamool Congress supremo had claimed that the Centre’s move was against the tenets of a federal structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-thanks-cms-mk-stalin-for-backing-bengal-govt-on-ips-officers-transfer-issue/story-Rp1jwNt9QtQDiWe9Ks7VhI.html
20-12-2020||India||Shigella infection: Experts try to trace source in north Kerala’s Kozhikode||The rising number of suspected shigella bacterial infection cases triggered panic in Kozhikode district in north Kerala but the state health department maintained that there was no need for panic and experts were at work to find the source of the infection.Panic gripped Mayanad area following the death of an 11-year-old boy and hospitalization of many others with similar symptoms. However, the health department said only six people were confirmed to have been infected so far and 26 others are suspected cases of the infection. Some of the suspected people were discharged later.“We have started inspection of all houses in the affected areas. Initial reports do suggest water contamination led to the infection. We have asked people to drink only boiled water and maintain strict personal hygiene,” said health minister K K Shailaja. She said samples of water and food were collected and sent for detailed lab examination. ALSO READ | North Kerala on high alert after 11-yr-old boy dies due to shigella bacterial infection District medical officer V Jayashree said at least 150 people attended the medical camp organised by the health department in the last two days. She said experts are trying to trace the root cause of the infection. Local people also said some of their water sources got contaminated and they had no idea how it took place. According to medical experts, shigella bacteria triggers an infection called shigellosis. Diarrhoea, often containing blood or mucus in stool, stomach pain, cramps, fever and vomiting are the main symptoms of the infection. An infected person shows minor symptoms in a day to two but it may take a week or so to show acute symptoms. Children under 10 are most susceptible to contract the infection, though elderly can also get infected, experts said adding patients with underlying medical conditions may require heavy doses of antibiotics.They said usually a person gets infected after taking contaminated water or taking stale food. It is highly contagious and can be transmitted after using a common toilet also. Though a worldwide phenomenon, shigella is seen more often in developing countries, especially in crowded areas. In some cases, people infected with the bacteria do not show symptoms but they are contagious. Experts have also asked people not to have sexual relations with a person who has recently recovered from shigellosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shigella-infection-experts-try-to-trace-source-in-north-kerala-s-kozhikode-district/story-mEAhJw1BXiGPw80AntFDHO.html
20-12-2020||India||‘More than 300 BJP workers killed in Bengal’: Amit Shah||More than 300 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers have been killed in West Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday while condemning the attack on the convoy on the party’s national president JP Nadda. “Political violence in the state is at its peak. More than 300 BJP workers have been killed. Investigation in those cases hasn’t moved an inch,” Shah told reporters before leaving West Bengal. He was on a two-day visit to West Bengal to bolster the BJP’s campaign in poll-bound Bengal. Shah has set a target of winning more than 200 out of the 294 seats in the state assembly.While condemning the attack on Nadda’s convoy, which took place earlier this month, Shah said that the attack was not just on Nadda but on the democratic set up in the state and that the reaction which came from the state and the TMC leadership was alarming. Also read: Bengal’s next CM won’t be an ‘outsider’, says Amit Shah“I am also concerned that the reaction, which should have come from the state leadership after the attack, didn’t come. Instead, the statements issued by TMC leaders were, in a way, supporting the attack. That was more alarming,” he added. He, however, warned that the TMC should not stay under a false impression that it would be able to stop the BJP with such violence because more the violence, the more the BJP will work to strengthen itself.He also attacked the TMC on corruption and questioned why was the party opposing a CAG audit ordered by the Calcutta High Court into the distribution of relief materials after Cyclone Amphan. “They have opposed it because there was theft of ration after the cyclone,” he said. The TMC, in its defence, refuted the allegations.“Many BJP workers were killed because of infighting within the party. Even death by suicides were being passed off as political killings. Since 1998, at least 1,027 TMC workers were killed in political rivalry. At least 116 of BJPs Lok Sabha MPs have criminal records,” said Subrata Mukherjee, state minister and senior TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-300-bjp-workers-killed-in-bengal-amit-shah/story-m04nCLHfJdsAlWoHu2pHJO.html
20-12-2020||India||India rejects Pakistan’s allegations about targeting of UN vehicle||India on Sunday dismissed Pakistan’s allegations about a UN vehicle  being deliberately targeted by Indian troops on the Line of Control (LoC) as false and said such fabricated allegations were part of Islamabad’s efforts to cover up its failure to protect UN personnel. Indian officials had on Friday rejected claims by the Pakistani military’s media arm and Foreign Office that a vehicle carrying two officers of the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) was “specifically targeted” by Indian troops from across the LoC.Pakistani military spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar had tweeted photos of the UN vehicle with apparent damage to its windows and chassis, and contended the SUV was the target of “unprovoked fire” in Chirikot sector of the LoC.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Allegations by Pakistan regarding Indian forces deliberately targeting a UN vehicle on December 18, 2020 have been investigated in detail and found to be factually incorrect and false. “Our forward troops were aware of the visit of UN military observers in the area and did not conduct any firing as alleged.”Srivastava said that instead of repeating “baseless and fabricated allegations against India to cover up its own failure in ensuring the safety and security of UN personnel in territory under its control, Pakistan should responsibly investigate its lapses”. He added that India has conveyed its findings and views on “these misrepresentations” to the Pakistani side.Shortly before India made clear its position on Sunday evening, Pakistan’s Foreign Office said it had taken up the incident with the UN and asked it to “initiate a transparent investigation” into the matter.In a letter addressed to the UN secretary general and the president of the Security Council, Pakistan’s permanent representative to the UN alleged the “deliberate targeting of the UN Observers and their vehicle – which was clearly marked with UN logo and flying a blue flag of the UN – appears to be a new coercive and reckless ploy by India to hinder UNMOGIP’s work, and facilitate another Indian military misadventure against Pakistan”.The letter further alleged Pakistan had information the Indian government “was planning to stage a ‘false flag’ attack to divert attention from its domestic difficulties, and create justification for another misadventure against Pakistan”. “If that were to happen, Pakistan will exercise its right to self-defence,” the letter said.Indian officials have dismissed a string of similar claims by Pakistani officials over the past few days, saying they were part of an effort by Islamabad to cover up its failure to counter terrorism emanating from Pakistani soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-allegations-about-targeting-of-un-vehicle/story-oXt7ntYqnQn88jm5UhG32I.html
20-12-2020||India||Street vendors gather at Singhu Border hoping for more sales||As thousands of farmers are protesting against the contentious farm laws for the last 25 days, the scenario at Singhu Border has slightly changed during the last two-three days with the buzz from street vendors filling the protest site.Street vendors from different parts of Delhi and border areas are coming here for business purposes. Items such as Dholaks, sunglasses, duffle bags, socks, slippers, shirts, coats can be seen being sold.Sahane Alam (20) who earlier used to sell dholaks in alleys of Delhi has started selling them here during the last two-three days.“So far I have sold five ‘dholaks’ and have 10 more to sell. People who are staying here at Singhu border are buying these dholaks. There are a few more like me who are selling here. Tomorrow I will bring more ‘dholaks’. The price is Rs 100 per piece,” Alam told ANI.Ravi Kumar (26) has started selling duffel bags near the first barricade at Singhu border from today.“I used to sell bags at Jahangirpuri. When I got to know that people like me are coming here for business purposes I also came. People here require big bags. I am satisfied. I am earning a good amount. Now onwards I will come here,” said Ravi.Along with these items, street food such as boiled eggs, bread omelette, paranthas, chaat can be found in ample quantities.56-years-old Virender Sahani said, “Since the protest started, I stopped my business. Recently I found people from various places started coming here for business. I decided to start again. I am happy being back in business.”However, given the scores of langars which various voluntary organisations are running in the entire stretch starting from the main stage, most of the street foods sellers are limiting themselves to places near the first barricade.Around 40 farmers’ unions are steadfast in their demand to repeal the farm laws. They have held several rounds of talks with the centre. Farmers have been protesting on different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws-Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/street-vendors-gather-at-singhu-border-hoping-for-more-sales/story-ZrWuZdSa7yktdu8bJFtd4L.html
20-12-2020||India||First flight from Noida airport likely by Dec 2023 or Jan 2024, says top executive||Work on the upcoming Noida International Airport is progressing as scheduled and the first flight is expected to take off by December 2023 or January 2024, a senior government executive said on Sunday.Also, the resettlement and rehabilitation of over three thousand families who are getting displaced due to the mega greenfield project is likely to be completed by May 2021, Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) CEO Arun Vir Singh said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on December 18 approved the name, design and the logo of the airport being built in Jewar area along the Yamuna Expressway in the Gautam Buddh Nagar district.Switzerland-headquartered private firm Zurich Airport International AG will be developing the airport while the NIAL, a nodal agency floated by the UP government, will monitor the project’s development.“The concession agreement for the airport was signed on October 7 and the master plan for the project was to be submitted within the next 60 days. The master plan was submitted on December 4 to the Civil Aviation Ministry for its comments. Once the ministry sends it back, it would be taken up by the NIAL Board for approval after which construction and development work would begin,” Singh said.“The project, so far, is coming up as per schedule and the first flight from the airport is expected to take off in 2023. It would be either December 2023 or January 2024,” Singh told PTI in an interview.Singh, also the CEO of the local Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), said the flight operation has to begin within three years of the signing of the concession agreement.Over 1,300 hectare of land from six villages of Rohi, Parohi, Kishorepur, Dayanatpu, Ranhera and Banwari Bans in the Jewar tehsil has been acquired by the state government under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act, 2013, for the first phase development of the airport.The Noida International Airport will have two runways and a capacity for handling 12 million passengers per annum in the first phase. Eventually, it will have five runways and a passenger capacity of 70 million a year when completed at an estimated to cost Rs 29,560 crore in total, according to officials.On the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected people, Singh said all tenders regarding the exercise have already been awarded and work is underway. This work will be completed in six months and all displaced families will be rehabilitated and resettled in Jewar Bangar, he added.“There are 3,076 families which are to be resettled. First and foremost, the families whose land has been taken up for the first runway will be resettled and then those whose land has been acquired for the second runway,” he said.“Altogether, the resettlement and rehabilitation of these families from the six villages will cost the government around Rs 350 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-flight-from-noida-airport-likely-by-dec-2023-or-jan-2024-says-top-executive/story-vEzBXWpy8iLde8pywYcbzO.html
20-12-2020||India||Assam’s silent revolution to revive volleyball||It’s a Sunday but Anjan Saikia doesn’t have much spare time to talk. He’s busy making the final arrangements for the first match of the volleyball team he coaches in Majuli, the world’s biggest river island located in Assam. Upper Majuli, Saikia’s team of boys under 16 years, which is part of the ongoing Brahmaputra Volleyball League (BVL), are going to face a team from Monomoy tea estate in Jorhat and everyone in the region is excited. “The game was to start at 11 am but as the ferry carrying the team to Majuli reached late, we are having a delayed start. We hope to start with a win. Next month we will visit them for an away game,” said Saikia. “The league has reignited passion for volleyball in our area. A lot of new players are coming out and they are being encouraged by their parents. Other villagers are also involved in preparing the ground, ensuring proper hospitality of visiting team, etc,” he added. Though only four of his wards are taking part in the league, Saikia is training 62 players at present. Upper Majuli is being sponsored by Krishna Hazarika Rao and Asawari Parmar, both international badminton players who represented the country in several competitions. Also read: Covid-19 is ‘out of control’ in UK, says British health secretary HancockSaikia and Upper Majuli are not alone. At present, 50 teams, 33 of them boys and 17 girls, representing rural areas across Assam are taking part in the BVL, the brainchild of Abhijeet Bhattacharya, a former national volleyball captain. After representing India at various levels for many years and leading the team, Bhattacharya joined Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) and was looking for ways to give back to the game in some way when he visited a village in Thelamara close to his hometown Tezpur 12 years ago. “At the village, we saw around 15 girls playing volleyball while the boys were sitting and watching. When asked, they said their volleyball has got damaged and they need to wait for few months to get a new one. I then decided to do something positive and lasting for volleyball,” he said. Bhattacharya gave the boys a new ball and a net and started organising matches among teams in the area. He also got parents of the players and village elders involved. Soon, the matches became an anticipated activity where villagers came to watch and cheer the teams and cooked meals for all those gathered. With partial funding from the ONGC and support of friends, a sports hostel was built between 2014 and 2018 at Beseria near Tezpur where the players could come and get trained. Bhattacharya also formed an organization called Rengoni Youth Sports Foundation. A discussion with few former players led to start of the Assam Volleyball Mission 100 in September last year with the objective of providing 100 volleyballs to teams in need across Assam. This initiative connected Bhattacharya with 50 small teams across the state. Soon, a three-week training programme under an Indian team coach was organised in Tezpur to upgrade the skills of coaches who were involved in these teams. For the first time, these coaches learnt proper techniques to improve fitness and volleyball skills of the players. The next step was to create 100 players who can represent the state and the country and play the game professionally. But all plans took a backseat with Covid-19 pandemic sweeping the country. “In order to keep players motivated, I developed a module to impart training to them online. It started with young players from three tea gardens. It soon turned into the Brahmaputra Volley League with the aim of making Assam one of the best volleyball teams in the country,” said Bhattacharya. While normal teams have six players per side, it was decided to keep team size at four players with players going from one village to another to play games - a home and away format. The host village was asked to develop the play area and arrange food and stay for the visiting teams. In order to provide for kit, uniform and travel costs of teams, the word was spread to look for sponsors who would spend at least Rs 15,000 per team. This brought in people like former Indian national badminton champion Aparna Popat who adopted teams. “I came to know about it from a couple of friends who were sponsoring teams. I got very excited as this is something which is being done in a planned manner in the grassroots. My team has lost its first two games, but the joy of children playing is worth it,” said Popat who sponsors Pub Nalbari. Also read: ‘Didn’t want to like him,’ says Obama on daughter Malia’s British boyfriend“The idea of the league made us join immediately. I, along with friends from school and university, am involved in five teams. We are very positive that this initiative will change the volleyball scenario in Assam,” said Devabrata Chakravarty, joint secretary of Assam Association, Mumbai. Soon, a logo was made and someone even wrote and composed a song for the league. The logo was unveiled by eminent athlete Hima Das earlier this month and the league started from December 12 with matches held on weekends so that players are able to return to their homes the same day. The league will end in February next year. “One can start a volleyball team with as low as Rs 2,000 - the cost for a good ball and the net. The small step taken by us has been warmly received by players and villagers and even without any involvement of the state government, it has become a movement. This is a very good sign for the game,” said Bhattacharya. Sunday ended on a good note for Saikia and Upper Majuli as they were able to defeat the Monomoy tea estate team in two straight sets. “The format is a bit challenging as four players have to cover the court instead of six, but we are enjoying the league. I have been playing volleyball for two years and want to take up the game professionally,” said 15-year-old captain of Upper Majuli, Lakhiram Das, a student of class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-silent-revolution-to-revive-volleyball/story-ItC2OInba90KqcFe2wDIjM.html
20-12-2020||India||Germany mulls banning flights from UK over new Covid-19 strain fears||Germany is considering banning flights from Britain and South Africa to prevent the spread of new, more infectious coronavirus strain circulating in the two countries, a source close to the German health ministry told AFP on Sunday.Following the example of the Netherlands, where a ban on all passenger flights from the UK came into effect on Sunday, the German government was considering a similar move as “a serious option” for flights from both Britain and South Africa, the source said. A health ministry spokesman said the government in Berlin was monitoring developments in Britain very closely and working at “high pressure” to evaluate the new information and data regarding the new strain.Germany was in touch with its European partners, the spokesman said. Belgium similarly announced a ban on all flights and trains from the UK. The Dutch ban, from 6:00 am (0500 GMT) on Sunday until January 1, came hours after Britain announced a stay at home order for part of the country to slow the new variant, which British Health Secretary Matt Hancock said was “out of control”. In Germany, however, the new strain of the virus has not been detected so far, according to the chief virologist at Berlin’s Charite hospital, Christian Drosten, on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/germany-mulls-banning-flights-from-uk-over-new-covid-19-strain-fears/story-iUv6W3MyawAr82vWWnt5QO.html
20-12-2020||India||People of Bengal yearning for change, want to get rid of Bangladeshi infiltration: Amit Shah||People of West Bengal are yearning for change as they want to get rid of political violence, corruption, extortion and Bangladeshi infiltration, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday, attacking the Mamata Banerjee government.Addressing people during a roadshow in this town associated with Bengali cultural and literary icon Rabindranath Tagore, Shah vowed to restore the state to its old glory when it was called “sonar Bangla” (Bengal of gold) if the BJP is voted to power.“I have attended and organised several roadshows in my life but have never seen one like this. This roadshow is a reflection of people’s anger against the Mamata Banerjee government. This crowd reflects people’s faith in the agenda of development of Narendra Modi Ji,” Shah told the massive gathering at the roadshow.He said the yearning was not about changing a political leader but “getting rid of corruption, political violence, extortion and Bangladeshi infiltration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-bengal-yearning-for-change-want-to-get-rid-of-bangladeshi-infiltration-amit-shah/story-ZvM6WP4nwgrqA3Aj2h4gIL.html
20-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand assembly likely to host stormy winter session as Cong gears up to corner govt||The three-day winter session of the Uttarakhand assembly which will commence from Monday, is expected to be a stormy one with Opposition Congress gearing up to attack the government on the issues of farm laws and corruption. Party’s state in-charge Devendra Yadav is also going to reach Dehradun on the same day to lead members of the Youth Congress to gherao the assembly on the issue of unemployment. The Opposition has been demanding that the session be extended. This time chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat would be unable to attend the session in person due to the Covid-19 infection and is likely to attend it virtually. Pritam Singh, state Congress president, who is also the MLA from Chakrata said there are many important issues that the Congress will raise in the winter session. “The main issues are unemployment, corruption, issue of farmers especially in the context of the farm bills, the Covid-19 situation in the state, economic distress and so on. The fact is that a three-day time period is quite short to discuss all the important issues,” he said. Singh said the last assembly session in autumn was also limited to one day without any question hour. “This time we have demanded that the session be extended so that all the issues could be discussed in a proper way,” he said. Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh who held a virtual meeting of all the 11 Opposition MLAs of Congress party a few days back, said, the party has decided to raise the issue of farm laws effectively in the upcoming winter session apart from taking up issues of corruption and unemployment in the state. “We will also press for the demand that the session be extended so that all important issues related to the public can be raised. The state government has failed on so many fronts leaving the people to suffer,” Hridayesh said. BJP meanwhile said it is the habit of the Congress to create a ruckus during the assembly session as it is frustrated and doesn’t know what to do. State BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said on one side Congress wants the assembly session to be extended and on the other, it will create pandemonium in the House and not allow the session to function smoothly. “Congress has run out of issues. It is now misleading people, like in the case of farm bills, to remain relevant in politics. They can’t digest what the BJP government has achieved,” he said This time MLAs would also have to mandatorily carry Covid-19 negative test report with them to attend the assembly session. For the last three days, Covid-19 test of legislators is being carried out. Before entering the assembly, their negative report and that of their attending staff members will be checked apart from the routine thermal screening. The sitting arrangements inside the House have also been changed to ensure social distancing. During the three-day session, the government will also present the state’s supplementary budget of Rs 4,096 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-assembly-likely-to-host-stormy-winter-session-as-cong-gears-up-to-corner-govt/story-IlmMfGgcl7LvxN9UjClQ7N.html
20-12-2020||India||Bengal’s next CM won’t be an ‘outsider’, says Amit Shah||Launching a blistering attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the way TMC workers attacked BJP national president JP Nadda during his Bengal tour proves the law and order situation of the state. “The BJP condemns it and I condemn it too personally. BJP believes that in a democracy everyone should have the right to voice their views. And it is the responsibility of the ruling party to ensure that every political party can have their voice. The attack on BJP chief is not only an attack on him. It is an attack on democracy in West Bengal and Trinamool Congress is completely responsible for this,” Shah said. ‘Never seen a roadshow like this, people of Bengal want change’: Amit ShahRevealing that BJP’s CM candidate in West Bengal for Assembly election 2021 will be someone from Bengal, not ‘outsider’ like what Mamata Banerjee generally terms BJP’s central leaders when they visit the state, Amit Shah said, “Does she want a country where people from one state will not visit another? Did she call Indira Gandhi, Pranab Mukherjee, Narasimha Rao outsiders when they used to come to West Bengal? But don’t worry, no one from Delhi will come to defeat you. Someone from Bengal will challenge you and be the next CM of the state.” With several former Trinamool leaders like Mukul Roy, Suvendu Adhikari in its fold now, BJP’s CM face in Bengal will be worth waiting for as Amit Shah didn’t divulge any more details. In fact, he dismissed any link between his comment of ‘bhumiputra will challenge Mamata’ with Suvendu Adhikari — on being asked.After JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked early this month when he was on a tour in the state, a bitter Centre versus West Bengal ensued. While Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the attack was staged as national leaders of BJP come with their separate security cover, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in his report condemned the law and order situation of Bengal. The ministry of home affairs summoned West Bengal government’s top officials, including the chief secretary, but the state government decided not to respond and termed the Centre’s interference as damaging to the federal structure. Finally, on Friday, a video conference was arranged between Union home secretary and West Bengal government officials, ahead of Amit Shah’s Bengal visit.“We haven’t done anything in Bengal that is against the federal structure,” Shah said on Sunday.Commenting on TMC’s support to the ongoing farmers’ protest, Amit Shah said, “West Bengal is not giving Rs 6,000 to its farmers. Mamata di is not releasing those funds but is supporting the farmers’ protests. First, release that money. Give those money on the occasion of your nephew’s birthday only. 23 lakh farmers from Bengal have requested online for PM-KISAN Samman Nidhi. Mamata di still prevents them by not giving them actual certification! She is not even sending a list of farmers to the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-she-call-indira-gandhi-pranab-mukherjee-outsiders-amit-shah-asks-mamata/story-M0NX8LGMxPZK9VDgHP3aCO.html
20-12-2020||India||Stalin sets Mission-200 for DMK, launches campaign to reject AIADMK||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin has announced ‘Mission-200’, setting a landslide victory in the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections as the party’s target. Stalin set the benchmark while addressing senior leaders and thousands of party functionaries in the DMK headquarters in Chennai on Sunday. “We are not fighting only to win 117 seats—the half-way mark in the 234 Assembly-- but we must aim for 200 seats and more. We shouldn’t have one seat below that number. We shouldn’t even lose an inch,” Stalin said. The DMK has been out of power for ten years in the state.The DMK on Sunday also launched another campaign titled, “We reject ADMK”, for which 1,600 party leaders will conduct 16,000 gram sabha meetings from December 23 to January 10 with the message that ‘AIADMK is lacking in governance’ in several sectors such as education and agriculture.The ruling party was founded as Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (ADMK) and was later renamed All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK).The leaders will quote from a document which the DMK calls a ‘charge-sheet’ against the government, which includes issues such as student suicides related to the National-Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test and the police firing on anti-Sterlite protestors in Thoothukudi in 2018. A website has been launched for people to mark their ‘rejection’ of the AIADMK government. Poll strategizing firm, Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), which the DMK has roped in for the elections said that the site has crossed fifty-thousand rejections by Sunday 4pm.DMK leaders including Udhayanidhi Stalin and Kanimozhi are already on the ground on a 75-day campaign to highlight 10 years of alleged ‘AIADMK misrule’. Also Read: E Palaniswami launches Tamil Nadu poll campaign from SalemStalin, who has been campaigning virtually so far due to the Covid-19 pandemic, announced that he will hit the campaign trail in the first week of January. “We will win but there are multiple forces that will not make it easy for us,” said Stalin. “Some people are forced to launch parties to prevent our victory,” he said in a reference to actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan announcing that their parties will fight on all 234 assembly seats. While Haasan began his second phase of election campaign on Tuesday, Rajinikanth will launch his political party in January. A day ago, Tamil Nadu chief minister and AIADMK co-cordinator Edappadi Palaniswami kicked-off the party election campaign from his home constituency in Salem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-sets-mission-200-for-dmk-launches-campaign-to-reject-aiadmk/story-2LivJuvhCSPXbUivN0i4lM.html
20-12-2020||India||Centre asks states to set up special courts for infra project litigations||The Law Ministry has asked states to set up special courts to settle disputes related to infrastructure project contracts under a law which was amended twpo years ago, saying it is very important in improving the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking of both India and states.Citing the examples of the high courts of Allahabad, Karnataka, and Madhya Pradesh, it has suggested other high courts to allocate a special day to make already functioning designated special courts for dealing with infrastructure project litigation as dedicated courts. Section 20 B of the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act, 2018, provides for designated courts. But the Law Ministry wants a designated court to function as a dedicated court on special days. In a letter to the registrars general of all high courts last week, the secretary (Justice) in the Law Ministry said that the Karnataka, Allahabad and Madhya Pradesh high courts have set up Designated Special Courts instead of Dedicated Special Courts under the Specific Relief Act. The high courts have dedicated special days every week to enable exclusive handling of Specific Relief matters pertaining to infrastructure project contracts. “This arrangement could be considered for adoption in your high court as an alternative measure until Dedicated Special Courts are set up. This could be helpful in the enforceability of contract both from the perspective of time and cost, thereby stimulating investors’ confidence and creating conducive business climate,” the letter said.In October, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had written to all chief ministers pressing for special courts under the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act, 2018.He had pointed out that a new section 20A has been included in the Act for infrastructure project contracts which provides that the court shall not grant injunction in any suit where it appears to it that granting injunction would cause hindrance or delay in the continuance or completion of the infrastructure project.“The foreign investors are of the view that presence of special courts will ensure enforceability of contracts both from the perspective of time and cost and provide the much-needed impetus for creating an investor friendly ecosystem. Therefore, establishment of special courts will circumvent unnecessary hindrance or delay in the continuance or completion of the infrastructure projects,” Prasad wrote.This, the minister said, is very important in improving the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking of both India as also states.According to Section 20B of the amended law, the state government, in consultation with the chief justice of the high court, will designate one or more civil courts as special designated courts, within the local limits of the area to exercise jurisdiction and to try a suit under the Specific Relief (Amendment) Act in respect of contracts relating to infrastructure projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-set-up-special-courts-for-infra-project-litigations/story-Njzlns93PvYOMNdKVJQk2M.html
20-12-2020||India||Puducherry CM pays homage to farmers who died protesting new farm laws||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues on Sunday paid homage to the farmers who died during the ongoing agitations in Delhi and other parts of the country against the three farm laws introduced by the Centre recently.Addressing media after paying homage to the portraits of the deceased here, he said the Centre should roll back the three ‘black Acts’ and accede to the demands of agitating farmers that there should be unconditional scrapping of the legislation. Narayanasamy noted that more than 30 farmers have died during the ongoing protests.Slogans condemning the legislation were raised by all those present, including Congress workers, at the venue against the farm laws.Meanwhile, criticising the Chief Minister for tearing up the copies of the Farm Reforms Acts at the fast organised by the Congress here recently, The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader A Anbalagan said Narayanasamy was known for playing double game.“It is Narayanasamy and Congress who welcomed the GST, the DBT and other schemes of the Centre and later he opposed these central measures,” Anbalagan said adding people could not be hoodwinked by such ‘doublespeak’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-pays-homage-to-farmers-who-died-protesting-new-farm-laws/story-pneL2EdUDVOE9DxuqwZhkL.html
20-12-2020||India||Class 10 student drugged by sister, forced into prostitution: Police||A 15-year-old girl in Madhya Pradesh has been drugged and pushed into sex trade by her elder sister in the state capital Bhopal, police said. Police arrested seven people, including the girl’s 20-year-old sister, a man and his two sons on Sunday under section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO), officials said. Mukesh Shrivastava, Bhopal superintendent of police (North), said, “Upset with violent behaviour and drug addiction of the girl, who is a class 10 student, the mother informed the Childline and sent her to a shelter home in Bhopal in November, where she was counselled for a month.” Srivastava added: “The victim shared her ordeal recently and told the counsellors that her sister pushed her into drugs and sex trade. The mother lodged a complaint at Gandhi Nagar police station with help of Childline on Saturday.” In her statement registered with the police, the minor said she was raped for the first time two years ago when she was just 13 years old, the SP said. Her sister, who works in a company in Indore, took her to an unknown place in Bhopal and gave her some cannabis. “Later, the sister left her alone with a man who raped her. The man also gave Rs 2000 to her sister. The victim’s sister took her to several places, where people raped her and gave her money,” he said.When her cousin came to know about this, he raped the girl too, said the officer. The mother said she was noticing a major change in the behaviour of the girl, but she was not ready to share anything. “I asked her several times about change in the behaviour, but she used to change the topic every time. She used to go missing from the house many times. Last month, I came to know about her drug addiction. I contacted Childline and sent her to a shelter for counselling and de-addiction. During counselling, she broke down and shared her ordeal,” said the mother in a statement registered with police. The girl is still being counselled by the members of Childline. The minor’s father lives in Mumbai and she lives with her mother in Bhopal. Police are interrogating the accused to know more about the nexus as all the accused were found related to each other.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-10-student-drugged-by-sister-pushed-into-prostitution/story-cURH4CJv6eSOIJ86GDRdbM.html
20-12-2020||India||Govt exploring options of linking hospitals with foreign insurance firms to boost medical tourism: Patel||The government is planning to form a working group to explore the possibilities of linking Indian hospitals, wellness centres and Ayurveda clinics with foreign insurance firms to boost medical tourism in the country, Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel has said.He said the aim is to ensure that foreign nationals seeking medical treatment in India can arrive here with their own insurance which would be recognised by all health centres here.“We will form a working group to explore the possibilities to enrol foreign insurance firms with Indian health centres so that people can use these for treatment here. So, when they arrive, they have their insurance in place. This will be especially helpful for those arriving from Iraq or Southeast Asian countries,” the minister told PTI in an interview. Officials also said the ministry has recommended that foreign tourists visiting India may be offered attractively priced Covid-19 insurance covers as part of the ministry’s plans to revive the sector post the coronavirus crisis.“The working group will provide us a model on which our system can be based. We are also in discussions with domestic insurance companies as well as the departments concerned here,” Patel said.Officials said the ministry is studying insurance policies introduced by Singapore and other countries.According to a report published by the Allied Market Research, the global medical tourism market accounted for $104.68 billion in 2019 and is projected to reach $273.72 billion by 2027, growing at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 12.8 per cent from 2020 to 2027.While the sector is growing rapidly, say officials, limited medical coverage, lengthy or partial reimbursement by payers and visa approval issues hamper its growth.“We have said that we should also have an authentic list of all our wellness centres and Ayush Hospitals so that we can properly publicise them. This will also help in foreign tourists to know how many such centres we have and make a choice, “We are also working towards granting visas to foreign tourists based on recommendations from these centres and hospitals,” Patel said. More than 130 countries around the world are competing for a pie of this global business. The popular medical tourism destinations include India, Brunei, Cuba, Columbia, Hong Kong, Hungry, Jordan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa, Thailand and the USA among others. It encompasses primarily and predominantly biomedical procedures, combined with travel and tourism.In India, the total number of inward medical tourists doubled in a span of just three years. In 2017, around 22 per cent arrivals from West Asia was for medical purposes, followed by 15.7 per cent from Africa, according to the Indian Tourism Statistics, 2018 report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-exploring-options-of-linking-hospitals-with-foreign-insurance-firms-to-boost-medical-tourism-patel/story-yEt3uxKKLIDfYb12gO48yM.html
20-12-2020||India||‘Ready to give BJP credit, not an ego issue for me’: Uddhav Thackeray on Kanjurmarg Metro car shed||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed is not an ego issue for him, and he is open for a resolution through dialogue with the Centre.The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the car shed depot which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony, a green belt in Mumbai.“Derailing each other’s projects would serve no purpose... the Kanjurmarg car shed land dispute is not in the interest of citizens. I am ready to give credit to the opposition for the project... this is not an ego issue for me, as being described,” Thackeray said during a live web cast.“We have all documents to prove that the land belongs to the state government. If there is a controversy over the ownership of land, the issue can be resolved through dialogue,” Thackeray added.The Bombay high court had on Wednesday stayed the order passed by Mumbai suburban district collector allotting 102 acres of saltpan land in Kanjurmarg area for the construction of an integrated metro car shed. The court said that the manner in which the land was transferred to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) “bordered on committing fraud on power”.The bench restrained the MMRDA from carrying out any further work at the site. In the order, the high court stated that the decision-making process leading to the October 1 order did not pass the test of judicial scrutiny.The previous BJP-led state government had decided to construct the car shed for Metro line 3 (Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ) at Aarey Colony, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project.The present Maharashtra Viks Aghadi (MVA) government - comprising the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress - recently took a decision to shift the car shed from the Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-give-bjp-credit-not-an-ego-issue-for-me-uddhav-thackeray-on-kanjurmarg-metro-car-shed/story-FD9bqrp9kwGTwzaBYa1QwM.html
20-12-2020||India||Farmers rally to pay tribute to protesters who died during farm laws agitation||Farmers on Sunday observed a Shahidi Diwas to pay homage to those who have lost their lives in the agitation against the farm laws. Farmers agitating at the Burari ground joined in to pay homage as they took out a procession in Delhi. “Farmers across the country are paying homage to those martyrs who died during this movement,” news agency ANI quoted a farmer as saying.The protests entered 25th day on Sunday as the impasse between the government and agitating farmers continues. The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.In Jharkhand too, various farmer groups carried out a march in the state capital. “We support the protest,” a farmer told news agency ANI. “We’ve come to pay tribute to 18 farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi,” he further said.The three farm laws enacted in September have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a Assocham event, during which he reiterated that the laws are made for farmers’ benefit only and not otherwise as the opposition is trying to project. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and said a fresh round of talks may happen soon.Meanwhile, All India Kian Sangharsh Coordination committee which is agitating at Ghazipur border said they will block both sides of the road if their negotiation with the local administration over the movement of tractors is not fruitful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-rally-to-pay-tribute-to-protesters-who-died-during-farm-laws-agitation/story-2tLXxzBJWZogUZcdXQPm3M.html
20-12-2020||India||Defence, energy, development in focus in key India-Vietnam summit on Monday||India and Vietnam are expected to sign agreements in defence, energy and development projects and take forward an arrangement to supply high-speed patrol vessels to the Southeast Asian nation during a virtual summit on Monday. The virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Vietnamese counterpart, Nguyen Xuan Phuc, will cap a string of high-level exchanges between the two sides this year.The meeting is being held at a time when countries are grappling with China’s aggressive actions in the region. India is locked in a military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while Vietnam has major differences over Chinese claims within its exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea. The two leaders will discuss bilateral, regional and global issues and are expected to issue a “joint vision” to guide the development of the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “A number of agreements and announcements are likely, covering areas such as defence, energy, development partnership and healthcare,” one of the people cited above said.The implementation of India’s $100-million defence line of credit for 12 high speed patrol boats for Vietnam will be further progressed, and new opportunities in renewable energy cooperation will be explored, the person said.The patrol boats being built for the Vietnam Border Guard are meant to enhance coastal security and prevent illegal activities. Five vessels are being built at Larsen & Toubro’s shipyard in Chennai, and the rest will be made at Hong Ha shipyard in the Vietnamese port city of Hai Phong under the Indian firm’s supervision.India has offered another defence line of credit of $500 million to Vietnam. The two countries upgraded their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership four years ago. India is one of the few countries with which Vietnam has such a partnership.There were several high-level visits from the Vietnamese side despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s vice president travelled to India in February. The two prime ministers met online during the Asean-India Summit last month.The bilateral summit on Monday is also expected to focus on India’s development and capacity building assistance through initiatives such as the quick impact projects, Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) initiatives, projects in water resource management in Vietnam’s Mekong delta, digital connectivity and heritage conservation. The two sides will exchange views on the global pandemic and their respective strategies to deal with Covid-19 and post-pandemic economic recovery. “The existing economic and trade linkages between the two sides provide a useful platform to explore new and resilient supply chains,” the person cited above said.Both countries also have stakes in the Indo-Pacific region and significant maritime interests, and the summit will enable them to look at potential cooperation on India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s Indo-Pacific outlook.India and Vietnam will also concurrently serve as non-permanent members of the UN Security Council from 2021, and this opens up new opportunities for cooperation and coordination on regional and international issues, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-energy-development-in-focus-in-key-india-vietnam-summit-on-monday/story-QkI1qDoh1DwAywG2SMf4IJ.html
20-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Turnout in J-K DDC polls proof of people’s faith in democracy, says BJP, L-G and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Turnout in J-K DDC polls proof of people’s faith in democracy, says BJP, L-GThe BJP has congratulated the residents of Jammu and Kashmir for “mass participation” in the District Development Council (DDC) polls despite threats by terrorists and added that the successful conduct of the eight-phased elections has negated the design of separatists and terrorists and reaffirmed people’s faith in democracy. Read more‘Never seen a roadshow like this, people of Bengal want change’: Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the people of West Bengal are angry with Mamata Banerjee and want change. Shah made the remarks during a roadshow in Bolpur area of Birbhum district. Read moreCovid-19 is ‘out of control’ in UK, says British health secretary HancockBritain’s health secretary Matt Hancock on Sunday admitted that the coronavirus is out of control, hours after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed a lockdown on London and southeast England, sparking fury by cancelling Christmas plans of millions of people at short notice. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘If Ishant Sharma is fit, send him to Australia now,’ Sunil Gavaskar says Mohammed Shami’s injury could be ‘big problem for India’The problems appear to be compounding for the Indian team in the ongoing Test series in Australia. Read moreKareena Kapoor Khan to make debut as author with Pregnancy Bible, announces book on son Taimur’s birthdayKareena Kapoor Khan is all set to make her debut as an author, and on the occasion of her son Taimur’s fourth birthday, took to Instagram to announce her first book, titled Kareena Kapoor Khan’s Pregnancy Bible. Read moreHackers continue targeting remote employees in India, 36mn attacks reported till NovAs millions of us around the world get familiar with work from home environment, the number of cybercriminal threats have increased by several times. Read moreHonda Cars India to increase vehicle prices from January: SourcesJapanese auto major Honda plans to increase vehicle prices in India from next month and company dealers have been informed about the decision, industry sources said. Read moreSunny Leone in off-shoulder gown, Gauahar Khan in metallic dress set date night fashion goalsRight before you run off to the much-awaited date night this Sunday, Bollywood divas Sunny Leone and Gauahar Khan sorted fans fashion woes with their sartorial inspirations. Read moreBeirut reporter repeatedly gets interrupted by furry intruder, a cat. WatchIt is evident from several videos available on the Internet that kitties don’t care about their surroundings when they want to play. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-turnout-in-j-k-ddc-polls-proof-of-people-s-faith-in-democracy-says-bjp-l-g-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Qkm02PpDX9zlWqN8JnhFRL.html
20-12-2020||India||‘Vendetta’: Mufti, Lone condemn ED action against Abdullah in JKCA case||Leaders of several political parties have accused the Centre of using central agencies against the Kashmiri leadership and termed attachment of properties of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah as “vendetta” .The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday attached residential and commercial properties worth nearly Rs 12 crore of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Lok Sabha member Abdullah in a case of alleged money laundering.People’s Democratic Party (PDP) president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti termed the move a political vendetta. “Attaching Dr Farooq sahab’s properties is sheer political vendetta as was evident from the abuses heaped on PAGD (People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration) by BJP. People of J&K were least impressed & placed their faith in the alliance. Using agencies like NIA & ED to settle scores shows BJPs frustration,” tweeted Mufti, reacting to the attachment of Abdullah’s property worth Rs 11.86 crores in different places by the ED.She was referring to the tie-up between Abdullah’s NC, its rival-turned-ally PDP, and four other parties with an aim to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status nullified by the Centre in a controversial move last year. The other parties in the grouping are the Peoples Conference (PC), the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M), the Peoples Movement (PM), and the Awami National Conference (ANC).According to the ED, between 2005 and 2006 to December 2011, Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association received funding totalling ₹109.78 crore from the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India). “Dr Farooq Abdullah, between 2006 and January 2012 (when he was president of JKCA), misused his position and clout by illegal appointments of office bearer at JKCA to whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering of JKCA funds,” an ED statement said. CPI(M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said the BJP government must realise the dangers of “witch-hunting and intimidation, and desist from vindictive designs”. “ It is time for secular democratic forces across the country to raise their voice against such designs of the BJP government,” he said.The PC chairman and spokesman of the PAGD, Sajjad Lone, termed the action against Abdullah “coercive”. “The ED action against Dr Farooq Sahib seems unambiguously coercive. The timing is conspicuous. Government should understand that in the context of the hard policy that they r pursuing the dividing line between law of the land and vendetta has vanished,” he said.The Jammu and Kashmir BJP has denied any political vendetta behind the action targeted at Abdullah in the JKCA case.However, Srinagar mayor and Apni Party leader Junaid Azim Mattu hit out at Mufti for defending Abdullah in J&K Cricket Association scam.“I absolutely fail to understand how @MehboobaMufti of all the people can term any investigate action into the alleged JKCA scam as “political vendetta”. For YEARS she, her party and the other PAGD allies have been demanding EXACTLY THIS - both openly and behind closed doors!,” tweeted Mattu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vendetta-mufti-lone-condemn-ed-action-against-abdullah-in-jkca-case/story-2vqAuPn4WPM6LQnDaFIKRI.html
20-12-2020||India||‘Never seen a roadshow like this, people of Bengal want change’: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday that the people of West Bengal are angry with Mamata Banerjee and want change. Shah made the remarks during a roadshow in Bolpur area of Birbhum district.“I haven’t seen a roadshow like this in my life. This roadshow shows love and trust of people of Bengal towards PM Narendra Modi. People of Bengal want change,” said Shah.“This roadshow shows the anger of Bengal’s public towards Mamata Didi,” he added.The roadshow, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders called a show of might ahead of 2021 assembly polls, began around 3.10 pm from Dakbunglow grounds, and culminated at Bolpur Chowrasta More.“People want change in Bengal to end political violence, extortion and Bangladeshi infiltration,” said the home minister.Shah, standing on top of a decked-up lorry along with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, was seen waving to the crowd, as saffron party supporters raised ‘Jai Shri Ram’, ‘Narendra Modi Zindabad’ and ‘Amit Shah Zindabad’ slogans.Hundreds of people, standing on both sides of the road, cheered the home minister as he made his way through the crowd.Shah is on a two-day visit to the state. Earlier on Sunday, he visited the residence of a ‘Baul’ (folk music of Bengal) singer to have lunch.The home minister listened with rapt attention as Basudeb Das Baul and his family sang a popular folk song ‘Tomay Hrid Majhare Rakhbo’ (will keep you at the bottom of our hearts) with ‘ektara’ (one-stringed musical instrument). He also offered puja at the family Shiva temple.On Saturday, the BJP leader had lunch at the house of a farmer in Paschim Medinipur district as part of his exercise to strengthen relations with the common people ahead of the assembly elections in the state, due in April-May next year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-seen-a-roadshow-like-this-people-of-bengal-want-change-amit-shah/story-n4v7s8Gd31HTYjfc2ItdxM.html
20-12-2020||India||Turnout in J-K DDC polls proof of people’s faith in democracy, says BJP, L-G||The BJP has congratulated the residents of Jammu and Kashmir for “mass participation” in the District Development Council (DDC) polls despite threats by terrorists and added that the successful conduct of the eight-phased elections has negated the design of separatists and terrorists and reaffirmed people’s faith in democracy.“DDC elections conducted for the first time in the history of Jammu & Kashmir have culminated successfully. Residents of J&K have successfully negated the designs of separatists & terrorists and made these elections highly successful. J&K Residents have participated massively in the event like a festival. Local residents were being threatened by the terrorists at the start of these elections, but they sidelined their threats and participated in the event even with the greater force,” JK BJP president Ravinder Raina said on Sunday.He also congratulated the election commission, L-G administration, security personnel, government employees and all other stakeholders for the successful holding of the DDC polls in the Union Territory.“We are thankful to the election commission who made this process a grand success. We also congratulate every agency, security agencies, paramilitary forces, Indian army, JKP and all others without whose contribution these elections could have not been such a great success. The government employees who served tirelessly in this election are also to be thanked,” Raina said.Raina also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the elections of DDC, BDC and for Sarpanchs & Panchs, held earlier, and said that the whole Panchayati Raj system is now implemented in J&K, made possible with the abrogation of Article 370.“For 70 years, J&K was kept at a loss under the blanket of article 370 and was not granted due rights. Now, the residents of Jammu & Kashmir are thankful from the core of their heart to PM Modi, on whose directions, and due to his personal interest, this whole process could be finished,” he said.Raina said that every single district of Jammu & Kashmir witnessed massive participation in the election process demonstrating restoration of people’s faith in the democratic process.Raina’s comments come in the backdrop of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) accusing the BJP of rigging the DDC polls and claiming that PDP and National Conference (NC) leaders were not allowed to campaign under the pretext of security concerns.Also Read: ED move against Abdullah in JKCA case under law, says ex-deputy CM GuptaJ&K lieutenant governor, Manoj Sinha, too, has congratulated the voters and the election machinery for the successful conduct of first-ever DDC elections in the Union Territory.Strengthening the three tiers of Panchayati Raj System in J&K, the DDC elections were held for the first time in the UT and the response to the DDC Elections has been very encouraging, he said while addressing media persons here on Sunday.The polling stations across the UT witnessed long queues of enthusiastic voters, with the voter turnout percentage, even in the traditionally low percentage areas, registering manifold increase as compared to earlier held Parliamentary and Panchayat elections, he said. He added that this manifests that faith of the people of Jammu and Kashmir in the democratic process has deepened.He further said that with the culmination of DDC elections, the people of J&K will, for the first time in history, see a truly empowered grassroots democracy entailing direct funding and decentralized decision making in the planning and development of rural areas.“I reassure the people of J&K that we will sincerely work towards the betterment of all and J&K will march ahead on the path of peace and progress without any discrimination”, said the L-G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turnout-in-j-k-ddc-polls-proof-of-people-s-faith-in-democracy-says-bjp-l-g/story-e0adbeFgxOK0tU8lnwHbfL.html
20-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman killed by leopard, second such incident this week||A 45-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack late on Saturday night, making it the second such incident in the past one week from the district. The incident happened in Pukhrora village of the district when Lila Devi, the 45-year-old woman was killed by the leopard when she had gone to feed cattle in the cowshed near her home. Naveen Kapri, the revenue sub-inspector who reached the spot after learning about the incident said, “Lila Devi was suddenly attacked and dragged to the bushes by the leopard. On hearing her scream, villagers came to save her but the leopard had already attacked and escaped from the area.” In a similar incident, a woman from Kholigaon village in the same area was killed by the leopard on Friday. Naveen Pant, sub-divisional forest officer of Pithoragarh forest division said, “As both the villages fall in the same locality, it could be possible that the same leopard has killed both the women.” On Friday, Saruli Devi (68) was killed by a leopard in the district. Two other women were also injured in the attack. The deaths have caused resentment among the people in the district. This is not the first such attack to be reported from the state, where human-leopard conflict has been increasing. On December 1, a 65-year-old man was killed in a leopard attack in Chamoli district when he was going to the market. In the first week of November a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district. Three women including a teenager lost their lives in a week in October in Okhalkanda block of Nainital. On October 21, a 13-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Nainital district when she was going to the forest to cut grass. On October 15, an 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Jaspur area in US Nagar district when she was playing with her siblings outside her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-killed-by-leopard-second-such-incident-this-week/story-ATVlYHk6f4ytqhlIW1NOwL.html
20-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protests more political in nature, says Union minister VK Singh||Union Minister VK Singh on Sunday said the on going protests by farmers against the three Central farm laws was “more political” in nature and underlined the NDA government’s intent to ensure the welfare of the ryots.Speaking to reporters here ahead of his interaction with farmers, the Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways claimed that “actual farmers are very happy with what has been done in last six months.” He sought to allay fears on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and other issues, saying MSP will carry on while contract farming will only benefit the farmers.ALSO WATCH | ‘Those who take commission...’: Union minister VK Singh slams farmer protest  “Lot of misconceptions are being given where farmer issue is concerned. Farmers all over India mostly are happy, actual farmers are very happy with what has been done in last six months,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured the benefit goes to the farmers, Singh said, adding, “the present agitation actually is more political than about farmers.” Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting for the last 25 days outside Delhi against the recently enacted three farm laws, with five rounds of talks with government so far failing to break the deadlock. Singh further said that other political parties, whether Congress, AAP or the NCP led by Sharad Pawar, all of them wanted that farmers should have the freedom from the agricultural produce marketing committee (APMC) and “they didnt want them tied up to these mandis.” He said Modi has the “highest regard” for the farm sector and assured the government was with the farmer and pointed out at the various schemes including insurance and soil card to benefit them. “The government wants the farmer, who feeds the nation, to feel protected, to get the benefit of the government’s protection so that his income can be doubled,” he said. “...the farmer must understand that there are people who are misleading them and that is why I have come here to explain to our farmers that things are good, not as being given out by people,” he said. The legislations in question aim at protecting the farmer and one of them says the farmer is free to sell his produce anywhere he wants with “India being one market” for him, Singh said. “This is beneficial to the farmer since he can get better price.. what happens in the mandi is price is decided by the middlemen, the commission agents,” he said. The farmer has now been “freed from this,” but some were insisting “we want the mandis.” “Mandis are going go stay. No problem in that. A voice is raised on Minimum Support Price. The bill (Act) says minimum support price will stay,” Singh added. “So this misconception that has been created in the minds of our farmers friends needs to be taken away,” he said. On contract farming, he said the government has ensured the farmer gets the benefit irrespective of the price fluctuation and is especially in a position of advantage when the prices go up. “Land is free from this contract and is provided protection...the farmer is provided protection from any exploitation by a contractor,” the minister said. Singh later tweeted he attended a Kissan Sammelan Programme here. “Having interacted with people here, one can feel that farmers are excited about the #FarmBills2020 brought by the @narendramodi government and feel that these historic reforms were long due. #GenerallySaying,” he said in the tweet. He further tweeted some political parties,”to hide their historic incompetence,” were adamant on misleading farmers about bills which will bring welfare and prosperity to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-more-political-in-nature-says-union-minister-vk-singh/story-cINs8lEMFdXJ6tuVfSfiiI.html
20-12-2020||India||Odisha gears up to set up Rs 4,000 crore Mahanadi Riverine Port project||Ahead of signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Centre for setting up of Rs 4,000 crore riverine port project in Mahanadi, a high-level delegation on Sunday visited the proposed site in Odisha’s Kendrapara district, officials said.The delegation comprising Chief Secretary A K Tripathy, Paradip Port Trust (PPT) chairman Rinkesh Roy and others travelled to the proposed site on a vessel.Local MLA of Mahakalapada Atanu S Nayak was present at the proposed port site. He had a discussion with officials about the project while Kendrapara district collector Samarth Verma apprised the delegation about the importance of the identified site.The Ministry of Port, Shipping, and Waterways has already agreed to the Odisha government’s proposal for the riverine port to be developed by Paradip Port Trust at an investment of Rs 4,000 crore. The project is estimated to generate employment for 6,000 people.The proposed port will come up at Akhadasali village under Mahakalapada block in Kendrapara district, 13 km from the river mouth at Paradip.This all-weather and multi-user port on river Mahanadi will be set up in public-private-partnership (PPP) mode with a capacity of 54 MTPA at an investment of Rs 4,000 crore. In the first phase, the port will have the capacity to handle 22 MTPA cargo at an investment of Rs 2,562 core, an official said.While the Paradip Port Trust will develop supporting project infrastructures like rail and road connectivity and dredging requirements of the facility, the state government has already identified 300 hectares of land for the project.The state government will also provide the necessary support to PPT in respect of any additional land required for the project, the official said, adding that Odisha in 2018 had decided to go ahead with Mahanadi Riverine Port.However, the project couldn’t progress due to lack of interest by potential bidders. Paradip Port Trust then evinced interest in the project and consequently, the MoU is proposed to be signed with the state government.On commissioning of the project, the port will provide direct and indirect employment opportunities to more than 4,000 persons in the first phase and about another 1,700 in the 2nd phase.The riverine port, along with the state-aided Haridaspur Paradip Railway line, will go a long way in boosting the economy of the Kendrapara district, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-gears-up-to-set-up-rs-4-000-crore-mahanadi-riverine-port-project/story-plHkm9cw748h9WhqCznrpM.html
20-12-2020||India||Maharashtra CM tells people what to do to avoid lockdown, night curfew||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that people will have to wear a facemask for at least another six months to stay protected from Covid-19 pandemic. He said residents should follow Covid appropriate behaviour in order to avoid imposition of restrictions like the night curfew and lockdown and urged them to learn from the United Kingdom and European countries where lockdown has been re-imposed to contain the pandemic.“Recently, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said that the people will have to wear masks even after taking a shot of Covid-19 vaccine. In my view wearing a mask is necessary for six months at least. Use masks at public places for sake of your family and for the society at large. Masks can protect us from the pandemic. We will have to be vigilant while welcoming the New Year,” Thackeray said in his live address to people of the state.He said that he doesn’t believe in imposing lockdown or night curfew as suggested by the experts. “I have got suggestions from experts for imposing night curfew or lockdown ahead of the New Year but I don’t feel it is required. We have learnt what to do and what will happen if certain things are not followed from the past, though danger is yet to pass,” the chief minister said.Also Read: Covid-19 caseload highest in these 5 Indian states He also took potshots at the central government for allegedly “obstructing” the shifting of Metro-3 car shed from Aarey Colony at Goregaon to Kanjurmarg.He said it would be improper if both the Centre and the state started stopping each other’s projects. “Why are you doing this?,” he questioned, while referring to a petition filed by the Centre before the Bombay high court claiming ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot. Thackeray urged the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party to resolve the impasse claiming his government’s decision was in the interest of the people and not to satisfy his own ego.He stated that the State government decided to choose Kanjurmarg plot to build a larger car shed with two additional lines. “The size of the plot at Kanjurmarg is 40 hectares whereas at Aarey, we were getting only 25 hectares, and to expand the project we will require more land after 25-50 years. Also, at Kanjurmarg, we can construct car sheds for three lines such as — Metro-3, 4 and 6. Now you tell me if the decision of shifting the car shed to Kanjurmarg is to satisfy my ego or is it in the interest of the people,” he asked.Thackeray said the salt commissioner, who works under the Central government, filed a petition in the high court claiming the ownership of the Kanjurmarg plot.“Why are you doing this? The issue could have been resolved by sitting together. The plot is not either my personal property or yours. It is a property of the people and it would have been better if we could use it for them,” he said.“It would be improper if we both start obstructing projects taken up by each other. I urge the opposition (BJP) to initiate and resolve. I am ready to give you the credit. I am not doing this for my ego,” Thackeray said.Also Read: BKC plot rejected twice in past for Mumbai Metro-3 car depotThe state government and the central governments are at loggerheads over shifting of the car shed for Metro-3 line to Kanjurmarg. The state government, in October, decided to scrap the Metro car shed at Aarey Milk Colony and shift it to Kanjurmarg. It has also decided to integrate Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli) line.In response to Thackeray’s appeal, state BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the chief minister is still misleading the people. “CM Thackeray is not revealing the concerns raised by the committee headed by Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance department, over shifting of Metro-3 car shed from Aarey Colony. Where is the techno-economic feasibility study of Kanjurmarg plot. How can the issue be resolved when the chief minister is not telling people the truth. He (Uddhav Thackeray) has made it an ego issue and that is reason he chose to shift the car shed to Kanjurmarg,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cm-tells-people-what-to-do-to-avoid-lockdown-night-curfew/story-wzLs7TJRUlqKOXkM1UVlZM.html
20-12-2020||India||Bengal village plays host to Amit Shah with live baul performance, local cuisine||Amidst a tight schedule on the second day of his two-day tour in poll-bound West Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah had his Sunday lunch with a baul family in a remote Bengal village in Birbhum district. A live performance was also organized by the family. Bauls are the mystic minstrels who live in rural Bangladesh and West Bengal. Before having lunch, Shah offered puja in a temple inside the house. In the menu arranged by Basudeb Das and his family, there was roti, rice (cooked from the local variety of paddy) with moong daal, fried potato, brinjal and pointed gourd, palang saag curry, potato cooked with poppy seeds, chutney, payesh, papad and rasgulla dipped in jaggery. Earlier in the day, Shah first visited Visva Bharati, set up by Rabindranath Tagore. After spending around one hour and 40 minutes, he headed for his lunch although he was running behind schedule. “By having a simple lunch with the family of a poor villager while listening to baul songs Shah wanted to send out a message that he is very much linked to the soil of Bengal. He also wanted to send out a message that TMC’s atrocities would come to an end when BJP comes to power,” Anupam Hazra, BJP’s national secretary said. Shah was served lunch on earthen dishes and bowls and water in an earthen glass in the courtyard of the house. Neighbours chipped in to help the eight-member family to prepare the lunch since morning amidst tight security. The live performance organized by the baul artists included a folk song called Tomay Hrid Majhare Rakhbo Chere Debo Na, which simply means “I shall keep you in my heart and I shall never leave you”. Top BJP leaders including state president Dilip Ghosh, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national vice president Mukul Roy, also had lunch with him sitting on the floor. In the village even a 11-year-old girl could be seen playing an ektara (musical instrument) and singing folk songs, all set to welcome the Union home minister. She wanted to take a selfie with Shah and sing in front of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-village-plays-host-to-amit-shah-with-live-baul-performance-local-cuisine/story-SiYnp3jtTYxXpZjo0j06xJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Cultural performances greet Amit Shah at Tagore’s Visva Bharati; TMC ups ante||Union home minister Amit’s Shah’s visit to Visva Bharati, West Bengal’s only central university that was set up by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, was marked by song and dance performances by students on Sunday afternoon, even as the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) staged protests against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Kolkata. On the second and last day of his Bengal tour, Shah flew from Kolkata to Bolpur in an army chopper and headed straight for Visva Bharati. He was scheduled to attend a political roadshow there. “I am fortunate that I could visit Visva Bharati and pay homage to a great man who had spread India’s culture, philosophy, knowledge and literature around the globe. Both Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who represented the two main political lines of thought at that time, drew inspiration from Tagore,” Shah told reporters while leaving Visva Bharati, where he spent more than an hour. While Shah visited Visva Bharati’s music college, the famous prayer hall, the Bangladesh Bhawan and places associated with Tagore and Gandhi --- who visited the poet and stayed on campus --- teachers and students greeted the Union home minister with a bouquet of 100 red roses, portraits of Tagore and Goddess Durga, and other gifts. In Kolkata, 160km away, the TMC staged a protest at against placards with images of Shah placed above Tagore that have cropped up across the city. Claiming that the TMC has put up the placards to sabotage Shah’s visit, BJP workers removed them. TMC leaders, led by Lok Sabha member Sudip Bandopadhyay, set up a podium outside the Tagore family’s palatial home at Jorasanko in north Kolkata and staged a protest thorough speeches and Tagore’s songs. “The placards demeaned Tagore’s rich heritage,” said senior minister Subrata Mukherjee. Shah, while interacting with journalists at Visva Bharati, projected Tagore as an ambassador of the nation. “I firmly believe that it was not the Nobel prize that acknowledged Tagore’s works. The Nobel prize found its own acknowledgement by honouring Tagore....It was an honour to visit the rooms where Gurudev Rabindranath and Mahatma Gandhi had lived,” said Shah. “Through Visva Bharati, Rabindranath Tagore not only preserved the culture, languages of literature of India, he also amalgamated the same from around the world. He is the only person whose compositions became the national anthems of two countries,” Shah added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cultural-performances-greet-amit-shah-at-tagore-s-visva-bharati-tmc-ups-ante/story-XI1Mcfctkxcku07Nv83ZII.html
20-12-2020||India||‘Mamata didn’t switch sides,’ say Trinamool leaders, a day after Amit Shah’s jibe||A day after Amit Shah attacked Trinamool Supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee saying that she herself had switched sides in 1998, senior Trinamool leaders, including Derek O’Brien, Subrata Mukherjee, rallied behind Banerjee and said she can’t be called a defector as she didn’t switch sides; she started her own party.Addressing a gathering at Medinipur on Saturday where rebel Trinamool veteran Suvendu Adhikari officially joined the BJP, Amit Shah said it does not behove Mamata Banerjee to train the gun on the BJP for the recent exits that her party has seen. He asked whether she didn’t do the same thing when she had left Congress.Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien on Saturday took to Twitter to fact-check several claims made by Shah. In seven points, he dismissed some of Shah’s claim — Mamata switching parties being the first of them. #FactCheck of the speech made in Bengal by the henchman of the "tourist gang". 7 pieces of concocted, false info in one speech. Actually, by his standards, quite low! pic.twitter.com/MgvktqcFt3“Claim: Mamata Banerjee left the Congress for another party and is accusing people of defection today. Reality: She did not defect to another party. She set up a NEW party in 1998, the All India Trinamool Congress,” Derek wrote.Other claims that he dismissed include Bengal depriving people of central benefits, killing of BJP workers, inadequate security for JP Nadda during his recent tour etc.Trinamool leader Subrata Mukherjee too claimed Mamata’s 1998 move can’t be called switching parties. “Yesterday, Union Minister Amit Shah said Mamata Banerjee left a party to join another. Mamata never switched sides. In 1998, she left Congress & formed a new party - TMC. She was never associated with any other party,” he said, as quoted by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-didn-t-switch-sides-say-trinamool-leaders-a-day-after-amit-shah-s-jibe/story-h1bHxFXHgB6QgXaYYfR5UI.html
20-12-2020||India||ED move against Abdullah in JKCA case under law, says ex-deputy CM Gupta||Former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) deputy chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kavinder Gupta has welcomed the Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s move to attach Lok Sabha member and former CM Farooq Abdullah’s properties worth Rs 11.86 crore in the JKCA case. “Under JKCA (Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association) scam, the ED has initiated action by attaching three properties of Farooq Abdullah. There was a long-pending demand for investigation because it was a big scam,” said Gupta. “Among the firsts who demanded a thorough investigation into the scam was Gupkar alliance partner People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Hence, the PDP should feel happy today, “ he added.He was referring to the tie-up between Abdullah’s National Conference (NC), its rival-turned-ally PDP, and four other parties to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status nullified by the Centre in a controversial move last year. The Jammu and Kashmir BJP has denied any political vendetta.Meanwhile, Abdullah’s son, Omar Abdullah, took to Twitter to object to the ED action. “My father has seen the media reports regarding attachment of his properties in the ongoing investigation into the JKCA matter. Not surprisingly the media was tipped off regarding the seizure before he had received any official notice or documentation,” he posted. The properties attached are largely ancestral, dating from the 1970s, with the most recent one built before 2003. There can be no justification for the seizures because they fail the very basic test of having been acquired as the proceeds of the “crime” being investigated. .“Dr Abdullah is in touch with his lawyers & will fight all these baseless charges in the one place that matters - a court of law, where everyone is presumed to be innocent & is entitled to a fair trial unlike in the court of the media or the court of BJP managed social media,” he added. The attached properties includes three residential houses --- one at Gupkar Road, Srinagar; one at Tehsil Katipora, Tanmarg; and one at Bhatindi, Village Sunjwan, (Jammu) --- and commercial buildings at the posh Residency Road area of Srinagar. According to the ED, between 2005 and 2006 to December 2011, JKCA received funding totalling ₹109.78 crore from the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India). “Dr Farooq Abdullah, between 2006 and January 2012 (when he was president of JKCA), misused his position and clout by illegal appointments of office bearer at JKCA to whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering of JKCA funds,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-move-against-abdullah-in-jkca-case-under-law-says-ex-deputy-cm-gupta/story-MyEr45T8oFyI37otctEXKI.html
20-12-2020||India||Asymptomatic Covid-19 infected crew to undergo 10-day home isolation, says DGCA||Flight crew members who are asymptomatic but test positive for COVID-19 need to undergo home isolation for 10 days and once it is over, they can be declared fit for flying again by their medical supervisor, according to aviation regulator DGCA.If COVID-positive crew members have ‘mild symptoms’, they will “continue home isolation and will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days”, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular, adding there is no need for “testing after the home isolation period is over”.However, if the isolation period for mildly symptomatic crew members is more than 14 days, they have to be examined by DGCA empanelled Class-1 examiner and crew is fit to fly if the examiner declares so, stated the circular that has been accessed by PTI. The circular dated December 18, 2020, stated that COVID-positive flight crew members who are moderately and severely symptomatic need to undergo special medical examination -- after their complete clinical recovery -- at one of the Indian Air Force boarding centres to get the “cure certificate”.“Once declared ‘fit for flying’ at the IAF boarding centre, the air crew can commence flying only after DGCA medical assessment is issued,” the circular added.The regulator said the December 18 circular supersedes the June 22 circular which mentioned that only those cabin crew members who come in direct contact with a COVID-positive person onboard a flight will be sent for mandatory 14-day home quarantine. The June 22 circular superseded a March 23 circular of the DGCA that had made it mandatory for the airlines to put the entire crew of a flight under home quarantine for 14 days in case anyone aboard was found to be COVID-positive. PTI DSP DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asymptomatic-covid-19-infected-crew-to-undergo-10-day-home-isolation-says-dgca/story-k1DUWJp1OrjBhuT9DCT03N.html
20-12-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah pays tribute to Rabindranath Tagore, attends cultural programme in Santiniketan||Union home minister and BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday paid floral tributes to Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore as he visited Rabindra Bhavana in Santiniketan as part of his two-day visit to West Bengal. Shah also attended a cultural programme at Visva Bharati University in Santiniketan, Birbhum. Amid tight security, the home minister visited the central university for more than an hour-and-a-half, reported PTI.A roadshow in Bolpur starting from Hanuman Mandir stadium road to Bolpur Circle is the next programme in his itinerary for his last day in the state. The two-day West Bengal visit will conclude after a press conference in Mohor Kutir Resort scheduled in the evening.Also Read | BJP ropes in cabinet ministers to win West BengalThe home minister arrived in the state on Saturday to campaign for the upcoming assembly election that is scheduled to take place next year. He visited the birthplace of Swami Vivekananda in north Kolkata and paid tribute to Vivekananda, honouring him for highlighting Indian culture and ethos in the world. He along with BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh launched at a farmers’ residence in East Midnapore’s Balijuri village in the backdrop of nation-wide protest against the new farm laws.On Saturday, he also conducted a public rally at Midnapore College Ground in Paschim Medinipur. Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Suvendu Adhikari was among the 11 MLAs who joined the rally. Shah during the rally also remarked that Mamata Banerjee will be left alone by the time of the state polls, as besides Adhikari 34 other leaders including five MLAs and one MP also switched to BJP on Saturday ahead of the elections, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-rabindranath-tagore-attends-cultural-programme-in-santiniketan/story-wEcrGPN4sP86se8nMBUjZJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Covid-19 caseload highest in these 5 Indian states||Indian states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala continued to remain at top with the highest number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases recorded till date, while the country’s infection tally crossed the 10 million mark on Saturday, according to the health ministry.A total of 26,624 cases and 341 deaths were reported in India in 24 hours, according to the health ministry dashboard on Sunday morning. As many as 95,804,02 people have recovered and 145,477 have died due to the virus in the country.Here is a list of states with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India:MaharashtraMaharashtra has recorded 1,892,707 cases of coronavirus till date. The country has seen a total of 1,45,477 deaths due to the disease and 48,648 out of that are from Maharashtra. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said he is not in favour of night curfew or another lockdown in Maharashtra and added that coronavirus was under control in the state. He also said that wearing masks should be made mandatory in the state for the next six months.Andhra PradeshAs many as four deaths and 479 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh in the past 24 hours, according to a media bulletin released by the government on Sunday. The total number of infections in the state has risen to 8,78,285. Out of the total positive cases, 4,355 are active and with 497 patients being discharged, the total discharged count reached 8,66,856.KarnatakaKarnataka’s Covid-19 infection tally reached 908,275 after 1,152 new cases and 15 fresh fatalities were recorded in the state on Saturday. As many as 12,004 people have succumbed due to the lethal infection in Karnataka.   Tamil NaduTamil Nadu reported 1,127 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. According to a bulletin released by the state health department, 1,202 more people have recovered from the disease taking the count of those recovered to 7,84,117. With 14 more fatalities reported, the death toll in the state has risen to 11,968.KeralaKerala reported the maximum number of new cases in the country today with 6,293 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stands at 60,396, while 6,36,814 patients have recovered from the viral infection so far. The death toll in the state reached 2,786.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-caseload-highest-in-these-5-indian-states/story-d5ESBfByPk4wyBzXAkBcsK.html
20-12-2020||India||5-acre land, zero-energy structure: Mosque in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) has unveiled the blueprint of the mosque along with other buildings which will be constructed on the five-acre land, allotted by the Uttar Pradesh government in Dhannipur village of Ayodhya. If the proposed maps get the required approval from the Faizabad panchayat district board, work on the site will start immediately, officials have said.WATCH | New mosque in Ayodhya: Design revealed; bigger than Babri, and spherical Here’s everything you need to know about the plan and design of the mosque:1. The plan and design were showcased during an interaction with the professor SM Akhtar, who is the consultant architect for the mosque complex project. Retired JNU professor Pushpesh Pant, who is the curator of the museum, along with Mumbai-based philanthropist Mohammad Shoib also took part in the event virtually.2. The rectangular layout of the complex in Dhannipur village also includes a speciality hospital, community kitchen and a museum housed in a multi-storey vertical structure. These will be metres away from the mosque and a century-old Sufi shrine will be in between.3. The mosque will be spherical in shape and will be able to accommodate 2,000 namazis or worshippers at a time and will be four times bigger than the Babri Masjid. The 300-bed hospital complex will be six times the size of the mosque. It will be built on 3,500 square metres of land while the hospital and other facilities will straddle an area of 24,150 square metres.4. The building will be zero-energy to convey a message on climate change. All power demands in the mosque will be met with the help of solar panels and there will be no electricity connection5. A green patch will be developed and saplings will be procured from all over the world, including Amazon rainforest, places where the bushfire took place in Australia and other geographical locations in India.6. The community kitchen and museum have been curated by Pant.7. There will be no grand celebration for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the mosque.8. There is no detailed plan to collect contributions for the project. Two separate bank accounts have been created to collect money for the construction – the first for the mosque and the second, for other structures.9. The name of the mosque has been not agreed upon but it has been decided that it will not be named after Babar or any other king, emperor or ruler, according to the board.10. The structure is expected to be ready in two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-acre-land-zero-energy-structure-mosque-in-ayodhya-s-dhannipur-village/story-FJAVndgFZaMraRF5wxHptN.html
20-12-2020||India||Wearing masks mandatory for next six months, says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said wearing masks will be mandatory for the next six months in the state. As he was addressing an array of issues including Covid-19, metro car shed project, the chief minister said experts are in favour of imposing night curfew or lockdown. But he is not in favour of these restrictions as the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control, though not completely, he said. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported 3,940 new Covid-19 cases, second in the country, though in mortality it topped the chart reporting 74 deaths, followed by West Bengal, Delhi and Kerala.The Covid-19 situation in the state improved remarkably in the past few months. In November, the government issued a circular asking authorities not to be complacent by the improvement and not lower the guards on testing as a second wave of the pandemic in the state is likely to come in January-February. However, according to experts, a second surge like that of in the UK and other countries in Europe is now unlikely in India.“Prevention is better than cure. Wearing of mask at public places should be made a habit for another six months at least,” Thackeray said, reminding people of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Addressing other issues that the one-year-old Maha Vikas Aghadi government is dealing at present, Thackeray said, “On November 28, the state government has completed one year. Many were hoping that it would fall, but the government not only completed its first year but also faced the most difficult situation, the state may have faced in the last 100 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-masks-mandatory-for-next-six-months-says-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-DoSYSKpnS9a0N4TLQC0i4O.html
20-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times | ‘Positive Pay’ to quarterly GST filing: Changes in rules from Jan 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.From ‘Positive Pay’ to quarterly GST filing: Rules that are changing from January 1From January 1, 2021, many rules related to the implementation of Positive Pay system, cheque frauds, FASTags for all four-wheelers across India and new mode of Goods and Services Tax (GST) return filing facility for small businesses are set to change. Read more Protests not affiliated to any political party: Farmers’ union writes to PM Modi, TomarA farmers’ union has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar saying the ongoing protests by farmers are not affiliated to any political party even as the agitation entered Day 24 on Sunday. Read more India records 26,624 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate peaks to 95.46%India recorded 26,624 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 341 related deaths and 29,690 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday morning. Read more India vs Australia: ‘With Kohli gone, there is almost no one to pick India back up from a loss like that,’ says Ricky PontingIndia captain Virat Kohli honestly admitted after the first Test: “Played two days of good cricket to get in a position and then just lose it in an hour. Really hurts.” Read more iPhone 12 may still be more powerful than 2021 flagship Android phonesThose familiar with Qualcomm chipsets would know that the company, every year in December launches its flagship processor for smartphones that will be used by OEMs the next year. Read more Pregnant Kareena Kapoor in Rs 2k sweater shows how to stay cosy without compromising on styleBe it a comfy and casual look or a red carpet event, Kareena Kapoor knows how to own it. The original IT girl of Bollywood, who is currently expecting her second child with husband Saif Ali Khan, has been giving us some of the most impeccable maternity fashion picks. Read more Lamborghini reveals SC20 open-top track car by Squadra CorseLamborghini Squadra Corse has revealed the SC20 - a unique open-top track car approved for road use. The second one-off engineered by the company’s motor sport department and designed by Centro Stile, the SC20 combines aerodynamic solutions taken from racing Lamborghinis. Read more Sweetness alert: Sister awaits brother’s arrival from school and greets him excitedly. Video is a must-watchWhat could be better than starting you Sunday with a wholesome tale? Here is a story that is all about sibling-love, and reading it is bound to leave you with a big smile on your face. Read more Watch: Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu joins world leaders, gets Covid-19 vaccine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-positive-pay-to-quarterly-gst-filing-changes-in-rules-from-jan-1-and-all-the-latest-news/story-k0bnVw5PPTBDQ9iiEBjDWK.html
20-12-2020||India||From Churu to Amritsar: These are the coldest places in northwest India||Delhi on Sunday recorded the season’s coldest morning as the mercury dipped to 3.4 degrees Celsius, as per the data provided by India Meteorological Department (IMD). The chilly waves blowing from the snow-clad mountains of the Western Himalayas has swept through the northern plains of India.Amritsar in Punjab recorded the lowest temperature in northern plains at 1 degrees Celsius on Sunday, closely trailed by Churu in Rajasthan at 1.6 degrees Celsius, as per the latest data released by IMD. In Uttar Pradesh, the mercury dipped as low as 2.8 degrees Celsius in Shahjahanpur and Fursatganj. Gaya recorded the lowest in Bihar at 4 degrees Celsius. Narnaul reported the lowest at 2.4 degrees Celsius in Haryana and Chandigarh.Also Read | Dal Lake freezes due to cold wave, ‘memorable sight’ say touristsMount Abu, the hill station in Rajasthan, was freezing at -1.4 degrees on Saturday night while in the plains Churu recorded the lowest temperature at -1 degrees Celsius. Fatehpur followed it closely with -0.8 degrees on Saturday night. Rajasthan’s Mount Abu, Sikar and Churu have been recording lowest temperatures since the past three days. Minimum Temperatures, their Departure from Normal and 24 hours Tendency over the Plains of North India dated 20.12.2020 pic.twitter.com/bmGwOz6zSFIMD on Saturday had projected strong surface winds with a speed of 10-20kmph over parts of northwest India during the next two days. The met department also notified that isolated pockets over Punjab and Uttar Pradesh can witness dense to very dense fog from December 21.Besides this, the department has also predicted some relief and said that there will be a rise in minimum temperature by 2-3 degrees Celsius over northwest India during the next 48 hours. While the temperature will fall by 2-4 degrees over central parts of the country and will remain below by 2-4 degrees over east India during the same time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-churu-to-amritsar-these-are-the-coldest-places-in-northwest-india/story-QoUgzMLhWZ8a2qR4s7BBsL.html
20-12-2020||India||How Nirav Modi’s brother Nehal Modi allegedly scammed LLD Diamonds||A New York Supreme Court has indicted Nehal Modi, the younger brother of Nirav Modi, for fraudulently obtaining diamonds worth over 2.6 million US dollars from LLD Diamonds, USA, which is one of the world’s biggest diamond companies, PTI reported.Reports said 41-year-old Nehal who comes from a well-known family in the diamond business industry was introduced to the president of LLD Diamonds through industry associates.In 2015, between March and August, Nehal managed to obtain diamonds worth over 2.6 million dollars from LLD on favourable credit terms and consignment by making false representations and then liquidated the diamonds for his own ends.It may be noted that in 2019, the Interpol had issued a Red Corner Notice against Nehal Modi as he was named in the chargesheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate in the PNB scam in which his brother Nirav Modi is the main accused. Nehal had allegedly helped Nirav in diverting money to shell corporations.Here is how he scammed LLD Diamonds, according to the indictment, court filings, and statements made on the record in Manhattan court:> In March 2015, he approached LLD claiming that he was pursuing business talks with Costco Wholesale Corporation for which he needed diamonds from LLD which would potentially be bought by Costco. > Then Nehal falsely informed LLD that Cotsco agreed to purchase the diamonds following which LLD allowed him to purchase those on credit. Full payment was required within 90 days.> But Nehal mortgaged the diamonds to secure short-term loans. > In the meantime, he made some payments to LLD but the majority of the proceeds were used for personal expenses.> He also falsely claimed that he was encountering payment issues due to a “Costco fulfillment error” and made repeated promises to satisfy the balance.> In August 2015, Nehal falsely informed LLD that Costco wanted to purchase additional diamonds. This time, LLD permitted him to take the additional diamonds on consignment, with terms explicitly stating that he did not have the authority to sell the diamonds without authorisation by LLD.> LLD also required a partial payment upfront in the event of a sale, as Nehal’s outstanding balance was nearly USD 1 million at that time.> LLD finally uncovered the fraud and demanded that he immediately pay his outstanding balance or return the diamonds. However, he had already sold or pawned all of the diamonds and spent most of those proceeds, following which LLD reported the fraud to the Manhattan DA’s Office.Nehal Modi is a citizen of Belgium and knows English, Gujarati, Hindi.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-nirav-modi-s-brother-nehal-modi-allegedly-scammed-lld-diamonds/story-3awBohLlbZ6S23pVbSKUwI.html
20-12-2020||India||Ram temple fund drive to start with contributions from prominent personalities: Trust official||Champat Rai, the general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust, said on Saturday that the campaign to collect funds for the construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya will start on January 14 and will continue till February 27, 2021.“The campaign, Samarpan Abhiyan, would start with contributions from President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.Rai was speaking at the first ‘Sant Sammelan’ of the ‘Kashi Pranth’ held by the Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s office at Kesar Bhavan here.Addressing saints and other participants, Champat Rai said that the campaign in every city would start with a contribution by prominent persons like its first citizen, the Mayor. “A whopping 55 crore members of 12 crore Hindu families of over 5 lakh villages of the country would be joining this mission, for which 1 lakh small groups of volunteers, each comprising a minimum of three persons, would remain on their toes,” he added.He said that each day’s collection would be deposited in bank accounts, and for this, arrangement has been made in State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda. The funds would be collected using Rs 10 to Rs 100 coupons of varied sizes, all which would bear pictures of Lord Ram and the proposed Ram temple, he added.Chairing the meet, noted saint a member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirtha Kshetra Trust, Swami Vasudevanand, said that for the service of Lord Ram, everyone’s support is needed.The president of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri, shared that the akhada would issue an appeal to the people to join in and support this find collection campaign. Saints from Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Sultanpur and Amethi, besides other places, attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-fund-drive-to-start-with-contributions-from-prominent-personalities-trust-official/story-q7tzrwHeGXxT3RWgTfstxK.html
20-12-2020||India||Pak fisherman apprehended off Gujarat coast: BSF||A Pakistani fisherman has been apprehended with his boat after he intruded into the Indian territory off the Gujarat coast, the Border Security Force (BSF) said on Sunday.The intruder was held in the Sir Creek area on Saturday evening during a patrolling by the personnel of the Gujarat Frontier of the BSF, it said.“It is to inform that on December 19 at 1750 hours, BSF troops while patrolling in general area Sir Creek observed one Pakistani fishing boat which had intruded into Indian territory, taking advantage of rough sea state and restricted visibility,” the BSF said in a statement. “Alert BSF patrolling party seized the boat along with one Pakistani fisherman,” it added.The apprehended man has been identified as Khalid Hussain, 35, a resident of the Sindh region in the neighbouring country, according to the BSF.A jerrycan with 20 litres of diesel, one mobile phone, two fishing nets, eight bundles of plastic threads and some crabs were seized from his possession, the force stated.In view of the incident, the BSF launched a thorough search operation in the area which was underway in the evening as well and nothing suspicious was recovered thus far, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-fisherman-apprehended-off-gujarat-coast-bsf/story-rKpgKcgDxqLbnuZwUbe4zL.html
20-12-2020||India||Man sentenced to death for rape-murder of 3-year-old girl in Bihar||After 24 months of trial in an incident of rape and murder of a three-year-old girl, the 29-year-old accused was awarded death sentence by a special POCSO (Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act) court in Samastipur district on Saturday. The order was passed by the court through video conferencing.The case had come to the fore on June 2, 2018 in Dalsingsarai police station area of Samastipur, from where the minor went missing while playing with her seven-year-old brother.When the girl did not return home till late night, the parents began a search operation. During interrogation, her brother informed about a man who took her away.Samastipur SP Bikas Burman said the victim’s family was allegedly informed by some neighbours that the girl was last seen with a man. The next morning, the girl’s naked body was found in a field with marks of strangulation and her private parts damaged.On the basis of the complaint filed by the victim’s mother, an FIR was registered against the accused under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections pertaining to rape and murder and under the POCSO Act, Burman said. The man, Ramlal Mahto, had lured the minor and taken her to a secluded place, where he sexually assaulted her and then killed her. The girl’s father works as a migrant labourer.Mahto was nabbed after a search of four days by the police and was sent to jail. The police submitted the chargesheet in the case within the stipulated period while the special POCSO court took cognizance of the matter on August 20, 2018.During the trial, the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Binod Kumar produced eight witnesses before the court and completed their argument.While delivering the order, special judge-cum-additional district and session judge (ADJ-6) of POCSO court termed the case “heinous”. While reading out judgment through video conferencing, the judge said that accused would be sentenced to hanging till death under the Section 302 of the IPC and life imprisonment till natural death under the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-rape-murder-of-3-year-old-girl-in-bihar/story-4AGYjEBPL1sOH1lvPFDTzJ.html
20-12-2020||India||FIR filed against man who hid his religion for marriage: UP Police||The Kannauj police on Saturday lodged an FIR (first information report) against a man under the recently promulgated Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly marrying a woman with an intention of converting her to Islam.The complaint was registered after the woman’s father, accompanied by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, approached the police. The accused is on the run.According to the FIR, the complainant is a tailor in Gursahaigunj and his daughter is a teacher in a local school. She fell in love with a Muslim man, who allegedly hid his identity and religion. He said his name is Rahul Varma and married the woman on December 9.The pictures of the wedding were posted on social media platforms, where people identified him.“He deceived my daughter into marrying him. His act has hurt my religious sentiments and brought disrepute in the society,” the father said in the FIR.BJP leaders, including district vice-president Jeetu Tiwari, met the father and approached the police.Kannauj SP Prashant Varma confirmed that a case has been registered and that police were gathering evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-filed-against-man-who-hid-his-religion-for-marriage-up-police/story-4kKdREbxlsjMUAs3vo9SaN.html
20-12-2020||India||India records 26,624 new Covid-19 cases, recovery rate peaks to 95.46%||India recorded 26,624 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 341 related deaths and 29,690 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Sunday morning. The new infections took the country’s tally to 10,031,223 and it now has an active caseload of 305,344 with total recoveries at 9,580,402 and deaths at 145,477. The country crossed the grim milestone of 10 million Covid-19 cases on Friday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The health ministry informed that 33 states and Union territories have less than 20,000 active Covid-19 cases while Kerala and Maharashtra are the major contributors to the caseload. Together these states account for 40 per cent of total active coronavirus disease cases in India. India has been recording less than 30,000 cases for a week now.While India is the second worst-hit country by the pandemic after the United States, it has also recorded the most number of recoveries and has a low fatality rate. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that the growth of coronavirus disease in India has dropped to 2 per cent and its case fatality rate is amongst the lowest in the world at 1.45 per cent with recovery rate peaking to 95.46 per cent.Over 16,11,98,195 samples have been tested for Covid-19, out of which 11,07,681 tests were conducted on Saturday, as per the official data. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/5ms9HOZzivHarsh Vardhan also said that despite the festival season in October and November, India did not observe any new surge due to comprehensive testing, tracking and treatment policy implemented on the ground. The health minister asserted the need for an ‘expeditious vaccination drive’ to inoculate the target population of around 300 million. He was speaking during the 22nd meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-26-624-new-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-peaks-to-95-46/story-SZAoOqaafgB1Ga9sQRnE1O.html
20-12-2020||India||PM Modi makes surprise visit to historic Delhi gurudwara, offers prayers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday made a surprise visit to the historic Gurudwara Rakab Ganj and paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Sikh guru.According to a government official, there was no police arrangements as there was no prior information about the PM’s arrival, the official said. No traffic barriers were put in place to restrict movement of commuters.Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose death anniversary was observed on Saturday, was cremated at Gurudwara Rakab Ganj. which is near Parliament House in New Delhi.“Today morning, in a sudden visit, Prime Minister Modi went and bowed his head at Gurudwara Rakabganj. He paid his tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice,” said the official.There was also no police bandobast or traffic barriers to the common man during the visit, the official added.“This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was cremated. I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindnesses of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji,” PM Modi said in a tweet.“It is the special Kripa of the Guru Sahibs that we will mark the special occasion of the 400th Parkash Parv of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji during our Government’s tenure. Let us mark this blessed occasion in a historic way and celebrate the ideals of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji,” he added.Guru Tegh Bahadur is the ninth of the ten Gurus in the Sikh religion. He was assassinated on the orders of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb in Delhi in the 17th century. The Prime Minister’s visit to one of the most popular gurudwaras in the national capital assumes significance as it comes amid intense protests by farmers, especially from Punjab, against three controversial farm laws enacted by his government.Modi has reached out to the protesters on a number of occasions of late, explaining the benefits of farm reforms that the legislations aim to usher in, and also assuring farmers that the existing government mechanism to support them, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-makes-surprise-visit-to-historic-delhi-gurdwara-offers-prayers/story-4UEy1hnfQlLj1Mh70nEoFJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Protesting farmers hold ground, to mark Shahidi Divas amid biting cold||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws are on Sunday observing Shahidi Divas or Martyrs’ Day as a tribute to those who died during the agitation even as a biting cold gripped areas in and around Delhi. The farmers are steadfast in their demands and want the ‘black laws’ to be repealed even as the protests entered Day 24.“We will observe Shahidi Divas today and pay tribute to those who lost their lives during this movement,” Mange Ram Tyagi, the chief secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union’s Delhi-NCR unit was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that Delhi recorded the coldest morning as the temperature dipped to 3.4 degrees Celsius, the season’s lowest.Click here for LIVE updates on farmers’ protestSeveral medical personnel from Punjab have also joined in to help the farmers protesting at Singhu border near Delhi. “We are here to support the agitating farmers. We all are ready to serve if anyone falls ill,” Harshdeep Kaur, a nurse at a hospital in Ludhiana, was quoted by ANI as saying.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that another round of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers could be held in the next two-three days. The chief minister said this after his meeting with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in his residence, reported news agency PTI.After several rounds of talks between the agitating farmers and the government, the deadlock has continued. The protests against Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, passed by Parliament in September has entered Day 24 and farmers claim the protests will even continue for months if their demands are not met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-hold-ground-to-mark-shahidi-divas-amid-biting-cold/story-0IV76MBwOeT6H4MDy68jXN.html
20-12-2020||India||India’s active caseload falls to 3.09% of positive Covid cases: Govt data||India’s active caseload, which is the actual disease burden of a country, of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has fallen to 3.09% of the total positive cases, with 33 States and Union Territories reporting less than 20,000 active cases in all on Saturday, shows government data.“India has reported more daily recoveries than the daily new cases on Saturday. The trend of more daily recoveries than the daily cases has led to a continuous contraction of India’s active caseload, which presently stands at 3,08,751…,”said Union health ministry in a statement.“The declining active cases have ensured that the active cases per million population in India (223) are amongst the lowest in the world,” it said.Globally, the United States is reporting maximum active Covid-19 cases (21, 612) per million population.Exponential increase in Covid-19 testing has led to India’s cumulative positivity rate dropping to 6.25% at present, with testing crossing 160 million samples.There are 15 states that have positivity rates lower than the national average, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Telangana.“Comprehensive and widespread testing on a sustained basis has resulted in bringing down the positivity rate,” the health ministry says.On average, the country is testing at least one million samples each day in more than 2000 laboratories approved for Covid-19 testing by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) from across the country.Also, India’s daily testing capacity has been increased to perform at least one-and-a half million Covid-19 tests in a day.ICMR, country’s apex body regulating medical research in the country, has been spearheading the Covid-19 testing initiative in India since the start of the pandemic. The body has not just been assisting states and laboratories in Covid-19 testing, but has also been validating testing kits, especially the ones that are made in India to ensure availability of quality products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-active-caseload-falls-to-3-09-of-positive-covid-cases-govt-data/story-8w399vBgK54AhsyP5gAklK.html
20-12-2020||India||India added more than 1.2 lakh Covid-19 cases this week, crossed 10 million mark||India reported 120,499 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 1,781 related deaths between Monday and Saturday, according to the data released by the Union health ministry, and its infection tally is now over 10 million. The country, which is the second worst-hit after the United States, has recorded 9,550,712 recoveries and 308,751 active cases of the coronavirus disease so far. India had crossed the 9.8 million-mark last Sunday and the 10 million grim milestone on Friday.On Monday, 27,071 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded and the number of active cases went down to 352,586 even as 9,388,159 patients were cured or discharged across the country. There were 336 new deaths due to the infection, as per the health ministry’s figures. The Centre also issued its guidelines on Monday ahead of the Covid-19 vaccination programme that is expected to start soon. It directed states to ensure safe injection practices. The focus of the guidelines, prepared by the health ministry, is “One needle, One syringe, Only one time”.Also read | Delhi records lowest number of Covid-19 cases in 117 daysIndia recorded 22,065 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday morning, which was the lowest daily count of infections since July 6, and the country also recorded 354 fatalities. The number of active cases went further down to 339,820 and 9,422,636 patients were cured or discharged from hospitals, according to the health ministry update. The country also recorded 354 deaths on the day, which took the nationwide tally to 143,709.Senior government officials said on Tuesday that India has bucked the global trend and is showing a sustained improvement in containing the Covid-19 outbreak but warned that trends in other countries are also a strong reminder of how the situation can quickly go out of control even if one peak is contained. “Active cases have declined from over 10 lakh in mid-September to fewer than four lakh at present... India’s cumulative fatality rate has also come down to 6.37%, and if you take into account the last week, it is 3%,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Also read | Livestock infra could provide -70°C storage for Pfizer’s Covid vaccineThe country’s Covid-19 tally reached 9,932,547 on Wednesday after 26,382 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 387 related deaths were reported, according to the health ministry. The number of active cases stood at 3,32,002 and 94,56,449 patients were cured or discharged from the hospitals.India recorded 24,021 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the case count to 9,956,557.That day, the number of active cases went down to 322,366 and 9,489,740 patients were cured or discharged from hospitals. The country also recorded 355 fresh fatalities on Thursday due to the disease which pushed the nationwide death toll to 144,451. “India has registered a steady decline in the number of daily Deaths. The case fatality rate is sustained at 1.45% and is consistently decreasing. India’s Fatality rate is one of the lowest in the world,” the ministry said in its release.On Thursday, of the 33,291 new recoveries, 75.63% were recorded by 10 states and Union territories. The health ministry’s data showed 5,728 patients recovering from Covid-19 in Kerala, making the southern state with the maximum number of recoveries. Maharashtra registered 3,887 daily recoveries and West Bengal registered 2,767 new recoveries.“With focussed strategy and proactive as well as calibrated measures of the Union Government along with the States and UTs, India has sustained a very high Recovery Rate along with rapidly declining Active Cases and low mortality rate,” the health ministry had said on Thursday. The ministry also said that India’s recovery rate is amongst the highest in the world. “While the global figure for Recovery Rate is 70.27%, India is recording 95.31%. USA, Brazil, Russia, and Italy are reporting lesser recovery rates,” it said.Also read | ‘Each and every test done in Delhi is true and genuine’: Arvind KejriwalOf the 24,010 daily cases on Thursday, 10 states and Union territories contributed 78.27% of the new cases. Kerala reported 6,185 cases, West Bengal 2,293 and Chhattisgarh registered 1,661 new cases on Thursday. The ministry data also showed that 79.15% of the 355 fatalities that were reported on Thursday morning were from 10 states and Union territories. Of these, 95 deaths were from Maharashtra, West Bengal saw a fatality count of 46 and Delhi reported 32 new deaths.With 22,889 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 338 fatalities, India’s infection tally went up to 9,979,447 on Friday. The country’s death toll mounted to 144,789 and there are 313,831 active cases of the coronavirus disease. The health ministry’s data showed that 9,520,827 people recovered from the respiratory disease with 31,087 new discharges between Thursday and Friday morning across the country.India recorded 25,152 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 347 related deaths on Saturday morning. The country’s number of cases mounted to 1,00,04,599, the death toll rose to 145,136 and there are 308,751 active cases of the coronavirus disease so far.Also read | Govt must protect vaccine makers against lawsuits: SII’s Adar PoonawallaAccording to the health ministry’s data, 9,550,712 people have recovered from the respiratory disease with 29,885 new discharges between Friday and Saturday morning across the country. The Covid-19 case fatality rate further declined to 1.45 per cent. There are 308,751 active cases of the coronavirus disease in the country which constitute 3.08 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.Additional cases in the past 24 hours have dropped from a peak level of nearly 100,000 in mid-September. The pandemic has infected nearly 1% of India’s more than 1.3 billion people, second to the worst-hit United States.India’s Covid-19 tally had surpassed the 2-million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23 and 4 million on September 5. It went past 5 million on September 16, 6 million on September 28, 7 million on October 11, 8 million on October 29, and surpassed 9 million on November 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-added-more-than-1-2-lakh-covid-19-cases-this-week-reported-over-1-000-deaths/story-MGYCLiniSfrmJqACtpWdrI.html
20-12-2020||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice as he went to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in Delhi in an unscheduled visit. There were no security arrangements or traffic barriers for people during the visit, officials said. In a tweet after his visit PM Modi wrote in Gurmukhi, “Paid homage to Shri Guru Teg Bahadur ji today at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib. Guru ji did a lot to protect the Hindu religion and gave the message of communal harmony.” ਤਿਲਕ ਜੰਵੂ ਰਾਖਾ ਪ੍ਰਭ ਤਾ ਕਾ ॥ਕੀਨੋ ਬਡੋ ਕਲੂ ਮਹਿ ਸਾਕਾ ॥ਧਰਮ ਹੇਤਿ ਸਾਕਾ ਜਿਨਿ ਕੀਆ ॥ਸੀਸੁ ਦੀਆ ਪਰ ਸਿਰਰੁ ਨ ਦੀਆ ॥🙏🏻ਅਜਿਹੇ ਸ੍ਰੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਤੇਗ ਬਹਾਦਰ ਸਾਹਿਬ ਜੀ ਦੇ ਚਰਨਾਂ ਵਿੱਚ ਗੁ. ਸ੍ਰੀ ਰਕਾਬ ਗੰਜ ਸਾਹਿਬ ਵਿਖੇ ਨਤਮਸਤਕ ਹੋਇਆਗੁਰੂ ਜੀ ਨੇ ਹਿੰਦੂ ਧਰਮ ਦੀ ਰਾਖੀ ਕਰਦੇ ਹੋਏ ਆਪਣਾ ਆਪ ਵਾਰ ਕੇ ਸਰਬ-ਸਾਂਝੀਵਾਲਤਾ ਦਾ ਸੁਨੇਹਾ ਦਿੱਤਾ pic.twitter.com/zhHH1dscUwPM Modi had also paid tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji on his Shaheedi Diwas in a tweet on Saturday. “Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji’s life epitomised courage and compassion. On his Shaheedi Diwas, I bow to the great Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji and recall his vision for a just and inclusive society.” Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji’s life epitomised courage and compassion. On his Shaheedi Diwas, I bow to the great Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji and recall his vision for a just and inclusive society. Guru Tegh Bahadur was the ninth of 10 Gurus of the Sikh religion and was the youngest son of Guru Hargobind. He was born in Amritsar in 1621. His martyrdom is remembered as the Shaheedi Divas of Guru Tegh Bahadur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-gurudwara-rakab-ganj-sahib-pays-tributes-to-guru-teg-bahadur-for-his-supreme-sacrifice/story-Dqn0Xqq6eadtqX4vBtmhfL.html
20-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Seven-day ban imposed on import, sale, and distribution of SD Biosensors Rapid Antigen Kit, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Import, sale of SD Biosensor Rapid Antigen Kit banned for a weekThe country’s apex drug and medical device regulator, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) , imposed a seven-day ban on the import, sale, and distribution of the rapid antigen kits manufactured by South Korean company SD Biosensors for not complying with the minimum requirement of sensitivity and specificity. Read moreSonia’s letter to Uddhav result of lack of communication within Cong: NCPA day after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi wrote to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeking measures for the welfare of socially backward communities, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said the letter could be a result of miscommunication between Congress leaders while the Shiv Sena maintained that all was well among the state alliance partners. Read moreVisva Bharati visit, lunch with folk singer: Amit Shah’s second day in West BengalUnion home minister Amit Shah, who is visiting West Bengal to campaign for the assembly elections 20201, will visit Visva Bharati University at Santiniketan in Birbhum district on Sunday, where he will pay tribute to Rabindranath Tagore, followed by an interaction with the media. The minister is also scheduled to visit Shyambati in Birbhum, where he will have lunch with the family of a Baul singer on the second day of his two-day visit to the state. Read morePrayer meetings as protesting farmers to observe ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ todayFarmers across the country will mark Sunday, December 20, as ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ to pay homage to those who lost their lives in the ongoing protests against the three farm laws. Prayer meetings will be organised to recognise the sacrifices made by farmers since the agitation started, farmers’ leaders have said, reiterating their demand for a rollback of the farm laws. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh hits back after Kangana Ranaut’s video attacking him, writes ‘some people just want to watch the world burn’Singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh has shared a couple of indirect responses to actor Kangana Ranaut’s video on Saturday, in which she spoke about the ongoing farmers’ protests, and demanded to know why people like Diljit and Priyanka Chopra aren’t questioned about their stance on the matter. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘The last time I saw that would have been under-12s’ - Former Aussie seamer Damien Fleming shellshocked at India’s abject battingIndia’s record lowest total in Test cricket of 36 left many shellshocked, including former Australia fast bowler Damien Fleming. Fleming, who does commentary for BBC and was at the Adelaide Oval, was at a loss of words watching the Indian batting crumble to one of the most ruthless displays of fast bowling ever seen. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares video of a tiger silently observing an elephant from behind the bushesA video shared by business tycoon Anand Mahindra has created quite a stir among people. The video involving an elephant and a tiger may leave you intrigued too. Mahindra took to Twitter to share the video. While writing the caption, he mentioned the famous poem The Tyger by William Blake. He started the post with the first line of the poem. Then, went on to explain how the poem comes alive through the video. WatchWatch: Vehicles trapped in snow in Jammu and Kashmir’s Razdan topA cold wave has gripped the Kashmir valley leading to freezing of Dal Lake. Two passenger vehicles got trapped in snow at Razdan top in Jammu and Kashmir. Both the stranded vehicles were heading to Gurez from Bandipora. A day later, all the passengers were evacuated safely by the Army. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-seven-day-ban-imposed-on-import-sale-and-distribution-of-sd-biosensors-rapid-antigen-kit-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PusdyIRJ246hpWRGLO9GuJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Protests not affiliated to any political party: Farmers’ union writes to PM Modi, Tomar||A farmers’ union has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar saying the ongoing protests by farmers are not affiliated to any political party even as the agitation entered Day 24 on Sunday. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Saturday wrote to PM Modi and Tomar and said the government is wrong in assuming that the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws is being engineered by opposition parties.The letters in Hindi come a day after the Prime Minister accused opposition parties of misleading farmers over the three farm laws. “The truth is that the farmers’ agitation has forced political parties to change their views and your (PM’s) claim that political parties fuelled it (protest) is wrong. Any demand of any protesting farmer union and group is not affiliated to a political party,” AIKSCC said in its letter to PM Modi, according to news agency ANI. It is one of around 40 unions protesting at several border points of Delhi.Also read | ‘Special’ langar menu, ardaas, paath on martyrdom day at Singhu borderModi while addressing farmers in Madhya Pradesh had on Friday defended the new farm laws, saying they were in the works for decades and those who are opposing them now are doing so for gaining lost political ground. They had once supported the same reforms, he had said. The opposition parties were against the new laws as they were upset that he would get the credit, Modi said, adding that he did not seek any credit but nobody should mislead farmers.The farmer’s union, in its open letter to Tomar, alleged discrepancies in the three farm laws and said the agriculture minister was diverting the main issues of farmers from the discussion.Also read | PM Modi stresses on India’s economic potential, defends new farm lawsTomar had Thursday, in his eight-page letter to farmers, accused the Congress and other opposition parties of spreading lies about the new farm laws. The minister had also appealed to the agitating farmers not to fall prey to these “white lies” and said the Centre was ready to address all their concerns. He had also said the PM Modi-led government was committed to their welfare and reiterated that the new laws were aimed at benefitting small and marginal farmers.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met Tomar on Saturday and said a fresh round of talks may happen in the next two to three days. “A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon,” Khattar said. Also read | ‘Talk to each other’: Supreme Court allows farmers protest to go onIt was the second time that Khattar met Tomar at his residence since the protests broke out over three weeks ago, a state government official told PTI, adding that he had met the Union minister on December 8. Many farmers protesting against the laws are from Haryana.“In a day or two, there can be a way out for talks. The government is ready for discussion if farmer union leaders come forward beyond yes or no,” Khattar was quoted as saying in a statement issued by his government. “Effort is to find solutions through dialogue,” he said.Farmers across the country will mark Sunday as ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ and hold prayer meetings to pay homage to those who lost their lives in the ongoing protests against the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-not-affiliated-to-any-political-party-farmers-union-writes-to-pm-modi-tomar/story-C4HPT06Cy8Mlb8iJMP231N.html
20-12-2020||India||Emergency response support system launched in Manipur||An Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) was launched at the State Police Control Room at 1st Battalion Manipur Rifles complex, Imphal on Saturday.ERSS, which seeks to enable a pan-India, single, internationally recognized number ‘112’ based emergency response mechanism was inaugurated by Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh.Taking to Twitter, Singh tweeted: “Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) is launched today at the Manipur Police Control Room at 1st Bn. Manipur Rifles complex. ERSS is the vision of Govt. of India to launch an integrated emergency response system with a single emergency number 112 #Dial 112 for all emergencies.”  Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) is launched today at the Manipur Police Control Room at 1st Bn.Manipur Rifles complex.ERSS is the vision of Govt. of India to launch an integrated emergency response system with a single emergency number 112#Dial 112 for all emergencies. pic.twitter.com/X5sFOE3GjW||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-response-support-system-launched-in-manipur/story-XKornd5gS0qtkDxMcVy3LI.html
20-12-2020||India||Prayer meetings as protesting farmers to observe ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ today||Farmers across the country will mark Sunday, December 20, as ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ to pay homage to those who lost their lives in the ongoing protests against the three farm laws. Prayer meetings will be organised to recognise the sacrifices made by farmers since the agitation started, farmers’ leaders have said, reiterating their demand for a rollback of the farm laws. Also Read: Will bow my head in front of farmers, will discuss every issue, says PM ModiFarmers from Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Haryana have been protesting near the Haryana-Rajasthan border on the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past seven days after the Rewari police stopped them from proceeding towards Delhi. Thousands of other farmers have been prevented from entering the national Capital and stopped at its borders with neighbouring states.“Lakhs of farmers are now on the streets surrounding Delhi amid the severe cold. They are braving the cold and other obstacles created by the government, as they are determined to achieve their goal. Their only demand is that the three anti-farmer laws should be revoked,” said a farmers’ leader while addressing a press conference from the protest site at Jaisinghpura-Khera village, near Shahajahanpur in Alwar of Rajasthan.Farmers protesting on the Delhi-Jaipur highway have also made arrangements for buses to ferry farmers in Rajasthan between their homes and protest sites, free of cost. These free bus services will enable more people to join the protests, farmers said.Also Read: Farmers uproot BJP workers’ tent in Fatehabad for fast backing farm lawsThe farmers are protesting as they feel the laws will put them at the mercy of large corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) that they receive for important crops. Meanwhile, the Centre has claimed that the farmers have been misled into believing so and that the laws were a step towards making farmers’ lives better. “The laws in question have not been passed in Parliament in hurry; there have been decades of discussions,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said, adding that the welfare of the farmers is the utmost priority of the government.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, which were passed in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayer-meetings-as-protesting-farmers-to-observe-shradhanjali-diwas-today/story-Wh7E6OZcJw00PwBl0ne09N.html
20-12-2020||India||International Human Solidarity Day 2020: History and significance of this day||International Human Solidarity Day is celebrated every year on December 20. According to the UN website, the day celebrates unity in diversity throughout the world and serves as a reminder to governments to respect their commitment to international agreements and raise public awareness. International Human Solidarity Day also reiterates the importance of solidarity in removing poverty.The day has been observed since December 2002, when the United Nations General assembly established the World Solidarity Fund. This fund was set up in February 2003 to fund the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which worked to eradicate poverty. On December 22, 2005, the UN General Assembly identified solidarity as a universal value.According to the United Nations Millennium Declaration, solidarity is one of the fundamental values that are essential for healthy ‘international relations’. Thus, after the UN General Assembly convinced that promotion of the culture of solidarity and the spirit of sharing is important to combat poverty since then December 20 was declared as International Human Solidarity Day.On this day, the UN encourages new initiatives for poverty eradication with events held all over the world to promote the importance of solidarity. These events include presentations, seminars, conferences, and roundtable discussions. Many of these events also focus on how to combat poverty. Although, this year due to the coronavirus pandemic, the celebrations will not be the same as before.The UN says that the International Human Solidarity Day is a day “to celebrate our unity in diversity; a day to remind governments to respect their commitments to international agreements; a day to raise public awareness of the importance of solidarity; a day to encourage debate on the ways to promote solidarity for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals including poverty eradication; a day of action to encourage new initiatives for poverty eradication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-human-solidarity-day-2020-history-and-significance-of-this-day/story-n0JP9lb1OAKut35eBEa2XK.html
20-12-2020||India||New India can give reply to any type of aggression: Rajnath Singh||India has the strength for an appropriate response to any transgression or unilateral action on the borders but believes in finding a peaceful solution to any conflict, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday, while also taking a strong view of China’s actions along the de-facto border in Ladakh, where its troops are locked in a tense stand-off with Indian soldiers. Singh made the remarks while addressing a combined graduation parade at the Indian Air Force Academy at Dundigal in Telangana, a day after India and China agreed to hold another meeting of senior military commanders to take forward the disengagement and de-escalation process along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “You are all aware of the Indo-China standoff in the northern sector. China’s attitude amid a crisis such as the Covid-19 pandemic reflects that country’s intention,” Singh said, speaking in Hindi after reviewing the passing-out parade. “However, we have shown that our India is no longer a weak India. This is a new India that has the strength to give an appropriate and complete reply to any type of transgression or aggression or any type of unilateral action of the borders,” he added. Several big countries, he said, had praised and supported the steps taken by India. “You will also be aware that we believe in finding a peaceful solution to any conflict through dialogue,” he said. India and China are holding talks through military and diplomatic channels, he noted. “I would like to again say on this occasion that we want peace, not conflict. But we will not tolerate any attempt to hurt the self-respect of the country. We are fully prepared to deal with any kind of situation,” he said. Following a meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs on Friday, there were no signs of an immediate breakthrough but the external affairs ministry said the two sides had agreed to hold another meeting of military commanders at an early date. During his speech, Singh also criticised Pakistan for fighting a “proxy war” using terrorists even after being defeated in four conventional wars with India. Referring to last year’s air strike on Balakot within Pakistan, carried out in retaliation for a suicide bombing at Pulwama by Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), he said this had shown that India is capable to targeting terrorists outside the country’s borders. “In the same way in the western sector, on the borders with Pakistan, our neighbour is always up to some nefarious activities. Even after being defeated in not one but four wars, Pakistan is fighting a proxy war through terrorism. Our army, security forces and police are fighting the challenge of terrorism with full strength,” he said. “India is taking effective action against terrorists not only within the country but on the borders and even across the borders. By taking effective action against terrorism in Balakot, the Indian Air Force showed the whole world India’s military strength and determination to fight terrorism,” he said. Singh told the cadets who passed out of the academy that the ways of fighting wars are constantly changing and they would have to be scholars and soldiers to fight the wars of the future using advanced technologies and military strategies. “The scope of these challenges too has become comprehensive. The challenges before the country are not just on the borders and on the seas, but they can come through space and cyberspace,” he said. “I believe that defence in the coming days will not be limited to defence of the seas, land and air, this will be a dynamic challenge for which we will have to prepare ourselves.” Singh added: “I advise you to learn from history, know the present and prepare for the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-india-can-give-reply-to-any-type-of-aggression-rajnath-singh/story-kWKqdb7FSYNREFEqP8bpxM.html
20-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: Govt puts onus on protesting farmers, asks leaders to decide date and hold talks on proposals put forth earlier||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 25 on Sunday as the impasse between the government and farmers’ unions continues. Amid the ongoing deadlock, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to Assocham on Saturday reiterated that the reforms brought by the laws are already benefitting farmers. “Agriculture reforms initiated six months back have started benefitting farmers,” he said. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday and said a fresh round of talks between the government and the farmers could be held in the next 2-3 days. “A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon,” CM Khattar said. Also read: If govt can’t find a solution, we will plough our way to one, warns Bharatiya Kisan Union at UP GateRashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal, an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from Rajasthan, on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture-related laws. His party has decided to lead a march of two lakh farmers from Rajasthan to Delhi on December 26.Meanwhile, thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than three weeks. Several protesting leaders have threatened to step up their agitation and have said that they are prepared to celebrate the Republic Day next year with their own tractor rally on Delhi borders.Also read: Protesting farmers’ steadfast in their demands as Delhi temperature plummets to season’s lowest yetVarious organisations associated with the farmers’ agitation have announced that they will observe ‘Farmer Martyrs Homage Day’ on Sunday in the memory of farmers who have died since the agitation began. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) said in a statement, “All the AIKS units across the country along with the constituent Kisan organizations of the AIKSCC and the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will observe 20th December 2020 as the farmer martyrs Homage Day with massive participation.” 33 farmers who had been participating in the struggle have died since 26th November, according to the AIKS. The tributes will be paid from 11 am to 1 pm in all houses across the country’s villages, the organisation stated adding that the “supreme sacrifices of these farmer fighters will not go in vain.”Follow all live updates here:Govt puts onus on protesting farmers, asks leaders to decide date and hold talks on proposals put forth earlierThe Central Government asked protesting farmers to suggest a date for dialogue on proposals the latter had sent earlier, farmers were asked to give up their stance of yes or no on repeal of laws. Centre also said that the last letter sent by farmers lacks clarity, putting the onus on them.AIKS to flag off farmers’ vehicular march from Nashik to Delhi on Monday Thousands of farmers from 21 districts in Maharashtra will start their march (‘vehicle jatha’) under the banner of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) from Nasik to Delhi, on Monday, reported PTI. After paying respect to Chhatrapati Shivaji, Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar the march will proceed towards Delhi, where farmers have been protesting Centre’s new farm laws. Western Railway tweets list of trains diverted and short terminated due to farmers’ protest in PunjabWestern Railway tweeted on Sunday that train movement of some trains have been affected due to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab. Few trains have been diverted, and some have been short terminated and accordingly short originated. All affected trains were scheduled to travel from Amritsar towards Mumbai Central and Bandra.Due to Kisan agitation in Punjab, train movement has been affected and hence, few trains have been diverted and certain trains have been short terminated & accordingly short originated.Passengers are requested to kindly take note. @RailMinIndia @drmbct pic.twitter.com/0IwCpAhW5TFarmers in Haryana and Punjab observe ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’, pay homage to those who died protesting Farmers’ in Punjab and Haryana paid homage to their fallen counterparts and observed ‘Shradhanjali Diwas’ to those who died protesting the new farm laws, reported news agency PTI. Farmers’ bodies have claimed that over 30 protesting farmers have died so far due to different reasons including heart attack and in road accidents.Farmers to halt toll collection on Haryana highways from December 25- 27: Farmer leaderFarmer leader Jagjeet Singh Dalewala told PTI that protesting farmers will halt toll collection on Highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27 as a part of the ongoing farmers protest. Protesting farmers will go on a day-long hunger strike on Monday, says Yogendra YadavSwaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav says farmers to hold day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at all protest sites, reported PTI22-year-old farmers dies of suicide after returning from protest near Delhi22-year-old farmer from Punjab, who returned from a protest site near Delhi border, allegedly ends life by consuming some poisonous substance in Dayalpura Mirza village of Bathinda district said Police, reported PTI.Farmers group in Jharkhand observes Shahidi Diwas, takes out rally to pay homage Jharkhand: Farmer groups take out a rally in Ranchi paying homage to their counterparts in Delhi, who lost their lives during ongoing farmers' agitation."We've come to pay tribute to 18 farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi. We support the protest," says a farmer. pic.twitter.com/AGl9BggpAJUnion minister VK Singh says, farmers’ protest more political in natureUnion Minister VK Singh on Sunday said the on going protests by farmers against the three Central farm laws was “more political” in nature and underlined the NDA government’s intent to ensure the welfare of the ryots, reports PTI.Farmers’ union say see no headway in talks with CentreThe farmers unions have stated that they are not seeing any pragmatic changes from government’s side. “The government is delaying our matter unnecessarily. They should have repealed the laws by now and send the farmers back to their homes. Although the government has stated that before the new year begins there would be a solution, however pragmatically speaking, we are not seeing anything hopeful or even close to that,”ANI reported Manjit Singh Rai, President of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) as saying.Farmers, members of Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti begin tractor march in support of farm laws#WATCH Meerut: Farmers & members of Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti begin their tractor march towards Indirapuram, Ghaziabad in support of Centre's 3 farm laws.Visuals from Partapur in Meerut pic.twitter.com/yPxBLs3ro9Protests not affiliated to any political party: Farmers’ union writes to PM Modi, TomarA farmers’ union has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar saying the ongoing protests by farmers are not affiliated to any political party even as the agitation entered Day 24 on Sunday. Read moreProtesters to observe ‘Shahidi Diwas’ today“We’ll observe Shahidi Divas today & pay tribute to those who lost their lives during this movement,” says Mange Ram Tyagi, Chief Secy, Delhi-NCR,Bhartiya Kisan Union. Read moreGovernment ready for talks if farmers come forward without seeking a ‘yes or no’ response: KhattarHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday that the government is ready for talks with the farmers if they come forward without seeking a ‘yes or no’ response to their demand, news agency PTI reported. “In a day or two, there can be a way out for talks. The government is ready for discussion if farmer union leaders come forward beyond yes or no,” Khattar was quoted as saying in a Haryana government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates/story-jYYfmHwGLFtHroK3Q3GgkJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Sonia’s letter to Uddhav result of lack of communication within Cong: NCP||A day after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi wrote to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeking measures for the welfare of socially backward communities, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said the letter could be a result of miscommunication between Congress leaders while the Shiv Sena maintained that all was well among the state alliance partners.Gandhi on Friday reminded Thackeray of the Common Minimum Program (CMP) of state’s Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, of which the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP are a part. She also sought the implementation of certain measures for the welfare of members of Dalit and tribal communities.“...there should be legislative backing to utilize the funds allocated (for schemes for SC/STs) during the same financial year,” she said. Also Read: Sonia Gandhi holds meeting for ‘rapprochement’Reacting to the letter, NCP minister and spokesperson Nawab Malik said that the letter could be an outcome of lack of communication within the Congress. “The functioning of various programmes and schemes of the government was interrupted due to the pandemic. Besides, the tribal development department is headed by a Congress minister. The party’s leaders should have asked the concerned minister what is the reality,” he said. Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said Gandhi’s letter was not out of resentment, but as part of a dialogue process. “Congress’s stand has always been in favour of uplift of poor and deprived sections of the society and Gandhi’s letter was part of dialogue on how welfare measures can be taken. There is no resentment,” he said.Also Read: Maharashtra may bring its own farm legislation; officials to study laws of 3 statesShiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut denied any talks of “pressure politics” being done by the Congress and said, “If the Congress party has brought forward an agenda which is in the interest of people of Maharashtra and the state, then, it should be welcomed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-s-letter-to-uddhav-result-of-lack-of-communication-within-cong-ncp/story-8yiwe8zrecVUc02rrPEkOJ.html
20-12-2020||India||10 MLAs join BJP at Amit Shah’s Bengal rally||Seven sitting legislators of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including prominent leader Suvendu Adhikari, and three others from the Left and the Congress on Saturday afternoon joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah at a rally in Midnapore town of West Bengal’s West Midnapore district. The assembly polls in the state are due in five months and the defections could prove to be a headache for chief minister Mamata Banerjee.“Didi (Mamata Banerjee), listen very carefully. Today, I have come to declare that when the election results are announced BJP will get more than 200 seats,” Shah said in a short but fiery speech. In the evening, Shah discussed election strategy at a closed-door meeting in Kolkata. It was attended by BJP leaders from other states as well. Among the 10 MLAs who switched sides, Adhikari is the only one who submitted his resignation to the assembly but it has not been accepted yet on technical grounds. He touched Shah’s feet while taking the BJP flag from the Union home minister.“None of those who left were leaders of significance. The TMC will win the polls without a hitch,” TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said even as posters calling Adhikari Mir Zafar (the general who betrayed Bengal’s last independent nawab Siraj-ud-Daulah at the Battle of Plassey in 1757) appeared in East Midnapore, the rebel’s home turf. Some offices set up by his followers were also ransacked. Adhikari has been provided security by central paramilitary forces. The TMC’s Burdwan East Lok Sabha MP Sunil Mandal, former minister Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, former Lok Sabha member from north Bengal’s Alipurduar, Dasrath Tirkey, and 15 civic body councillors of the TMC and other parties picked up the BJP flag along with at least 20 district-level leaders. Significantly, several members from Muslim organisations set up by the TMC also joined the BJP. “Didi, you are talking of switching sides. Didn’t you leave the Congress and form the TMC? Wasn’t it changing allegiance? Now you are accusing Suvendu Bhai of changing sides. Thousands of people are waiting to join the BJP. Just wait and watch,” said Shah. Also Read: Suvendu Adhikari writes letter to TMC workers; asks them to join hands with him“Can you see the future of millions of youths who need jobs? You can only see your nephew and want to make him the chief minister,” Shah, who earlier in the day had lunch at a farmer’s home, said, without naming Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member. Adhikari too delivered a short but vitriolic speech. “You (Mamata Banerjee) will not be number one again. You will be number two. I do not recognise anyone as my mother, except the one who gave birth to me, and my country,” said Adhikari. Targeting Banerjee and the TMC for branding the BJP’s national leaders as “outsiders,” Adhikari said, “Amit Shah Ji, JP Nadda Ji and the others are being called outsiders. India is one nation. I want Bengal and India to have the same government or else Bengal will not survive. There are no jobs, no progress. We have to ensure Narendra Modi’s government in Bengal.” Targeting Abhishek Banerjee and calling him a tolabaaj (extortionist), Adhikari raised the slogan, “Tolabaaj bhaipo hatao” (oust the extortionist nephew). His elder brother Dibyendu Adhikari, the two-time Lok Sabha member from Tamluk constituency in East Midnapore, said, “Joining the BJP was Suvendu’s personal decision. I joined the TMC as I was inspired by Mamata Banerjee. I will remain a part of the party.” Their father Sisir Adhikari, three-time Lok Sabha member from Kanthi and part of the TMC since its birth in 1998, sent a similar message to the leadership although he avoided the media on Saturday. Also Read| Amit Shah does not understand the reality of West Bengal politics: TMC MPElection strategist Prashant Kishor, the owner of I-Pac, and Abhishek Banerjee have been cited by all the rebels as reasons for leaving the TMC. Kishor was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Apart from Adhikari, the other TMC MLAs who joined the BJP are Shilbhadra Dutta from Barrackpore; Banashri Maiti from the Kanthi North in East Midnapore; Sukra Munda from Nagrakata in Jalpaiguri district; Biswajit Kundu from Kalna in East Burdwan; Saikat Panja from Manteswar in East Burdwan and Dipali Biswas, CPI(M) MLA from Gazole in Malda district. Biswas won the Gazole seat for the CPI(M) in 2016 but later joined the TMC. “TMC did not let me work,” Biswas said.The lawmakers from other parties are Sudip Mukherjee, Congress MLA from Purulia district; Ashok Dinda, Communist Party of India (CPI) MLA from Tamluk; and Tapasi Mandal, CPI(M) legislator from Haldia in East Midnapore district. “The CPI(M) leaders who joined the BJP were facing internal investigation for various charges,” said CPI(M) state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Referring the Purulia MLA, state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “I had been hearing for a long time that he was planning to leave. Let us see if he can contest the Purulia seat and win it again. It is my challenge.” Dasrath Tirkey, former Revolutionary Socialist Party MLA who joined the TMC in 2014 and won the Alipurduar Lok Sabha seat, joined the BJP on Saturday. Tirkey lost the seat to the BJP’s John Barla in 2019. Among the others who joined the BJP is retired army colonel Diptangshu Chowdhury, who had quit the BJP in 2017 and joined the TMC. On Thursday, he stepped down from the posts of chairman of the South Bengal State Transport Corporation and adviser to the monitoring cell on programme implementation of government welfare services in the chief minister’s office. TMC Lok Sabha member Kalyan Banerjee said the rally was a “flop show” as people were brought from several districts to fill up the college ground. “People started to leave even before Shah began to speak,” he said at a press conference at the TMC headquarters in Kolkata. “You (Adhikari) are driven by greed. What didn’t you get in the TMC? You were a minister with three departments. You held other important portfolios. Your family is in control of two Lok Sabha constituencies and a civic body. You have no right to say that the party did not give you anything,” said Kalyan Banerjee. On Sunday, Shah will have lunch with the family of a baul singer in Birchum district, where he is also scheduled to attend a road show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-mlas-join-bjp-at-amit-shah-s-bengal-rally/story-eH4UnEWJMEWJmMgi4p2XjM.html
20-12-2020||India||Livestock infra could provide -70°C storage for Pfizer’s Covid vaccine||India’s livestock and agriculture research agencies, not the public health network, may have a solution to create storage facilities for Pfizer and BioNTech’s mRNA-based coronavirus vaccine, which requires -70°C temperature for long term storage. The vaccine has proven to be effective in preventing Covid-19 and has become the first inoculation to be approved for emergency use in several countries after large-scale testing. But it requires the lowest temperature among all vaccine options for long-term storage. A second vaccine based on the same mRNA platform, developed by Moderna, can be stored at -20°C, a requirement that India’s health infrastructure can easily meet. A senior official involved in India’s coronavirus vaccination plans said: “National Dairy Research Institute in Karnal have refrigerators that can meet Pfizer’s requirements. Similarly, Indian Agriculture Research Institute (ICAR) too has the capacity.” The NDRI, a wing of the ICAR, has two stations in Bengaluru and West Bengal’s Kalyani. “These stations too have similar facilities and can be used as potential hubs for southern India and eastern India,” added the official, asking not to be named. Also Read| 12 nations reached out to India for Covid vaccine: NITI Aayog’s VK PaulDr Ajay Dang, the public relations officer of NDRI, told HT, “We have cold storages with (capacity) up to -80°C. These storages are used for storing embryo and semen samples of animals. We have been contributing to combat the pandemic by supplying RT-PCR kits to the health ministry.” Another official said that ICAR has already collected information about its cold storage capabilities — overall, and not just specific to Pfizer — and has sent it to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). But the question of using NDRI or ICAR facilities will come only if Pfizer is able to secure emergency authorisation from Indian drug regulators. The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation or CDSCO had asked Pfizer to present its case last week, but the vaccine maker sought more time to formally submit its papers for an emergency authorisation. HT reported on December 7 that central authorities will sit down with Pfizer to negotiate pricing and also scrutinise the US-based company’s ability to deliver orders placed by the country. The vaccine costs 5-6 times more than the candidate developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca, which is being manufactured locally in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII).ICAR has stations and centres in Indore, Kalimpong, Karnal, Pune, Pusa (Bihar), Shimla, Katrin (Himachal Pradesh) and Wellington (Tamil Nadu). It has two regional centres at Tamil Nadu’s Aduthurai and Karnataka’s Dharwad. All these centres can also be used as storage bases, the first official said. Also Read: Comparing Moderna’s Covid-19 vaccine against Pfizer/BioNTech’sWithin Union health ministry’s internal resources, super coolers such as walk-in-freezers and its mini deep freezers version offer a temperature range of -15°C to -25°C. While Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine requires ultra-cold temperature for long term storage, delivering the vaccine to inoculation points is relatively easier. “The vaccine can be stored for five days at refrigerated 2-8°C conditions,” the company said in a recent statement “After storage for up to 30 days in the Pfizer thermal shipper (its own cold box), vaccination centres can transfer the vials to 2-8°C storage conditions for an additional five days, for a total of up to 35 days. Once thawed and stored under 2-8°C conditions, the vials cannot be re-frozen or stored under frozen conditions,” the company added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/livestock-infra-could-provide-70-c-storage-for-pfizer-s-covid-vaccine/story-uVtdXitThZETzNjCpOg4bK.html
20-12-2020||India||North Kerala on high alert after shigella bacterial infection claims one life||North Kerala has been put on high alert after an 11-year-old boy died and 20 suspected cases of shigella bacterial infection were reported in Kozhikode on Saturday, said district medical officer Dr Jayashree. She said the death took place two days back and later 20 people with symptoms, mild diarrhoea and fever, have been admitted in various hospitals. Most of the infected were people who came in direct contact with the deceased.State health minister K K Shailaja said the health department will conduct a health camp in the area in a couple of days and investigation is on to locate the main source of the infection. She said health experts have said the infection spreads through water and food and keeping good hygiene was primary to check the spread.Worried health authorities have super chlorinated all water bodies in the area on Friday. Last year over 40 children of the West Lower Primary School, Keezhppayyur, were hospitalised after they complained of vomiting and diarrhoea. The presence of shigella bacteria was confirmed in the stool samples of at least two of these students, who recovered later. Later the district health department traced the presence of the bacteria from the water body in the siblings’ house. According to health experts, shigellosis is an infectious disease caused by the shigella bacteria, which triggers stomach pain, diarrhoea and fever in those who are infected. Though a worldwide problem, shigella is more often seen in developing countries, especially in crowded locations such as schools, day care centres, nursing homes or regions with poor sanitation. In some cases, people infected with the shigella bacteria do not have symptoms, but are still contagious. Besides water, there is a possibility that the bacteria spreads through contaminated food, though the chances of are less in this case, said officials. The health department has directed the community medicine department to reinvestigate each case and submit a report at the earliest. Health experts said the infection is not that deadly but if it is ignored it will aggravate health condition and patient may die of dehydration and exhaustion. “It is already been diagnosed. It is not a serious threat. We have to maintain personal hygiene” said Dr C Anoop Kumar, head of the critical care unit in Baby Memorial hospital in Kozhikode. He was one among first diagnose nipah two years ago. Deadly nipah virus cases were reported in the district two years ago but it was localized and contained effectively though it claimed 17 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/north-kerala-on-high-alert-after-shigella-bacterial-infection-claims-one-life/story-OyLeC16ELXHPzsFQEmnwVN.html
20-12-2020||India||J&K local polls see 50% turnout in final phase, results out on Dec 22||Elections to 28 constituencies in the final phase of eight-phased district development council (DDC) polls, which saw 50.98% voting, concluded without any major incident on Saturday, officials said.State Election Commissioner (SEC) KK Sharma said that Jammu recorded 72.71% and Kashmir registered 29.91% voting in the last phase. In all, 50.98 % polling was recorded in the state in the final phase, he added. The results for all the 280 seats will be out on December 22.Sharma said that final polling percentage for all the eight phases in J&K was now recorded as 51.76%. “The highest 74.62 % poll percentage was recorded in Reasi district of Jammu and Pulwama district in Kashmir division recorded the lowest at 6.70%.”Sharma who briefed the media about the poll percentage said that Srinagar district recorded 33.76% voting.The polling process was largely peaceful barring a couple of grenade attacks on the security forces and an attack on the Apni party candidate in South Kashmir. A personal security officer (PSO) of a former PDP leader was also killed in Srinagar during the long-drawn electoral process. Even on the last day of the polling state election commissioner, KK Sharma visited Wavora in Kupwara district. The results will be a litmus test for the PAGD, the BJP and the newly launched Apni party. With the end of polling on Saturday, the focus will shift to counting of votes and the political parties in the fray will await the results of the first electoral test of strength on the ground after the scrapping of Article 370, which removed Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and turned it into a Union territory.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ran a high octane campaign for the DDC polls while the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration or the PAGD-- an amalgam of six political parties, mainly regional-- left the campaigning duties to their grassroots workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-local-polls-see-50-turnout-in-final-phase-results-out-on-dec-22/story-ygpa8LV8hDkdAaQJXvRc5O.html
20-12-2020||India||UP Sunni Waqf Board unveils blueprint of mosque complex||The Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) on Saturday released the blueprint of the mosque and other structures of public utility that would come up on five-acre land at Dhannipur village on the outskirts of Ayodhya.The mosque would be a zero-energy structure with modern design, to be established on around 3,500 square metre area, the board said, adding that it would have a dedicated section for female namaazis (worshippers) and a capacity to accommodate around 2,000 namaazis at a time. Other than the Dhannipur mosque, the board also released the design of other structures including a super-speciality hospital, a museum, Indo-Islamic cultural and research centre and a community kitchen.“The entire Dhannipur complex, including the mosque would be of a modern design, there would be no touch of traditional domes or arches. And above all, mosque and some part of the hospital would be a zero-energy structure,” said Professor SM Akhtar, the architect of the entire Dhannipur complex while releasing the drawings at a press conference on Saturday. SM Akhtar is a Lucknow-based architect and town planner, who is also founding dean of the faculty of architecture, Jamia Milia University, Delhi. He has been hired by Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF)—the trust formed by UPSCWB to ensure construction of the Dhannipur complex —to design the mosque complex.The complex would come up on five acres of land allotted to the board following the November 2019 order of the Supreme Court in the Ram Janmabhoomi- Babri Masjid case. The court ruled in favour of the Hindu parties to the case, and ordered the creation of a trust to build a Ram temple at the site. However, it also criticised the demolition of the Babri Masjid and said the Waqf Board would be given five acres in Ayodhya to build a mosque. The ground breaking ceremony for the Ram temple happened on August 5 this year.UPSCWB, however, made it clear that since there is no concept of a ground breaking ceremony in Islam, there won’t be any such event, while laying the foundation of the mosque that is likely to be done on January 26, 2021 or August 15, 2021.“There is no concept of ground breaking ceremony for a mosque, hence there won’t be any for the mosque. Only, the board members would formally lay the foundation of the mosque. But yes, in future, we may have ground breaking ceremony for other structures of public utility, including a hospital, community kitchen and research centre for which we can invite chief minister Yogi Adityanath,” said Athar Hussain, spokesperson for IICF. The board maintained silence on the cost of the entire project, saying, “That there is no time frame or cost estimation in such kind of projects. It would be carried out as per the situation.”Noted Indian academician and food critic Pushpesh Pant, whom IICF has appointed as a consultant curator for the food archive section of the museum, was also part of the blueprint release. He said, “Nothing excites me more than the fact that a Hindu has been appointed to give shape to the museum that will be the part of the mosque complex,” said Pant, who retired as a professor of International relations from Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi, and is one of India’s leading experts on international relations as well as Indian cuisine. Elaborating on the architecture of the mosque, Professor Akhtar said, “We have studied the designs of modern mosques across the world, including the one on the coast of Arabian Sea in Karnataka, after which we concluded to the point that the structure would be a modern one. Also, there is no point in restricting Islam to a certain structure or design as things must change as per the modern requirement,” said Akhtar. The architect further said the entire mosque would be solar powered and constructed using a special construction material that is known to last long, may be for 1000 years or more. Also, he said that there will be a separate space for the female namaazis and adequate green spaces.As for the hospital and other structures of public utility, he said the other structures, too, would have a modern design.“The hospital would be around 300-bedded, four floor-super-speciality hospital that would be equipped with amenities of all sorts. It is going to be a state-of-the-art hospital since there is no good hospital in Faizabad or nearby. One has to travel to Gorakhpur or to Lucknow to avail proper health facility. I am sure this hospital would meet the requirements of the locals. We have allocated 500 square metre area for the hospital. The remaining area would be for other structures,” he added.Professor Pant said the archive would be designed in a way to highlight the history not only of Lucknow but also of the entire Awadh region. Also, he said that the archive would not only be limited to food, but also feature costumes and fragrance, kisse, kahaani, embroidery, shayari (poetry) and the rarest of the rare dishes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sunni-waqf-board-unveils-blueprint-of-mosque-complex/story-Hg5aW9P1OOucPZPZdLETzM.html
20-12-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah’s properties worth over Rs 11 crore attached in JKCA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday attached properties of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah valued around Rs 11.86 crore in connection with its money laundering probe linked to alleged financial irregularities in the Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), officials said on Saturday. The attached properties include three residential houses -- at Gupkar Road, Srinagar; Tehsil Katipora, Tanmarg, and one at Bhatindi, Village Sunjwan (Jammu) as well as commercial buildings in the Residency Road area of Srinagar. Besides, land at four different places in J&K has also been attached, according to a statement issued by the ED. The agency said among the attached properties, the residence and land of Dr Farooq Abdullah at Gupkar Road and commercial buildings at Residency Road were on state land obtained on lease. “The other attached house at Bhatindi, Village Sunjwan had been constructed by Farooq Abdullah after grabbing the state land and forest land,” the ED said. Reacting to the development, Farooq Abdullah’s son and NC vice president Omar Abdullah said in a tweet, “The properties attached are largely ancestral dating from the 1970s with the most recent one built before 2003. There can be no justification for the seizures because they fail the very basic test of having been acquired as the proceeds of the ‘crime’ being investigated.”“Dr Abdullah is in touch with his lawyers & will fight all these baseless charges in the one place that matters -- a court of law, where everyone is presumed to be innocent & is entitled to a fair trial unlike in the court of the media or the court of BJP managed social media,” Omar said in another tweet. Also Read| Attachment of Farooq Abdullah’s properties by ED ‘political vendetta’: National ConferenceFarooq Abdullah was questioned by the ED in July and October this year.The ED statement further said that between 2005 and 2006 to December 2011, JKCA received funding totalling Rs 109.78 crore from the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India ).“Dr Farooq Abdullah, between 2006 and January 2012 (when he was president of JKCA), misused his position and clout by illegal appointments of office bearer at JKCA to whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering of JKCA funds,” the ED statement said. “Despite existing regular bank account of JKCA, six new bank accounts were opened for parking of JKCA funds and siphoning of the same. One dormant bank account in the name of Kashmir Wing of JKCA was also made operational for the same purpose,” the agency said. The ED has claimed that a total of Rs 45 crore was siphoned off, which includes cash withdrawals of Rs 25 crore “with no corresponding justification”. “Investigations disclose that for the purpose of generation of proceeds of crime, JKCA funds were layered by way of complex interbank transfers in all the bank accounts of JKCA and also by transfer to several personal bank accounts, followed by siphoning of the funds,” the ED statement added. Also Read: ‘No justification for seizures,’ says Omar Abdullah on ED action on Farooq AbdullahThe matter came to light in the year 2012 when JKCA treasurer Manzoor Wazir filed a complaint to the Jammu and Kashmir police against former general secretary Mohammad Saleem Khan and former treasurer Ahsan Mirza.The J&K high court in 2015 asked the CBI to conduct an investigation into the matter. The CBI filed a charge sheet against Farooq Abdullah, Khan, Mirza, Mir Manzoor Gazanffer Ali, Bashir Ahmad Misgar and Gulzar Ahmad Beigh (former accountant of JKCA) for “misappropriation of JKCA funds amounting to Rs 43.69 crore” from grants given by the BCCI to the association for promoting the sport in the state between 2002-11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-s-properties-worth-over-rs-11-crore-attached-in-jkca/story-TybI4MgZTOaFNsXuwu4wlO.html
20-12-2020||India||2 men held under anti-conversion law released after court order||Two men who were arrested earlier this month under the Uttar Pradesh government’s newly enacted law against religious conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement were released on Saturday after a court order.On December 5, Rashid Ali and his wife Muskan Jahan or Pinki had gone to a court in Moradabad’s Kaanth town to register their marriage. However, a group of local Hindu activists landed at the court and forcibly took the couple to a police station. The police at the time said that the woman’s mother had accused Rashid of enticing Jahan by posing as a Hindu man, Sonu, and hiding his religious identity.Later, Rashid and his brother Mohd Saleem were booked under section 3 of the new law and Jahan was sent to a shelter home.The woman said her mother levelled fake charges against Rashid and told a magistrate that she married him and converted to Islam of her free will.“The court ordered the release of Rashid and his brother on the basis of the woman’s statement that she was an adult and had married Rashid of her own will and converted to Islam without any pressure,” Moradabad superintendent of police (rural) VS Mishra said.The two have been released on a personal bond and the case will be scrapped once police submit a report of the investigation. After her release from the shelter home on December 15, the 22-year-old woman accused authorities of medical negligence, which she said led to the miscarriage of her three-month-old foetus. The charge was denied by the state administration.“They ignored my complaint of pain in the stomach for three days and took me to the hospital only when my health deteriorated,” Jahan said.She further alleged that injections and medicines given to her in hospital were to terminate her pregnancy. This allegation was refuted by the inspector of Kaanth police station, Ajay Gautam, who described the charges as “rumour” and “fake news”.The recently promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance nullifies marriages if they are carried out for the sole purpose of religious conversion. The state government had on November 24 approved the draft ordinance, which provides for a jail term of up to 10 years for violators.It was enacted amid assertions by a section of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders that a strict law was needed against “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, though the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise the term.The Allahabad high court on Friday sought a response from the state government on two petitions that have challenged the constitutional validity of the controversial law, but declined to put it in abeyance through a stay order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-men-held-under-anti-conversion-law-released-after-court-order/story-wEuIU17ydYURAZXiMmMr3I.html
20-12-2020||India||Ashok Jagtap appointed Mumbai Congress chief||The Congress on Saturday appointed Ashok Jagtap as Mumbai Congress president and Charan Singh Sapra as working president.Jagtap succeeds veteran leader Eknath Gaikwad, who was the acting president after Milind Deora quit following the party’s defeat in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.Ashok Jagtap, who is known as Bhai Jagtap in political circles, is a trade union leader and former legislator. Sapra, on the other hand, started his innings with the party as a student leader.The faction ridden party was without a full time president since Deora quit the post. HK Patil, party’s in charge of Maharashtra, had recently held discussions with city and state leaders on selection of the new city unit chief to revive the party organisation ahead of 2022 Mumbai civic polls. Earlier this week, all key Mumbai Congress leaders were summoned to Delhi by Congress top brass to discuss the issue. Following it, Jagtap and Sapra’s appointment was announced.A senior party leader said the leadership decided to appoint a Marathi face as Mumbai unit head.The party leadership has also tried to accommodate different factions within the party by appointing their leaders in key positions. Mohammad Arif Naseem Khan will head the campaign committee while Amarjit Singh Manhans will head coordination committee. Suresh Shetty has been appointed head of manifesto and publication committee. Khan, Manhans and Shetty were aspirants for the city unit chief’s post.“Our priority is to rejuvenate the party organisation in Mumbai and ensure that the party wins forthcoming Mumbai civic polls,” said Sapra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-jagtap-appointed-mumbai-congress-chief/story-eOdqG7pt96eV792F1ZepeJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Police probe in Odisha girl’s murder poor and flawed: Child rights body||Citing the “poor and flawed probe” by the police, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Saturday recommended that the Odisha government conduct an investigation by a central agency into the kidnap-and-murder case of a five-year-old girl in the state. Raising doubts regarding the legitimacy of the probe by the Special Investigation Team, led by senior IPS officer Arun Bothra, the commission said the statements of the minor girl’s parents were not recorded by the Nayagarh police after recovery of her body, but the police conducted the polygraph test on the girl’s parents without probing the facts in the matter.“When such serious discrepancies are present in the preliminary investigation then it becomes difficult to rely on the subsequent investigation that would be undertaken by the SIT as well. As the SIT is probing the minor girl murder case based on the preliminary investigation of the police authorities, the chances of probing the facts in this case and seeking justice is minimal,” the NCPCR said in a letter.The child rights body said in the Action Taken Report submitted before it by the SP and district collector of Nayagarh they failed to provide information regarding suspects in the case. “They subsequently misled the commission during the hearing by informing that the suspected accused had surrendered before the court,” the letter said.The commission also recommended the state government to take strict measures, including disciplinary action against the investigating officers, for dereliction of their duty and for conducting a “poor and flawed probe” which caused delays in tracing the girl before she was found dead.Meanwhile, the SIT on Saturday picked up Saroj Sethy, a college student, and his mother and sister to interrogate them in connection with the abduction and murder case of the girl.On Thursday, the youth had alleged that Bothra had offered him Rs 5 lakh to take blame for the girl’s murder before the SIT. However, the Odisha police had rubbished the allegations, saying the SIT is working diligently in the case. “Such unfounded allegations are being used to cast aspersions on the investigation agency. It may end up demotivating officers who are sincerely working to unearth the truth. It is both unfortunate and unethical,” said Odisha police in a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-probe-in-odisha-girl-s-murder-poor-and-flawed-child-rights-body/story-yApEn4vFxgzFOw0FSAwDTI.html
20-12-2020||India||Attachment of Farooq Abdullah’s properties by ED ‘political vendetta’: National Conference||The Jammu and Kashmir National Conference on Saturday said the attachment of Farooq Abdullah’s properties by the Enforcement Directorate was “political vendetta” and an attempt to “silence the leadership and dissuade it from voicing support to political aspirations of the people”. The ED on Saturday attached residential and commercial properties worth nearly Rs 12 crore of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Abdullah in a case of alleged money laundering. “The attachment of Abdullah’s properties by ED is political vendetta, meant to settle political scores,” senior party leaders, including two sitting MPs Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi, said in a joint statement. The leaders, who also included party general secretary Ali Muhammad Sagar and provincial presidents Nasir Aslam Wani and Devender Singh Rana and several former ministers, lambasted what they called “the series of attacks on the party leadership”. The leaders said such acts were nothing but “unwarranted and unjustified”. “There is no evidence worth the name on record to justify the order of attachment of the property. These ancestral assets had been acquired decades back, and there is no justification why there should be attached,” the leaders said. “It is nothing except political vendetta and an attempt to silence the leadership and dissuade it from voicing support to political aspirations of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” the NC leaders said. They said the list of properties includes two ancestral properties in which Abdullah has a minor share. “It reveals the desperation of the BJP which is using its agencies to settle political scores.” The statement said the sudden move against Abdullah has been taken to “divert attention” from the fact that the BJP staring at loss in the District Development Council polls. “It is not a coincidence that the BJP ordered this action on the day the District Development Council polls ended because they know how badly they have fared and are now extracting their revenge in advance of the drubbing they will receive at the hands of people of J&K,” the leaders said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attachment-of-farooq-abdullah-s-properties-by-ed-political-vendetta-national-conference/story-SaeeQqRXjSwtKS7DJRcB4H.html
20-12-2020||India||Ready to take any responsibility in party, Rahul Gandhi tells colleagues||A day after Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeeep Singh Surjewala said an overwhelming majority of 99.9% leaders and workers wanted Rahul Gandhi to return as the party president, the issue echoed at a crucial meeting on Saturday with dissenters reiterating that they had no problem with him taking the reins of the organisation. Addressing reporters after a meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to resolve the internal crisis, senior party functionary Pawan Kumar Bansal said no one in the party, including the dissenters, has any problem with Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. “Everyone is of the view that the party needs Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. There was no criticism and everyone supported him,” he added. A Congress functionary, asking not to be named, said the meeting saw senior leaders such as AK Antony, Ashok Gehlot, Harish Rawat, Ambika Soni, Ajay Maken and Bhakta Charan Das urging Rahul Gandhi to return to head the party and take back the resignation he gave on May 25 following the loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Also Read: Sonia Gandhi holds meeting for ‘rapprochement’But, the functionary added, Rahul Gandhi told the leaders that it is not about him becoming the party president but about rebuilding the institution and strengthening the party. Rahul Gandhi said he was ready to accept whatever responsibility the party assigned him but urged them that it would not be appropriate to interfere in the ongoing electoral process.When Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad and his letter-writer colleagues talked about the old versus young divide in the party, Rahul Gandhi said he valued the seniors, many of whom were brought in by his father and colleagues of his mother. Meanwhile, the Congress on Saturday appointed Ashok Arjunrao Jagtap as the new president of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC), the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-take-any-responsibility-in-party-rahul-tells-colleagues/story-P4f6DRqSr6qnfK3MxDBl6I.html
20-12-2020||India||PM Modi stresses on India’s economic potential, defends new farm laws||India’s economic potential remains strong despite the pandemic, and that the global narrative has changed from “why India?” to “why not India?”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday while addressing business lobby group ASSOCHAM’s Foundation Week 2020, when he also defended the latest farm laws that have triggered widespread protests. The PM reiterated that farmers had benefited from a set reforms approved in June, including the three agricultural laws that thousands of farmers are protesting for weeks now. He said despite a pandemic-induced contraction in gross domestic product (GDP) of 7.5% in the July-September quarter, the country had attracted significant foreign direct investment and business activity was fast recovering. The PM called on industry heads to raise investment in research and development to achieve the goal of self-reliance. He highlighted a series of new reforms that laid a strong basis for long-term growth. These reforms had helped the world turn to India as the top business destination. Also Read| Farmers’ protest day 24: Haryana CM meets Tomar, agitation intensifies“Reforms, repealing of more than 1,500 outdated laws, ease in labour laws, red tape being replaced by red carpet and competitive tax rates and innovations have turned the past’s rhetoric of “why India?” into “Why not India?”, Modi said, addressing a gathering of industrialists. Modi appeared to stress on the importance of reforms in the farm sector set in motion by the three contentious laws to deregulate agricultural markets. allow food traders to stockpile large quantities of food stocks and create a national framework of contract farming. These reforms have set off one of the largest farmers’ protest in decades. Modi also presented the “Assocham Enterprise of the Century Award” to Ratan Tata, who received the award on behalf of the Tata Group. PM said that the Tata Group has contributed to the development of the country under the leadership of Ratan Tata. Tata thanked the Prime Minister for the award and appreciated his strong leadership during the coronavirus pandemic. “In all the years that I have been in business, I have valued what our PM has been wanting to do. He has led the country through the pandemic for which we should be obliged. If we all stand together and follow what you have said and what you have shown, we will have a situation where the world will look at us and say this Prime Minister said it could happen and he made it happen,” Ratan Tata, chairman Tata Trusts said at the ASSOCHAM event. The Prime Minister set a goal of doubling down on economic growth in the next 27 years when India will celebrate its 100th years of Independence in 2047. “This is the time to plan and act and focus on nation-building as the next 27 years will decide India’s global role,” Prime Minister Modi said. Modi said India was emerging as a top competitor in key areas that will define its place in the global economy. India’s youth are making a name in startups and the country’s digital payments and other infrastructure make it a leading country in this field, Modi said. India’s startup ecosystem has showed world-beating growth. In 2019, over 1,300 startups were registered, a year when private equity investments in the sector hit a 10-year-high, attracting $17.3 billion and clocking annual growth of 60.5%. Also Read: BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal to lead farmers’ march, quits 3 Parliament panelsAnalysts say the Prime Minister was right to call for higher private investment in R&D. “The fundamentals of our economy remain strong. R&D is one critical area where we need to strap up. The PM seemed to suggest that the pandemic’s blow to the economy is temporary and he is more concerned India’s economic growth in the next two decades or so,” said Ashu Narang, partner, PacerPro Investments Pvt Ltd. “During the pandemic, India solidified its position as the pharmacy of the world by supplying and exporting medicines the world over,” Modi said, adding the country had received record FDI in the midst of a pandemic. “In coming years, for Atmanirbhar Bharat, all of you should exert all possible force which can be mustered. World is heading towards another Industrial Revolution. So, from today we must plan and act on achieving our nation-building targets,” the PM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-stresses-on-india-s-economic-potential-defends-new-farm-laws/story-yByHaZ03JaOOaN8NWT5uWM.html
20-12-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi holds meeting for ‘rapprochement’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday told a group of party colleagues that the process for organisational elections, one of the key demands of internal dissenters, had been set in motion, and brainstorming sessions on the lines of those in Pachmarhi and Shimla would be held to revive and strengthen the party, people familiar with the development said. The comments were made during a five-hour “rapprochement” meeting held in the lawns of Sonia Gandhi’s residence at 10, Janpath in Delhi, where the dissenters insisted that having representative and elected bodies from the top to bottom alone would help in the party’s revival across the country. The meeting took place following a late-night huddle between some of the dissenting leaders following comments by party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala who said on Friday that there were no issues pending after the party kicked off the process of organisational elections. The leaders in the camp briefly contemplated whether to attend Saturday’s meeting, as Surjewala’s remarks did not go down well with them. They eventually decided to attend the meeting. Sonia Gandhi called Saturday’s meeting to discuss the way ahead and resolve the internal crisis triggered by a letter written by a group of 23 Congress leaders, also known as G-23, in August this year. None of the dissenters referred to the letter, which had sought full-time and active leadership, internal elections for every level of organisation, and introspection behind the “steady decline” of the 135-year-old organisation while outlining an 11-point action plan. Also Read: Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Uddhav Thackeray brings unease between Congress-NCP to the foreBoth sides described Saturday’s interaction as “cordial, constructive and an ice-breaker” unlike the stormy August 24 meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) where the rebels came under severe attack from Gandhi family loyalists for writing the letter. Of the 23 letter writers, leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy in the Upper House Anand Sharma, former Union ministers Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, former chief ministers of Haryana and Maharashtra Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan respectively, and party’s legal department chairperson Vivek Tankha attended the meeting. Former Union minister Kapil Sibal had left for travel out of the country on Saturday morning. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, senior leaders AK Antony, Ambika Soni, P Chidambaram, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, party office bearers Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ajay Maken, Pawan Kumar Bansal, Harish Rawat and Bhakta Charan Das were also present. Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal and general secretary in-charge of Karnataka and communications department Randeep Singh Surjewala were deliberately kept away as the two were considered to be “irritants” in the reconciliation process, according to people familiar with the matter. This was also the first such meeting held after the death of the party’s key troubleshooter and master strategist Ahmed Patel last month. Sonia Gandhi, according to Congress leader Pawan Bansal, told the leaders that they are “one big family” and all of them should work together and strive to strengthen the party. Bansal said Sonia Gandhi also informed the meeting the process for holding organisational polls, including to the party president’s post and the CWC has already been set in motion and the central election authority (CEA) is working on it. The dissenters thanked Sonia Gandhi for calling the meeting, consensus building and “being democratic” in the true Congress tradition, said another functionary present in the meeting. A dissenter later said there was recognition that concerns and issues raised by them were genuine and in the interests of the party and their move was not dissidence. Also Read: For the Congress, why status quo is untenableWhen Tewari urged that the Congress should hold “Chintan Shivirs” or brainstorming sessions similar to the Pachmarhi conclave in 1998 and the Shimla congregation in 2003 when the party was in the opposition, Sonia Gandhi promptly agreed and accepted his suggestion and told the leaders that there would be more such meetings in future. Tewari also talked about a blueprint for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and stressed on effective leadership, robust organisation, a counter narrative to that of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ideological clarity. Nath and Chidamabaram raised the issue of people leaving the Congress and the sense of drift in the party. Chidamabaram also talked about restoring the parliamentary board and stressed on strengthening block- and booth-level committees. Chavan talked about elected Pradesh Congress Committees (PCCs) and an elected CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body. Azad spoke about the need to rebuild the organisation from the grassroots level and emphasised on having functional booth and district committees besides asking general secretaries and in-charges to spend more time in their respective states. The dissenters also stressed on the need to maintain the integrity and sincerity of the dialogue process. At this point, Azad without taking Surjewala’s name asked if the claim made at a news conference on Friday that all issues were sorted was true, then why was the meeting held for five hours. The meeting also discussed the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the Covid-19 situation, impact of the lockdown, the state of the economy, the collapse of institutions, the government’s move to skip the winter session of Parliament, the Congress party’s poor show in the assembly polls in Bihar and by-polls on 58 seats in 11 states apart from the setbacks in local bodies’ elections in Rajasthan, a state ruled by the party, Telangana, Goa, Kerala and Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-holds-meeting-for-rapprochement/story-WxZBZBF408MY9SHDAvSWWI.html
20-12-2020||India||Six TMC MLAs and four from Congress, Left join BJP at Amit Shah’s rally||Led by Suvendu Adhikari, six sitting legislators of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and four others from the Left and the Congress joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday afternoon in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah at a massive rally in Midnapore town in Bengal’s West Midnapore district. Among the 10 MLAs who switched sides, Adhikari is the only one who has submitted his resignation to the assembly though it has not been accepted yet on technical grounds. Crucial assembly polls in the state are due in about five months. During his visit in October, Shah declared that the BJP will come to power by winning more than 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. On Saturday, TMC’s Burdwan East Lok Sabha MP, Sunil Mandal; former minister Shyama Prasad Mukherjee; former Lok Sabha member from north Bengal’s Alipurduar, Dasrath Tirkey; and 15 civic body councillors of the TMC and other parties picked up the BJP flag along with at least 20 district-level leaders. While the TMC leadership targeted Adhikari, who resigned from the party earlier this week, and called the others traitors and opportunists, Shah, in his brief speech, defended the rebels. “Didi (Mamata Banerjee) you are talking of switching sides. Didn’t you leave the Congress and formed the TMC? Wasn’t it changing allegiance? Now you are accusing Suvendu bhai of changing sides. Thousands of people are waiting to join the BJP. Just wait and watch,” Shah said at the rally. “Can you see the future of millions of youths who need jobs? You can only see your nephew and want to make him the chief minister,” said Shah without naming Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew and a Lok Sabha member. Adhikari delivered a short but vitriolic speech. In an open letter to his followers Adhikari also said the TMC has failed to bring in any change in Bengal and the party has started to rot. The letter was released in the afternoon. “You (Mamata Banerjee) will not be number one again. You will be number two. I do not recognize anyone as my mother except the one who gave birth to me, and my country,” Adhikari said at the rally. Targeting Banerjee and the TMC for branding the BJP’s national leaders as “outsiders,” Adhikari said, “Amit Shah Ji, (BJP national president) JP Nadda Ji and the others are being called outsiders. India is one nation. I want Bengal and India to have the same government or else Bengal will not survive. There are no jobs, no progress. We have to ensure Narendra Modi’s government in Bengal.” Targeting Abhishek Banerjee and calling him a tolabaaj (extortionist), Adhikari raised the slogan, “Tolabaaj bhaipo hatao (oust the extortionist nephew).” Adhikari’s followers came from neighbouring districts in large numbers at the biggest playground in Midnapore town. The college ground, where the rally was held, is the same venue where 90 people were injured in July 2018 when the makeshift canopy set up for a rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi collapsed. Apart from Adhikari, the other TMC MLAs who joined the BJP are: Shilbhadra Dutta from Barrackpore; Banashri Maiti from the Kanthi North in East Midnapore; Sukra Munda from Nagrakata in Jalpaiguri district; Biswajit Kundu from Kalna in East Burdwan; and Saikat Panja from Manteswar in East Burdwan. The lawmakers from other parties are: Sudip Mukherjee, the Congress MLA from Purulia district; Ashok Dinda, the Communist Party of India (CPI) MLA from Tamluk; Dipali Biswas, CPI(M) MLA from Gazole in Malda district; and Tapasi Mandal, the CPI(M) legislator from Haldia in East Midnapore district. Significantly, veteran leader Bani Singha Roy from Howrah district, who is one of the founder vice-presidents of the TMC, also joined the BJP. Singha Roy spoke out against the present leadership last week for the first time. Dasrath Tirkey, former Revolutionary Socialist Party MLA who joined the TMC in 2014 and won the Alipurduar Lok Sabha, seat joined the BJP on Saturday. Tirkey lost the seat to the BJP’s John Barla in 2019. Among the others who joined the BJP are retired army colonel Diptangshu Chowdhury, who had quit the BJP in 2017 and joined the TMC. On Thursday, he stepped down from the posts of chairman of the South Bengal State Transport Corporation and advisor to the monitoring cell on programme implementation of government welfare services in the chief minister’s office. Hitting back, TMC Lok Sabha member Kalyan Banerjee said Shah’s rally was a “flop show” as people were brought from several districts to fill up the college ground. “People started to leave even before Shah began his speech,” he said at a press conference at the TMC headquarters in Kolkata.“You (Adhikari) are driven by greed. What didn’t you get in the TMC? You were a minister with three departments. You held other important portfolios. Your family is in control of two Lok Sabha constituencies and a civic body. You have no right to say that the party did not give you anything. Mamata Banerjee is a maverick leader. We will win the elections and you will be defeated too,” said Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-tmc-mlas-and-four-from-congress-left-join-bjp-at-amit-shah-s-rally/story-RFHXnmUrCOVn9swJHsf8eJ.html
20-12-2020||India||Dial 112 for help: Manipur 31st state to implement emergency response system||Manipur has become the 31st state in the country to implement an Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) as chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh launched ERSS number 112 for the state at 1st battalion Manipur Rifles premises here on Saturday.Under ERSS, all emergency numbers like 100 for police, 101 for fire, 102 for ambulance and disaster response have been integrated into one number ‘112’.ERSS mainly consists of three main components-Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), Mobile Data Terminal (MDT), District Coordination Centres or District Control Rooms.In other words, ERSS Centre is a sophisticated police control room using computer technology and internet facility for real time communication and coordination between the control room and mobile vehicles and for quicker intervention to attend to distress calls.Speaking to reporters after the launch, CM Biren Singh said, “The new system will help people effectively at the time of emergency by saving lives and properties.”“Strengthening of the police stations all over the state and installation of modern equipment are in active consideration of the government,” he said.Chief secretary Dr Rajesh Kumar and DGP Manipur LM Khaute were also present for the occasion.ERSS is part of the Central government project to launch a nationwide unified emergency system with a single emergency number, 112, for all kinds of emergencies and distress calls from across the country.Also Read: Accused acquitted, Manipur cop returns medal awarded for busting drugs racketERSS is designed to receive voice calls, sms, e-mails, panic SOS requests, web requests, etc from citizens in distress. All these are sent to the common number 112.“The neighbouring states such as Nagaland and Assam have already implemented the new system,” says inspector general of police (zone II) Clay Khongsai, the nodal officer for ERSS in the state police department. “But we’re not the last state to implement as few other states are also yet to implement it,” he said.Himachal Pradesh is the first state in the country to implement ERSS and Nagaland was the first in the northeast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dial-112-for-help-manipur-31st-state-to-implement-emergency-response-system/story-eoUpFMB1VYlww2fPU0eVOL.html
20-12-2020||India||MSP only real risk protection for farmers, says new study||Farmers in fully regulated agriculture markets in Punjab got 30% more price for their produce in 2018-19 than those in totally unregulated markets in Bihar and partially regulated ones in Odisha, a study of the agri markets in three states has found, terming minimum support price (MSP) as only risk-management instrument available for farmers.The study, by the University of Pennsylvania Institute for the Advanced Study of India (UPIASI), with local research institutes in Bihar, Odisha and Punjab, attempted to understand the dynamics of three different agriculture trading systems, and comes at the time farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting and demanding MSP guarantee in law, and the scrapping of the three new laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy.Also Read| ‘Bow to farmers’: PM Modi backs laws, slams OppositionIn Punjab, 90% of the agri produce is traded at markets regulated under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act by licensed commission agents. Bihar abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and traders and private players can buy produce directly from farmers. Odisha has both the market system and farm gate procurement. “We found the price gap between open market sales and public procurement was a significant 30% and deregulation of markets as in Bihar, helped traders, more than farmers as their access to produce improves,” said Shoumitro Chatterjee, co-author of the study, in a tweet. “Erstwhile [APMC] markets in Bihar still remain main produce selling markets but now unregulated and with dilapidated infrastructure whereas in Punjab markets are better,” he said in another tweet, suggesting that private sector investment has not come for agriculture infrastructure in Bihar.The study said only 5% and 11% of farmers in Bihar and Odisha, respectively, sell their produce to government agencies. Around 80% farmers in Bihar and Odisha are small and marginal, according to agriculture ministry data.The study said that despite constraints such as fewer procurement centres, delays in procurement, and payments, farmers prefer selling to the government because of the assured MSP. Also Read: PM Modi says Oppn intentionally did not work on Swaminathan Commission recommendationsIn Bihar, the farmers told the surveyors that they would like to sell maize, the flagship crop, to the government because of the MSP but there are not enough procurement centres. “The study shows that the MSP is the only risk-management instrument available to the farmers as crop insurance scheme has poor acceptability,” he tweeted. The use of crop insurance was less than 7% in Bihar and Odisha, and less than one% in Punjab. The reason is cumbersome process for claims and low insurance value of produce.The study, conducted in seven districts of Bihar, Odisha and Punjab, found that persistence of in farmer-trader relationship was weak in Bihar and Odisha, unlike Punjab. The study also found transparency in payment to farmers in Punjab. The commission agents, or arthiyas, are authorised to give cash of up to ₹10,000 only, and rest has to be transferred to the farmer. No such transparency was found in Bihar and Odisha, as unregulated small traders have replaced the licensed traders. “The study clearly outlined that marketing challenges are more pronounced in Bihar where commission charged by middlemen in unofficial markets are much higher than in the regulated markets in Punjab and Odisha,” said former Union agriculture secretary Siraj Hussain. The study, however, also said while MSP provides price assurance, it could be hindrance for crop diversification. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana, for instance, grow largely wheat and paddy though there is higher demand of cereals and pulses. R Ramakumar, professor at Tata Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai, said: “The government needs to sit with farmers and assure them of compensation for the income loss due to diversification. This can be done through higher MSP for crop...,” he said.Punjab’s cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said farmers need assured markets to sell their produce even for diversification. “Although the government declares MSP for 23 crops, there is no assured procurement for most. If there is an assurance, farmers will be willing to diversify,” he said.An official of the Odisha food department said they are continuously upgrading facilities so that more small and marginal farmers can sell their paddy under MSP system and admitted a shortfall of regulated markets. Bihar agriculture minister Amrendra Pratap Singh, however, said: “They do not know the system. The MSP of paddy is ₹1,868 per quintal and it is transferred to farmers’ accounts. You can’t deposit less than the MSP.”(With inputs from bureaus in Patna, Chandigarh and Bhubaneswar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-only-real-risk-protection-for-farmers-says-new-study/story-rEKqOmbyAKLgZ3Lkw1q1UI.html
