21-12-2020||India||Human right to compute: CERN scientist to students||Computing is a human right for students and India must ensure internet connectivity in every part of the country, train students in logical thinking and put teachers through a higher level of computer education, said Dr Archana Sharma, principal scientist at the physics department of CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research) in Geneva. She was speaking to the 400 finalists of the first edition of Hindustan Times Code-A-Thon, India’s biggest coding Olympiad. The event provided a virtual platform for students from grade VI through IX to learn coding languages such as HTML, CSS and Python. “Computing is a human right that will be needed for all students of the future. Again, the disparities will increase if there are computer literate and non-computer literate students who are coming up in careers. So, we have to make sure that they are not left behind. First of all, the infrastructure has to be improved; the fibre optics has to get there (to the villages). And, this is not easy. We just about have power everywhere,” she said. There are many organisations in the country working towards ensuring connectivity. She suggested that they need to all work together in tandem with the local governments to reach the goal. “It is extremely important to inculcate the scientific temperament in our children, it is our duty to do that. We have made big strides in the schools in terms of introducing computing and computer resources in schools. But there is a big disparity. Teachers themselves need the pedagogic tools for teaching high-level computing to students in schools. But, teachers are not ready yet,” she said. There are schools where the standards meet international levels and there are schools that struggle to stay connected, she said. Sharma was one of the first Indian scientists to work at the European organisation that looks for answers to the big questions like “where did we come from? How did the universe begin? What is matter? What is anti-matter? And, why at all are we here? Matter and anti-matter must have been created in equal proportions and if yes, then it should have been annihilated and we should not have been here,” she said. It was the large hadron collider at CERN that found evidence of the Higgs Boson, also known as the God Particle, in 2012. Sharma was a part of the team. Sharma explained that while looking for answers to the big questions, the scientists were able to create spin-off technologies that are now in use throughout the world in areas like medical diagnostics and therapy, computing, simulations, and much more. An education in computing will allow students to take up varied STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) fields, including participating in mega-science experiments like the ones ongoing at CERN. These includes projects like the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) that use gravitational waves to study astronomical phenomenon that will have one observatory in India, one of the largest radio-telescope called the 30 meter telescope that will also have an observatory in India, among others. “There is a huge room for us to use these international programmes where India is already participating as training grounds for young scientists to catapult them into the frontline,” said Sharma. However, Sharma said that it was tenacity that was most needed for become a successful scientist. “The perception of job security in India is very important, which is changing very slowly. A permanent job now is not the end-all of everything, we need to look for career opportunities and not just a job. You need to build tenacity in yourself and it doesn’t come overnight. When you are young, you are rearing to go and show results. We must realise that every single day is a challenge and you have problems in front of you. And, if you can focus on delivering your best to what you are doing today, you will gently build up,” she said. The other important point she raised was on how to wake up the sleeping potential of 50% of the population – how to get more women in STEM fields. “In India, it’s not simple. The society must remember that a girl and a boy represent an equal opportunity. We do not see women as able to do something better; people have a stereotype, they do not associate women with excellence. We need to create role models. As for the women, they should take charge and acknowledge that yes I can also do this,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-right-to-compute-cern-scientist-to-students/story-dVJEf3rnosPmeXdNNGGslO.html
21-12-2020||India||Recently launched communication satellite CMS-01 placed in final orbit||The communication satellite CMS-01 launched by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) last Thursday has been placed in its final circular orbit of about 36,000 kilometres after a few orbit raising manoeuvres. CMS-01 is India’s 42nd communication satellite that will replace the functions of GSAT-12 launched in 2011. It will remain in orbit for over seven years providing connectivity for e-learning, tele-health, and disaster management services. The satellite was placed in an elliptical Geostationary Transfer Orbit by India’s workhorse PSLV-C50 on December 20 after 20 minutes 11 seconds of a launch from India’s only spaceport at Sriharikota. This was the second launch of the space agency this year when most of the planned launches were delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read: India suspends UK flights till December 31 over new variant of Covid-19Four days after the launch, the onboard liquid apogee motor was fired a few times to increase the orbit to the final geosynchronous one. A geosynchronous orbit matches the Earth’s rotation and is used by satellites for weather monitoring, communications, and surveillance. “After the injection of CMS-01 communication satellite into an elliptical sub-Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit on December 17, 2020, all orbit raising manoeuvers have been completed successfully. The satellite reflector has been deployed. All the intended launch and early phase operations are completed successfully,” said ISRO in a statement.After in-orbit testing, the satellite will be handed over to the users of communication services in the first week of January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recently-launched-communication-satellite-cms-01-placed-in-final-orbit/story-PQdjJhz0WBrqSnAS03FmSK.html
21-12-2020||India||Moti Lal Vora: Uttar Pradesh governor who made political history||Moti Lal Vora, as the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, dismissed the Mulayam Singh Yadav government and instated BSP leader Mayawati as the first Dalit chief minister on June 3, 1995, following the incidents of the state guest house where Samajwadi Party leaders allegedly made a bid on her life and ‘kidnapped’ her party’s MLAs on June 2, 1995. Vora, a senior Congress leader, passed away at a Delhi hospital due to post-Covid-19 complications on Monday. He was 93. Vora remained UP’s governor from May 26, 1993, to May 3, 1996. Though Vora’s move of June 3, 1995, came in the backdrop of the BSP pulling out of the SP-BSP coalition and building a tacit understanding with the BJP, the decision changed the course of political history not only of Uttar Pradesh but India as well. A political controversy of sorts was created as an elected government was dismissed without being given a chance to prove majority on the floor of the state assembly. The governor’s decision was, however, not challenged despite being against the principles laid down in the SR Bommai case often quoted on issues concerning arbitrary dismissals of state governments by the Centre under Article 356 of the Constitution of India. Governor Vora will be remembered for his governance during President’s rule and later for working as a Congress leader in the state where he served as governor. “Vora’s decision to dismiss the Mulayam Singh Yadav government without a floor test was not challenged anywhere despite being against the principles of SR Bammai case. Vora will be remembered for governance during President’s rule. Uttar Pradesh saw President’s rule twice during his tenure as governor. As governor, he continued to hold ‘Janta Darbar’ that even chief ministers stop holding a month or two after holding office. He also introduced the ‘mahila thanas’ (women police stations) during his term as the state’s governor,” said CB Pandey, who worked with him in Raj Bhawan as legal advisor. The Indira Gandhi Pratisthan is his great contribution as he was the one who approved it when he was governor. “The BSP government, however, decided to do away with the project. I decided to file a public interest litigation and we won,” said Pandey. Vora continued to visit the state and meet people even when he was not the governor.“He contributed a lot for governance and politics. He is revered by all for his work,” said Congress legislature party leader Aradhna Mishra while paying tributes to Vora.Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit also paid tributes to Vora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moti-lal-vora-uttar-pradesh-governor-who-made-political-history/story-0S2Qu4wdhBgKoy7Bahc5FO.html
21-12-2020||India||Karnataka HC stays government order dropping 61 cases against ministers, legislators||In a significant decision, the Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the state government not to take any steps on its move to withdraw cases-- several of them involving ministers and BJP leaders. The BS Yediyurappa led BJP government in the state had decided to withdraw cases registered primarily against several party leaders in an order dated August 31, 2020.These included a case against the CM himself for violating the electoral model code of conduct when in November 2019 he had appealed to the Veerashiva Lingayat community to support only the BJP candidate. A case under Section 123(3) of the People’s Representation Act 1951 and Section 171 (F) of the IPC had been registered against him.Other cases included one against former tourism minister and current BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi as well as Law Minister J C Madhuswamy for alleged various offences under IPC Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting with dangerous weapons) and 339 (wrongful restraint) during a protest.The decision to withdraw the cases was taken by the state cabinet in August after a subcommittee headed by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai had recommended the same. However, the DG & IGP, the director of prosecution and government litigation as well as the law department itself had recommended against the withdrawal of the cases.But, the cabinet had accepted the recommendation of the sub-committee and had gone ahead with the proposal. The government had then justified the move to withdraw cases saying, that only cases related to protests in the public interest are being withdrawn and not personal cases. The state government had also pointed out that the previous Congress government too when it was in power had similarly exercised powers.This decision of the cabinet though was challenged by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties and a city-based advocate activist Sudha Katwa who had filed PIL’s. A division bench of the High Court headed by the Chief Justice Abhay Oka which heard the petition granted interim relief to the petitioners and ruled that the cases should not be withdrawn. “We direct that no further steps will be taken on the basis of the order dated August 31, 2020.”In a previous hearing, the bench had asked the state government to submit a compliance report for which the state had sought time. The court has directed the government to file its objection to the latest order by 22 January.While the state government was yet to officially react to the HC’s order, a senior administration official in the state who did not want to be identified - as he is not authorised to speak to media – said, “We are yet to get a copy of the full order. We will examine the same and then we will decide on our next course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-stays-government-order-dropping-61-cases-against-ministers-legislators/story-oqhk7lEhrQTmtKtcuO04WI.html
21-12-2020||India||Banned Naxal outfit leader Jidan Guriya killed in encounter in Jharkhand||A prominent area commander of banned Naxal outfit People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), Jidan Guriya, carrying a cash reward of Rs 15 lakh on his head, was gunned down by district police and a CRPF Batallion-94 in an early morning encounter at Koengsar village under Murhu police station (PS) in Khunti district on Monday morning, police said. “PLFI top commander Jidan Guriya was killed in an encounter at Koengsar village under Murhu PS in Khunti district with district police and CRPF Batallin-94 around 9.30 am this morning. An AK-47 automatic assault rifle has been recovered from near his body. The operation is still on and further details are awaited,” Ashutosh Shekhar, Khunti superintendent of police (SP), said, confirming the major blow to PLFI.The encounter happened after the joint team of police and CRPF had gone on a search operation on a tip-off that PLFI supremo Dinesh Gope, carrying a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh, and another top PLFI ultra Martin Kerketta were moving in the jungles around Koengsar village on the Khunti-West Singhbhum district borders, police officials said. The ultras opened fire seeing the advancing forces and Jidan died in the retaliatory fire while the other extremists managed to escape into the dense forests.This was the fourth time that PLFI supremo Dinesh Gope managed to give police the slip during the past 30 days or so. Dinesh, Jidan and Martin had managed to escape during another encounter four days ago when West Singhbhum police and CRPF Batallions 60 and 94 had succeeded in killing PLFI extremist Sonu Kumar from Nalanda district of Bihar and arrested Phoolchand Munda from Lapung in Ranchi district in the Bandu jungles in Porahat forest range in West Singhbhum district on Thursday night.According to West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda, three pistols, seven magazines, 49 live cartridges, four motorcycles, 27 mobile phones, 5 walkie-talkies, bags, blankets and daily usage materials have been seized from the Bandu encounter site.Earlier, district police and CRPF had two more encounters with PLFI squads led by Dinesh Gope and Jeedan Guriya under Bandgon and Sonua PS during the last 30 days. “Dinesh Gope, Jeedan Guriya and Martin Kerketta have been moving together in Bandu jungle and other jungles in Porahat range. At least, 15-25 ultras were there in the squad when police had the encounter with them yesterday,” police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banned-naxal-outfit-leader-jidan-guriya-killed-in-encounter-in-jharkhand/story-MuYvDMSyoHB91H0FigRTBM.html
21-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand conducts highest-ever weekly tests with over 99,000 Covid-19 samples||With Uttarakhand completing 40 weeks this weekend since the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, analysis of health department data shows that the highest ever weekly tests were conducted last week. According to official records of the state health department, over 99,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted between December 13-19. A total of 3914 cases were reported during the week while 3904 patients recovered successfully. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think-tank Social Development for Communities that has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the hill state said that in the past one week the state reported the lowest weekly deaths in the past one month and active cases crossed 6000. “After studying the Covid-19 data for so many months, the trend shows that the state is likely to have crossed the phase of maximum vulnerability which was seen around September with daily cases touching the 2000 mark. Cases have reduced now, but we still need to control our death rate. Uttarakhand’s death rate is higher than the national average while the recovery rate is lower than the national average,” said Nautiyal. The national recovery rate stands at 95.40% while the state has a recovery rate of 89.99%. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 86,000 cases with deaths of over 1400 positive patients. Over 77,000 positive patients in the state have recovered successfully. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 5.34% and death rate at 1.64%. The death rate in the country stands at 1.45%. Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 25,555 of Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (13,017), US Nagar (10,878) and Nainital (10,325). The state health department has so far tested 16.16 lakh people of which results of over 12,600 are pending. Uttarakhand at present has a total of 19 containment zones with a maximum of seven such zones in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-conducts-highest-ever-weekly-tests-with-over-99-000-covid-19-samples/story-oKFweSuOZ35OHjBCEmD3xK.html
21-12-2020||India||Here are the quarantine rules for people travelling to Maharashtra from abroad||The authorities in Maharashtra decided to impose mandatory quarantine rules for people travelling to India from abroad after a new coronavirus strain was found in Britain. The government also decided to impose a seven-hour night curfew in cities across Maharashtra from Tuesday for the next 15 days as a precautionary measure. The decision was taken in a high-level meeting called by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. Thackeray said the government and people had to be vigilant for the next 15 days.The new strain of the coronavirus discovered in the UK has forced British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to announce another lockdown despite plans to ease restrictions during the Christmas period. The new strain can reportedly be transmitted from one person to another much faster than the previous one and it might even compromise vaccines if they are not effective against it.Here is what you need to know about the quarantine guidelines:- All passengers coming from the UK are asked to compulsorily quarantine after their arrival in the country. Symptomatic passengers from UK will be sent to Seven Hills hospital at Andheri for further investigation and checkup.- The rest of the passengers will be sent to institutional quarantine for five to seven days.- All passengers coming from other European countries and Middle Eastern countries will be required to spend seven days in an institutional quarantine facility. The symptomatic ones will be sent to GT hospital.- Passengers travelling from the rest of the countries like Southeast Asia region or the United States will not be sent to institutional quarantine. - However, these passengers will now be stamped on their hands to be home quarantined by the airport authorities as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-are-the-quarantine-rules-for-people-travelling-to-maharashtra-from-abroad/story-suOMO6K6HuHDaIDVj4xtkK.html
21-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan restrict New Year celebrations amid Covid-19||The Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan governments on Monday announced restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and curtailed New Year celebrations on December 31 and January 1, 2021. The Tamil Nadu government on Monday released a statement banning gatherings at beaches, resorts, hotels, pubs as well as roads to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Hotels can function and remain open but cannot host events and celebrations. Entry to beaches will be closed on New Year’s Eve and the following day, the statement said. These are places where a large number of people usually gather to ring in the New Year and are seen cutting cakes on beaches in coastal districts including Chennai. As of December 21, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in Tamil Nadu reached 8,07,962 and has claimed 11,995 lives. As many as 7,86,472 people have recovered and been discharged. The state is conducting testing in the range of 65,000-75,000 every day using RT-PCR kits.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot too asked people to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their houses, just like the festival of Diwali, to prevent the infection of Covid-19 from spreading. He said that the Supreme Court has recently issued guidelines asking states to take stricter measures such as stopping crowds at markets and public places, not allowing religious-social events as much as possible. Gehlot said that in view of New Year, during the next few weeks there will be a complete ban on crowd gathering, mass events and fireworks across the state. The night curfew will continue and police patrolling and action will be more stringent. According to a government statement, secretary medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan, said at a meeting that the number of positive cases is continuously decreasing in the state. The recovery rate of Covid-19 infected people in Rajasthan is around 95% and the death rate is only 0.88%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rajasthan-restrict-new-year-celebrations-amid-covid-19/story-qFodjWNJbL9Whc2TYzkndP.html
21-12-2020||India||CBI to finish majority of its corruption probes in nine months||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has decided to complete the majority of its probes under Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act within a maximum of nine months, according to the latest Crime Manual of the agency, updated after 15 years. The existing one year deadline in corruption cases will apply only in those cases where a high ranking government official like a Joint Secretary or Secretary is accused and the probe is being supervised by an additional director or above rank officer in the CBI, people familiar with the development said. For the cases against lower rung government officers, like clerks or section officers etc, CBI’s investigating officers (IOs) will have to complete probes within six months. CBI’s latest Crime Manual, which has been prepared by a task force led by Additional Director Praveen Sinha after consulting legal experts, retired officers of the agency and other experts , has for the first time given a provision to form “investigation teams” in complex cases rather than depending on one Investigating Officer (IO). The manual, which is referred to by the CBI officers while initiating a preliminary enquiry (PE) or First Information Report (FIR) and conducting investigation, had become outdated as courts had struck down several criminal laws and there have been amendment in various laws as well. The Prevention of Corruption Act, the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have also been since amended, and Supreme Court has passed several judgements, which have now been updated in the new manual for the benefit of IOs, said the officer. The manual also gives special thrust on investigations abroad. Officials cited above said a special chapter has been dedicated in the manual explaining how to conduct investigations abroad as well as procedures and functioning of Interpol. “We have comprehensively revised our SOPs (standard operating procedures) so as to enhance the speed and quality of investigation and in consonance with global best practices,” said an officer who didn’t want to be named. The new manual will explain to the IOs the procedure to collect the digital evidence as a large number of cases related to child pornography, phishing, and bitcoins etc having international ramifications are being reported. It also has information about preventive vigilance functioning of CBI so that field units can use the same, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-finish-majority-of-its-corruption-probes-in-nine-months/story-qhmjgzg0vi1pS6YK5unUkK.html
21-12-2020||India||DDC election results on Tuesday; counting to begin at 9 am, says election commissioner||With counting of votes for Jammu and Kashmir’s eight-phase district development council (DDC) elections scheduled to take place on Tuesday, election commissioner KK Sharma on Monday said that the counting of votes will begin at 9 am and will take place in district headquarters. Counting staff for the exercise, Sharma said, will be deployed after “randomisation.” All counting will be done in District HQs. Responsibility of counting is given to returning officers of the constituencies. Counting staff will be deployed after randomisation. Counting will begin at 9 am tomorrow: J&K Election Commissioner KK Sharma, on DDC polls vote counting pic.twitter.com/X6DgYsPHNs“All counting will be done in District HQs. Responsibility of counting is given to returning officers of the constituencies. Counting staff will be deployed after randomisation. Counting will begin at 9am tomorrow,” news agency ANI quoted Sharma as saying. The first phase of voting took place on November 28, followed by polling on December 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and, finally, on December 19. A total of 2,178 candidates were in the fray for 280 DDC seats in these elections.Also Read | Polling underway for last phase of DDC polls in Jammu and KashmirThe DDC polls were the first electoral exercise in the region post the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year, which led to the scrapping of the special status of the then unified state of Jammu and Kashmir. The state was further divided into two separate Union territories (UTs) of Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh. Several political leaders of the Valley, including three former chief ministers-Farooq and Omar Abdullah, and Mehbooba Mufti-were put under house arrest to prevent law and order situation from spiralling out of control. While the Abdullahs were released in March this year, Mufti was freed only in October.The polls were contested primarily between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an umbrella of six political parties-including the Abdullahs’ National Conference (NC) and Mufti’s Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP)-whose one common agenda is restoration of Article 370.During campaigning, allegations were levelled by the PAGD leaders that while the BJP candidates could campaign freely, their candidates were being “restrained” from doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddc-election-results-on-tuesday-counting-to-begin-at-9-am-says-election-commissioner/story-qjvFRWn4yODqXK3uBv867M.html
21-12-2020||India||NIA arrests 17 SDPI and PFI activists in Bengaluru riots case||The National Investigative Agency which is looking into the riots which happened in Bengaluru on August 11, 2020 following a Facebook post by the nephew of a Congress MLA on Monday said that it had arrested 17 SDPI and PFI activists for their involvement in the riots.In a press release, NIA said that the investigation so far had revealed that the SDPI leaders including Md Sharieff, president, Bengaluru District, Imran Ahmed, president KG Halli Ward along with other senior leaders like Rubah Waqas, Shabbar Khan and Shaik Ajmal had conducted meetings at Thanissandra and KG Halli wards on the evening of August 11.The release said that the leaders had therein conspired, mobilised and led the crowd gathered at KG Halli police station to attack police personnel, causing huge damage to public and police station vehicles. It also named others including Abbas, SDPI president of Nagawara ward and his associates Azil Pasha, Irfan Khan and Akbar Khan of mobilising large crowds.NIA in the release also said that investigation had revealed the use of social media channels like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to spread terror among people and mobilise them. In the case so far, 187 accused have been arrested and further investigations are on.The riots were caused after community members took offence to an alleged derogatory post on their prophet by Naveen the nephew of Congress MLA from Pulikeshinagar, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy. Three people were killed in the subsequent attempt to stem the riots and bring about peace. On September 11, the Yediyurappa government handed over the investigation into the riots to NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-17-sdpi-and-pfi-activists-in-bengaluru-riots-case/story-w0EMVibO68LSDil8jj9EeK.html
21-12-2020||India||‘Centre should make clear announcement regarding free Covid-19 vaccine to all’: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the central government should make a clear announcement regarding providing free Covid-19 vaccine to all citizens. He said that providing information at the right time will remove confusion among the public about the price and availability of the vaccine. “This is necessary to increase people’s self-confidence,” he said. Gehlot instructed officers to make concrete preparations for providing Covid-19 vaccine to people in Rajasthan. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, CM Gehlot said due to the epidemic and its serious economic effects, a large number of the population is not in a position to pay for the vaccine. In such a situation, the central government should provide the vaccine free of cost to all the citizens of the country. He said that it is appropriate to give priority to the frontline warriors associated with health personnel and essential services. But eventually, like any other vaccination campaign, the Covid-19 vaccine should also be available for everyone for free, he added. Gehlot said that ‘micro-planning’ will have to be done with extraordinary preparation for vaccination. In order to complete the process of vaccination in a large population, it is necessary to have more number of vaccination centres. Also read: Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroadThe chief minister appealed the people to celebrate the New Year with their families inside their houses to prevent the infection of Covid-19 from spreading. He said that the Supreme Court has recently issued guidelines asking states to take stricter measures, such as stopping crowds at markets and public places, not allowing religious-social events as much as possible. Gehlot said that in view of New Year, during the next few weeks there will be a complete ban on crowd gathering, mass events and fireworks across the state. The night curfew will continue and police patrolling and action will be more stringent. According to a government statement, secretary medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan, said at the meeting that the number of positive cases of Covid-19 are continuously decreasing in the state. The recovery rate of Covid-19 infected people in Rajasthan is around 95 per cent while the death rate is only 0.88 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-make-clear-announcement-regarding-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-gehlot/story-p5VkZsvR5BMZKxiucul2PN.html
21-12-2020||India||Ahead of first phase of panchayat polls, BJP and JD(S) deny plans of merger again||Even as political parties geared up for the first phase of voting on Tuesday for 3019 Gram Panchayats (GP) across 117 taluks to elect 48,048 members, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and the regional Janata Dal (Secular) again reiterated that there were no plans to merge. GP polls are being held in two phases with voting on December 22 and 27 with results being declared on the 30th of this month.While GP polls are held on a party less basis, Capt Ganesh Karnik, spokesperson for BJP Karnataka said that his party was confident of winning 80% of the seats on offer. This even as he dismissed continued speculation that JD(S) was merging into the saffron party saying “the (merger) news is baseless, malicious and misleading with a sinister design. We reject the false news with the contempt it deserves”.The speculation had started ever since several senior leaders of JD(S) including its sitting legislators and council members had said that the party was exploring going along with the ruling BJP. The JD(S) had also crucially helped the government pass some important farm bills apart from joining hands with the saffron party to oust the Council Chairman who belongs to Congress.Former CM and JD(S) supremo HD Kumaraswamy had on Sunday said that his party was only extending issue-based support and it was “not stupid to commit suicide by merging with BJP”. On Monday too, Kumaraswamy reiterated the stance and said any contrary views expressed by party leaders were their personal opinion and does not reflect the views of the party. He expressed confidence of the JD(S) doing well in the ongoing GP polls.The EC has made elaborate administrative and security arrangements including reserving an hour in the evening for those affected with Covid-19 to vote with all precautions being taken. Congress backed candidates had won the bulk of the GP’s in the poll held in 2015 and the party too has expressed confidence of doing a repeat performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-first-phase-of-panchayat-polls-bjp-and-jd-s-deny-plans-of-merger-again/story-i3rjenjf87FGZLiQVJbqnJ.html
21-12-2020||India||To release a film is tougher than making one, says Vipul K Rawal||Writer-director Vipul K Rawal’s next script for a film will be set in Lucknow. The man, behind the hit scripts of ‘Rustom’ and ‘Iqbal’, is writing an original story of a boy from the state capital. “I was here to meet the boy and research about the story that I am writing. The film will go on the floor in mid-2021. Since I am bound by a contract, I can’t divulge more details about the story,” says the original story creator of ‘Batti Gul Meter Chalu’. Rawal, who ventured into direction with ‘Tony’, a thriller movie, says, “Initially I tried to release Tony in theatres but no one was ready to support this small-budget film. I managed to release it in some screens, but when I tried to launch it on OTT platform; I faced stiff resistance from the syndicate that was not ready to pay a film with newcomers. Then I realised that to release a film is tougher than making one!” He released it on YouTube and has now over 2 million views. “I released the film with a message that audience should first watch our film and if they like our effort they can pay us whatever donation they can. Trust me; we are on a path of recovery and still receiving donations from all over the country,” he says. Elated with the response, Rawal is now working on his next as director with fresh talents on the same model. Rawal, who spent his childhood in Balawali village of Bijnor district says, “My father was a manager of a glass factory and our house was on banks of the Ganga. I remember the train did not stopped there so the hawker used to throw the newspaper from the moving train and my duty was to collect it. Before I went to boarding school in Dehradun, my studies happened at home itself. Even for basic needs, we used to go to Najibabad. After many years, I went there to relive my childhood memories.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/to-release-a-film-is-tougher-than-making-one-says-vipul-k-rawal/story-EU5eLwQRjBcQ5MxwbJyWvM.html
21-12-2020||India||The spectrum is widening now, says Gopal Datt||‘Tera Naam’ and ‘Mujhe Kuch Kehna Hai’ fame actor Gopal Datt has done a lot of memorable comic roles so far, and it took him nearly two decades to come of that genre. The felicitous change happened with the Emmy Award-winning OTT series ‘Delhi Crime’ where he played the role of a cop. Currently shooting in Lucknow, the actor said, “Unfortunately, there is a ‘bhed-chaal’ (herd mentality) in the industry that you get roles only in the genre that give you popularity. You are not offered work of your choice. ‘Delhi Crime’ changed that perception. Working with Richie Mehta (director), it has been one of my finest works and experiences so far.”He had been doing varied roles in the theatre but he was not getting that opportunity in films and TV. “That is why theatre is considered a lab where we can experiment. Earlier, the roles I was getting were on similar lines as everyone wants to play safe. To run your house and deposit EMI’s we need to work so cannot deny work and roles in the long run. As an actor, you do not have many options and have to choose from what you are offered,” Gopal said.The actor is now in a happy space. “Thankfully, like theatre, on OTT too, people have started experimenting, which is benefitting actors like us who were seen in a particular image. I am making an extra effort to explore different genres, and I am getting interesting roles too. Now, the spectrum is widening!”His versatile act in ‘A Simple Murder’ was hugely appreciated, describing which he said, “I will give credit to my director Sachin Pathak’s vision. There is a very thin line when comedy can do wrong, especially when you are playing a cop. I am glad that it all came out well, and the audience appreciated it. In this (current) series, Sachin has carved another interesting role for me.” His next work is set in his hometown Nainital. On coming to Lucknow once again, he said, “I have been regular to the city for work. I did a cameo here in ‘Jabaria Jodi’. Besides, I have done a couple of stage performances, including Repertwahr Festival and attended Sanatkada Festival twice. Since I have landed here, my diet has gone for a toss, and I am just relishing tasty Awadhi cuisines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/the-spectrum-is-widening-now-says-gopal-datt/story-gIeWBlKXRfIIhSqiWM8erO.html
21-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Manish Sisodia to launch AAP’s campaign for 2022 UP assembly elections in Lucknow on Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manish Sisodia to launch AAP’s ‘UP mission 2022’ in Lucknow on TuesdayDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will be visiting Uttar Pradesh’s capital city, Lucknow, on Tuesday to officially launch the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) campaign for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Read MoreIndia, Vietnam sign seven agreements during virtual summitIndia and Vietnam signed seven agreements for cooperation in areas such as defence, petrochemicals and nuclear energy and unveiled a joint vision for peace and prosperity against the backdrop of concerns in both countries about China’s aggressive actions across the region. Read MoreIndia’s leopard population increases by 60%, reaches 12,852: Govt reportThe population of leopard in India has increased by 60 per cent, according to a report released by the government on Monday. Read MoreSamsung Galaxy S21 wallpapers are available for download alreadySamsung is expected to launch the Samsung Galaxy S21 series smartphones in January. Ahead of the official launch, the internet has been brimming with various details about the upcoming smartphone series. Now, Samsung Galaxy S21 wallpapers have appeared online. Read MoreIndia vs Australia: ‘They’ll be embarrassed’ - Michael Hussey ‘hopes to see a response’ from India in MelbourneIndia’s batting performance in the second innings of the first Test in Adelaide left the cricketing world shocked. The No. 3-ranked Test team in the world, in a bid to extend their first-innings lead of 53, imploded. Read MoreGovinda burns the dance floor to Coolie No 1 song at birthday bash, Shakti Kapoor joins him. Watch videoGovinda threw a lavish party at his residence in Mumbai on Sunday night, to celebrate his 57th birthday. Pictures and videos of the celebrations are being widely shared online by fan clubs, and show the actor dancing to his popular tracks from Hero No 1 and Coolie No 1. Read MoreMan creates portrait of Rajkummar Rao using 500 Rubik’s cubes, actor shares clip on InstagramActor Rajkummar Rao re-shared a recording by Instagram user Sumeet Dwibedy on his story. The clip shows Dwibedy creating a portrait of Rao using 500 Rubik’s cubes. To say that the recording is awe-inspiring would be an understatement. Read MoreUS threat to India-Russia missile system deal? Envoy slams ‘unilateral sanction’December 21, 2020 marked the 10th anniversary of the elevation of India-Russia strategic partnership to special and privileged status. On the occasion, Russian ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev, and Deputy Chief of Mission, Roman Babushkin, commented on various facets of the relationship. WatchUS threat to India-Russia missile system deal? Envoy slams ‘unilateral sanction’December 21, 2020 marked the 10th anniversary of the elevation of India-Russia strategic partnership to special and privileged status. On the occasion, Russian ambassador to India, Nikolay Kudashev, and Deputy Chief of Mission, Roman Babushkin, commented on various facets of the relationship. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-manish-sisodia-to-launch-aap-s-campaign-for-2022-up-assembly-elections-in-lucknow-on-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DAU3GwyIg6l7J6v8azqxcJ.html
21-12-2020||India||BJP says Palaniswami is NDA’s CM candidate for poll-bound Tamil Nadu||After weeks of uncertainty, the dust seems to have settled over the chief ministerial (CM) candidate issue between alliance partners Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu. Responding to reporters on Monday, BJP state president L Murugan said ‘no more questions’ on this issue adding that the National Democratic Alliance will continue.The matter had escalated a day ago and Murguan clarified on Sunday night that, “Annan (brother in Tamil) Palaniswami is the chief minister of NDA in Tamil Nadu”.He, however, reiterated his earlier statements that it was for his party’s national leadership to make a formal announcement. “We have never said that we did not accept AIADMK’s decision,” Murugan told reporters in Thanjavur. BJP national president JP Nadda was expected to review the poll situation in Tamil Nadu at the end of the month and was likely to make official announcements but he had tested Covid-19 positive last week. “His visit has been postponed to mid-January,” a BJP functionary said.Backing him, former police officer turned BJP state vice-president, K Annamalai, told reporters in Coimbatore that as a national party it is the parliamentary committee that would make decisions. Annamalai who had criticised parties bribing voters with Rs 2,000 also clarified that media reports misinterpreted his comment as an attack on Palaniswami who issued a Pongal festival dole of Rs 2,500 to ration card holders.The AIADMK had in October announced chief minister and co-coordinator of the party Edappadi Palaniswami as its chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming 2021 polls. Palaniswami kicked off his party’s campaign on Saturday and a few hours later Murugan had told reporters that the national leadership will decide on the CM candidate and the leader of the alliance.This irked AIADMK leaders had rallied behind Palaniswami saying that only those who accepted his leadership can remain in the alliance. Party spokesperson Pugalendhi told reporters on Sunday that if such remarks continue, the BJP would have to replace Murugan.Palaniswami and deputy chief minister and party coordinator O Paneerselvam had announced that the AIADMK-BJP alliance will continue in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah. Since then there has been unease in the AIADMK camp as the BJP had previously not acknowledged Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate nor made any formal announcement on the alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-palaniswami-is-nda-s-cm-candidate-for-poll-bound-tamil-nadu/story-MQ93AlfSWmnbns2is3cXCL.html
21-12-2020||India||Owner of popular eatery ‘Baba ka Dhaba’ opens new restaurant in Delhi||Kanta Prasad, the owner of the small eatery ‘Baba ka Dhaba’ that was recently in the limelight on social media, on Monday opened a new restaurant in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar area. The new restaurant has also been named ‘Baba ka Dhaba’.  “We have opened a restaurant today which is near my small eatery. We will serve Indian and Chinese cuisines and have hired two chefs for the same. I will keep running my old eatery also,” Prasad said.  The 80-year-old said he has opened the restaurant at a rented accommodation.  Tushant Adlakha, a social worker who also works with Prasad, said the restaurant will start functioning from Wednesday. “Today, it was the opening of the restaurant. Prasad will take two days to set up the kitchen and from Wednesday, they will start serving food to customers. They have both dine-in and take away options. They have hired two chefs and the rest of their family members are helping in the restaurant,” Adlakha said. Prasad had shot to fame after a video of him tearfully talking about the financial distress he faced in the months since the lockdown was shot by a man and shared widely across social media platforms.Nearly a month after his video went viral, Prasad had filed a complaint against the YouTuber for alleged misappropriation of funds. In his complaint to police, Prasad had alleged that the man who shot and published the video “intentionally and deliberately shared only his and his family/friends bank details and mobile numbers with the donors and collected huge amount of donation... without providing any information to the complainant”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owner-of-popular-eatery-baba-ka-dhaba-opens-new-restaurant-in-delhi/story-IapoVaEvbGHMY0XJjJD9cM.html
21-12-2020||India||Flights from UK banned, Vistara offers ‘one-time free-of-charge’ rescheduling of booking||After the government on Monday temporarily banned flights from the United Kingdom over the new coronavirus strain, Vistara in a statement said it will enable one-time free-of-charge rescheduling of affected bookings to any date. The booking, the airline said, can be rescheduled to any date until December 31, 2021.Also Read | India suspends UK flights till December 31 over new variant of Covid-19“Vistara will comply with the government’s decision to suspend all flights originating from the UK to India. In order to minimize inconvenience to our customers, we will enable one-time free-of-charge rescheduling of affected bookings to any date until 31 December 2021,” a Vistara spokesperson said just hours after the Centre’s announcement of temporarily suspending flights from the United Kingdom from December 22 to December 31.A host of countries have banned flights from the UK over the new coronavirus strain. The list of countries includes those from Europe, as well as Canada, and now India. Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday said passengers arriving in India from the UK, on any international flight, shall be subjected to “mandatory” RT-PCR testing upon arrival. Earlier in the day, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan had urged people to not panic, adding that the government was “fully conscious about everything.”“I would say this to all that imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic…Don’t involve yourself in this,” the minister had said in a press conference.The new coronavirus strain was first detected in September. It has been shown to increase the spread of the disease in the labs but, thus far, there is no evidence to suggest it leads to more deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-from-uk-banned-vistara-offers-one-time-free-of-charge-rescheduling-of-booking/story-1bm2eYCBC6FbD3fb06H7fL.html
21-12-2020||India||India can inoculate priority groups against Covid by June 2021: Fitch Solutions||A vaccine against Covid-19 can cover priority groups in India by June next year if inoculation is quickly ramped up to roughly the same level as the 1 million coronavirus tests conducted each day in the country, Fitch Solutions said on Monday. “India’s role in the global Covid-19 vaccine rollout will be significant both as a recipient of the medicine as well as a producer,” Fitch said in a report. India, it said, has one of the largest vaccine manufacturing capacities in the world (including the largest vaccine producer – Serum Institute India, SII) and has secured authorisation to mass-produce the AstraZeneca, Novavax and Gamaleya Research Institute vaccines. With a population of 130 crore (and 9.4 crore over 65-year-olds), the domestic vaccination drive will be the largest in the world. “The country has a good track record of such drives with masses of the population regularly gaining inoculation for various diseases such as polio and cholera,” it said. India’s vaccine rollout will begin in first quarter of 2021 (January to March), with frontline healthcare workers and individuals over the age of 50 years gaining priority. Fitch said the government aims to vaccinate some 25 crore people over six-to-eight months, which is “a lofty goal”. “However, if India can quickly ramp up vaccinations to roughly the same level as the 1 million (10 lakh) Covid-19 tests it conducts each day, then we expect coverage across priority groups can be achieved by June 2021,” it said. Risks to this outlook include the sheer scale of the project and with relatively weak institutions and healthcare infrastructure, these challenges could result in a slower rollout than expected, it added. Access to Covid-19 vaccines is set to vary significantly across Asia depending on the advance purchase agreements a given country has reached with vaccine developers. Developed markets have generally purchased access to vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca, smaller countries with strong healthcare systems will have an advantage in rolling out vaccines. “Vaccine access for emerging markets is likely to be more varied with a larger role for supply from China and Russia and their state-developed vaccine candidates. We note that some markets have already begun mass vaccinations with limited Phase III trial data available,” Fitch said. It said multiple Covid-19 vaccines are expected by the end of first quarter of 2021. The first Covid-19 vaccine approval (based on Phase III data) was announced on December 2, 2020 by the UK’s medicine regulator MHRA. “We expect further approvals from various national regulators and for different vaccines over late 2020 and throughout 2021 as candidates reach clinical endpoints,” it said adding many of the vaccines use the same approach of targeting the spike protein of the virus structure - an approach that has shown to be successful so far. The initial distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, it said, is likely to be skewed towards wealthier nations in line with advance purchase agreements (APAs). “We believe this is largely due to the ability to pay and the commercially focussed approach adopted by the vaccine developers which will be the first to gain approval,” it said. “This theme also applies to Asia where some countries have secured access to vaccines while others have not.” For countries with confirmed supply, vaccinations are set to begin with priority populations made up of frontline healthcare workers, populations over 65 years of age, and those with underlying health conditions. Epidemiological data show that these groups (along with 50-65-year-olds) make up around 99 per cent of the preventable mortality from Covid-19 and a large proportion of hospitalisations. “We expect that, as these populations gradually reach protection, governments eager to return to economic normality will look to begin easing restrictions,” Fitch said. “Different countries will enact this easing at different paces depending on the progress of vaccine rollout.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-inoculate-priority-groups-against-covid-by-june-2021-fitch-solutions/story-ksBZS7IzJoDMa6uw4eugkI.html
21-12-2020||India||India, Vietnam sign seven agreements during virtual summit||India and Vietnam signed seven agreements for cooperation in areas such as defence, petrochemicals and nuclear energy and unveiled a joint vision for peace and prosperity against the backdrop of concerns in both countries about China’s aggressive actions across the region. Participating in a virtual summit with his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Vietnam as “an important pillar of India’s Act East policy and an important ally of our Indo-Pacific vision”. “We see our relationship with Vietnam from a long-term and strategic view. Peace, stability and prosperity are our common objectives in the Indo-Pacific region. Our partnership can contribute significantly to maintain stability and peace in the region,” Modi said. Nyugen Xuan Phuc said the upgrading of bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2016 had bolstered trust and bolstered understanding of other’s vision and interests on international issues. He said the Vietnamese side had aso agreed on India’s proposals for a further defence line of credit. Modi said the seven agreements signed by the two countries cover diverse issues such as defence, nuclear power, petrochemicals, renewable energy and treatment of cancer. “We are also taking new initiatives in the area of ​​our development cooperation and cultural conservation. All this shows the expansion and potential of our growing mutual cooperation,” he added. The meeting was held at a time when both countries are grappling with China’s aggressive actions in the region. India is locked in a military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while Vietnam has major differences over Chinese claims within its exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea. The two leaders released a joint vision document and a plan of action for bilateral engagements during 2021-23. “This joint vision for peace, prosperity and people will send a strong message to the world about the depth of our relationship,” Modi said. India’s is currently implementing a $100-million defence line of credit for 12 high speed patrol boats for Vietnam. The boats being built for the Vietnam Border Guard are meant to enhance coastal security and prevent illegal activities. Five vessels are being built at Larsen & Toubro’s shipyard in Chennai, and the rest will be made at Hong Ha shipyard in the Vietnamese port city of Hai Phong under the Indian firm’s supervision. Both countries also have stakes in the Indo-Pacific region and significant maritime interests, and the summit enabled them to look at potential cooperation on India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s Indo-Pacific outlook. India and Vietnam will also concurrently serve as non-permanent members of the UN Security Council from 2021, and this has opened up new opportunities for cooperation and coordination on regional and international issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vietnam-sign-seven-agreements-during-virtual-summit/story-O9TBrm7JWzAyxK4pwGz7fP.html
21-12-2020||India||Uttarakhand seeks approval for riverbed mining in forest area||The Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation ( UFDC) has sought clearance of forest area measuring 628.8 hectare (ha) for the renewal of sand and boulder mining in the state’s Song and Jakhan rivers in Dehradun district.In 2009, the union environment ministry had granted forest clearance to UFDC to mine over 1,325 ha of forest land in Dehradun district for ten years, which includes the area being proposed for mining again. According to UFDC’s proposal on the environment ministry’s Parivesh website, during monsoon, riverbed material got collected in the rivers which led to flooding. By extracting this material from the riverbed, flooding can be prevented.Also Read: Elephant dies after getting electrocuted in UttarakhandEnvironmental experts, however, said without a replenishment and carrying capacity study, continuous mining for decades could lead to erosion, degradation of ecology, change in river course, etc. “There is no replenishment study for these rivers where mining has been going on for decades. There is no district survey or mining plan either. The Uttarakhand government keeps saying that mining should be done to remove excess riverbed material and to prevent flooding but where is the study showing that mining can prevent flooding? It’s particularly worrying because this is forest land and there is very little monitoring of whether mining is carried out only in the area approved for mining and at the depth mentioned,” said Himanshu Thakkar, coordinator of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, a Delhi-based advocacy organisation.The environment ministry’s Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) and National Board for Wildlife had earlier sought cumulative impact assessment studies of impact on Uttarakhand’s rivers. “The state government shall conduct a study to ascertain the impact of mining upstream and downstream. The study shall come out with clear recommendations as to how such mining is useful in maintaining the natural flow of the river and health of adjoining forests. It should cover the impact of mining in the area for the last ten years. The study may correlate satellite imagery of the last ten years,” FAC had observed in April. It had added the government should also quantify how much sand and boulder can be mined annually.Uttarakhand’s application will be considered by the Forest Advisory Committee on Tuesday. The FAC will also consider the Ujh Multipurpose Hydel project in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district, involving submergence of 680 ha of forest land and 3,669.9 ha of non-forest land. According to Jammu and Kashmir State Power Development Corporation, the project has been planned to utilise the water resource potential of Ujh, a tributary of Ravi. The project has been declared a national project as it allows India to utilise its share of the Indus River system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seeks-approval-for-riverbed-mining-in-forest-area/story-ZbBylxD9MpXaATZqS6GmnI.html
21-12-2020||India||Russia working with India to jointly produce Sputnik V vaccine: Russian envoy||Russia is working with India to jointly produce Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine at Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for use in India, Russia and other countries, said Nikolay Kudashev, Russian Ambassador to India, on Monday.Speaking at the press briefing, the Ambassador said, “We are working very hard to fight Covid-19 together with India, and now advancing to jointly produce Sputnik V vaccine at the capacities of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to be used in India, Russia and other countries.”“A lot of efforts are aimed at coordination in the international arena, including World Health Organization and BRICS, where we have got an advanced healthcare mechanisms and initiatives, including Tuberculosis Network, Vaccine Research Center, Early Warning System to prevent the spread of infectious diseases,” he said.Highlighting that Russia is the “only foreign country so deeply involved in the Indian nuclear power sector, contributing to the national energy security,” the Ambassador said, “Our successful flagship project is the Russian-designed Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant in Tamil Nadu.”On the defence cooperation, he said, “Our unparalleled defence cooperation based on real exchange of technologies and joint ventures helps India to advance local production and expand its military export potential. We are working on co-development and co-production of equipment, components and spare parts, improving after-sales service system and deepening localization programmes.”Speaking on the next year’s Aero-India-2021, he said that Russia intends to be one of the biggest exhibitors wherein it will demonstrate Su-57, Su-35 and MiG-35 fighter jets, helicopters Ka-52, Ka-226, Mi-17B-5, Mi-26 as well S-400 and Buk systems and many other new items and equipment. He said, “As far as current deals are concerned, we are advancing well, including with S-400 supplies. If relevant decisions to start works related to Ka-226 helicopters and AK-203 rifles production are expedited, soon we will see good progress, which is especially important due to a deep interests expressed by the Indian armed forces.”On the interregional cooperation involving the vast potential of the Far East and the Arctic, he said that it is a “solid background to launch the bilateral forum of the regions of the two countries”. “Together we work to extend the use of national currencies in trade, to ensure an early conclusion of the India - Eurasian Economic Union FTA and reach USD 30 billion in mutual trade by 2025. Such areas as alternative payment systems and information security would certainly support expanding economic partnership. More opportunities will be open with the re-establishment of the direct Vladivostok-Chennai sea route and enhancing capacity of the North-South International Transport Corridor.”“Next year we will also mark the 60th anniversary of the first human space expedition by Yuri Gagarin as well as the 50th anniversary of the USSR-India Peace, Friendship and Cooperation Treaty among other important dates,” he noted.He further said that both countries have supported each other this year during the repatriation of thousands of Russian and Indian nationals to their respective home countries.Recalling the meetings held between India and Russia at multiple levels amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Kudashev said, “The Covid-19 did not stop our bilateral engagements, although it eventually affected the schedule of our contacts, including annual bilateral summit, which we expect to be held in 2021 along with other important high-level events including civil and defence inter-governmental commissions.”He said that the year 2020 is “remarkable” as the Russian-Indian strategic partnership crossed the 20th anniversary and “exactly 10 years ago - on December 21, 2010 - was elevated to the special and privileged status, which means a deep convergence of our bilateral and international interests as well as a great scope of a goodwill to combine efforts to deal with various challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-working-with-india-to-jointly-produce-sputnik-v-vaccine-russian-envoy/story-bstYTTmnCVBCdV25preClJ.html
21-12-2020||India||India’s leopard population increases by 60%, reaches 12,852: Govt report||The population of leopard in India has increased by 60 per cent, according to a report released by the government on Monday.The ‘Status of Leopard in India 2018’ report, released by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, said that India now has 12,852 leopards.“More than 60 per cent increase in population has been recorded over the previous estimate which was conducted in 2014,” Javadekar said after releasing the report. Released the "Status of Leopard in India 2018" report. Happy to announce that, India now has 12,852 leopards. More than 60% increase in population has been recorded over the previous estimate which was conducted in 2014. pic.twitter.com/k6I3o0Kg9hHe also mentioned the states which have the highest number of leopards.“Congratulations to the States of MP(3,421), Karnataka(1783) and Maharashtra(1690) who have recorded the highest leopard estimates. Increase in Tiger, Lion & Leopards population over the last few years is a testimony to fledgling wildlife & biodiversity,” Javadekar said on Twitter.Leopards are among the most adaptable carnivores, and are known to exist very close to human habitations.A study earlier this year had found four distinct sub-populations of leopards in India with high genetic variations - leopards of the Western Ghats, the Deccan Plateau semi-arid region, the Shivalik mountains, and the Terai region in North India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-leopard-population-increases-by-60-reaches-12-852-govt-report/story-Fl305wpjJ71nk9Cuer3duL.html
21-12-2020||India||Russia committed to develop ties with Pakistan, India shouldn’t have any concerns||Russia on Monday said it is committed to developing its relationship with Pakistan, though India should have no concern about such moves as they are within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and aimed at ensuring regional stability. Moscow’s efforts to develop relations with Islamabad fit in with the basic values of the strategic partnership between India and Russia, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev told a news briefing. His deputy, Roman Babushkin, said Russia’s ties with Pakistan are “independent in nature” and the two sides have a trade and economic agenda. “If you take a look at the substance of our ties with Pakistan and the priorities we are committed to, you could easily see they would correspond to the basic values of Russia and India, especially the privileged and strategic partnership – issues like regional stability, transparency, fighting terror, drugs and crime first and foremost,” Kudashev said in response to a question on a perceived uptick in ties between Moscow and Islamabad. Also Read: Russia understands India’s vision of Indo-Pacific, has concerns about Quad: Russian diplomatsEconomic cooperation between Russia and Pakistan, Kudashev said, is a key to progress and predictability. “Our ties with Pakistan are naturally no exception to the values of our ties with India,” he added. Babushkin said India should not be worried about Russia’s commitment to respect the sensitivities of any other country. “Russia is very cautious when it comes to respect of sensitivities but at the same time we regard our relations with Pakistan are independent in nature and we also have a bilateral trade and economic agenda. We are quite committed to developing this relationship further, including from the point of view of Pakistan being a partner country in the framework of the SCO,” he said. “The basic principle of Russian foreign policy is to have bilateral relations not aimed against any other country. This is the very important principle we are following when it comes to cooperation with every country in the world, including Pakistan,” he added. Babushkin said a recent exercise between the Russian and Pakistani armies focused on counter-terrorism. “Such kind of collaboration, including experience sharing and capacity-building, is quite natural for all SCO member states. We have reached an advanced level of exercises with India including the three services...All of that is important from the point of view of how we proceed to ensure regional stability. Promoting dialogue and a unified agenda are also instrumental for the same reasons,” he said. India has in the past expressed concerns about possible arms deals between Russia, the supplier of a majority of weapon systems used by Indian armed forces, and Pakistan. In response to an another question, Babushkin said Russia and India closely consult each other on the situation in Afghanistan. The current negotiations between the Taliban and the US are being done on the basis of agreements between the two sides. Russia wants these negotiations to be successful and lead to a “forward-looking solution in Afghanistan” so that the war-torn country can have a “maximum possible representative government” takes care of the interests of all national and ethnic groups, Babushkin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-committed-to-develop-ties-with-pakistan-india-shouldn-t-have-any-concerns-russian-diplomat/story-LMJKupW1yAHzGGoV6bhllO.html
21-12-2020||India||Two PDP leaders detained in Kashmir, says Mehbooba Mufti; officials tight-lipped||Two senior Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) leaders were detained in Kashmir on Monday, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said. Mufti termed the arrests as having taken place in “gunda raj”.Total lawlessness as PDPs Sartaj Madni & Mansoor Hussain have been arbitrarily detained today on the eve of DDC election results. Every senior police officer here is clueless as it is ‘upar say order’. No rule of law in J&K anymore. It is out & out Gunda Raj.Mufti said the officials in J&K administration are clueless about the detention of the PDP leaders. With these two detentions, so far three senior PDP leaders have been detained in Kashmir over the past one month. The PDP youth president Waheed ur Rehman Parra was arrested by National Investigation Agency (NIA) last month.Since Monday morning, sources had been saying that senior leaders, Sartaj Madni and former legislator Mansoor Hussain Pir had been detained by a central agency. While officials are tight-lipped about these arrests, and their reasons, Mufti has confirmed the detention of two leaders on her official Twitter handle.Also Read: National Conference assails ED action against Farooq Abdullah, terms it political vendettaMufti tweeted, “Total lawlessness as PDPs Sartaj Madni & Mansoor Hussain have been arbitrarily detained today on the eve of DDC election results. Every senior police officer here is clueless as it is ‘upar say order’. No rule of law in J&K anymore. It is out & out Gunda Raj.”The detention of two PDP leaders has taken place a day before the counting for the 280 district development council seats across J&K is to be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-pdp-leaders-detained-in-kashmir-says-mehbooba-mufti-officials-tight-lipped/story-zEtvAZfF2D5k8zq0ES5qAJ.html
21-12-2020||India||Shigella bacterial infection contained in Kozhikode, says Kerala health department||The Kerala health department said on Monday that the shigella bacterial infection detected in some areas of Kozhikode district in north Kerala has been brought under control and no fresh case has been reported in the last 24 hours.The health department has taken many measures including super chlorination of water bodies and organised several health camps after the disease claimed the life of an 11-year-old boy last week. “The situation is under control. No fresh case has been reported in the last 24 hours,” said district medical officer V Jayashree adding the alert will continue in the district for some more time. She said most of the suspected cases have been discharged and now only two children are in the hospital. Health experts said contaminated water sources triggered the infection and a clear picture will emerge by next week after several rounds of lab tests. At least 54 people with mild symptoms were identified during a medical camp on Saturday. The department of community medicine at Kozhikode medical college hospital has also started an inquiry.Medical experts said the shigella bacteria triggers an infection called shigellosis and it can cause serious trouble to patients suffering from co-morbid conditions. Usually diarrhoea, often containing blood or mucus in stool, stomach pain, cramps, fever and vomiting are the main symptoms of shigellosis. An infected person shows minor symptoms in a day to two but it may take a week or so to show acute symptoms. Children below 10 years are prone to contract the infection, though elderly can also get infected, experts said adding patients with underlying medical conditions may require heavy dose of antibiotics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shigella-bacterial-infection-contained-in-kozhikode-says-kerala-health-department/story-E6gbfHuqlcsAaZI6afyEWL.html
21-12-2020||India||Modi to release next tranche of PM-Kisan, chat with farmers virtually on Christmas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next tranche of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, making payments worth Rs18,000 crore to 80 million farmers and also chat with them virtually on Christmas Day, the agriculture ministry has said. Modi had released the first tranche in 2019 and will do so again at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting three agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods. The government says the reforms will give farmers more market access and boost investment in the farm sector. “It will be a freewheeling conversation. The Prime Minister is likely to talk about the new farm laws and how they will benefit farmers,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Under PM-Kisan, the government provides income support of Rs6,000 a year to farmers with valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of Rs2,000, once every four months. It was launched on February 24 2019, when the first instalment was paid. Also Read: Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik todayThe Prime Minister will most likely ask them impromptu questions on how they have benefited from the scheme and “take a briefing from them on what they are growing and what else they want to see done for them ahead of the budget”, the official said. Farmers from all over the country will be connected online for the interaction, according to the official. The Prime Minister also intends to receive feedback on the ground realities of farming, he said. The Modi government has ramped up its outreach to stanch a massive ongoing agitation by thousands of farmers who have encircled Delhi, calling for scrapping a set of farm reform laws. PM Modi has frequently been explaining the benefits of the farm reforms and assuring farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue. “Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has expressed his feelings by writing a letter to the farmer brothers and sisters, attempting to have a polite dialogue. I request all the farmers to read it,” PM Modi had tweeted on Thursday. Cash transfers under the programme take place every four months: December to March, April to July and August to November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-release-cash-chat-with-farmers-explain-farm-laws-on-christmas/story-vMQqevM1ecH94RnitQYUNK.html
21-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: SC breather for women army officers denied permanent commission and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army’s women officers denied permanent commission get SC breather as Centre refuses to relax medical criteriaIn a breather for women short service commission (SSC) officers in the Army who were denied permanent commission on medical grounds and merit, the Supreme Court has asked the Centre not to relieve them from service till their issue comes up before the court next on January 18. Read moreS-400 deal ‘advancing well’ despite US threat of sanctions: Russian ambassadorRussia’s ongoing deals with India for military hardware, including for S-400 air defence systems, are “advancing well” despite the threat of potential US sanctions, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said. Read moreAfter wait of 28 years, verdict in Sister Abhaya murder case tomorrowAfter a wait of 28 years, the verdict in the suspicious death of 19-year-old sister Abhaya in a convent in Kottayam in 1992 will be pronounced by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Their only chance to win was in Adelaide,’ Former Australia wicketkeeper feels India will struggle to recover from crushing defeatFormer wicketkeeper Brad Haddin feels India’s best chance to win a Test match against Australia in the series was in the first Test at Adelaide, and now that the visitors have suffered a crushing eight-wicket loss in the opener, India will struggle to recover. Read moreAntim first look: Salman Khan gets a worthy opponent in a bulked-up Aayush Sharma, watch their epic fightSalman Khan and Aayush Sharma are set to take us on a heart-thumping ride in Mahesh Manjrekar’s Antim: The Final Truth. The first look of the film was unveiled on Monday afternoon and it sees the two actors in an epic face-off. Read moreAudi India opens bookings for the all-new 2021 A4 sedanAudi India today announced that it has commenced bookings for its fifth-generation A4 with an an initial booking amount of ₹2 lakhs. The bookings can be made online as well as across all Audi dealerships in the country. Read moreShilpa Shetty Kundra suggests refreshing Yoga exercises to stretch and strengthen your backAnother Monday, another dose of motivation from Shilpa Shetty Kundra which fitness fans look intently forward to. As a part of her routinely Monday motivation, Shilpa showed how to give a “perfect start to the week” by giving your back “some much-needed stretching & strengthening” with Yoga asanas, as you work from home. Read moreThe great conjunction: Jupiter hi-fives Saturn in Google’s special doodle, NASA shares tweet tooToday on December 21, a rare phenomenon is set to take place. Along with the occasion of Winter Solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, the planets Jupiter and Saturn will come extremely close to each other. Read more‘Who are they going to campaign for?’: Sanjay Raut on Ram Temple fund driveShiv Sena leader Sanjay raut has lashed out at the BJP over the fund collection drive for Ram temple in Ayodhya. This comes after Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai earlier said the trust is going to start a mass contact and contribution campaign across the country for construction of the temple. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sc-provides-breather-to-army-s-women-officers-denied-permanent-commission-and-all-the-latest-news/story-LmUhW5jo637pvOT7X1aNOK.html
21-12-2020||India||Mandatory RT-PCR tests for passengers arriving from UK, announces civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri||As India on Monday temporarily suspended flights from the United Kingdom till December 31 over the discovery of a new coronavirus strain there, Union civil aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that as an interim measure, all passengers arriving from the UK on all international flights shall be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival.Also Read | India suspends flights to and from UK till December 31 over new variant of Covid-19“We have decided to take all necessary precautions as a result of the situation arriving out of the spread of a new strain of coronavirus in some countries. All flights originating from UK into India will be suspended temporarily from 22 Dec to 31 Dec 2020,” Puri tweeted on Monday. “In the interim, it has been decided that passengers arriving from UK on all international flights (flights in transit) should be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival,” he added. In the interim, it has been decided that passengers arriving from UK on all international flights (flights in transit) should be subjected to mandatory RT PCR tests on arrival.“Those found positive on arrival should be sent for institutional quarantine set up by state/UT govts, in collaboration with the states/UTs concerned. Those found negative should be advised to isolate at home for 7 days and will be medically monitored by the states/UTs,” the minister posted in a subsequent tweet.The discovery of the new coronavirus strain in the UK, which earlier this month became the first country to start a vaccination drive in emergency cases, has sent countries scrambling to ban flights from there. A whole host of countries, including several from Europe and now including India as well, have announced flight bans from the UK.India had put domestic and international flights under suspension in March, when the first national lockdown was announced. In May, domestic flights were given permission to resume operations and have picked up steam since then. International travel, however, remains suspended. The government has been repatriating Indian nationals from abroad under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission and has set up air travel bubbles with several countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-rt-pcr-tests-for-passengers-arriving-from-uk-announces-civil-aviation-minister-hardeep-singh-puri/story-KB2XonLnBd6i8fVHK5a6YL.html
21-12-2020||India||PM Modi condoles Motilal Vora’s death, says the Congress leader had vast political and organisational experience||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday condoled the passing away of senior Congress leader Motilal Vora. The Prime Minister said that he is saddened by Vora’s demise.“Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi said on Twitter. Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti: PM @narendramodiVora died at a hospital in Delhi on Monday. He was 93. The Congress leader had recently recovered from Covid-19.A former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and a former governor of Uttar Pradesh, Vora served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer for 16 years till 2018 when the important organisational post was handed over to another senior leader Ahmed Patel. Patel died in a Gurugram hospital on November 25 after having tested positive for Covid-19 in October.Vora will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where his body will be taken either today or on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-motilal-vora-s-death-says-the-congress-leader-had-vast-political-and-organisational-experience/story-W3AqPqwzf2vMamH92u7EGN.html
21-12-2020||India||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora passes away||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora passed away in Delhi on Monday, a day after he celebrated his 93rd birthday. Vora, who had recovered from Covid-19 in October, was admitted to Delhi’s Escorts Hospital after he complained of breathlessness on December 19. A journalist by profession, he worked with Navbharat Times as its correspondent in Bombay (now Mumbai), then served with Navbharat in Nagpur and Raipur and later with Nagpur Times in Nagpur. Having held one of the most important organisational post of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer for nearly two decades, Vora was appointed as the general secretary in charge of administration in 2018. Watch l Motilal Vora passes away at 93; President, PM Modi & others pay tribute This is when another senior leader Ahmed Patel took over as the AICC treasurer and held the post till his death on November 25 this year. He died of post-Covid complications in a Gurugram hospital. In a party reshuffle carried out by Congress president Sonia Gandhi in September this year, Vora was not given any party responsibility in view of his advancing age. A former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and a former governor of Uttar Pradesh, Vora, a Gandhi family loyalist, was known for his relations across political spectrum. He would often recall his “bumpy” car journey that led to greater familiarity with former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee while on a tour from Lucknow to a remote village in the state during his term as the Uttar Pradesh governor from 1993-1996. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati made it a point to greet the veteran Congress leader whenever she saw him in the Rajya Sabha. It was Vora who had recommended removal of Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav from the chief minister’s post on June 3, 1995, a day after the infamous “Guest House” episode. Armed SP leaders and workers tried to assault Mayawati who locked herself in a room in a bid to escape the attack. On the same day, Mayawati took oath as the chief minister with the outside support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Janata Dal. A two-term Madhya Pradesh chief minister – first from 1985 to 1988 and later in 1989, Vora also served as the union health minister in the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s cabinet in 1988-89. He retired as a Rajya Sabha member from Chhattisgarh in April this year. During his four terms in the Rajya Sabha, Vora was appreciated for his attendance and participation. Congress leaders would often quote Vora’s tips for discretion which made him ideal for the AICC treasurer’s post. “No one should be able to find any piece of paper in your office when you leave for the day,” he once told a young Congress functionary. As AICC treasurer, Vora apart from managing the finances of the grand old party would also decide on allocating the rooms at the party headquarters at Delhi’s 24, Akbar Road. It was well-known in party circles that Vora kept a strict vigil on the party functionaries at the Congress office. Political leaders cutting across party lines condoled his death., Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was saddened by his death and remembered him as a leader with vast administrative and organisational experience. “Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti,” he tweeted. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said he was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. “Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much. My love & condolences to his family and friends,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-congress-leader-motilal-vora-passes-away/story-dbu1jnSqVz5kbkpehlolWM.html
21-12-2020||India||Army’s women officers denied permanent commission get SC breather as Centre refuses to relax medical criteria||In a breather for women short service commission (SSC) officers in the Army who were denied permanent commission on medical grounds and merit, the Supreme Court has asked the Centre not to relieve them from service till their issue comes up before the court next on January 18.Of 615 women SSC officers who applied for permanent commission, only 422 were selected on merit by a special 5 Selection Board (SB-5) that met in September this year. Further, on medical scrutiny, only 277 were declared fit causing more heartburn for the women officers who fought a long-drawn legal battle for 15 years till the Supreme Court on February 17, 2020 directed the Army to treat women SSC officers at par with their male counterparts for getting permanent commission (PC) and command roles in Army’s non-combat streams.Also Read: Military Literature Festival: ‘Armed forces are true reflection of unity in diversity’Close to 60 women SSC officers had approached the Supreme Court against the criteria adopted by the Selection Board in arriving at its decision. The officers demanded stay on any action to be taken by Army pursuant to the decision of the SB-5. Moving an application on their behalf, advocate Archana Pathak Dave said, “The non-grant of PC is on the ground that they are not falling in ‘merit’. The term merit is not defined and the parameters assessing/yardstick applicable on such merit are vague and unknown in absence of a policy for granting PC to women officers.”On December 18, the bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee took up their application and asked the Army and Ministry of Defence whether any action was intended before it takes up the matter in January. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain said, “We are not going to precipitate the matter.” Jain informed the court that the process of relieving a SSC officer takes two or three months and nothing will happen in the meantime. On this understanding, the bench posted the matter for hearing on January 18.While the order of the court has come as a temporary relief for the aggrieved women SSC officers, they must prepare for a long legal battle as the Army is adamant that no review of the SB-5 decision or relaxation in medical criteria for women SSC officers not found to be in top shape (SHAPE-1 category) is possible. The Army filed an affidavit in Supreme Court on December 14 stating that medical criterion of an Army officer is an “intrinsic and inseparable” part of the process for grant of PC.“The medical standards in the Army are a direct derivative of the job requirements of an Army personnel. To accept any dilution of these standards amounts to accepting a lowering of the operational capabilities of the Army, which may lead to catastrophic results for the security and sovereignty of the nation,” stated the affidavit dated December 14 filed by Colonel Sachidananda Prabhu working as Colonel Military Secretary (Legal) at Army Headquarters.The affidavit has further stated that the February 2020 decision of the apex court required the Army to treat women SSC officers at par with male SSC officers. “Same criteria of medical fitness as applicable to all male officers is being applied to women officers. Petitioners on one hand seek to be treated at par with male counterparts. However, on the other hand, seek special and unjustified treatment in the eligibility conditions.”Among the 422 found eligible by the selection board, 57 officers opted out of PC, leaving only 365 women SSC officers to be scrutinised on medical criteria. One-third of the women who applied for PC were aged above 40.Responding to the petitioners’ demand to relax medical criteria, the Army said, “Any disease arising out of physiological changes due to childbirth such as obesity are age and gender independent….The Army can perform its mandated task if the officers at the helm of affairs and the troops who execute the tasks are in good medical condition, so that their medical, cognitive and physical faculties are undiminished.” Due to this reason, women SSC officers joining in the non-combat arm of the Army Medical Corps (AMC) till the age of 45 years are put through the same rigor requiring them to be in top medical category of Shape-1, the affidavit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-s-women-officers-denied-permanent-commission-get-sc-breather-as-centre-refuses-to-relax-medical-criteria/story-f2NY8vgsbsfFbxP8o2OtdM.html
21-12-2020||India||India suspends UK flights till December 31 over new variant of Covid-19||The Centre on Monday issued an order to suspend all flights to and from the United Kingdom between December 23 and December 31, joining a host of countries that are also doing so following the discovery of a new variant of the Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which is believed to spread faster than its previous strains.The ministry of civil aviation on Monday also noted passengers from all transit flights arriving from UK scheduled to reach India by December 22 will be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival.Also Read: Delhi CM Kejriwal asks for ban on flights from UK ahead of Centre’s meeting on new coronavirus strain“Considering the prevailing situation in UK, the government of India has decided that all flights originating from UK to India shall be temporarily suspended till December 31, 2020 (11.59pm). This suspension will start from 11.59pm, December 22, 2020,” the ministry announced.“As a measure of precaution, passengers arriving from UK in all transit flights (flights that have taken off or flights which are reaching India before December 22) should be subject to mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival at the airports concerned,” it added.Watch l New Covid strain: India bans flights from UK; govt says ‘no need to panic’ Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said that passengers who test positive will be sent for institutional quarantine.“Those found positive on arrival should be sent for institutional quarantine set up by state/UT govts, in collaboration with the states/UTs concerned. Those found negative should be advised to isolate at home for 7 days & will be medically monitored by the States/UTs,” he tweeted.We have decided to take all necessary precautions as a result of the situation arising out of the spread of a new strain of coronavirus in some countries. All flights originating from U.K into India will be suspended temporarily from 22 Dec to 31 Dec 2020. @PMOIndia @HMOIndia https://t.co/Pn6mxKL1zMThe decision has been taken amid concerns over a new strain of the coronavirus that is feared to be more contagious, which forced at least five countries on Sunday to ban travel from the United Kingdom, with several others considering similar restrictions.The new coronavirus variant has prompted the UK government to impose a tier 4 lockdown across the country and tighten restrictions across England, especially during the festival season.India’s announcement on Monday came after a meeting called by the Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) chaired by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS) to assess the threat from the new variant.The government may review the suspension period after December.“ We have imposed a 10-day suspension on flights to and from the UK after a thorough review by the government. We will reassess the suspension period as per the situation prevailing in the country later,” an aviation ministry official said. The development came days after London confirmed that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had accepted India’s invite to be the chief guest at the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi on January 26. The travel curbs also compound problems for the UK as it is finally set to exit the European Union on December 31.India has been operating international flights through established transport bubbles with 23 countries, including the UK thus far, and the Vande Bharat Mission since May while regular operations remain suspended since March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-suspends-flights-to-and-from-uk-till-december-31-over-new-variant-of-covid-19/story-lP48ePZNSvNpCQh4XOOYMI.html
21-12-2020||India||Mumbai Metro land row: Pawar speaks to CM Thackeray, Fadnavis||NCP president Sharad Pawar has spoken to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis over Kanjurmarg Metro car shed land dispute in Mumbai and may take up the issue with the Centre to resolve it, sources said on Monday.Thackeray on Sunday said he is open to a resolution of the land row through dialogue with the Centre and asserted it is not an “ego issue” for him.According to the sources, Pawar spoke to Thackeray and Fadnavis separately on Sunday.“Pawar saheb has spoken to the chief minister and Devendra Fadnavis separately over the issue,” a source said.“The Salt Commissioner comes under the central government. So, Pawar may also take up the issue with the Centre, seeking resolution,” the source added.The Bombay High Court last week stayed the order passed by Mumbai suburban district collector allotting 102 acres of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg area here for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed.The HC also restrained the authorities from carrying out any construction work at the said land.The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the Metro car shed which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony, a green belt in suburban Goregaon.The previous Fadnavis-led government in the state had decided to construct the car shed for the Mumbai Metro line 3 at the Aarey Colony, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project.The present Thackeray-led MVA government, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, recently took a decision to shift the car shed from the Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-metro-land-row-pawar-speaks-to-cm-thackeray-fadnavis/story-qde4chxPZEqPyjAhtsJsRJ.html
21-12-2020||India||S-400 deal ‘advancing well’ despite US threat of sanctions: Russian ambassador||Russia’s ongoing deals with India for military hardware, including for S-400 air defence systems, are “advancing well” despite the threat of potential US sanctions, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said on Monday. There can be “good progress” if decisions related to the procurement of Ka-226 helicopters and production of AK-203 assault rifles are expedited, and Russia is prepared to share the most advanced technologies with India in line with the “Make in India” and “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives, Kudashev told a news briefing. His remarks came against the backdrop of the US imposing sanctions last on Turkey over its $2.5-billion deal with Russia for the S-400 air defence system under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). US officials have warned that India’s acquisition of hi-tech Russian systems could attract similar sanctions. “As far as current deals [are] concerned, we are advancing well, including with S-400 supplies. If relevant decisions to start works related to Ka-226 helicopters and AK-203 rifles production are expedited, soon we will see good progress, which is especially important due to deep interests expressed by the Indian armed forces,” Kudashev said. Also Read: Russia understands India’s vision of Indo-Pacific, has concerns about Quad: Russian diplomatsIndia and Russia signed a $5.4-billion deal for five S-400 systems in October 2018, and the first batch is expected to be delivered by the end of 2021. All deliveries will be completed in a five-year period. Asked specifically about the threat of US secondary sanctions against India under CAATSA, Kudashev said Russia, like India, doesn’t recognise sanctions other than those imposed by the UN Security Council. Roman Babushkin, chargé d’affaires at the Russian embassy, described US secondary sanctions on arms purchases from Russia as “illegal tools of unfair competition and pressure”. Kudashev said both Russia and India are disciplined members of international arms control regimes and their bilateral military-technical cooperation will not introduce “any threat to the regional balance”. “As far as sanctions are concerned, it’s hard to predict and let the Biden administration first announce publicly its plans and foreign policy vision. We do not recognise or welcome unilateral sanctions as a tool...of interstate or international relations, sanctions other than those applied by the UN Security Council, this is also the case of Turkey,” he said. “As far as India is concerned, we share the same platform. India’s position is crystal clear – no sanctions are acknowledged other than those applied by the UN Security Council. Whatever the future is, we believe that our ties will stand the coming challenges,” he added. Kudashev said the “unparalleled defence cooperation” between India and Russia is based on “real exchange of technologies and joint ventures helps India to advance local production and expand its military export potential”. The two sides are working on co-development and co-production of equipment, components and spare parts, improving the after sales service system and deepening localisation programmes. Russia is also looking forward to participating in Aero-India 2021, where it will showcase the Su-57, Su-35 and MiG-35 combat jets, Ka-52, Ka-226, Mi-17B-5 and Mi-26 helicopters, and the S-400 and Buk missile systems. “We are ready to share almost everything we have, doubly so since the Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiatives and the emergence of the military-technical economic corridors in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh create especially favourable conditions. There are no obstacles to our cooperation,” Kudashev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-400-deal-advancing-well-despite-us-threat-of-sanctions-russian-ambassador/story-7QtNiyHXkZIAVpqIhJK8MI.html
21-12-2020||India||Congress veteran Motilal Vora passes away at the age of 93 in Delhi||Senior Congress leader Motilal Vora passed away at a Delhi hospital due to post Covid-19 complications on Monday. He was 93.He breathed his last at Fortis Escort Hospital in the national capital. Vora was admitted to the hospital a few days ago with a urinary infection. He also had a lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said.He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh where his body will be taken either later in the day or on Tuesday. A former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Vora was a Rajya Sabha member from Chhattisgarh. He has also served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer for 16 years till 2018. The post was handed over to another senior leader Ahmed Patel after a reshuffle by the Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Watch l Motilal Vora passes away at 93; President, PM Modi & others pay tribute Patel died in a Gurugram hospital on November 25 after having tested positive for Covid-19 in October. Vora’s death Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was “among the senior-most Congress leaders who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades.”“Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi wrote in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-veteran-moti-lal-vohra-passes-away/story-EUHQ7Z5qS7yQedvrR5cEHP.html
21-12-2020||India||After wait of 28 years, verdict in Sister Abhaya murder case tomorrow||After a wait of 28 years, the verdict in the suspicious death of 19-year-old sister Abhaya in a convent in Kottayam in 1992 will be pronounced by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.A day before the crucial verdict in nun murder case, main witness in the case K Rajau, alias Adakka Raju, told a Malayalam news channel Asianet that he was tortured for days together to own up to the crime by police officers. Raju, a small-time robber, was present on the convent premises when the incident took place. Later, he reportedly told CBI officials that he saw two priests and a nun at the convent under mysterious circumstances. “I suffered a lot. I got big promises to own up to the crime, but I refused to budge. I want truth to come out,” he told the news channel. The CBI had charge-sheeted Catholic priest Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sefi in the case. They were charged with murder, destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy and other charges. Another accused Father Jose Poothrukayil was let off by the court last year after it found there was no evidence against him. Sister Abhaya, a plus-two student, was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam. It was initially ruled as case of suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was a murder. Many witnesses had turned hostile during the trial and a flurry of petitions in various courts delayed case proceedings.According to the CBI charge-sheet, on the day of the incident Abhaya got up early for her studies and went to the kitchen to wash her face. There she reportedly witnessed some alleged two priests and a nun in a compromising position. She was killed fearing that she might tell others, said the CBI. She was first attacked with an axe, the CBI added, and later dumped in the well. Despite the heat that the case generated, the church stood with the accused saying “they were innocent”.At first, Kerala police investigated the case and ruled it a suicide. Later, the crime branch also shared the same view. Following a huge uproar, the case was then handed over to the CBI.The premier investigation agency filed three three reports in the case. It called it a case of “homicidal suicide” in the first report, which was rejected by the court and a fresh investigation was ordered. In the second report, it said the agency could not establish beyond doubt whether it was a suicide or murder. In the last report it filed in 2008, it said it was a murder and arrested three persons: two priests and a nun. Later a priest, Jose Poothrukayil, was absolved of all charges before the final trial.The case was delayed inordinately as it meandered through various levels of the judiciary. Besides the murder case, the court will also deliver its verdict on some of the witnesses who turned hostile.Last month the Union government had extended the service of CBI SP Nandakumar Nair, who investigated this case, including many others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-wait-of-28-years-verdict-in-sister-abhaya-murder-case-tomorrow/story-KxWplcqgKM14NJtOjCjrcK.html
21-12-2020||India||Tell me the place and time: Sisodia to BJP leader’s offer over debate on Uttarakhand’s development||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday accepted the offer of Uttarakhand cabinet minister Madan Kaushik for a discussion on the development works done by the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in the hill state.“I’m happy that Uttarakhand minister Madan Kaushik ji has accepted the challenge and offered to debate on the development works in the field of Education, Health, Power, Water, Employment undertaken by the chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. I request him to tell me the place and time for the discussion,” the AAP minister tweeted. मुझे ख़ुशी है कि उत्तराखंड में वरिष्ठ कैबिनेट मंत्री @madankaushikbjp जी ने शिक्षा, स्वास्थ्य, बिजली, पानी, रोज़गार पर मुख्यमंत्री @tsrawatbjp जी के काम पर खुली बहस का निमंत्रण दिया है. मा. मदन जी से मेरा अनुरोध है कि वे समय और स्थान तय करके बता दें मैं चर्चा के लिए आना चाहूँगा. pic.twitter.com/zyKnDsvh5dSisodia had on Saturday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress and said the parties had looted the hill state for 20 years. The AAP leader, who was on a visit to the hill state’s capital of Dehradun for the first time, said both the parties did nothing for the development of Uttarakhand. During a media interaction in Dehradun, Sisodia challenged Rawat for an open debate, saying he should name five development works that he undertook since the inception of his tenure in 2017. Sisodia was on a two-day visit to the state.“I have been to Uttarakhand a few times and have met people there. They have complained that state CM Trivendra Singh Rawat hasn’t done anything. They are calling him ‘zero work chief minister’,” the deputy chief minister of Delhi was quoted by ANI saying on Monday.Also Read | ‘Government of zero work’: Manish Sisodia slams Uttarakhand CMSisodia also said that his party will contest assembly polls in Uttarakhand in 2022 as he claimed that the people are looking for a change and they are ‘disappointed’ with both the BJP and Congress. ANI also cited him saying that the party chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has decided to contest all 70 seats in the Uttarakhand assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tell-me-the-place-and-time-sisodia-to-bjp-leader-s-offer-over-debate-on-uttarakhand-s-development/story-AWfvX8w6YaypoX8gcMrHNL.html
21-12-2020||India||India temporarily suspends flights from UK over mutant coronavirus strain||India on Monday temporarily suspended flight services from the United Kingdom in the wake of the deadly strain of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) emerging there.The suspension will come into effect on December 22 and will remain in place till December 31.“Considering the prevailing situation in the UK, Indian govt has decided that all flights originating from the UK to India shall be temporarily suspended till 11:59 pm, 31st December. This suspension to start w.e.f. 11.59 pm, 22nd December,” the civil aviation ministry said in a statement.The ministry further said that as a measure of abundant precaution, passengers arriving from the UK in all transit flights (flights that have taken off or flights which are reaching India before 22nd Dec at 23.59 hrs) should be subject to mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival at the airports concerned.The United Kingdom stood shut off from the rest of Europe on Monday after allies cut transport ties over fears of a new coronavirus strain.France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, Belgium, Israel and Canada were among those that shut off travel ties after Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned that a highly infectious new strain of the virus was a danger to the country.The pound fell more than 2 cents to $1.3279 and the FTSE 100 fell 2% at the open, with travel companies such as British Airways-owner IAG tumbling 15%. The yield on 2-year UK gilts hit a record low.The new strain of the virus - which accounts for one-third of the current cases in London - is believed to be 70% more infectious that the other strains in circulation. The United Kingdom announced a surprise lockdown in London and other parts of the country amid the surge in cases due to the new strain of the virus.The new strain of the virus was first detected in September and has been shown to increase the spread of the disease in labs. So far, there is no evidence to suggest that it leads to more deaths.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-temporarily-suspends-flights-from-uk-over-mutant-coronavirus-strain/story-BrFfSvfEa9pPhOOzPruAfL.html
21-12-2020||India||Suvendu Adhikari meets Bengal Speaker, says resignation as MLA accepted||Suvendu Adhikari, who recently quit as Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker, said on Monday that his resignation as MLA has been accepted by Speaker Biman Banerjee. The Speaker had asked Adhikari to appear before him today.“Assembly speaker had called me regarding my resignation as MLA of the House. Today, I met him... I was told my resignation has been accepted,” said Adhikari, newly-inducted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.“Suvendu Adhikari appeared before me today & told me that he resigned without being under anyone else’s influence. I am satisfied that his resignation is voluntary & genuine. I accept his resignation with immediate effect,” said the Speaker.Adhikari, a former TMC minister and MLA, quit all posts and had switched over to the saffron camp last week. He had submitted his resignation as MLA at the Assembly secretariat on December 16. The speaker was not present in the House at that time.TMC minister Subrata Mukherjee on Sunday said that there was no need to raise a hue and cry over the recent defections from the party, as “traitors and backstabbers have existed since time immemorial”.Addressing a press meet, Mukherjee, the state panchayat minister, said his party is neither shocked nor crestfallen, as such desertions “wouldn’t have any impact” on assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May.Union home minister Amit Shah, who was in Bengal on a two-day visit, said on Sunday that the Trinamool Congress’ ‘Ma, Mati aur Manush’ slogan is non-existent now and it is limited to being a family party today.“Mamata Banerjee started with ‘Ma, Mati aur Manush’ slogan. But this slogan is not to be seen anywhere today because of appeasement policy and dictatorship. TMC is limited to being a family party today,” Shah said at a press conference here.“Instead of being concerned about the 10 crore people of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is concerned about making her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) the chief minister of West Bengal,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suvendu-adhikari-meets-bengal-speaker-says-resignation-as-mla-accepted/story-vSDGc9UaDbV6F3megOWXeJ.html
21-12-2020||India||Prashant Kishor spotlights BJP’s ‘struggle’ in Bengal polls, party reacts||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday threw a challenge at the BJP after its acquisition of Trinamool leaders during Amit Shah’s two-day visit to the state over the weekend. Kishor, roped in last year by Mamata Banerjee for her Bengal campaign, said the BJP will “struggle to cross double digits” and promised to quit this “space” if the party did better than he predicted. Speculation on what he meant by “space” has been building. “For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in #WestBengal. PS: Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!” Kishor tweeted. BJP leaders scoffed at the tweet, saying it was ambiguous as Kishor did not clarify what he meant by “space.” Watch l BJP mocks Prashant Kishor over ‘can’t cross double digits in Bengal’ remark A top executive of I-Pac, Kishor’s company, told HT that he meant leaving his job as election strategist. “What he meant is quite obvious. He will leave his work if the BJP wins more than 99 seats in Bengal. Those in the BJP, who counter this, should be asked whether they will quit politics if he is proved right,” the executive, who is known to be close to Kishor, said on condition of anonymity. The statement was significant because Union home minister and the BJP’s former national president Amit Shah has declared that his party will oust the Trinamool government by winning more than 200 seats. Shah returned to Delhi on Sunday evening after a two-day trip, the highlight of which was the defection of seven TMC legislators, including former minister and heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, three MLAs from the Left and Congress, a TMC Lok Sabha member and a host of district leaders from the ruling party. The BJP countered Kishor, calling him a hired soldier. “He wrote the tweet not to target the BJP but to appease his employer. He wrote this to counter the doubts being raised about his professional capability since he is paid handsomely,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar told HT. Asked whether he would accept I-Pac’s challenge and quit politics if his party fails to win more than 99 seats, Majumdar said, “No political party makes such commitments. We are not taking this seriously.”This was the first such statement from Kishor, who avoids the media and does not comment on the work done by him and his company, that has been targeted not only by dissidents in the Trinamool but BJP leaders as well. Countering the Trinamool’s strategy of branding BJP’s national leaders, such as Shah, as “outsiders,” the saffron camp targeted the chief minister, saying she needs a man from Bihar, Kishor, to win elections. Kishor had earlier helped the BJP, Aam Aadmi Party and the YSR Congress Party win elections. He had also worked with the Congress but could not help them win at the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-spotlights-bjp-s-struggle-in-bengal-polls-party-reacts/story-KVs145TMHT0QG4waz5zzYK.html
21-12-2020||India||Bengal BJP youth front chief’s wife joins TMC, husband wants divorce||Sujata Mondal Khan, wife of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bengal youth front president Saumitra Khan, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday, saying the state’s main opposition party was filling its ranks with corrupt and ambitious leaders from other parties by promising them high posts. She alleged that she was not shown any respect in the BJP although she worked hard for it when the party was struggling. The 32-year-old woman did not hold any important post in the BJP. Her sudden move unfolded an unprecedented family drama in Bengal politics with Khan, 39, quickly calling a media conference and declaring that he will send her divorce papers within 24 hours. “I am heartbroken to see 10 years of companionship coming to an end in this manner. The Lakshmi (the Hindu goddess of prosperity) of my home has been stolen,” said Khan as tears rolled down his cheeks. “Sujata, I will send you papers for mutual divorce. Please sign them and do not use Khan, my surname, from today,” he said. “We had some differences during the past few months. She wanted an important position in the BJP but I had no inkling that she was drifting away from me,” said the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) state president and Lok Sabha member. Saumitra Khan is a former TMC leader who joined the BJP in January 2019. He was the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Bishnupur in Bankura district. He retained the seat by contesting for the BJP and was made president of the state BJYM about three months ago. “I observed with pain that people who are corrupt and over-ambitious, those who can be called rotten apples, are being herded into the BJP. There is no place for hardworking people who fight for their principles,” Sujata Khan said at the TMC headquarters in Kolkata about two hours before her husband reacted. “I married him going against the wishes of my family. I love him and will always do so. I still have the red sindoor (vermilion) on my forehead,” she told the media an hour after her husband talked of divorce. “Can a personal relationship end in divorce because of politics. No TMC leader told me that I have to divorce him to join the ruling party,” she added. Sujata Khan was welcomed into the TMC by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh. “Sujata is like my daughter. We are happy to have her in the party,” said Roy. When she was asked about her husband at the TMC office, Sujata Khan said, “Who knows whether he, too, will not join the TMC in future.” Her husband ruled out such a possibility. “I am a die-hard soldier of the BJP. In the coming polls I will present all seven segments in my Lok Sabha constituency to Narendra Modi Ji,” he quipped. Without naming Suvendu Adhikari, the former TMC minister who joined the BJP in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday along with six other TMC MLAs and three more from the Left and Congress, Sujata Khan said, “Some people are joining the BJP with the hope of becoming the next chief minister or deputy chief minister. Dozens of people have been promised these posts. Imagine having a dozen deputy chief ministers.” Her husband, however, refuted this. “This is baseless. Everybody has a role allotted to him or her. Nobody is big or small in the BJP,” he said. “I am happy to see the TMC going through a cleansing process as the greedy and the bad apples are flocking to the BJP,” said the BJYM state president’s estranged wife. “Only those who realized that they are not going to be fielded by the TMC in the assembly polls in 2021 are leaving,” she said at the TMC headquarters. Jay Prakash Majumdar, state vice-president of the BJP, said, “Unlike Saumitra Khan, his wife does not have a history in politics. This does not have any political significance for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-blow-to-bengal-bjp-party-state-youth-front-chief-s-wife-joins-tmc/story-wsMAqrWp4JkPS79QyEliaI.html
21-12-2020||India||‘Centre and state govts stood together in face of crisis’: Congress leader Anand Sharma||Congress leader and former Union commerce minister Anand Sharma on Monday said India had increased its infrastructure in recent years and congratulated the Centre and state governments for working together towards it. “India has increased its infrastructure and I congratulate central and state governments for it as they worked together for it. The country stood in the face of this crisis,” he said.India made a comeback in the second quarter after the first quarter was the worst for the economy as the GDP was adversely hit, he said. “We hope that in the remaining two quarters as well, the balance of recovery will be maintained,” he added.The Indian economy had contracted by 23.9% in the April to June quarter (Q1 FY21), while it contracted only 7.5% in the quarter ending September. Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi have taken frequent jibes at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the state of the economy.“Under PM Modi, India’s economy is officially in a recession for the first time ever,” Gandhi had said on Twitter. “More importantly, 3 crore people are still looking for work under MNREGA. Economy cannot be ordered to grow by diktats. PM needs to first understand this basic idea,” he added.Also Read: Sonia Gandhi meets section of Congress dissenters, looks to end crisisSharma was a part of the group of 23 dissenters who wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi earlier this year, seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation within Congress. On Saturday, Gandhi held a meeting of all dissenters, including Sharma, an aim to end the ongoing crisis “She wants to bring all the warring leaders together and end the current impasse in the party. She wants all the leaders to work in close coordination with Rahul Gandhi in strengthening the party,” a Congress functionary told Hindustan Times, requesting anonymity.Last month, Sharma had to issue a clarification and amend his tweet when it was construed as praise for PM Narendra Modi. “Prime minister Shri Narendra Modi visit to Serum Institute, Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadilla was a recognition of Indian scientists and their work to produce the vaccine for COVID-19 That alone will lift morale of frontline warriors and reassure the nation,’ Sharma had tweeted after the PM’s visit to vaccine centres. Regretting the error in our earlier tweet where the lines got misplaced, resulting in some avoidable confusion. The original tweet reads as follows. pic.twitter.com/hrhD2me519He later ‘regretted’ the error. “Regretting the error in our earlier tweet where the lines got misplaced, resulting in some avoidable confusion.,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-and-state-govts-stood-together-in-face-of-crisis-congress-leader-anand-sharma/story-bYifkoxJrBf419IH4dylAI.html
21-12-2020||India||Wishes pour for Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy on his 48th birthday||Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, wished Andhra Pradesh chief minister and Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on his birthday on Monday as he turned 48.“Birthday greetings to Andhra Pradesh CM Shri @ysjagan Garu. I pray that Almighty blesses him with a healthy and long life,” PM Modi tweeted.  Birthday greetings to Andhra Pradesh CM Shri @ysjagan Garu. I pray that Almighty blesses him with a healthy and long life.“Birthday greetings to the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri @ysjaganji. May you be blessed with good health and long life,” wrote Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari. Birthday greetings to the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri @ysjagan ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami also greeted his Andhra Pradesh counterpart. “On the joyous occasion of your birthday, I would like to convey my warm felicitations to you and wish you many more happy returns of the day. I pray the Almighty may grant you many more years of good health to serve the people of Andhra Pradesh with renewed strength and vigour,” Palaniswami tweeted. On the joyous occasion of Hon'ble Chief Minister of AndhraPradesh @ysjagan's birthday, I would like to convey my warm felicitations to him and wish him many more happy returns of the day. pic.twitter.com/YAJa3pN4teDMK president MK Stalin also extended birthday greetings to Jaganmohan Reddy. “On behalf of the DMK and people of Tamil Nadu, I wish Hon’ble Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and my good friend @ysjagan a very happy birthday. I also wish him many more years of service to the people of his state and our country,” the DMK leader said in a tweet. On behalf of the DMK and people of Tamil Nadu, I wish Hon'ble Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and my good friend @ysjagan a very happy birthday. I also wish him many more years of service to the people of his state and our country.#HBDYSJaganYSR Congress Party workers and leaders celebrated their president’s birthday by organising blood donation camps from state to mandal level. They also distributed fruits, food and clothes to the poor across Andhra Pradesh. In many districts across the state, huge flexes and banners have been put up along the roads by local leaders to extend their greetings to Jagan Mohan Reddy on his birthday.The son of late Congress stalwart YSR Reddy, Jagan Mohan led his party to a landslide victory in the 2019 assembly elections in the state. Out of the 175 assembly seats, the YSRCP won 151, reducing the then ruling Telugu Desam Party (TDP) to 23 seats. Jagan formed his own party in 2011 after a fallout with the Congress’ national leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wishes-pour-for-andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-mohan-reddy-on-his-48th-birthday/story-JfsMC2vn9SOgp16gGDlKVN.html
21-12-2020||India||Russia understands India’s vision of Indo-Pacific, has concerns about Quad: Russian diplomats||Russia understands and supports India’s inclusive vision of the Indo-Pacific based on international law but has concerns about the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad that could jeopardise regional cooperation, the two top Russian diplomats in New Delhi said on Monday. Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev also called for “enhanced dialogue” between India and China against the backdrop of the military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), saying this is the key for taking forward relations between the two countries and for regional stability and security. India had recently pushed back against Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s contention that the West’s Indo-Pacific policies were aimed at enmeshing India in “anti-China games” and said New Delhi has an independent foreign policy based on its national interests. Roman Babushkin, the chargé d’affaires at the Russian embassy, said his country understands the Indian concept for the Indo-Pacific but there is currently no unified vision for the vast region because many countries were promoting their “own Indo-Pacific visions”. This has led to the creation of mechanisms that are “non-inclusive as compared to the Indian approach to the Indo-Pacific, which we understand very well and support the inclusiveness and its reliance on international law”, he added. Also Read: Military Literature Festival: ‘India should shed hesitation and embrace QUAD to tame China’Russia also has apprehensions about the intentions behind such mechanisms. “We are facing attempts by some countries to create containment in the region that threaten to jeopardise basic principles for regional cooperation, for example Asean centrality and Asean unity. That means Quad would be detrimental to inclusive dialogue in the region,” Babushkin said. Kudashev too said Russia has no problems with India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative but backed greater engagement within existing multilateral mechanisms such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), Russia-India-China (RIC) and Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics). Responding to a question on the India-China standoff, Kudashev said he hoped New Delhi’s relations with Beijing would reach the same level as the specially privileged and trusted strategic partnership with Moscow. “We would naturally, in our capacity as a friend to both India and China, welcome enhanced dialogue between New Delhi and Beijing...We believe that this is the key for the future progress of your ties with China and regional stability and security,” he said. Referring to India-China relations, Kudashev said it is “not the habit of the Russian government to interfere with bilateral ties between other countries”. He added, “But if you would question me what would be our preference, our vision, our goal and our message to the region, it is that we offer a unifying agenda, the concept of the larger Eurasian partnership which should bring the two ends together, which could bring together Russia’s vision, the Chinese vision, the Indian vision.” Kudashev also referred to Russia’s role in facilitating talks between India and China this year, saying defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar had “profound negotiations” with their Chinese counterparts on the margins of SCO meetings in Moscow in September. “It was very significant in the context of constructive engagement of both sides to maintain peace and tranquillity at the Line of Actual Control. Russia is a trusted partner for India and China, and we feel it is vital to ensure a positive atmosphere for cooperation between the two neighbouring Asian giants,” he said. Lavrov’s comments on the Indo-Pacific and India falling prey to moves by the West to entangle it in “anti-China games” were criticised by Indian experts and commentators. The external affairs ministry also said India’s relations with each country are independent of its ties with third countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-understands-india-s-vision-of-indo-pacific-has-concerns-about-quad-russian-diplomats/story-ngJamb9wWTfA6aP2SFM7NK.html
21-12-2020||India||PM Modi proposes setting up of library of Buddhist literature in India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed to create a library dedicated to traditional Buddhist literature and scriptures, adding that India would be happy to host the facility and provide appropriate resources for it. The library will collect digital copies of all such Buddhist literature from different countries, it will aim to translate them, and make them freely available for all monks and scholars of Buddhism, he said.Addressing the 6th Indo-Japan Samwad Conference virtually, the PM said that the forum, which was launched five years ago, has done great work in promoting the ideas and ideals of Lord Buddha, especially among the youth.  “The forum has remained true to its fundamental values of democracy, humanism, non-violence, freedom and tolerance and carries forward our ancient tradition of spiritual and scholarly exchanges,” he said. Addressing the conference, he said it is time to draw upon our ancient values and keep humanism at the core of our policies. “Discussions on global growth cannot happen only between a few. The table must be bigger. The agenda must be broader. Growth patterns must follow a human-centric approach. And, be in harmony with our surroundings,” PM Modi said.“In the past, humanity often took the path of confrontation instead of collaboration. From Imperialism to the World Wars. From the arms race to the space race. We had dialogues but they were aimed at pulling others down. Now, let us rise together... We must keep humanism at the core of our policies. We must make harmonious co-existence with nature as the central pillar of our existence,” he added.Earlier in the day, the PM had tweeted that he would be addressing the conference. “At 9:30 AM, will be speaking at the 6th Indo-Japan Samwad Conference. This forum has grown immensely over the years, contributing to discourses around furthering global peace, harmony and brotherhood,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-proposes-setting-up-of-library-of-buddhist-literature-in-india/story-KlgprP71HQhADs4TMRPodO.html
21-12-2020||India||In Gwalior, 4 killed in car crash after birthday party||Four men returning from a birthday celebration were killed in an accident when the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge in Gwalior district in the early hours of Monday, said police. The deceased were identified as Shivam Sharma (30), Navjot Sikh (27), Shivam Khagat (30), and Kartik Paliwal (29), all residents of Dabra town. Gwalior superintendent of police, Amit Sanghi, said, “All the four friends had gone to Gwalior to celebrate the birthday of Kartik Paliwal. After celebrating the birthday, they were returning to Dabra in the car. Kartik, who was driving the car, lost control of the steering wheel. The car first hit a tree then fell into a 25-feet deep gorge in Jaurasighati area, which is an accident-prone spot.” A passer-by informed the police about the accident. Police managed to pull out all four and rushed them to a hospital where doctors declared them brought dead, said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-gwalior-4-killed-in-car-crash-after-birthday-party/story-Cxu8XZX9hYt4RTIbUh5vxI.html
21-12-2020||India||Govt is alert, no need to panic: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on new strain of coronavirus in UK||The government is alert and there is no need to panic, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday after a new strain of coronavirus was detected in the United Kingdom. “The government is fully conscious about everything. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic the way we are seeing in this press conference,” Vardhan said. “I would say this to all that all these imaginary situations, imaginary talks, imaginary panic... Don’t involve yourself in this,” the minister told reporters while responding to a question on the panic over the new strain and a demand to ban flights from the UK.He said that the government had done everything that was important to handle the Covid-19 situation in the last one year.Earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the central government to ban flights from the United Kingdom. “New mutation of corona virus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately,” tweeted Kejriwal. New mutation of corona virus has emerged in UK, which is a super-spreader. I urge central govt to ban all flights from UK immediately.The United Kingdom announced a surprise lockdown on Saturday in London and parts of the country amid a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease after the discovery of a new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced that Christmas shopping and gatherings in southern England must be canceled. According to experts, the new strain could be up to 70% more infectious, prompting its European neighbours and several other countries to ban travellers from the country. Several European Union nations and Canada have barred travel from the UK and others were considering similar action, in order to block the new strain of coronavirus which has been sweeping across southern England from spreading to the continent.France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Ireland and Bulgaria all announced restrictions on UK travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-is-alert-no-need-to-panic-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-on-new-strain-of-coronavirus-in-uk/story-dpUuLVOCHelW8tQIXFOe6M.html
21-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra farmers to start their vehicle march to Delhi from Nashik todayOver 5,000 farmers from Maharashtra will kickstart a vehicle march from Nashik to Delhi at 3.00pm on Monday, to join the farmers protesting at the borders of the national capital since the past three weeks. Read more ‘Govt is alert, no need to panic: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on new strain of coronavirus in UK’Union minister for science and technology, earth sciences, and health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan said on Monday the government is alert and there is no need to panic about the new strain of coronavirus in UK. Read more Intense winter begins in Jammu & Kashmir with sub-zero temperaturesThe 40-day intense winter period “chillai kalan” started in Kashmir valley on Monday with sub-zero night temperatures across the region. Read moreSamsung quietly deletes post that mocked Apple; Galaxy fans may not like what is coming nextThere have been rumours in the smartphone industry that Samsung will soon follow Apple’s lead and will remove the charger from its Galaxy S21 retail box. Read more ‘Never thought I would see India get all out for 42 or less again in my lifetime’: Former India batsman Gunduppa ViswanathGunduppa Viswanath was part of the Indian team that were bowled out for 42 runs in the 2nd innings of the 2nd Test against England in 1974 at Lord’s. Read moreAlaya F looks like a million bucks in gold mini dress and heels at awards nightIf you are looking for Gen-Z approved outfit ideas, take inspiration from Alaya F’s sartorial picks. The Jawaani Jaaneman actor has one of the most versatile wardrobes. Read more Ford is offering a complimentary PlayStation 5 with its SUV in this countryIf the vehicle itself won’t woo new buyers, throw in a gaming console. This may well be one of the strategies being adopted by Ford in Spain where the car maker is offering a brand new PlayStation 5 with the purchase of every brand new 2021 Explorer SUV. Read more5 bizarre fusion dishes in 2020 that made netizens ask ‘why’The year 2020 was filled with some unexpected surprises when it came to creating new dishes. While the year blessed us with the oh-so-popular Dalgona coffee, it also showcased some rather weird concoctions that were enough to raise many eyebrows. Read more‘When can India expect first Covid shot?’: Health Minister answers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-farmers-to-start-their-vehicle-march-to-delhi-from-nashik-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-if7bRM0kvUUUuTD5B4r2RN.html
21-12-2020||India||Elephant dies after getting electrocuted in Uttarakhand||A male elephant was likely electrocuted in a village near Lalkuan in Nainital district on Monday morning, said forest officials. RP Joshi, range officer of Gaula range in Terai east forest division, said, “We rushed to the spot after villagers said that an elephant had been electrocuted. We informed the higher authorities so that veterinarians could conduct a post-mortem examination.” On Monday morning, villagers of Bachachi Dharma spotted an elephant lying in a field. When they approached it, they noticed there was no movement in the pachyderm, while a high tension line was passing through the spot where the elephant was found. Rukmani Negi, village head of Bachachi Dharma village, said, “The forest officials were told about the incident and they took the elephant’s body into possession. We have requested the electricity department several times to tighten the lines but it has not been done. The elephant’s death is direct dereliction of duties by electricity officials.” On November 24, a 35-year-old male elephant that was successfully radio-collared in Haridwar forest division in October died due to electrocution. In the second week of November, a female elephant had died in the Lachhiwala forest range of Dehradun due to electrocution. In July, the carcass of a 25-year-old wild tusker was spotted in the forests of Almora forest division, a day after it was radio-collared. The Uttarakhand government had earlier this year reported that elephant numbers crossed the 2,000 mark in the state after a recently concluded elephant estimation process. The state reported a 29.9% increase since 2015, and reported a total of 2,026 elephants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-dies-after-getting-electrocuted-in-uttarakhand/story-yF2Bx6jjjrS4fmr6z0OO8O.html
21-12-2020||India||Farmers continue to protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam ground, Tikri border||Farmers continue to protest against the new farm laws at Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari and Tikri border demanding the withdrawal of the laws.“It has been three to four months since we are struggling, first we fought this struggle in Punjab and now we are fighting in Delhi. We will not go until these agricultural laws are withdrawn,” Rampal Singh of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said.The agitating farmers continue to remain at the border areas here amid the prevailing cold conditions. Meanwhile, farmers have decided to sit on a relay hunger strike from today. “Everyday eleven farmers will sit on hunger strike for 24 hours,” said Balwant Singh, Secretary, BKU Punjab. “List of names have been prepared for the relay hunger strike,” he added.Yesterday, farmer unions announced a 24-hour relay hunger strike starting today and appealed to citizens to skip a meal on December 23 on the occasion of ‘Kisan Diwas’. They further said that they had also decided to make the Haryana toll plaza free from December 25 to December 27.The Central government on Sunday invited farmer leaders for a fresh round of talks amid attempts to end the agitation. The government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers so far. On December 8, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had held a meeting with the 13 representatives of farm unions. However, a day later, farmer leaders rejected a proposal sent by the Centre.Hundreds of farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-continue-to-protest-at-burari-s-nirankari-samagam-ground-tikri-border/story-GlLK3ORxg5S5Ygc4D3DTGL.html
21-12-2020||India||Fight against coronavirus an example Atmanirbhar India: Harsh Vardhan||Union minister for science and technology, earth sciences, and health and family welfare Harsh Vardhan said on Monday , “The fight against the coronavirus pandemic is an example of India’s self-reliance. He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership during the pandemic. “India is in top 10 positions in most indicators because of the vision of Prime Minister Modi,” he said.Vardhan made the comments during the curtain-raiser press conference of the sixth India International Science Festival-2020 (IISF 2020). IISF 2020 will be organised virtually from December 22, which falls on the birthday of world-renowned Indian mathematician Srinivas Ramanujam, and will culminate on December 25, the birthday of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. It will be the largest science festival to be held on the virtual platform. The central theme of this year’s festival is “Science for Self-reliant India and Global Welfare”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver the inaugural address at IISF 2020 on Tuesday evening through video conferencing. Harsh Vardhan will also be present on the occasion.Shekhar C Mande secretary of DSIR and director general of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) has said IISF’s objective is to induce the person about different facets of science and technology. Launched in 2015, IISF is a celebration to promote science and technology and the goal of this year’s festival is to help youth develop 21st-century skills, with a focus on scientific knowledge, creativity, critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork. A long-term objective is to encourage students to study and work in scientific fields, the government has said.The nodal institution for the IISF 2020 is CSIR-NISTADS. The festival is jointly organised by the department of science and technology (DST), CSIR, ministry of earth sciences, ministry of health and family welfare and the department of biotechnology (DBT) and VijnanaBharati (VIBHA) as well as with the support of a large number of other organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-fight-against-coronavirus-is-an-example-of-how-atmanirbhar-india-can-be-harsh-vardhan/story-1vLnxtGCIOCjs2TkjGyJAO.html
21-12-2020||India||Pesticide consumed by children while playing cost their lives, say police||Two children, aged six and three, died after consuming poison while they were playing with their aunt in Gariyaband district, officials said on Monday.Police said that the aunt, who is mentally challenged, also consumed the pesticide and is critical.“The kids – Mithun (6) and Nirjala ( 3) - died on Sunday night in Gariyaband hospital while their aunt was rushed to Raipur for treatment,” Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), Gariyaband, Sukhanand Rathore told HT. The ASP said that the incident took place on Sunday afternoon in Jangada village while the kids and their aunt were playing in the village.“The woman [aunt] saw a bottle which was filled with pesticide near a house of the village and consumed it along with the kids. After about 30 minutes, all three fell unconscious near their house. Subsequently, the villagers rushed them to a nearby hospital where the kids died in the evening; the aunt was referred to Raipur for treatment,” said the ASP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pesticide-consumed-by-children-while-playing-cost-their-lives-say-police/story-One0hL5koGD5GiVXCaqFqM.html
21-12-2020||India||Imran Khan warns India against ‘false flag’ attacks in Kashmir||Pakistan’s military was on high alert in Kashmir on Monday as its Prime Minister warned India against carrying out any “false flag” operations in the disputed region after a UN vehicle in the Pakistan-held part came under attack.Pakistan blamed Friday’s attack on India, implying it was aimed at embarrassing Islamabad and harming relations with the international community. The two UN observers in the vehicle escaped unharmed.“I am making absolutely clear to the (international) community that if India was to be reckless enough to conduct a false flag operation against Pakistan, it would confront a strong national Pakistani resolve & be given a befitting response at all levels of the threat. Make no mistake,” Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted Sunday.Pakistan says the attack on the UN vehicle was deliberate, as such vehicles are clearly marked and “recognizable even from long distances.”The UN confirmed the attack and said it was being investigated.India has not commented on the attack or responded to Khan’s tweets.The two nuclear-armed nations are bitter rivals which have fought three wars since gaining independence from British rule in 1947, two of them over the Himalayan region of Kashmir. The territory is split between Indian and Pakistani control, and both claim it in its entirety.The two sides often exchange fire across the heavily-guarded Line of Control in Kashmir. Each accuses the other of routinely violating a 2003 cease-fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-warns-india-against-false-flag-attacks-in-kashmir/story-FjvQ42YCZTpaEWIiJ7UlgP.html
21-12-2020||India||‘Will leave this space if...’: Prashant Kishor’s prediction ahead of Bengal assembly polls||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Monday predicted a crushing defeat for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming West Bengal assembly polls. The party will struggle to cross even the double digit-mark in the polls, Kishor said.   “For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in West Bengal,” he tweeted, adding that he would “quit this space” if proven wrong.   Also Read: Bengal’s next CM won’t be an ‘outsider’, says Amit Shah For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in #WestBengal PS: Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!Kishor’s tweet comes after several leaders, including Trinamool Congress (TMC) heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, defecting to the BJP during Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to the state on December 19. Leaders from the ruling TMC, Left parties, and the Congress joined the BJP ahead of the assembly elections slated for 2021.In the upcoming assembly elections scheduled to be held next year, the BJP seeks to put an end to the nearly decade-long rule of the TMC in the state. In the 2019 general elections, even though West Bengal was one of the few states where the BJP was not able to make deep inroads, it had won 18 of the 42 seats, emerging as a clear opposition to the TMC government.Also Read: ‘Never seen a roadshow like this, people of Bengal want change’: Amit ShahKishor, who heads the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), is behind several campaigns that led to significant victories for several parties. His first major campaign was for then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi in 2011. In 2014, his campaign group called the Citizens for Accountable Governance led Modi and the BJP to an absolute majority in the Lok Sabha elections.Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday reiterated his stand on the attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy and called it an ‘attack on democracy’. He held the TMC responsible for the attack and said it proves poor the law and order situation of the state.Shah also said that his party’s CM candidate in the assembly polls will be someone from West Bengal and not an ‘outsider’, a term used by Banerjee to refer to the BJP’s central leaders when they visit the state. “Does she want a country where people from one state will not visit another? Did she call Indira Gandhi, Pranab Mukherjee, Narasimha Rao outsiders when they used to come to West Bengal? But don’t worry, no one from Delhi will come to defeat you. Someone from Bengal will challenge you and be the next CM of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-leave-this-space-if-prashant-kishor-makes-a-prediction-ahead-of-bengal-assembly-polls/story-8C4ySDMB4xT9Pvq2xar7TK.html
21-12-2020||India||Shots fired at Pak drone near Punjab border. 11 Pak-made grenades seized||Security forces have seized 11 hand grenades suspected to have been dropped by a drone flying in from across the Pakistan border into Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, a senior police officer said on Monday. The grenades are suspected to have been made by an ordnance factory in Pakistan’s Rawalpindi.The consignment of Arges Type HG-84 series grenades, packed in a plastic box, is the eight instance of seizure of firearms and grenades smuggled into the country for terrorists from across the border in the last 15 months, a senior Punjab Police officer said.The Arges HG-84 is an anti-personnel fragmentation grenade designed to inflict massive damage against soft targets within its blast radius, spraying shrapnel out to a distance of 30 meters at speed. The Arges grenade, manufactured by an Austrian firm, have been used in major attacks in India – including the 2008 Mumbai strike, the 1993 Mumbai blasts and the 2001 Parliament attack. The Wah Cantonment Ordnance factory in Rawalpindi earlier had a franchise to manufacture the high-explosive grenades.The seizure comes weeks after an alert by intelligence agencies that cautioned security personnel about Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence’s moves to acquire upgraded versions of drones from China that can carry large quantities of firearms in every sortie.The first instance of ISI-backed terror groups using drones to smuggle weapons in Punjab was on 19 August 2019 when security personnel spotted a large quadcopter dropping a weapon consignment of 10 kg including AK 47 rifles, MP9 rifle, pistols and fake Indian currency. This drone, however, ran out of battery on its way back and fell within Indian territory.Counter-terror officials in Delhi said Pakistani terror groups and the ISI could have been using drones for arms trafficking for much longer.“Lately, the drones have been getting bigger and more powerful, triggering concerns that these could not only be used to carry larger quantities of arms but also rain explosives at security camps in border areas,” an official said.This improves the capacity of the ISI to supply weapons for Khalistani terror groups as well as its groups in Jammu and Kashmir.Police teams found the packet with 11 grenades during a search on Sunday morning.Border Security Force personnel at the Chakri border outpost in Gurdaspur sector had spotted a drone entering Indian territory shortly before Saturday midnight. The soldiers, and later Punjab police officers also, fired at the drone but couldn’t bring it down. They also alerted Punjab Police who also tried to bring down the drone.The packet was found near Dhussi bandh in Salach village of Gurdaspur’s Dorangla area. A senior police officer said the box of grenades had been attached with a wooden frame and lowered from the drone to the ground from a nylon rope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shots-fired-at-pak-drone-near-punjab-border-11-pak-made-grenades-seized/story-dvnqrMuarrlFlBDgr89UTK.html
21-12-2020||India||Actor Arjun Rampal appears before NCB in Mumbai in connection with drug case||Actor Arjun Rampal on Monday reached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai to appear before the agency in coonection with a drugs case. Rampal had been called by the NCB officers for questioning in connection with the Bollywood drugs case. NCB had already questioned Rampal and his partner Gabriella Demetriades and arrested her brother in the case.Last month, the central anti-narcotics agency had conducted a search at Rampal’s residence in Bandra and seized electronics gadgets and some medicine which are restricted under the NDPS Act. He was then questioned for nearly seven hours on November 13.His partner Demetriades was questioned twice after she was held responsible for the narcotics. NCB involved Rampal and Demetriades in the investigation after they discovered the involvement of Demetriades’ brother Agisilaos Demetriades in drug cases and found that he was in touch with many Bollywood celebrities, said an NCB officer.Agisilaos was arrested on October 17 from a resort at Lonawala where he was staying with his fiance. NCB officials recovered 0.8 grams of a black-coloured sticky substance purported to be hashish (charas). Alprazolam tablets were also found in a search at his Khar residence.NCB, which has been investigating the drug angle into late actor Rajput’s death, has till now arrested 28 people, including Bollywood celebrities like comedienne Bharti Singh and her husband Haarsh Limbachiyaa.Before this, Bollywood actors like Deepika Padukone, Sara Ali Khan, Shraddha Kapoor and Rakul Preet Singh have also been questioned by NCB officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-arjun-rampal-reaches-ncb-office-in-mumbai-to-appear-before-the-agency-in-a-drug-case/story-NPnW4hkNQfXTNpDuWwBqII.html
21-12-2020||India||Elephant dies after being hit by train in Odisha’s Sambalpur||An adult tusker - roaming in search of food with a herd - was killed when it was run over by an express train in Odisha’s Sambalpur district early Monday. This is the second incident this month.East Coast Railway officials said the Puri-Surat Express hit the tusker at Bhabanipali village between Hatibari and Maneswar Railway stations under Sambalpur division at around 2 am. The collision derailed the engine. However, passengers on-board and the railway crew members, including the loco pilots, were safe. Sources said the train was moving at a speed of around 50 km/hr when the accident took place. Sambalpur Divisional Railway Manager Pradeep Kumar said following the accident, railway communication on the route was disrupted. “An Accident Relief Train rushed to the spot and pulled all coaches of the Puri-Surat Express train to Hatibari station. At least two trains on that route were stopped midway,” he said.Divisional Forest Officer of Sambalpur, Sanjeet Kumar said the train appeared to be moving at a higher speed than what was advised. “The railway authorities had been cautioned regarding the elephant movement. Sign boards mentioning elephant movement areas have also been put up near the railway track. The accident is being investigated,” he said.On December 5, a 12-year-old tusker in Sambalpur district was killed after getting hit by an express train. In the last 10 years, 28 elephants have been killed in Odisha after getting hit by trains.Wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty said elephants continued to be killed by trains due to the forest department’s failure in fixing responsibility. “If a train hits an elephant at 50 km/hr speed there’s no chance the elephant will survive. From initial assessment, it seems the train driver was violating the speed protocol. The forest department needs to fix responsibility and recommend action against the erring railway officials.” Since April 1 this year, 47 elephants have died in the state due to reasons such as electrocution, poaching and after getting hit by running trains and trucks. Similarly, 70 people have died in human-elephant conflict while 76 have been injured in 122 encounters. Wildlife activists fear the casualties may increase in the next few months as paddy harvest season has begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-dies-after-being-hit-by-train-in-odisha-s-sambalpur/story-618lVbkBHjpN6Va2nYuPHO.html
21-12-2020||India||India records 24,337 new Covid-19 cases, 333 deaths||India reported 24,337 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 333 deaths in the past 24 hours, the Union health ministry data showed on Monday morning, as the country continued to witness a declining trend in average daily infections. This is the eighth straight day that daily infections in the country have stayed below 30,000 and less than 40,000 since the last 21 days continuously. The virus has so far killed 145,810 people in the country and 9,606,111 people have recovered from the disease.The health ministry has said that with only 351 average daily Covid-19 fatalities reported between December 14-20, India continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million. A week earlier, from December 7-3, 450 average daily Covid-19 deaths were reported. “#IndiaFightsCorona India has one of the lowest deaths/mn population globally (105.4). Focussed measures including targeted testing, early identification, timely isolation & prompt hospitalization & Standard Treatment Protocol have ensured that daily fatalities are under 400,” it tweeted on Monday.Also read | What do we know about coronavirus’ latest strain found in UKIndia’s active caseload dropped to 303,639 on Monday and the health ministry has said this is due to the trend of recoveries exceeding new cases and a low number of fatalities per day. It had said on Sunday that 10 states and Union territories account for 66% of the total active cases in the country.The difference in recoveries and active Covid-19 cases is at 9,302,472 and the recovery rate is 95.53% on Monday. On Sunday, 74.68% of the new recovered cases were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Kerala reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,749 newly recovered cases, 3,119 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by 2,717 in West Bengal on Sunday, according to the health ministry.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Sunday, 76.62% of the new cases were concentrated in 10 states and Union territories with Kerala reporting the highest daily cases at 6,293. followed by Maharashtra with 3,940 infections.Click here for live updates on coronavirus disease Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said India may begin vaccinating people against Covid-19 in January and the government’s first priority has been the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. He also said that the Centre has been working with the state governments for the last four months for preparations regarding Covid-19 vaccination in the country.“For the past four months, the union government has been preparing with the state governments at the state, district, and even at the block level. We have been preparing for the past four months,” the minister told ANI in an exclusive interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-24-337-new-covid-19-cases-333-deaths/story-HyvJBFOu2AXFcI2gPoBh0M.html
21-12-2020||India||Rave party busted in Kerala, 60 detained||At least 60 persons, including 20 women, were detained after a crackdown on a rave party in a resort in hill destination Wagamon, also spelled Vagamon, in Idukki district late on Sunday night, police said. Police raided the resort following a tip off and confiscated large quantities of psychedelic drugs from the revellers. Some of those detained are said to be associated with the cinema and TV serial industry. Among the arrested are some techies from Bengaluru. Police said details will be revealed only after blood tests and other formalities are completed. The resort owner, also a local CPI leader, is absconding, police said.Police said they have intelligence reports that such rave parties were held regularly in remote areas and they manage enough numbers through dark net chatting. The raid was conducted under the supervision of Idukki district police chief R Karuppuswamy. Wagamon is a hill station located in Peerumade taluk of Idukki district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rave-party-busted-in-kerala-60-detained/story-mDQZt7Wui24PtHIeUBkbSK.html
21-12-2020||India||Organic farming belt to come up on either side of Ganga in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh agriculture and horticulture departments, along with the Jal Shakti department, is rolling out a plan to turn a five-kilometre radius along both sides of the Ganga into an organic farming belt and in the process giving farmers a “new and diversified income platform”. “According to the plan, the villages and farmers settled on both sides of Ganga will be encouraged to go organic by discouraging the use of chemicals — fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides — and grow grains, fruits, flowers organically. The farmers will also be given training in organic cultivation,” said a state government spokesperson.“The government is embarking on organic farming, considering the large market and demand for organic products in the country, as well as abroad. The Yogi government is working on three major goals simultaneously through an organic farming promotion scheme. The first goal is cleanliness and protection of the Ganga. The second is boosting farmers’ income and the third is the production of large quantities of organic crops in the state,” the spokesperson said.“Farmers will be provided with the necessary equipment at concessional prices, along with training and information for this. The departments are in the process of identifying organic crops, products and provide special markets for the scheme,” said the spokesperson for the Jal Shakti ministry.To free the Ganga from pollution, the Yogi government has decided to take strict steps to stop the use of chemical fertilizers. The state government is preparing to completely ban the use of chemical fertilizers in the districts through which the Ganga passes, the spokesperson added.“By promoting organic farming, natural farming and horticulture in the Gangetic plains, the government is going to give a new and diversified income platform to the farmers,” said an officer of the agriculture department.In addition to proper management of solid waste, disposal of garbage, polythene will be banned completely in villages along the Ganga. A senior official of the Namami Gange department said the use of chemical fertilizers was a major cause of pollution in the Ganga and the idea now is to stop it completely.Cabinet minister and UP government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said the Yogi government was committed to the betterment and progress of the farmers of the state along with the ‘Nirmal and Aviral Ganga (clean and free-flowing Ganga)’.Trees and plants like peepal (sacred fig), pakad (white fig), mango, jamun (black plum) and banyan will be planted along the river to protect its banks from erosion and degradation.Ganga nurseries will be developed in every district and geo-tagging of all the plants along the river will be done to prevent their theft. For this, help from the forest department will also be taken.A campaign will also be launched to free land along the Ganga from encroachment so that these places become attractive for tourists.Ganga stadiums will also be built in villages along the river for promotion of sports. Renovation and beautification of ponds along the river are also part of the plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organic-farming-belt-to-come-up-on-either-side-of-ganga-in-uttar-pradesh/story-S9c6rNnmCx9GfB6YxYM7eO.html
21-12-2020||India||House inspections, medical camps after Shigella kills 1 in Kerala||An 11-year-old boy has died and many have been hospitalised in Kerala’s Kozhikode because of an intestinal disease caused by the highly contagious Shigella even as the state’s health department said there was no need for panic.The health department has said only six people were confirmed to have been infected by shigellosis so far and 26 others are suspected cases of the infection. It added that some of the suspected people were discharged later.Here is what the government is doing to contain the infection:1. Kerala’s health minister KK Shailaja has said all houses in the affected areas are being inspected.2. The government has asked people to drink only boiled water and maintain strict personal hygiene. 3. Samples of water and food have been collected and sent for detailed lab examination.4. District health authorities have started super-chlorination of wells in the region and inspecting eateries, including hotels.Also read | Experts try to trace source in north Kerala’s Kozhikode5. The health department has organised a medical camp in the last two days.6. According to V Jayashree, the district medical officer, at least 150 people attended the medical camp and that experts are trying to trace the root cause of the infection.7. The main symptoms of the infection include diarrhoea, often containing blood or mucus in stool, stomach pain, cramps, fever and vomiting. An infected person shows minor symptoms in a day or two but it may take a week or so to show acute symptoms. In some cases, people infected with the bacteria do not show symptoms but they are contagious. 8. According to experts, children under 10 are most susceptible to contract the infection, though the elderly can also get infected. Patients with underlying medical conditions may require heavy doses of antibiotics, they said.9. Experts have said usually a person gets infected after taking contaminated water or taking stale food. It is highly contagious and can be transmitted after using a common toilet also. 10. They have also asked people not to have sexual relations with a person who has recently recovered from shigellosis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-inspections-medical-camps-after-shigella-kills-1-in-kerala/story-xfXTJS13n7GhZeuJveRZCO.html
21-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Vietnamese counterpart, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.$100-million defence line of credit, bilateral ties: PM Modi’s virtual summit with Vietnamese counterpartPrime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc on Monday. While the scheduled meeting will cap a string of high-level exchanges between the two sides this year, it is being held at a time when both the countries are grappling with China’s aggressive actions in the region. Read moreXi replaces PLA commander who started Ladakh standoff; fingers crossed in DelhiChinese President Xi Jinping has moved out General Zhao Zongqi, the People’s Liberation Army’s powerful Western Theatre Commander, seen as the man responsible for the seven-month long military standoff with India in eastern Ladakh, and replaced him with General Zhang Xudong, who has never served along the Indian border. Read moreHealth ministry meeting today after spread of mutant coronavirus strain in UKThe Union health ministry called for an emergency meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) on Monday morning after panic spread over a new mutant strain of coronavirus that is “out of control” in the UK, according to officials. Read moreDelhi’s temperature likely to increase today, will dip again this weekA western disturbance over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh is likely to increase the minimum temperature in Delhi by a few notches on Monday. The increased moisture in the air is also likely to raise pollution levels, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists. Read moreGoogle is offering free, weekly Covid-19 tests to its employeesGoogle has announced another perk for its employees: free, weekly, at-home tests for all its employees in the US, which includes its subsidiaries such as YouTube and Google X as well. This is vastly different from other companies such as Amazon that are offering free tests to only the employees who are working from a physical location. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Must have been a nightmare for Kohli’ - Former Pakistan captain Rashid Latif on India’s batting collapse at 36India’s batting debacle against Australia on the third day of the pink Test in Adelaide has become the hottest topic of discussion at the moment. While several experts are try to find out reasons for India’s horror batting show in the 2nd innings of first Test, former Pakistan captain Rashid Latif spoke about the mindset with which the Indians went out to bat on Saturday. Read moreInside Taimur’s birthday party as he celebrated with mom Kareena Kapoor, dad Saif Ali KhanActor couple Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan celebrated son Taimur Ali Khan’s birthday with close family members at their home in Mumbai. Kareena, her sister Karisma Kapoor and Soha Ali Khan shared pictures. Kareena took to her Instagram Stories to share pictures of the balloons and cake ordered for Taimur’s birthday. Looks like Taimur is already an animal lover.  Read moreWondering how to increase the shelf life of bananas? Vikas Khanna has a trick for youPicture this: You are in the middle of a strenuous workday and are craving a snack. You walk into the kitchen to pick up a beloved food item which isn’t just tasty and nutritious but also super easy to eat, aka, a banana. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-vietnamese-counterpart-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3MRjJHmo1BDHXea0f5GsvO.html
21-12-2020||India||Will leave politics if someone tries to abolish MSP, says Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said that if someone tries to do away with Minimum Support Price (MSP) then he will quit politics. Speaking at a public gathering in Haryana’s Narnaul, he reassured farmers as their protest on Delhi borders entered day 25 on Sunday. “MSP will always be there. If someone tries to abolish it, Manohar Lal Khattar will leave politics. MSP will not end,” he said. “MSP was there in the past, it is present now and it will remain in the future as well,” he added.Also Read: Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objectionsKhattar’s statement came after he met with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday and discussed the ongoing farmers’ issue. “A solution to this issue (farmers’ protest) should be found through discussion. I have said that this issue should be resolved soon. The Centre is ready to talk to the farmers over their issues related to the new farm laws clause by clause,” the Haryana CM told news agency ANI after the meeting.While Khattar said that another round of talks between the Centre and farmers’ unions could be on the cards, Tomar urged the protesting farm unions to spell out their “apprehensions” about the three agricultural laws in greater detail. He said that this was needed to have focused discussions on specific issues and that their grievances currently “lacked clarity”. The minister also urged farmers to specify a date for talks.Also Read: Amid farmers’ agitation, PM Modi pays surprise visit to gurdwaraAccording to Union home minister Amit Shah, Tomar was likely to hold talks with the protesting groups in a day or two. “I am not exactly aware of the timing but Tomar is likely to meet the representatives of farmers tomorrow or the day after to discuss their demands,” Shah said in a press conference in West Bengal on Sunday. Farmers have been agitating on the borders of the national capital since November 26 against the recently enacted Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-leave-politics-if-someone-tries-to-abolish-msp-says-haryana-cm-khattar/story-g0AgdoDCfWLZCv6S6ddwBL.html
21-12-2020||India||Brief relief likely from extreme cold over northwest India||Northwest India is likely to experience relief soon from extremely cold conditions. India Meteorological Department (IMD) is expecting a gradual rise in minimum and maximum temperatures by 2-3 degree Celsius over the plains of the northwest and adjoining central India during the next 48 hours.There is no likelihood of "cold day" conditions (when day temperatures are very low) over northwest and central India during the next three days and "cold wave" conditions (when the minimum temperature drops very low) are likely to abate from Monday, IMD said in its bulletin.Both "cold day" and "cold wave" conditions may continue over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and interior Odisha, and the current spell of cold wave/cold day conditions, and dense to very dense fog are likely to continue at a few places over east Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and interior Odisha during next two days.Also Read: Delhi sees season"s coldest day at 3.4°C, next week may be colderOn Sunday, the coldest region was Drass with a minimum temperature of -27.3 degrees Celsius, Keylong recorded -11 degrees Celsius, Pantnagar in Uttarakhand recorded 0.8 degrees Celsius, Adampur in Punjab recorded 0 degrees Celsius, Narnaul in Haryana recorded 2.4 degrees Celsius and Delhi recorded 3.4 degrees Celsius.“We are expecting a western disturbance due to which there may be some clouding and both maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to go up,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.IMD has warned that ground frost very likely at some places over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.Strong surface wind (with speeds reaching 10-20 kmph) are likely over parts of northwest India and adjoining Indo-Gangetic plains during the next 24 hours.Many towns and cities in northwest India have started recording “very poor” air quality. Bulandshahr, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Noida had air quality index readings of over 300, in the "very poor" zone. According to the air quality early warning system under ministry of earth sciences, air quality in Delhi will start deteriorating further from Tuesday because winds are likely to slow down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brief-relief-likely-from-extreme-cold-over-northwest-india/story-ZH5vFcYtRceyr9dRibJfQP.html
21-12-2020||India||Rules for amended Citizenship law to be framed after Covid crisis ends: Amit Shah||Criticising West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee over the recent attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy, Home Minister Shah on Sunday said the centre has the right to summon state police officers responsible for providing him security for central deputation, and asked the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to go through the rules before pointing fingers at the union government.He also said that rules for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act are yet to be framed because of the pandemic and the matter will be considered once Covid-19 vaccination starts.Addressing a press conference in Bolpur, Shah said Banerjee and the Trinamool Congress raked up the “outsider-insider” issue to divert public attention from the failures of the state government and said that a “son of the soil” would lead the state if the BJP is voted to power.“The rules of the CAA are yet to be framed as such a massive process could not be carried out because of coronavirus. As soon as (Covid-19) vaccination starts and coronavirus infection cycle breaks, we will consider it,” Shah said.On the summoning of Indian Police Service officers of West Bengal cadre by the Home Ministry, Shah said the centre has sent the letter to state government as per the Constitution and the law.“It is according to the federal structure (of the country). They (TMC government) should first go through the rules and then talk to the centre and the public,” Shah said.The centre had on Thursday shot off a fresh letter to the West Bengal government to immediately relieve its three IPS officers for central deputation, following which the Chief Minister called the move “unconstitutional and unacceptable”.On the attack on Nadda’s convoy during his visit to Diamond Harbour on December 10, Shah alleged political violence and corruption are at peak in the state.“The BJP condemns it, and I too condemn it. The BJP believes that in a democracy, everyone should have the right to voice their views. And it is the responsibility of the ruling party to ensure that all parties can have their voice heard,” Shah said.“The attack on the BJP chief is not only an attack on him. It is an attack on democracy in West Bengal and the Trinamool Congress is completely responsible for this,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-for-amended-citizenship-law-to-be-framed-after-covid-crisis-ends-amit-shah/story-NtecRN0tQSrMqGj07GIROJ.html
21-12-2020||India||Leopard ‘Sachin’ dies of heart attack at safari park in Bengal||Sachin - the adult leopard who was named after the Indian cricket icon and who made headlines last year for escaping from his enclosure and coming back on his own at the Bengal Safari, a park near Siliguri - died on Saturday. The specially designed park is located not far from Siliguri, north Bengal’s biggest town. There is another leopard who is named after former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly. Park authorities said it appears Sachin died of heart attack. Samples from his body were sent to Kolkata to ascertain the exact cause of death. Badal Debnath, the park director, said, “Sachin was ill for the past seven days. Veterinary experts were looking after him.” Sachin jumped out of his enclosure on January 1, 2019, forcing the authorities to close the park. However, he surprised everyone by returning to the enclosure after a few days. He has been kept under surveillance since then. Sachin’s escape created panic among people in the local villages. Drones were used to trace the big cat and four elephants were deployed to comb the park and the jungles. Six camera traps were also set up. Sachin and Sourav were both brought to the park from the Khayerbari tiger and leopard rescue centre in Alipurduar district. The park is now left with four leopards: Sourav, Kajal, Shital and Nayan. The main park is spread across 297 hectares. The Bengal Safari is among the most popular tourist spots in north Bengal. It was inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on January 21, 2016. Tigers, leopards and black bears are the main attractions for visitors who have to travel in specially designed buses. The leopard safari, where Sachin lived, is spread across 20 hectares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-sachin-dies-of-heart-attack-at-safari-park-in-bengal/story-cSsEyFZ1cIZ24N2x9vzZ8O.html
21-12-2020||India||AAP’s Raghav Chadha appointed as party’s co- incharge of Punjab unit ahead of polls||Aam Aadmi Party’s spokesperson and MLA of Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar Raghav Chadha was on Sunday appointed as the party’s co-incharge for the Punjab unit ahead of assembly polls in the state in 2022, the party said in a statement. The AAP’s other co-incharge in Punjab is Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh. “Punjab is going through challenging times. Our focus will be on education and prosperity. It pains me to see how the youth of Punjab is spoiling its future by getting sucked into the vicious cycle of drugs and unemployment. Farmers have been facing severe problems as well. I take it as my personal responsibility to change these circumstances, and I am certain the AAP in Punjab will succeed in making the state green, happy and prosperous,” said Chadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-s-raghav-chadha-appointed-as-party-s-co-incharge-of-punjab-unit-ahead-of-polls/story-Tw4PGWJtqx0UjRlyYsL5wM.html
21-12-2020||India||$100-million defence line of credit, bilateral ties: PM Modi’s virtual summit with Vietnamese counterpart||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc on Monday. While the scheduled meeting will cap a string of high-level exchanges between the two sides this year, it is being held at a time when both the countries are grappling with China’s aggressive actions in the region.Here’s everything you need to know about the India-Vietnam virtual summit:1. According to the official press release, the two leaders will exchange views on wide-ranging bilateral, regional and global issues and provide guidance for the future development of India-Vietnam comprehensive strategic partnership during the summit.2. A number of agreements or announcements are likely to be made, covering areas such as defence, energy, development partnership and healthcare.3. The two leaders will also talk about the implementation of India’s $100-million defence line of credit for 12 high-speed guard boats for Vietnam. New opportunities in renewable energy cooperation will also be explored.4. The bilateral summit will also focus on India’s development and capacity building assistance through initiatives such as the quick impact projects, Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) initiatives, projects in water resource management in Vietnam’s Mekong delta, digital connectivity and heritage conservation.4. Amid the pandemic, the two leaders will also take stock of the regional and global landscape and exchange views on their respective strategies to deal with the deadly virus.5. This year, vice president of Vietnam Dang Thi Ngoc Thinh also came to India in February on an official visit. Both the prime ministers even had a telephone conversation in April to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, the two leaders met virtually during the 17th ASEAN-India Summit last month.6. In 2016, after a decade of being strategic partners, India and Vietnam formally upgraded their relations to a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership.’ India is one of the few countries with which Vietnam has such a partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-million-defence-line-of-credit-bilateral-ties-pm-modi-s-virtual-summit-with-vietnamese-counterpart/story-lxkJfS28uTQcJ0pFuqBPkN.html
21-12-2020||India||Man spent 8 months in UP jail as bail order did not mention his full name||The Allahabad High Court has issued a stern warning to the superintendent of Siddharth Nagar district jail for keeping a man in illegal confinement for eight months just because his middle name - Kumar - was missing from the bail order.The jail superintendent Rakesh Singh was told to be careful in matters of release of inmates after court orders their release. Singh appeared before the high court and filed an affidavit stating that the applicant was released from prison on December 8, 2020. While keeping the affidavit of compliance on record, Justice JJ Munir said, “This court has perused the affidavit filed by the jail superintendent. The explanation furnished for non-compliance with this court’s order, and, in consequence, delaying release of the applicant is reluctantly accepted. The personal presence of the jail superintendent is exempted. He is warned to remain careful in future.”The applicant’s name in bail order was shown as ‘Vinod Baruaar’. His bail application was earlier rejected by the additional sessions judge, Siddharth nagar on September 4, 2019. Hence, he filed an application for bail before the high court. The high court on April 9, 2020 directed his release on bail. But he was not released from jail, as the jail authorities refused to comply with the release order because the name mentioned in the release order was ‘Vinod Baruaar’, whereas in the remand sheet his name was ‘Vinod Kumar Baruaar’. Earlier, while hearing a name correction plea moved by the applicant, the court took serious note of his non-release over a small technicality and directed release of applicant.The court summoned the jail superintendent/jailer of Siddharthnagar district jail while observing, “It is on that small technicality that the jail superintendent/jailer has flouted the bail order of high court by refusing to release the applicant”. The court directed that the jail superintendent/jailer, after complying with the order, shall appear before this court and explain why appropriate departmental inquiry may not be recommended against him. Vinod was arrested in 2019 after an FIR was filed against him under section 8/19 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 for possessing drugs and under section 411, 413 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for possessing and dealing in stolen goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-spent-8-months-in-up-jail-as-bail-order-did-not-mention-his-full-name/story-ijppdqTSb1NOWMLiMtSGiP.html
21-12-2020||India||Nirav Modi’s younger brother Nehal booked for $2.6mn fraud||US prosecutors have charged Nehal Modi, the younger brother of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, with defrauding a New York wholesale supplier of diamonds worth $2.6 million. He has been charged with Grand Larceny in the first degree, which is theft of property worth more than $1 million and can land him in jail, if convicted.Nehal Modi is accused of procuring diamonds from LLD Diamonds USA, LLC, a wholesale company, between March 2015 and August 15, for purported sale to Costco, a wholesale grocery retail chain, against deferred payment. He is alleged to have pawned off the diamonds instead, or sold them, and pocketed most of the proceeds for personal use or other businesses. LLD reported him to the office of the Manhattan District Attorney, Cy Vance in August that year.“As alleged, Mr Modi conned a Manhattan diamond wholesaler into fronting him millions worth of diamonds for a purported deal with Costco that never existed,” Vance said Friday, announcing the indictment (charges) filed in the New York Supreme Court. “While diamonds may be forever, this flawed scheme was not, and now Mr Modi will face the clarity of a New York Supreme Court indictment. My Office will not allow individuals who have the privilege of soliciting business in Manhattan’s iconic diamond industry to defraud our businesses or consumers.”Vance’s office has jurisdiction over New York city’s prime business area of Manhattan, where Nehal’s elder brother Nirav Modi launched his flagship jewellery boutique store in September 2015 with much fanfare, just a month after his younger brother was reported by LLD to Vance’s office.In February 2018, Indian authorities filed charges against Nirav Modi for defrauding banks of millions of dollars and sought his arrest, as part of an expanding investigation. He has since fled to the United Kingdom, where he has sought political asylum and is fighting extradition to India.Nehal Modi was released without posting bail on Friday. His attorney Roger Bernstein told New York Post: “This is a commercial dispute” and his client is “not guilty”.According to the indictment announced by the District Attorney Vance, Nehal Modi first approached LLD in March 2015. His family connections — coming from a “well-known family in the diamond business” — helped, the district attorney’s office said in a statement. He is alleged to have asked the wholesaler for $800,000 worth of diamonds to show to Costco for a potential deal.He is charged with falsely telling LLD Costco had agreed. LLD allowed Modi to buy the diamonds on credit, to be paid fully within 90 days. “Modi then pawned the diamonds at Modell Collateral Loans, Inc. (“Modell”) to secure a short-term loan,” the district attorney’s office said.Over April and May, Modi is alleged to have returned to the company three times and picked up diamonds worth more than $1 million for sale to Costco. Modi did make a “series of payments” to LLD, but is alleged to have “used the majority of the proceeds for personal use and other business expenses”.“To cover his fraud, Modi falsely claimed that he was encountering payment issues due to a ‘Costco fulfillment error’ and made repeated promises to satisfy the balance,” said the district attorney’s office.Modi returned to LLD again in August, and asked for more diamonds for sale to Costco. This time, in view of Modi’s spotty payment record, the wholesaler gave him the diamonds with the condition that they could not be sold without their authorisation. Modi was already in touch with Modell then and, the statement said, “after picking up the diamonds from LLD, Modi pawned the majority of the diamonds at Modell to secure two separate loans and sold the remainder of the diamonds to various retailers at a steep discount”.LLD reported the case to the district attorney after failing to get Modi to either return the diamonds or pay the outstanding balance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirav-modi-s-younger-brother-nehal-booked-for-2-6mn-fraud/story-fIDaNMN6g0PktbHUK5BA9M.html
21-12-2020||India||Govt to explore railways’ infra for Covid19 vaccine transportation||India Railways’ vast network may be pressed into service for large-scale transport of a Covid-19 vaccine that’s eventually approved by the Centre. The national carrier is considering the possibility of deploying its specially designed refrigerated vans for the purpose and is in talks with several ministries to finalize a plan.Special refrigerated vans may be set aside for transporting the vaccine or luggage compartments may be modified into temperature-controlled units. Refrigerated vans have the capacity to carry 17 tonnes of cargo, with a deep freezer capable of handling temperatures as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius.The vans have a capacity to carry 5 tonnes of frozen items and an additional capacity of 12 tonnes to carry perishable cargo like fruit and vegetables at 40°C temperature.“We are discussing possibilities, no final decision has been taken but we are continuously in touch with the concerned ministries for the same and wherever the need arises, railways will come forward and help the country. We are having continuous discussion over this,” railway board chairman and CEO VK Yadav said.Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe national carrier also uses modified refrigerated luggage compartments with a temperature-controlled chamber of 2/4 tonnes capacity for carrying perishable items.At present, Indian Railways operates refrigerated parcel vans on selected mail express trains for carrying perishable cargo like fruits, vegetables, dairy products, fish and meat. In August, the transporter also began setting up a seamless national cold supply chain for perishables lie milk, meat and fish on Kisan Rail trains.According to the railway ministry, refrigerated parcel vans with a capacity of carrying 17 tonnes of highly perishable freight have been designed,developed and procured through Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. At present, Indian Railway has a fleet of nine such vans. These vans are booked on a round-trip basis, and cost 1.5 times the normal freight carriers.“There has been internal discussion in production units on how to transport the vaccine as it seems logical for large- scale transportation. We have the necessary infrastructure, we have 10 {refrigerated parcel vans}at the moment that have two compartments including one for ultra-low temperatures, but it can easily be scaled by modifying our existing coaches. We are ready to do it once we are approached by the government and the final nod is given,” a senior ministry official said, requesting anonymity.“Railway coaches can be modified either to directly implant boxed cold storage vans inside them, by keeping constant power supply etc, or the entire coach can be redesigned to have one. The Linke-Hofmann-Busch coaches in Rajdhani trains, used in pantry cars etc, have already had some modifications for cold storage. Railways has lot of coach repair and design production units and workshops. It is not difficult to redesign the thermodynamics of a rail coach and insulate it to colder temperatures. It is efficient and can be supplied to any part of the country,” a second official explained.Indian Railways also uses Reefer (ventilated, insulated) rail containers. At present railways has 98 ventilated and insulated containers with a capacity of 12 tonnes per container and a rake composition of 80 containers that have been procured through its subsidiary Container Corporation of India (CONCOR).Also Read: Eight promising Covid-19 vaccines end year in hopeReefers facilitate the movement of cargo that requires a strict temperature-controlled environment. At present, CONCOR provides reefer services. According to the ministry, Indian Railways has “temperature controlled perishable cargo centres” for cold storage Ghazipur Ghat (UP), New Azadpur (Adarsh Nagar, Delhi) and Raja ka Talab (UP) under CONCOR’s Kisan Vision Project. Another project is under construction at Lasalgaon, Nashik (Maharashtra). Approval has also been granted to Central Railside Warehousing Corporation to develop temperature controlled storages at Fatuha in Bihar and Mancheswar in Odisha.The Centre is making preparations for setting up a cold storage chain for the Covid-19 vaccine that will eventually be approved for use in India, and is finalising transport arrangements with top airlines to deliver the antidote to the viral disease, HT reported on December 7. The aviation ministry has also held a round of meetings with airlines on transport logistics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-explore-railways-infra-for-covid19-vaccine-transportation/story-uXajRjNILZY7JLm1NOmbYI.html
21-12-2020||India||Bengal wants to get rid of corruption, says Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah attacked the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal on Sunday, saying people in the state were looking to get rid of corruption, extortion, Bangladeshi infiltration and political violence, a remark that came a day after seven sitting legislators of the Trinamool Congress joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in his presence at a rally in Midnapore.Assembly polls in the state are due in five months and the defections could prove to be a challenge for Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress.On Sunday, Shah’s convoy drove through Bolpur, the town associated with Rabindranath Tagore. Addressing people during the roadshow, Shah said his party will restore West Bengal’s old glory when it was called “sonar Bangla”.On the second and last day of his Bengal tour, Shah flew from Kolkata to Bolpur and held the political roadshow, which was attended by a big crowd.Also Read: To counter Amit Shah, TMC releases its ‘fact sheet’“People are talking of parivartan (change). The change is needed to stop infiltration from Bangladesh, end political violence and extortion,” Shah said. “I have come to promise you that the BJP will take Bengal ahead on the path of development. We will make Bengal realise the dreams of Subhas Chandra Bose,” he told the crowd at the end of the roadshow.“The TMC can never stop infiltration as it believes in appeasement politics. Only BJP can stop it... Mamata Banerjee supports farmers protest but doesn’t allow cultivators of Bengal to get the benefits of central schemes. Is this the way to honour the federal structure?” he said.Shah also attacked the Bengal government over the recent attack on BJP chief JP Nadda’s convoy, and asserted that the Centre had the right to summon state IPS officers responsible for providing him security for central deputation. He alleged that Banerjee failed to control the law and order situation in the state, which was rapidly falling on all development indices.Responding to a question, the home minister said the rules for implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be formulated after the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control. “Because of the corona, such a massive process can’t be carried out. As soon as Covid vaccination starts, we will discuss it,” he said.Also Read| ‘No more ‘Ma, Mati, Manush’, TMC is a family party now’: Amit Shah“I have attended and organised several roadshows in my life but have never seen one like this. This roadshow is a reflection of people’s anger against the Mamata Banerjee government. This crowd reflects people’s faith in the agenda of development of Narendra Modi Ji,” Shah told the gathering.Anubrata Mondal, the TMC’s district unit president, alleged that people were brought by the BJP from as far as Jharkhand to make the roadshow appear like a success. “Let Shah come to Birbhum three times a week. I would want that because it will inspire our workers to work more,” Mondal said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-wants-to-get-rid-of-corruption-says-shah/story-RDUUkzW0WsnhI0yFSdIE1H.html
21-12-2020||India||Xi replaces PLA commander who started Ladakh standoff; fingers crossed in Delhi||Chinese President Xi Jinping has moved out General Zhao Zongqi, the People’s Liberation Army’s powerful Western Theatre Commander, seen as the man responsible for the seven-month long military standoff with India in eastern Ladakh, and replaced him with General Zhang Xudong, who has never served along the Indian border.The change of guard in the leadership of the Western Theatre Command has sparked hope in New Delhi that General Zhao’s replacement may not be as vitriolically anti-India. Gen Zhao, who had also engineered the 2017 Doklam conflict with India, has been seen as a hardliner against India and Bhutan.This is the first time that an officer appointed to lead the Western Theatre Command does not have experience of serving on the Indian border. General Zhang is 58, much younger to Zhao, who reached the retirement age of 65 in the summer this year “The tone and demeanour of the PLA commander during the next military commanders’ meeting would throw some light on the complex undercurrents in the PLA,” an Indian military commander said, requesting anonymity.Also Read: Pushed over the edge, PM Oli drops a bombshell on rivals that also hurts China“We are keeping our fingers crossed,” said the officer cited above, adding that the Indian side expected some clarity when army commanders from the two countries hold the next round of talks over the standoff in the eastern Ladakh sector.China watchers said there was no information to indicate that General Zhang, unlike his predecessor, had any political ambitions and was expected to take decisions on professional merits. In Indian military circles, Gen Zhao, who was a member of the communist party’s central committee, was perceived to be angling for a seat on the Central Military Commission that would have allowed him to serve till he turns 72.Gen Zhao, who took over the Western Theatre Command in 2016, was already on an extended term. He had reached the retirement age of 65 this summer but had been allowed to continue in the post by President Xi.New Delhi’s assessment is that Gen Zhao had the approval of the Xi-led Central Military Commission when PLA troops carried out the initial incursion in the Finger area near Pangong Tso in late April and early May. But there was some discomfort over the misadventure after the bloody Galwan Valley clash in June, the deadliest clash between soldiers of the two countries since 1975, in which 20 Indian troops and an unspecified number of Chinese soldiers were killed.Over the next few weeks and months, the initial tactical success met with a stiff Indian response, including consolidation of the heights on the south bank of the salt-water lake resulting in a strategic loss to China.Also Read: China’s new road cuts travel time to Karakoram Pass, raises red flags in DelhiIndian officials said there has been no confirmation if General Zhao was still resisting possible directions from the communist party leadership to soften his position, disengage and de-escalate. But there have been gaps, an official said, in the line adopted by China during the diplomatic talks and the military negotiations.Born in the coastal province of Liaoning, Gen Zhang is a Han and has served in the erstwhile Shenyang Military Region in northeast China. He was the Chief of Staff of the 39th Army of the PLA. From March 2017 to January 2018, Zhang was the deputy commander of the Central Theatre Command (CTC) which is responsible for the security of the Chinese capital Beijing.At the military parade to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of China in 2019, Zhang acted as deputy commander of the Joint Military Parade, which was widely appreciated within the central military commission. Zhang, who has been transferred to Chengdu as Western Theatre Commander, is not a member of the central committee or the National People’s Congress. He does not have any ‘political’ exposure’ unlike his predecessor and no known political ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/xi-replaces-pla-commander-who-started-ladakh-standoff-fingers-crossed-in-delhi/story-p1T4Dsj13J5yBf3SnWkKvI.html
21-12-2020||India||India, Vietnam likely to sign key pacts at summit today||New Delhi India and Vietnam are expected to sign agreements in defence, energy and development projects and take forward an arrangement to supply high speed patrol vessels to the Southeast Asian nation during a virtual summit on Monday. The virtual meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc will cap a string of high-level exchanges between the two sides this year.The meeting is being held at a time when countries are grappling with China’s aggressive actions in the region. India is locked in a military standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) while Vietnam has major differences over Chinese claims within its exclusive economic zone in the South China Sea. The two leaders will discuss bilateral, regional and global issues and are expected to issue a “joint vision” to guide the development of the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. “A number of agreements and announcements are likely, covering areas such as defence, energy, development partnership and healthcare,” one of the people cited above said.The implementation of India’s $100-million defence line of credit for 12 high speed patrol boats for Vietnam will be further progressed, and new opportunities in renewable energy cooperation will be explored, the person said.The patrol boats being built for the Vietnam Border Guard are meant to enhance coastal security and prevent illegal activities. Five vessels are being built at Larsen & Toubro’s shipyard in Chennai, and the rest will be made at Hong Ha shipyard in the Vietnamese port city of Hai Phong under the Indian firm’s supervision.India has offered another defence line of credit of $500 million to Vietnam. The two countries upgraded their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership four years ago. India is one of the few countries with which Vietnam has such a partnership.There were several high-level visits from the Vietnamese side despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the country’s vice president travelled to India in February. The two prime ministers met online during the Asean-India Summit last month.The bilateral summit on Monday is also expected to focus on India’s development and capacity building assistance through initiatives such as the quick impact projects, Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) initiatives, projects in water resource management in Vietnam’s Mekong delta, digital connectivity and heritage conservation. The two sides will exchange views on the global pandemic and their respective strategies to deal with Covid-19 and post-pandemic economic recovery. “The existing economic and trade linkages between the two sides provide a useful platform to explore new and resilient supply chains,” the person cited above said.Both countries also have stakes in the Indo-Pacific region and significant maritime interests, and the summit will enable them to look at potential cooperation on India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean’s Indo-Pacific outlook.India and Vietnam will also concurrently serve as non-permanent members of the UN Security Council from 2021, and this opens up new opportunities for cooperation and coordination on regional and international issues, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-vietnam-likely-to-sign-key-pacts-at-summit-today/story-KWsJ8RS7Mso82Qi9n4FFlN.html
21-12-2020||India||Health ministry meeting today after spread of mutant coronavirus strain in UK||The Union health ministry called for an emergency meeting of its Joint Monitoring Group (JMG) on Monday morning after panic spread over a new mutant strain of coronavirus that is “out of control” in the UK, according to officials.The JMG meeting will be chaired by the Director General of Health Services (DGHS). World Health Organization’s (WHO) India representative Dr Roderico H Ofrin, who is also a member of the JMG, is likely to participate in the meeting, according to news agency PTI.Over 16 million Britons will be required to stay home for Christmas after Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was adamant until Friday that close households would be able to mix over the festive period, made a U-turn and cancelled plans to allow families to see each other. As new restrictions came into force in London after the government warned of the new strain, several European Union nations banned flights from the UK on Sunday.While the Netherlands announced a ban on all UK passenger flights, Belgium issued a flight ban for 24 hours and also halted train links to Britain.France suspended all travel links with the UK for 48 hours from midnight on Sunday and all flights coming from the country were banned in Ireland for a period of 48 hours. According to BBC, Italy blocked all flights from the UK till January 6. Germany, Kuwait, Israel and Austria have also imposed similar restrictions.Meanwhile, British Health Secretary Matt Hancock warned that the preventive measures could stay in place until the virus vaccine is fully rolled out. “We acted very quickly and decisively,” he said. “All of the different measures we have in place, we need more of them to control the spread of the new variant than we did to control the spread of the old variant,” he added.The JMG, which was formed by the government to review the global and Indian situation after the outbreak of the virus, and provide recommendations on technical matters to the health ministry, will discuss the issue of the mutated variant of the coronavirus reported from the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-meeting-today-after-spread-of-mutant-coronavirus-strain-in-uk/story-02g2HCuHPTyirUnVr536yK.html
21-12-2020||India||Shaktisinh Gohil wants Cong to relieve him of duties in Bihar, Delhi||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Bihar and Delhi Shaktisinh Gohil has requested the party leadership to relieve him of all organisational responsibilities on health grounds, people familiar with the development said. Gohil, 60, had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 6 in the midst of Bihar assembly elections. On December 3, the senior Congress leader announced on social media that he was being treated for post-Covid complications. He tweeted: “I was #COVID19 positive & now under strict medical supervision for post Covid complications. Due to lung infection, I have been medically advised not to talk or meet visitors. Recovery may take time. Thank you for your good wishes & concern. See you all once I’m fine!” A Congress functionary said Gohil, also a Rajya Sabha member, has requested the party high command to relieve him of organisational responsibilities until his health condition improves. Gohil, along with Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav, had on November 17 offered his resignations to a special panel formed in August o assist Congress president Sonia Gandhi on organisational matters. They offered their resignations, taking responsibility for the party’s poll debacle in their respective states. While the Congress won just 19 of the 70 seats it contested in Bihar, hurting the chances of the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led ‘mahagathbandhan’ (grand alliance) ousting the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, the party failed to win any of the by-elections in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha and Telangana. The losses triggered a war of words within the Congress with senior leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal, two of the 23 signatories to a letter to the Congress president in August seeking internal elections and an organisational overhaul, questioning the leadership on the poll debacle. While Sibal asked if the poll setbacks were “business as usual”, Azad claimed that a “five-star culture” had gripped the Congress and its structure had collapsed. The two were confronted by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Other leaders claimed that their remarks had “hurt the sentiments” of Congress workers and reminded them that the party had been through a crises several times in the past. In the November 17 meeting, the special committee members told both Gohil and Satav that the panel was not the right forum to offer their resignations and that they do not have the mandate to accept or reject their offers to give up their posts. Instead, the committee told them that they should identify the reasons for the party’s poor show in their respective states and submit a detailed report. A second Congress functionary said Gohil had been completely sidelined in the Bihar elections after the party leadership handed over the election management to a new central team, led by general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala. Soon after its list of candidates was released, the Congress had deployed a central team to quell a rebellion triggered by the selection of “tainted” leaders and also to oversee the party’s poll preparations and campaign. This was perhaps the first time that the AICC, the party’s central unit, had taken complete charge of the poll management and preparations during any state election. The second functionary quoted above claimed Gohil’s request to the Congress high command seemed to be in response to him being sidelined in the Bihar elections. When contacted, Gohil said it was an internal matter between him and the party. “I hope you will appreciate it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaktisinh-gohil-wants-cong-to-relieve-him-of-duties-in-bihar-delhi/story-J9dVup6AViJf3PEh1am7MK.html
21-12-2020||India||Call on NDA, RLP break-up on Dec 26, says Hanuman Beniwal||After quitting all Lok Sabha panels in support of protesting farmers, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal, whose party is a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will decide on December 26 whether to remain in the ruling coalition. At the same time, he will lead a march towards Delhi in protest against the three farm laws that were enacted by the NDA in September to open up agricultural trade. “I have never supported the farm bills…show me if there is any video. When the bills were introduced and passed in Parliament, I wasn’t there. I was not allowed because of a false Covid-19 report,” Beniwal, a poplar Jat leader, said on Sunday.On his resignation from three parliamentary committees, the MP from Nagaur said: “I have resigned in support of the farmers’ protest. I was part of the committee related to industries, had raised many issues -- from unemployment to industries sitting on land banks -- but no action was taken. “ He said he and Bharaqtiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Kailash Choudhary were attacked in Barmer over a year ago, but not even a first information report ( FIR) was lodged over the incident.“But when {the motorcade of } BJP national chief JP Nadda was attacked in West Bengal {on December 10}, Indian Police Service officers were immediately changed. People’s issues were not addressed in the committees. We were not going there to have tea-biscuit.’ The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called “mandi system”, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, which earlier only government-approved agents could, and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers, however, are protesting against the reforms, saying they would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s procurement system, under which the government buys staples, such as wheat and rice, at guaranteed prices.On reconsidering ties with the NDA, Beniwal said: “I have resigned from three committees and will march to Delhi with over 100,000 farmers on December 26. At a meeting, which will be held on NH-8 in Shahjahanpur, the decision on the alliance with NDA will be taken. We have no issues with the Prime Minister, but with the three farm laws. Inflation is on the rise and people are suffering.” Hitting out at the Ashok Gehlot led government of Rajasthan, he said the bureaucracy was dominating decision-making in the state and the chief minister was busy in keeping Congress MLAs happy. After the farmers’ movement, RLP will organise a gherao of the state government to press its demands for free electricity and employment generation, he said. On his allegations of collusion between Gehlot and former CM and BJP leader Vasundhara Raje, he said: “It has been 22 years...No action has been taken by any of the governments on scams raised by Gehlot or Raje, but a challan has been issued in the cases against me. Gehlot didn’t take Raje’s bungalow and she supported him during the political crisis in July . Around a dozen officials have been running the government.” On Beniwal reconsidering ties with the NDA, BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said: “He can do whatever he likes.”He said Beniwal’s allegations of collusion between Gehlot and Raje were baseless: “He does politics looking to the situation and his thoughts have no stability. Earlier, he called the farm laws in public interest and now for political mileage is opposing them,” Sharma said. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma also said Beniwal’s allegations of Gehlot and Raje colluding were baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-on-nda-rlp-break-up-on-dec-26-says-hanuman-beniwal/story-ruh9PWLIfV7a5W4FVgOXvO.html
21-12-2020||India||Amid farmers’ agitation, PM Modi pays surprise visit to gurdwara||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday visited Gurdwara Rakab Ganj near Parliament House in New Delhi and paid tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur, the ninth Sikh guru , in a move seen as part of his outreach to the community amid the ongoing farmers’ protest. According to a government official, the prime minister decided to pay a visit to the historic gurdwara, with no special security arrangements in place and no prior information to the Sikh shrine about his visit.“Today morning, in a sudden visit, Prime Minister Modi went and bowed his head at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj. He paid his tributes to Guru Teg Bahadur for his supreme sacrifice,” said the official, who didn’t want to be identified.Normally, a visit by the Prime Minister to any part of the Capital or the country entails a detailed security protocol. It involves massive police deployment, and traffic barriers are put up for his convoy to pass. His visit to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj was devoid of such elaborate arrangements.Also Read: Farmers to start relay hunger strike from today to mount pressure on govtGuru Teg Bahadur is the ninth of the ten Gurus of the Sikh religion. He was martyred on the orders of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb in Delhi in the 17th century. He is hailed in historical traditions as a defender of Hindus and Sikhs from oppression. Guru Tegh Bahadur, whose martyrdom day was observed on Saturday, was cremated at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj.“This morning, I prayed at the historic Gurudwara Rakab Ganj Sahib, where the pious body of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji was cremated. I felt extremely blessed. I, like millions around the world, am deeply inspired by the kindnesses of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji,” the prime minister wrote in a tweet.“It is the special Kripa of the Guru Sahibs that we will mark the special occasion of the 400th Parkash Parv of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji during our Government’s tenure. Let us mark this blessed occasion in a historic way and celebrate the ideals of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Ji,” he added. Modi also tweeted a similar message in Punjabi. Modi, wearing a head scarf, was seen praying and also interacting with other worshippers. Some people also clicked pictures with the PM.Also Read: Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objectionsThe PM’s visit to one of the holiest gurdwaras in the national capital assumes significance as it comes amid protests by farmers, especially those from Punjab, against the three farm laws enacted by his government in September. Thousands of farmers have amassed on the borders of Delhi since November 26 to protest against the lawsPolitical rivals used the visit to the gurdwara to criticise the government.“Terrorists Khalistanis Leftists Anti-Indians Chinese & Pakistani Agents | | The protestors have been name-called with all these labels but not as farmers. So, now PM heads to Gurudwara Rakabganj to appease all of the above?” tweeted Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-farmers-agitation-pm-modi-pays-surprise-visit-to-gurdwara/story-qZG6aP1DlwfGgK6ypKxRiN.html
21-12-2020||India||Bhartiya Kisan Union’s foreign funds under FCRA lens||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), the largest independent organisation behind the ongoing protests against the new farm legislation, said it has been asked by a central agency to submit its registration details which allow it to receive foreign funds. “BKU is being targeted by the central authorities for evoking a massive response from Indians and NRIs. What wrong is there if our supporters working as truck drivers or pursing other labour works send donations from overseas,” said union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan.BKU leadership said it has received an estimated Rs 8 lakh over the last two months but the donations from Indians and the diaspora have not been calculated separately. On December 6, BKU had issued a public appeal demanding financial resources ‘to pursue agitation’. The union wants donations to be transferred in the personal bank account of its general secretary of Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan. He confirmed that his bank account is not registered as per FCRA, and the forex department of Punjab and Sindh Bank has raised the objection over raising forex. The last date to get the bank account registered expired on Saturday.Experts say as the Ugrahan faction of BKU is, prima facie, not following the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, funds received by it from outside India are likely to be reverted to the respective account holders. Banking sector officials said, as per rules, an individual or an organisation cannot accept forex without prior registration with the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhartiya-kisan-union-s-foreign-funds-under-fcra-lens/story-51LoCNO1647ADl0ax7WXPN.html
21-12-2020||India||Govt asks farmers to come for talks, spell out objections||Farm minister Narendra Singh Tomar has urged protesting farm unions to spell out their “apprehensions” about a set of agricultural laws in greater detail so that discussions could focus on specific objections, saying farmers’ grievances lacked “clarity”.The minister also said the farmers should give up a “yes or no answer” demand on scrapping the farm laws and only a discussion on specific issues can press the talks forward and end the agitation. Thousands of farmers have hunkered down at the Capital’s borders for nearly a month to protest the laws that they say will benefit only corporates. The minister urged farmers to specify a date soon for talks, but farm unions have shown no signs yet to resume negotiations with the government.Union home minister Amit Shah said that Tomar was likely to hold talks with the protesting groups in a day or two to discuss their demands. “I am not exactly aware of the timing but Tomar is likely to meet the representatives of farmers tomorrow or the day after to discuss their demands,” Shah told a press conference in West Bengal.Farmer unions have announced a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at all protest sites to press for the repeal of the new laws.Also Read: Farmers to start relay hunger strike from today to mount pressure on govtOn Sunday, a senior bureaucrat of the agriculture ministry wrote a letter on behalf of the farm minister to Darshan Pal, a top leader of the farm unions. Pal had sent an email on December 16 to the agriculture minister, rejecting a set of “written proposals” of the government to solve the crisis.The government responded to Pal’s email on Sunday in which it said it wasn’t clear what the farmers were trying to say. “The reply sent by you through your email to us is very brief. It is unclear whether the views expressed in that mail are your personal opinion or the collective view of all the farm organisations,” the government’s letter, signed by joint secretary Vivek Agarwal, said. HT has reviewed a copy of the letter.The bureaucrat stated that the email “lacked clarity” on the grounds on which the farm unions had rejected the government’s written proposals. The letter to the farm leader said farm unions had repeatedly spurned conciliatory gestures of the government, including concrete offers.Thousands of farmers are protesting the three laws pushed by the government in September that allow agribusinesses to trade with minimal regulation, permit traders to stockpile large quantities of food commodities for economies of scale and lay down new contract farming rules. The agitation has thrown a political challenge to the Narendra Modi-led government.Farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices.Also Read: A wall of requirements set up at Chilla protest siteThe farmers decided to call off further negotiations on December 8, after a meeting with Shah.The government on December 9 sent a set of written proposals to amend some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers penalties for stubble burning, which causes pollution, and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfer.Pal, who heads the Krantikari Kisan Sangathan and is a key negotiator with the government, had summarily rejected the proposals, saying the unions won’t call off their agitation until the laws are fully repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-farmers-to-come-for-talks-spell-out-objections/story-Oo4FXqtfEOhOJ2WpibvOVO.html
21-12-2020||India||West Bengal polls and the possible role of defections||On December 19, home minister Amit Shah inducted a host of political leaders from the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), the left parties and the Congress in West Bengal into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The most prominent among them is Suvendu Adhikari, who used to be a minister in the current West Bengal government and comes from a politically influential family in the East Midnapore district. Adhikari, who has been a Lok Sabha MP in the past was elected as the AITC MLA of Nandigram – a place which is associated with the anti-land acquisition struggle which ultimately brought the end of the 34-year-old Left Front government in 2011 -- in the 2016 elections. In states where it is a challenger, the BJP has traditionally leveraged defections to its advantage. Here are four charts which explain this strategy and the possible churn it will bring to the state’s politics. To capture West Bengal, the BJP must win South Bengal Among the largest states, and most populated in the country, West Bengal has a very diverse landscape. The state can broadly be divided into five parts. The hill and foothill region comprising of Darjeeling, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri districts is a separate sub-region. Then there are the northern districts of Maldah, and North and South Dinajpur. Murshidabad and Birbhum, which are situated in the central region of the state, make up the third. The three districts of WestMidnapore, Purulia and Bankura are an extension of the Chotanagpur plateau and referred to as Jangalmahal. However, the biggest sub-region in the state is what is popularly referred to as south Bengal. This includes the greater Kolkata region. Because South Bengal is also the most densely populated region in the state, it holds the key to power. An HT analysis using Trivedi Centre for Political Data (TCPD) shows that the eight south Bengal districts out of the total 19 in this region, account for 57% of assembly constituencies (ACs) in the entire state.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Even in 2019, the BJP could not crack South-Bengal The BJP shocked the AITC by winning 18 out of the 42 Lok Sabha constituencies in the 2019 elections in West Bengal. An AC-wise breakup puts the BJP and AITC tally at 121 and 164 respectively. The halfway mark in the West Bengal assembly is 147. While the BJP’s gains in the state between 2014 and 2019 have been stellar, the AITC has been able to hold it back in south and central Bengal, traditionally, strongholds of the latter. 67 of the 121 AC segments the BJP won in the 2019 Lok Sabha came from the 94 ACs in hills, north Bengal and the Jangalmahal sub-regions. Of the 33 and 167 ACs in central and south Bengal, the BJP could win only 6 and 48. The AITC, on the other hand won 119 out of the 167 ACs in South Bengal even in the 2019 elections. Just holding on to south Bengal will increase the AITC’s chances of remaining in power.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Tailwinds to the BJP from usurping the left’s support-base are perhaps exhausted West Bengal’s polity since 2014 has been a story of growing polarisation. With the Communist Party of India (Marxist) led Left Front continuously losing ground against the AITC in election after election, the BJP started positioning itself as the principal opposition party in the state. This was evident even before the 2019 Lok Sabha election results (https://bit.ly/3nCLHRs)The BJP’s rise in West Bengal can be divided into two phases. In the 2014 elections, it significantly increased its vote share, primarily at the cost of the left. In 2019, it consolidated these gains and made inroads into the AITC’s vote bank as well. Even though the AITC had a lead in terms of overall vote-share, it was significantly behind the BJP in the hills, north-Bengal and the Jangalmahal sub-regions. If one were to assume that what is left of the left in West Bengal is its ideologically committed core voter base, which will not do business with the BJP, then the only way for the BJP to improve its performance, especially in south Bengal is to break away a section of the AITC’s Hindu voters. Leaders such as Suvendu Adhikari are the best way to achieve this task.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();This strategy could trigger a huge communal polarisation in the state West Bengal has the largest share of Muslim population in India after Jammu and Kashmir and Assam. According to the 2011 census, Muslims accounted for 27% in the state’s population. The Muslim population is not uniformly distributed in the state. While there are very few Muslims in the hills and Jangalmahal regions, they are present in large numbers in north, south and central Bengal. The two Muslim majority districts – Murshidabad (66% Muslim population) and Maldah (51%) – are in the central and north Bengal regions, respectively. Nearly half (49.9%) of the population in Uttar Dinajpur in North Bengal also Muslim. The maximum Muslim population in any other district of the state is only 37%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();This also means that the AITC’s current dominance in south and central Bengal is based on support from both Muslim and Hindus. As the BJP tries to wean away the Hindu faction of the AITC’s support base, even as Muslims gravitate towards the AITC in greater numbers – data from the CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey shows that this process was already underway in West Bengal – the state could experience unprecedented communal polarisation, even violence. While political violence is a characteristic feature of the state, it has not taken a communal colour in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-polls-and-the-possible-role-of-defections/story-2NDBwrGLc4udHx5MIPoXjI.html
21-12-2020||India||Facebook restores Kisan Ekta Morcha page after massive outrage||Social networking website Facebook took down the page of Kisan Ekta Morcha for several hours on Sunday, sparking widespread criticism over what farmers said was an attempt to muzzle their voices.Kisan Ekta Morcha is a farmers’ collective and its Facebook page, less than five days old, had notched up 75,000 followers. The group collects and collates information from different farmers’ unions and posts them across social media. Its page was restored roughly three hours later, reports said. “Now this is #TooMuchDemocracy. A peaceful protest by #Kissan & @Facebook deletes @Kisanektamorcha Facebook page,” the farmers group tweeted. The group also received a restriction on its Instagram account, after which it was not allowed to post videos or photographs. Also Read: Farmers to start relay hunger strike from today to mount pressure on govtAccording to Baljeet Singh, the head of the group’s information technology cell, the page was taken down for being in violation of the social media website’s community standards.“We had posted clips countering Narendra Modi’s speech from day before yesterday,” Singh told HT. “Each of his lies was countered with facts and examples. Subsequently, we started a live broadcast with {Swaraj India’s} Yogendra Yadav and in the middle of the broadcast, the page was taken down. ”According to Bhupendra Choudhary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Haryana, the taking down of the Facebook page was “shameful”. “This is not the first time Facebook has done something that explicitly favours the government,” he said. After massive outrage, Facebook later restored the page. “As per our review, our automated systems found an increased activity on the Facebook page www.facebook.com/kisanektamorcha and flagged it as spam, which violates our Community Standards. We restored the page in less than 3 hours when we became aware of the context. The review showed that only the Facebook page was affected by the automated systems while the Instagram account remained unaffected...” said Facebook company spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-ekta-morcha-s-facebook-page-restored-after-being-taken-down/story-GcM1bRsPcLwd1c1rx4WZeP.html
21-12-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat: Supreme Court asks Centre to help 36 foreigners return home||The Supreme Court has asked the Central government to assist 36 foreigners in going back to their countries after they were exonerated of all charges of flouting Covid-19-related guidelines by participating in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. A bench, led by Justice AM Khanwilkar, took note of applications made by the foreigners during a hearing on Friday and asked a government-appointed nodal officer to facilitate their return. Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for the 36 foreign nationals from 14 countries, had put forth their pleas, pointing out that all these applicants were grateful to the top court for expediting their trial before a subordinate court. When Guruswamy sought the intervention of the bench for the smooth departure of these foreigners, the court said that it would implore the nodal officer to process this request. Also Read: Mumbai court acquits 20 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, says prosecution had no evidence“They may make representation to the nodal officer for facilitating their return to home country which may be processed appropriately and in accordance with law,” said the bench, which also included Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. The court, however, added that the direction to the nodal officer was independent of any decision to be taken by Delhi Police to challenge the acquittal. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta assured the bench that in case any foreign national who has been exonerated has any difficulty in travelling back, their lawyers may get in touch with his office for assistance. The court also placed on record its appreciation for Mehta after senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing some of the foreigners, commended the SG for rendering all possible help. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicOn December 15, a Delhi court had dropped all charges against the 36 foreign nationals, citing lack of incriminating evidence. The trial court said that the prosecution failed to prove the presence of any of the accused inside the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat between March 12 and April 1, when the alleged violations took place. Previously, the cases against eight other foreign nationals were closed after they paid the Rs 10,000 penalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-supreme-court-asks-centre-to-help-36-foreigners-return-home/story-uU0kjS9PThkgEZ9aT03XOP.html
21-12-2020||India||Kannauj: Complaint against man for forced conversion||The police in Kannauj have lodged a first information report (FIR) against a man under the recently promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly marrying a woman with the intention of having her convert her religion.The complaint was registered on Saturday after the woman’s father, accompanied by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, approached the police.According to FIR, the complainant is a tailor in Kannaj’s Gursahaigunj and his daughter is a teacher in a local school. She fell in love with the man, identified as Mohammad Taufeeq, who allegedly hid his identity and religion from her before their wedding . He told her his name was Rahul Varma and married her on December 9, the complainant alleged.The pictures of the wedding were posted on social media platforms where people identified him as Mohammad Taufeeq, a resident of Khade Dewar village. “He deceived my daughter into marrying him. His act has hurt my religious sentiments and brought disrepute in the society,” the father stated in the FIR.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including district vice-president Jeetu Tiwari, met the father and assured him help. They went to meet the police following which the FIR was registered.Kannauj’s superintendent of police Prashant Varma confirmed that a case had been registered and said the police were gathering evidence. The station house officer of Gursahaigun,j Prem Singh Rajput, said raids were being conducted to arrest the man.The UP ordinance 2020 contains a provision for declaring a marriage null and void if the marriage is solemnised with primary purpose of converting the religion of the bride. If someone is found guilty of violating the provision, the ordinance makes it punishable with a minimum imprisonment of one year to a maximum five years and a penalty that’s not less than Rs 15,000..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannauj-complaint-against-man-for-forced-conversion/story-PWwbJevWi29WS1VE87xqiJ.html
21-12-2020||India||Jupiter-Saturn great conjunction on December 21: How to watch in India||On Monday, Jupiter and Saturn will come closest to each other in what is being called the great conjunction as the celestial marvel was last observed in 1623 and will again take place in 2080. The two slow-moving planets will be 0.1 degrees apart. Here is all you need to know about it:1. According to Nasa, the timing of the conjunction will be such that everyone will be able to view it.2. They will appear so close that a pinkie finger at arm’s length will easily cover both the planets in the sky.3. If one views through a telescope, Jupiter’s four large moons orbiting the planet can also be seen.4. It will be visible nearly an hour after sunset in the southwestern sky.5. In India, the conjunction is likely to be visible between 6.30pm and 7.30pm.Jupiter, Saturn merging in night sky, closest in centuries6. Nehru Planetarium in Delhi (https://nehruplanetarium.org/) has also opened registration for the viewing of the conjunction. Adhering to Covid-19 guidelines, it has started the skywatch from December 20 to avoid crowding, its website said. This will go on till December 22. In addition, there will be webcasting.Bengaluru’s Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium has said it will live stream the viewing of the great conjunction on YouTube and Facebook channel (https://www.taralaya.org/) if weather permits.7. Why is the conjunction being called Christmas star? Though the planets will be apart, they will appear as one big star, like what is believed to be Christmas star or the Star of Bethlehem, which appeared in the eastern sky when Jesus Christ was born. The Book of Matthew mentions this star which according to the Bible led the three wise men to Jerusalem. 8. The conjunction will also coincide with the December solstice, the shortest day of the year in the northern hemisphere and longest in the southern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jupiter-saturn-great-conjunction-on-december-21-how-to-watch-in-india/story-mNvFUT3vGLgUxs37V9MwkL.html
