22-12-2020||India||3 die after eating rotis made of stale jowar in Telangana’s Sangareddy||Three people of a family died within hours of eating rotis made of stale jowar flour at their home in Telangana’s Sangareddy district on Monday night, the police said. The incident happened at Palvatla village of Vatpally block. The deceased were identified as Jangam Chandramouli (60), Susheela (55) and Srisailam (45). Two other members -- Anasuya (50) and Saritha (40), who also fell sick after eating the jowar rotis, have been undergoing treatment at Osmania Hospital and their condition was serious but stable, the police at Vatpalli said. The locals told the police that Chandramouli’s mother Pedda Shankaramma (80) also died within hours after eating jowar roti about 15 days ago. “Apparently, the family members did not suspect it to be a case of food poisoning then and might have eaten rotis made of the same jowar flour on Monday night, without realising that it was contaminated,” the police said. Within an hour of having their dinner, the family members complained of severe stomach pain and started vomiting. The neighbours immediately rushed them to the government hospital at Jogipet, where Chandramouli and Sushila succumbed. Following the advice of the doctors, the other three others were rushed to Osmania Hospital where Srisailam breathed his last. The other two are still undergoing treatment, the police said. “We have registered a case of suspicious death. We are investigating from where the family had procured jowar flour,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-die-after-eating-rotis-made-of-stale-jowar-in-telangana-s-sangareddy/story-vU4AGmEyRUoBGapnEZ65KO.html
22-12-2020||India||Karnataka sees around 79% voting in first phase of gram panchayat polls||The Karnataka state election commission said that nearly 79 per cent of eligible voters cast their vote in the first phase of the two-phase Gram Panchayat polls in the state. While voting began slowly earlier on Tuesday morning, it picked up speed with even places like Bengaluru Urban which are traditionally seen as laggards clocking in nearly 77 % votes.A total of 3019 panchayats having 43,238 seats across 117 taluks voted on Tuesday in more than 23,000 booths sealing the fate of 1.17 lakh candidates.Voting was held between 7 am to 5 pm with one hour later reserved for those affected with Covid-19. The second phase of polls will be held on December 27 with results being declared on December 30. 4377 panchayat wards have already elected their representatives unopposed. The polls are being held on a party-less basis but all parties are looking to have their party workers elected for a majority of GP’s.State EC B Basvaraju said that around 79 to 80 per cent votes had been polled and the figure was similar to the voting percentage in the 2015 GP polls. The final voting percentage is still being tallied and will be known on Wednesday, EC officials added.Except for some minor glitches, the voting, by and large, has been peaceful. However, a candidate Damodar Krishnappa Yaligar who was contesting from Garga village in Gadag district is said to have committed suicide after polling began. Villagers told police that Yaligar feared defeat in the polls and had thus taken the extreme step. The police are investigating the matter.Similarly in Hosahalli village of Shivamogga district officials seized a feast prepared by a candidate allegedly to lure voters. In Malur taluk of Kolar district, villagers of Kambipura protested against lack of proper roads by not participating in the polls. However, in most parts of the state, there was considerable voter enthusiasm, officials added.The prominent leaders, who voted in the Gram Panchayat polls, included KPCC president DK Shivakumar who along with his wife exercised his franchise at his native place Kanakapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-sees-around-79-voting-in-first-phase-of-gram-panchayat-polls/story-vCHyTbodXW3LQFdZ55P0rL.html
22-12-2020||India||In Odisha, 22 rare idols stolen from 13th century Shiva temple||Nearly 22 antique idols, some of them made of Ashtadhatu alloy, have allegedly been stolen from a 13th century Shiva temple in Khurda district late on Monday night.According to the police, some unidentified miscreants barged into the sanctum sanctorum of the 800-year-old Daksha Prajapati temple in Banpur town of Khurda district by breaking open the locks of three doors and fled with the precious idols worth crores of rupees. Some of the idols were made of ashtadhatu (alloy of gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury)Inspector of Banpur police station, Sanjay Patnaik said of the 31 ancient idols in the temple, 22 have been stolen. The stolen idols include Maa Kanaka Durga, Gopinath Dev, Kaliyugeswar Dev and Chandrasekhar Dev.The temple named after Daksha, the father of Lord Shiva’s consort Parvati, is dedicated to Lord Shiva. Known for its architectural composition, the temple has been under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). There have been two instances of theft from the same temple twice in the past.INTACH’s state project coordinator and historian Anil Dhir, who earlier this year published a report on the ‘Antiquities of the Prachi Valley’, said more than 300 valuable idols were found missing in different places of the state. “Odisha has become a major hub for idol export. Nearly 48 cases regarding missing idols were filed in different police stations of the Prachi Valley in the last decade and only one recovery was made. There were 20 cases of idol theft in the last decade in Bhadrak, but not a single recovery was made,” said Dhir.State convener of INTACH, Amiya Bhusan Tripathy said the prevailing laws are ineffective to prevent idol thefts and burglary. “A holistic National Heritage Protection Policy and system should be put in place. Though there are 22,000 ancient places of worship in Odisha, there is no database for all the antiques, both stone and metallic idols. Inconsequential and weak legislations like the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, The Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act and the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 are ineffective to curb these crimes,” said Tripathy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-22-rare-idols-stolen-from-13th-century-shiva-temple/story-5Bd8PSxto08GNG47LZxvVK.html
22-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya case: CBI court to pronounce quantum of punishment on Wednesday||A special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram will on Wednesday pronounce the quantum of sentence in the Sister Abhaya murder case. The court had on Tuesday found a Catholic priest and a nun guilty in the 28-year-old case.The priest - Father Thomas Kotoor - was charged under sections 302, 201 and 449 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), whereas the nun - Sister Sefi - was booked under sections 201 and 302 of the IPC.The priest and the nun, who were on bail, were taken into judicial custody after the mandatory Covid-19 testing. Father Kotoor was shifted to the Poojapura Central jail, and Sister Sefi to the Attakulangara women’s prison in Thiruvananthapuram.Sister Abhaya (19) was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam in March 1992. It was initially dismissed as a suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was murder. In 2009, the CBI charge-sheeted Kottoor and Sefi in the case. It still took 11 years for the case to reach its logical conclusion due to prolonged legal battles.According to the CBI charge-sheet, on the day of her death, Abhaya got up early to study and went to the kitchen to wash her face. The charge-sheet surmised that she witnessed some sexual activity involving the two priests and nun and was killed because they feared she may disclose what she had witnessed.She was first attacked with an axe and later dumped in the well, the CBI claimed. Although the case created a sensation in Kerala, the church stood by the accused, saying the accused were innocent.Interestingly, the CBI had filed three reports in the case; in first report it said the death of Abhaya was a case of “homicidal suicide.” But this report was rejected by the court, which ordered a fresh investigation. In the second report, the agency said it could not establish beyond doubt whether it was a suicide or murder. In the last report it filed in 2008, the agency said it was a case of murder and arrested the two priests and nun.Another accused, Father Jose Poothrukayil, was discharged by the CBI court last year, on grounds of insufficient evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sister-abhaya-case-cbi-court-to-pronounce-quantum-of-punishment-on-wednesday/story-d1IHEB0jXxJdl12aPcjDLK.html
22-12-2020||India||It’s better to play safe during pandemic period, says Govind Namdev||Veteran actor Govind Namdev chose to take a backseat in acting and focused on himself during the Covid-19 pandemic. He used the period as an opportunity and utilised the time to write a fiction book and a play on the same storyline and plot. “Both are in final stages. Earlier too, I wrote a play ‘Madhukar Shah: Bundelkhand Ka Nayak’ which has been published and staged 17 times,” says the actor during his visit to Lucknow. The 66-year-old actor avoided a lot of work for a long time. “Jaan hain to jahan hai! Work can wait for something, but if you get affected with the deadly virus it’s not worthy at my age. So, I took a call and used this time for writing, besides I focused a lot on my health and reduced weight considerably,” says the actor. He has signed four new projects besides three films that were stalled. “I believe it’s now time to start working with safety measures. I will be shooting soon for ‘Bhool Bhuliya-2’ that will resume shoot in Lucknow, then Ashu Trikha’s ‘Koregaon’ and another by director Partho Ghosh. In this entire unlock phase, I only shot for a web series ‘Jaatland’ in Meerut where I play a zamindar. Now, there is lot of work pressure.” In his upcoming release ‘Satya Sai Baba’, he plays the role of a father. Namdev has done lot of projects in Lucknow. “There is another very good series that I will be shooting again here. It’s based on Inspector Avinash Mishra which stars Randeep Hooda and is being directed by Neeraj Pathak. Besides, I have shot here for ‘Jhalki’, ‘Shaadi Main Zaroor Aana’, ‘Kashi In Search of Ganga’, ‘Pyar Main Thoda Twist’ and ‘Bhool Bhuliya-2’. For the last few years, at least 2-3 projects I do are set in this part of the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-better-to-play-safe-during-pandemic-period-says-govind-namdev/story-bYNb8EUwbrTwlMX66rJrYK.html
22-12-2020||India||Gauhati HC orders floor test of BTC executive council before Dec 26||The Gauhati High Court on Tuesday ordered the newly-elected executive council of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam to prove its majority in a floor test on or before December 26. The HC order by Justice Suman Shyam came 10 days after results of the polls to the council were announced following a petition filed by Hagrama Mohilary, the former chief executive member (CEM) of BTC and president of Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) challenging formation of the executive council. “The process of election of a CEM is a democratic process. Therefore, it can’t be denied that the newly appointed CEM would be under a constitutional obligation to prove his majority on the floor of the house,” the HC order read. BPF had emerged as the single largest party winning 17 of the 40 seats to which election was held this month. But United Peoples’ Party Liberal, which won 12, along with Bharatiya Janata Party (9) and Gana Surakha Party (1) came together to cobble up a majority. The lone Congress member joined BJP later. Accepting the coalition’s claim, Governor Jagdish Mukhi asked UPPL, BJP and GSP to form the new executive council. On December 15, president of UPPL, Pramod Boro took oath as the new CEM of BTC. The Governor later nominated 6 other members to the council taking the total strength of BTC to 46. Miffed at not being called to form the executive council despite BPF emerging as the single largest party, Mohilary had approached the HC seeking relief. The petition also sought nomination of the 6 members to be declared as invalid. Admitting the petition, the HC had asked BTC on December 18 to maintain status quo and fixed December 22 as the next date of hearing. “A composite floor test so as to prove the majority of the respondent no. 1 (Pramod Boro) vis-à-vis the petitioner no. 1 (Hagrama Mohilary), in the opinion of this court, would be the best way to resolve the issue. I am therefore of the view that a ‘composite floor test’ should be held on or before 26/12/2020,” Tuesday’s HC order read. The court also ordered that since rules mention about the presence of elected members in a meeting to prove majority, the voting rights of the 6 nominated members shall remain suspended till the floor test is held. Justice Shyam directed newly elected CEM Pramod Boro not to take any major policy decision till the holding of the floor test. The next date of hearing on the petition has been fixed on January 11. Meanwhile, wary of the other side poaching its elected members both BPF and the new ruling coalition of BTC have kept their members under surveillance since declaration of results and not allowed them to move freely or make calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauhati-hc-orders-floor-test-of-btc-executive-council-before-dec-26/story-B98esudfBWt3z6jJwk9udP.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Your lies would be challenged’: Mamata Banerjee tells BJP top leadership||Two days after Union home minister Amit Shah attacked the West Bengal government over alleged lawlessness and stunted development in the state, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that all lies of the BJP would be challenged. After giving a point-by-point rebuttal on Tuesday, the chief minister said that as she gave all answers to the union home minister, Shah should give her a treat of Gujarati dishes. “He (Shah) projected Bengal as a land of nightmares as if the state has not registered any development and the state is synonymous with unemployment. If you tell the truth I have no problem but I would challenge all your lies,” she said while speaking to the media at the state secretariat. She said that the state’s gross domestic product (GDP) has increased by 2.7 times since 2011, tax revenue has increased by 2.9 times and capital expenditure has increased by 7.2 times during the same period. Also read: 20 passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19, states begin contact tracing“He (Shah) said Bengal ranks 20th in industrial production. We are saying Bengal ranks fourth. He said Bengal ranks 16th when it comes to state GDP. We are saying that our rank is second in India. He said that FDI in the state has dropped. We are saying it has increased by more than 700 per cent since 2011,” Banerjee said while throwing an open challenge to the union minister.She also said that the state holds the top position on many fronts, including poverty eradication, providing 100-days of work, MSME sector, providing minority scholarship, skill development and building rural roads and rural houses, among others. “I have given all answers. Now Amit Shah owes me a treat. I want to have Gujarati dishes – Dhokla. There is another dish which I love to have but I don’t remember the name,” said Banerjee. The BJP, however, demanded that Banerjee should publish a white paper. The Congress too demanded a white paper on how much investments the state has attracted, job generated and the unemployment situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-lies-would-be-challenged-mamata-banerjee-tells-bjp-top-leadership/story-z0NH4Ens7kDaf5L0oLuhWK.html
22-12-2020||India||Delhi records 939 new Covid-19 cases; recoveries near 600,000 mark||Total number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi reached 618,747 as the national capital logged 939 new infections in the previous 24 hours, the latest medical bulletin issued by the Delhi government showed on Tuesday. Also, as per the bulletin, the total number of patients in the city who have defeated the disease, inched closer to 600,000 with 1,434 new recoveries taking the total number of recovered cased to 599,683.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe new positive cases in Delhi were out of 82,386 samples tested for Covid-19, the bulletin showed. Death toll, meanwhile, reached 10,329 as 25 people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, Delhi now has 8,375 active cases of the disease.Daily new cases in Delhi have seen a fall over the last few days after it had emerged as the epicentre of the country’s mini Covid-19 surge during the festive season last month. In November, the city had seen more than 8,000 cases per day, as well as its highest number of deaths in a single-day, with experts suggesting that Delhi was witnessing a “third wave” of coronavirus. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, too, had said that Delhi “seems to have overcome the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.”Also Read | Covid-19: Delhi has overcome third wave, says KejriwalDelhi’s latest Covid-19 numbers come on a day temporary ban on flights from the United Kingdom over the discovery of a new coronavirus strain there, will come into effect at 11:59 pm and be in place till December 31. Last night, five out of 266 passengers and crew members of a flight that landed in Delhi from London tested positive for Covid-19, according to reports. Speaking to news agency ANI, the nodal Covid-19 officer said that samples of those who tested positive were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for research while the patients themselves were sent to a care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-939-new-covid-19-cases-recoveries-near-600-000-mark/story-NvFXxjAQdep8Nuco1OAMLJ.html
22-12-2020||India||India, Japan sign deal to boost cooperation between steel industries||India and Japan on Tuesday signed an agreement to enhance cooperation between their steel industries with the aim of ramping up domestic production and greater coordination in the global market, which is dominated by China. The memorandum of cooperation in the field of steel industry, inked by India’s steel ministry and Japan’s economy, trade and industry ministry, will boost mutual cooperation by establishing an “India-Japan steel dialogue” at the joint secretary-level. “Through the dialogue, both sides are expected to deepen mutual understanding on the situations surrounding the steel industry in both countries and in the international market, where excess supply of steel is an issue,” a person familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The two sides will also discuss trade and investment related issues and promote sustainable growth in the steel sector, the person added. The move dovetails with efforts by India and Japan to create alternative and reliable supply chains amid the Covid-19 pandemic by working with like-minded partners such as Australia and the US, as well as the Indian government’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) initiative aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing capacities. India and Japan were the second and third largest steel producing countries in 2019, with outputs of 111.2 million tons and 99.3 million tons respectively. However, they were far behind the global leader, China, whose output was 996.3 million tons. China has for long been accused of dumping steel, and its steel exports faced 15 anti-dumping investigations this year in countries such as Australia, Thailand, the UK and the US. India’s demand for steel is growing and the consumption of 88.68 million tons in 2017 was 1.7 times higher than that of 2007. However, India’s per capita consumption of steel was only 75.3 kg in 2017, only one-seventh of the figures for Japan (549.9 kg) or China (544.5kg), signifying a large margin for further growth. The steel ministry plans to expand steel production capacity to 300 million tons by 2030-31. Such expansion can be sustained through domestic demand creation, which is a potential area of cooperation between India and Japan, people familiar with developments said. The agreement signed on Tuesday by Pradip Kumar Tripathi, secretary in the steel ministry, and Shigehiro Tanaka, Japan’s vice-minister for international affairs, will also help improve the quality of steel produced in India. Most of the steel imported from Japan to India is high grade steel. In recent years, Japanese companies have increased their presence in the Indian market and are working with partners to produce better quality steel. In 2019, Nippon Steel and Arcelor Mittal purchased Essar Steel India in one of the largest investments made by a Japanese company in India. Nippon Steel has also established a joint venture with Tata Steel to produces high grade steel for automobiles. A conglomerate led by Mitsubishi Corporation and Larsen & Toubro is working with Steel Authority of India Limited to modernise the Rourkela steel plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-sign-deal-to-boost-cooperation-between-steel-industries/story-nAvh28BzOL70fLgX062rAI.html
22-12-2020||India||NIA raids 7 locations in Kerala in connection with terror outfit||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday conducted raids at seven locations in Thrissur and Kozhikkode districts of Kerala in connection with some absconding accused belonging to a terror outfit called Juna Al Aqsa.In a release, the NIA said houses of seven people were being searched - Mohammad Faaz, Mohammad Ihthisham, Abdul Sammeh, Rayeez Rehiman, Nabeel Mohmmad, Mohammad Shaheen and Mohammad Ameer. All of them reportedly fled to Syria. The NIA had registered a case against them last year.Also read: 20 passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19, states begin contact tracingThe NIA said that during the raids it seized nine mobile phones, fifteen SIM cards, an iPad, six laptops, three memory cards and various other documents. Before fleeing to Syria some of them also funded terror activities in the country and brainwashed many youngsters. In September, the agency had raided several locations in Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad in West Bengal and arrested nine persons associated with the Al Qaeda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-7-locations-in-kerala-in-connection-with-terror-outfit/story-9ZtJtg0IScz0bo2NdIL0gN.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Engineering marvel’: An insight into Anji Khad, India’s first cable-stayed rail bridge||The Railways is developing India’s first ever cable-stayed bridge, called Anji Khad. It is being built at a height of 331 metres above the riverbed, and will connect Katra and Resai in the Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir. Anji Khad is a part of the complex Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla rail link project and is being developed by the Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL).Union railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday that the work towards developing the bridge was going on in full swing.“Engineering Marvel in the Making : The work on magnificent Anji Khad Bridge Bridge at night, India’s first cable stayed rail bridge, is going on in full swing. A part of Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link project, it will connect Katra & Reasi in Jammu and Kashmir,” Goyal tweeted.The 473-metre-long bridge has been designed in such a way so that it can handle rough weather conditions.The Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway link is expected to be completed by 2022, Northern Railways General Manager Ashutosh Gangal had told news agency ANI earlier this month. The railway line is 272 km long and is being built at a cost of Rs 27,949 crore. Engineering Marvel in the Making : The work on magnificent Anji Khad Bridge 🌉, India's first cable stayed rail bridge, is going on in full swing.A part of Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link project, it will connect Katra & Reasi in Jammu and Kashmir. pic.twitter.com/tjLlsmYaOS“We are expecting to complete Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla railway line (272-km) by December 2022. Work is going on in full swing at the 111-km section. Out of this 111-km section, 97-km-long line will be laid in a tunnel,” Gangal had said. He also highlighted that the project has several engineering challenges and work was being reviewed.“The most difficult part was the connectivity of Katra to Banihal. Katra has been connected from both sides and Banihal has been connected till Baramulla. The middle part in which 97-km-long line out of 111 km will be laid in a tunnel was under progress,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineering-marvel-an-insight-into-anji-khad-india-s-first-cable-stayed-rail-bridge/story-1DfKo9URzWY3LTunBR5aQP.html
22-12-2020||India||Jagannath temple to reopen on Wednesday, only people from Puri to be allowed in first phase||The doors of the famous Jagannath temple in Odisha’s Puri town will open for devotees from Wednesday, nine months after the administration had closed all places of worship due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). However, the temple will reopen in a graded manner.The decision was taken after Chhatisa Nijog, the apex body of the Jagannath temple priests, sent a proposal to the state government recommending the re-opening of the 12th-century shrine.Chief administrator of Sri Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) Dr Krishan Kumar said the devotees from Puri would be allowed for five days in the first phase followed by people from the rest of the state.“For all devotees, the temple is proposed to be thrown open from January 3 onwards. Covid-19 negative certificate will be mandatory for entry into the temple from January 3 and identity cards are must for the temple servitors and employees of the SJTA,” said Dr Kumar.A maximum of 5,000 devotees will be allowed to have darshan from January 3. The temple will remain closed on January 1 and 2 in view of the possibility of the rush of devotees to the pilgrim town on New Year’s Day.Earlier this month, the State Endowments Commission had recommended reopening of temples across Odisha with strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol.The opening of Jagannath temple is expected to set the stage for the opening of rest of the temples across the state next month.Bhubaneshwar still preserves 700 temples, around which the religious life of the city revolves. The state capital is not only a major destination for tourists but also for pilgrims.Shree Lingaraj Temple, Ananta Vasudeva Temple, Mukteshwar Temple, Brahmeshwar Temple, Rajarani Temple in the state capital are among the well known religious sites for Hindus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-to-reopen-from-wednesday-only-people-from-puri-to-be-allowed-in-first-phase/story-lzgjOaShoGUGD0zHEO0EJI.html
22-12-2020||India||20 passengers from UK test positive for Covid-19, states begin contact tracing||With as many as 20 passengers from the United Kingdom testing positive for Covid-19 at airports in Delhi, Chennai and Kolkata, the state governments have initiated vigorous contract tracking of passengers who came from UK or other European countries in the past 10 days.At least two people tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolkata after returning from UK, said West Bengal health secretary NS Nigam, state health secretary. One person has tested positive for Covid-19 out of 24 passengers who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu, said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. 15 passengers were tested on Monday and another 9 were tested on Tuesday. “We have also identified another 15 people who were in close contact with the positive person as they travelled together by Air India 553 domestic flight,” Radhakrishnan said. “They could have been exposed as they sat in rows adjacent to this (infected) individual. They are already in-home quarantine but we are going to test them too.”The health department on priority is tracking the health of 1,088 passengers who came from England in the last seven days who are likely to be tested in the next stage. As per government’s SOP data of all international travellers who arrived after November 25 is being collected. Seven passengers and a crew member who arrived from the UK in an Air India flight tested positive for Covid-19, Punjab minister for medical education and research, OP Soni told reporters, adding that those who tested positive for the infection will be quarantined. Six passengers at Delhi airport coming from the UK were also found positive for Covid-19.Four passengers including a British national who arrived at Ahmedabad on Tuesday morning by an Air India flight from London tested positive for Covid-19, a city civic official said. Six passengers at Delhi airport coming from UK were also found Covid positive.Also read: Nepal PM Oli seeks control of communist party, rivals ‘sack’ him as party bossThe swab samples of the Covid-19 positive passengers have been sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune, for genomic testing to ascertain if it’s the new strain of the virus. The test reports would come in a few days. The union health ministry officials on Tuesday said that there was no confirmed case of new coronavirus strain in the country.The British government had warned of a potent new strain of the Covid-19 virus that was ‘out of control’ with 70 per cent more ability to transmit and had imposed a stringent new stay-at-home lockdown from Sunday. India on Monday announced the suspension of all flights to and from the UK between December 23 and December 31 to prevent the arrival of the new Covid-19 strain that is believed to spread the infection faster. Experts said the possibility of the new strain of the virus having entering India could not be ruled out . The first confirmation of the new strain in the UK came about a week ago.However, states such as Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Kerala have started tracking all passengers who have come from the UK and other European countries in the past 10 days for Covid-19.Greater Chennai municipal corporation deputy commissioner Meghnathan Reddy said if a UK returnee is found positive, the entire street where they are staying will be tested. “There swab samples will also be sent for genome testing to NIV, Pune,” Radhakrishnan said. Those testing negative will be sent home for 14-day quarantine and positive cases will be referred to hospitals. Close to 2,000 passengers from the UK arrived at the Chennai airport in the past week. In case of Kolkata, the number is close to 1,500. Some of the passengers did not get RT-PCRT tests done, after which they were tested again.“At least 222 passengers on a flight came to Kolkata from London early on Sunday. At least 25 passengers, who didn’t have RT-PCR test reports with them at the time of landing were tested in Kolkata. Two of them tested positive and were shifted them to two separate hospitals,” Nigam said.Also Read: Yuzvendra Chahal marries Dhanashree Verma in Gurugram, see picsKaushik Bhattacharya, director of NSCBI airport said, “If anyone tests positive, the infected person is taken by the state government officials to a Covid-19 designated hospital.”At Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International airport, all passengers coming from the UK are being tested for Covid-19, which lead to long waiting hours for passengers to leave the airport. “Clearing the patients could take some time as all passengers and crew members are being tested for Covid-19,” said Amritsar assistant deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal.Ankush, a resident of Faridkot in Punjab, said his brother Ankur has arrived from the UK. “All our family members have been waiting for him for the past several hours,” PTI quoted him as saying. He accused the authorities of not informing them about the time to be taken for his clearance.In Telangana, where 358 passengers had arrived in the past one week from the UK, efforts were on to trace them, said Telangana Public Health Director G Srinivas Rao. He added that no case of the new strain of Covid-19 has been confirmed so far and all passengers are being tested for Covid. Hyderabad had four direct flights and seven connecting flights to the UK.Uttar Pradesh health department issued directions to test all passengers who came back from UK and Europe in the past one week for Covid-19, a statement by the state government said. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters that the government officials will visit homes of passengers who have arrived from the UK in the past 10 days to check their health condition. Similar, standard operating procedure was also issued by the Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-passengers-from-uk-test-positive-for-covid-19-strain-states-begin-contact-tracking/story-joj1TTYiqsfqNJv7dBvefO.html
22-12-2020||India||Assam cabinet approves Bill to make Bodo associate official language of state||The Assam cabinet on Tuesday approved the Assam Official Language Amendment Bill for making Bodo (in Devanagari script) an associate official language of the state. The development comes 11 months after signing of the third Bodo peace accord between the Centre, Assam government, four Bodo rebel groups and two Bodo organizations, which included declaring Bodo as associate official language as one of the clauses. According to the Census 2011, there are around 14.16 lakh Bodo speakers in Assam (4.53% of the total population of the state). The Bill is expected to be tabled in the next assembly session scheduled later this month. It would be the last session of the assembly before the polls expected in March-April next year. The cabinet also approved setting up of the Bodo Kachari autonomous welfare council-another clause of the Bodo accord signed in January this year. A proposal for amendments to the Autonomous Council Acts of Kamtapur, Motak and Moran was also approved wherein provisions were introduced for formation of interim governments. Land acquisition through direct purchase in way of negotiated settlement for improvement of state highways and major district roads was also approved by the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-approves-bill-to-make-bodo-associate-official-language-of-state/story-R76bvJ52yDoxzNggFbcZ0M.html
22-12-2020||India||Kisan Diwas 2020: As farmers intensify protest, here’s everything you need to know about Chaudhary Charan Singh’s birthday||The farmers protesting against the three agricultural laws of the Centre have urged the people of the country to skip a meal on Kisan Diwas on Wednesday. The protesters are observing Kisan Diwas, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, to intensify their stir seeking repeal of the farm laws passed in September.The farmers started observing relay hunger strike from Monday, in which a batch of 11 farmers will take turns every 24 hours to sit on hunger strike.The Centre, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been frequently explaining the benefits of the farm reforms and assuring farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue. But the farmers are adamant that the farm laws must be repealed and no breakthrough has been achieved after several rounds of talks between the government and the protesters.Here is everything you need to know about the ‘Kisan Diwas’:• The day celebrates the farmers and their work in the country, and is observed on the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh. Rakesh Tikait, leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union Tikait (BKU) faction in Uttar Pradesh, said, “On this Kisan Diwas, farmers across the country will skip a meal. Those who provide food to the nation will stay hungry because of the government’s anti-farmer’s stance. I request everyone not to cook lunch that day and join the farmers.”• Chaudhary Charan Singh was born on December 23, 1902, in Uttar Pradesh, in a middle-class peasant family.• Influenced by Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence, Singh entered the Independence movement. After Independence, he associated himself with socialism in rural areas.• He was the chief architect of land reforms in Uttar Pradesh. He took a leading part in the formulation and finalisation of the Debt Redemption Bill 1939, which brought great relief to rural debtors.• The government of India started observing Kisan Diwas in honour of Singh from 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-diwas-2020-as-farmers-intensify-protest-here-s-everything-you-need-to-know-about-chaudhary-charan-singh-s-birthday/story-hn3fpkOtqnNzEIIcORIIpM.html
22-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Haryana govt steps up preparations for coronavirus vaccination drive and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Haryana ramps up preparations for Covid-19 vaccination driveThe Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana has stepped up preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive by starting the registration of those who will be administered shots in the first phase, a senior official told news agency PTI. Read MoreOman to receive first batch of Covid-19 vaccine on WednesdayOman will receive the first shipment of Covid-19 vaccine produced by Pfizer and BioNTech on Wednesday, according to top government functionary. Read MoreTepid voting marks first phase of gram panchayat polls in KarnatakaVoting in the first phase of the two-phase Gram Panchayat polls was held in Karnataka on Tuesday with most districts recording an average turnout till afternoon. Read MoreThere could be some modest hit in vaccine efficacy’: Expert on new Covid-19 strainThe new variant of SARS-CoV-2, which is said to have originated in southeast England, has raised concerns over the effectiveness of the vaccines developed to provide immunity against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to a CNN report , Pfizer Inc. has started working on generating data. Read MoreYay! McDonald’s fans in Delhi can order food using WhatsAppHave you ever craved food from McDonald’s timeless menu but you were too lazy to go out or use a food ordering app? Well, now there is another way for you to satiate your cravings for Chicken McGrill or McFloat or any other thing that you prefer: WhatsApp. Read More‘That was not normal for any Indian wicketkeeper to do’: Gautam Gambhir reveals his first impression of MS DhoniFormer India batsman Gautam Gambhir has recalled what he felt when he saw MS Dhoni for the first time. Gambhir, who made his India debut a year before Dhoni did, revealed how he and the former skipper had been on different tours together as part of India A’s assignments. Read MoreChristmas 2020: Gifts these 7 books Oprah recommends as they ‘comfort, inspire and enlighten’From being called “The Year of Covid” to being labeled as the most distressful year courtesy the pandemic, earthquakes, election anxiety and untimely death news, 2020 is finally wrapping up on a holiday note. Read MoreHo ho ho Oh no! Firefighters rescue paragliding ‘Santa’ stuck in utility pole in California. WatchChristmas is just around the corner, and almost all the kids have drafted their wish-list for Santa Claus. But, in this Californian town, the kids probably have to wait some more for their gifts to arrive. The reason you may ask? Well, it looks like this ‘Santa’ is stuck in a situation. Read MoreCovid vaccine: How will Delhi airport store & transport doses? CEO explainsAs rollout of Covid-19 vaccines seems to inch closer, Videh Jaipuriar, Chief Executive Officer, Delhi International Airport, briefed the media about facilities aimed at storing and transporting the inoculants. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-haryana-govt-steps-up-preparations-for-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-and-all-the-latest-news/story-HKAPiZA7qghRBG01ddgjRK.html
22-12-2020||India||After failing to rape 5-year-old girl, Odisha teen strangulates her to death||The Special Investigating Team of Odisha police, that is probing the case of the murder of a 5-year-old girl in Nayagarh district, said the main accused, an 18-year-old youth, strangulated the minor after failing to sexually assault her.Opposition BJP and Congress, since last month, have made the murder of the girl a major issue in Odisha, accusing the Naveen Patnaik government of failing to protect children in the state.Senior police officer Arun Bothra, who headed the Special Investigation Team, said on July 14 morning, the girl had gone to the house of main accused Saroj Sethi to collect blackberries. “On that day, Saroj was alone in his house as his mother and sister had left for work. Saroj took her to a room to sexually assault her. When the girl resisted and started to scream, Saroj strangulated her to death,” said Bothra.Bothra claimed that after killing the girl, Saroj tried to have sex with the body but failed. “He had discharged semen on the frock. The accused then put the body along with the frock inside a gunny bag and dumped it in a bush near a pond and covered the gunny bag with coconut tree branches. On realizing that he had forgotten to keep the girl’s leggings in the gunny bag, he again went to his house to get it and later threw it in the village pond,” said Bothra. He added that the pond is being dried up to find the leggings.The police official claimed that the teenager was addicted to pornography, especially child pornography, and had watched such porn videos throughout the previous night on his sister’s mobile phone. “The accused had deleted all the search history from the mobile phone except one tab showing ‘how to delete search history’,” he said.The SIT head said there are no eyewitnesses in this incident, but the accused reportedly confessed his crime before two people, one of them has the audio and video recordings of the conversion. “We are looking for other people involved in the crime. The accused has been taken on a three-day remand starting today and we will share further findings after that,” he said.Also read: Nepal PM Oli seeks control of communist party, rivals ‘sack’ him as party bossHours after his claims, mother of the prime accused alleged that her son was tortured by SIT agency to confess to the crime. “My son, who was brought to the house by the cops on Monday, told us that he was being harassed and made to plead guilty. We are concerned as my husband is no more and there is nobody to fight for us,” she said.“The SIT officials took away my daughter’s mobile phone on December 2. Later, on December 10, they again visited our house and told us the mobile had some password. They could have told this when they took away the mobile phone. We suspect the cops had given some password which we don’t know,” Sethi’s mother alleged.The father of the deceased girl also raised doubts about the SIT claim. “The youth was tortured and forced to confess to the crime. He was also offered Rs 5 lakh to take the blame. He has been made a scapegoat. We don’t know whether he was actually involved in the incident or not, but as per our knowledge, he is not like that as has been painted by the probe agency. The SIT is doing drama to suppress our demand for a CBI probe into the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-failing-to-rape-5-year-old-girl-odisha-teen-strangulates-her-to-death/story-n4mxUg2iPYS06Scf44raJM.html
22-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi-led delegation to meet President with 20 million signatures against farm laws||A delegation of Congress leaders, led by former party chief Rahul Gandhi, will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday to submit around 20 million signatures collected from across the country in the past three months seeking repeal of the three farm laws. Congress general secretary in-charge of organisation KC Venugopal said in a statement that the party had launched a nationwide campaign in September for collecting memoranda of appeals addressed to the President signed by farmers, farm labourers and other stake holders opposing the three new farm legislations. He said around 20 million signatures seeking the President’s intervention for withdrawal of these laws had been collected till now. “The government has chosen to brazenly defame, discredit and eventually tire out the lakhs of protesting farmers. The Modi government and its ministers have chosen to insult them,” he alleged. “The arrogant Modi government having initially duped the farmers by putting on a conciliatory face soon made its intransience apparent. It has become absolutely clear that the Modi government is only committed to the welfare of large corporates instead of innocent farmers and farm labour,” Venugopal said. “The government has also been on an overdrive using public money to create false propaganda and narrative in favour of the draconian farm laws and discrediting the protesting farmers. It is pushing manufactured surveys in media discourse to create support in favour of these anti-farmer laws,” the Congress leader added. The Congress had launched its three-month-long “mass movement” against the government for enacting the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Gandhi also undertook a ‘tractor yatra’ across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign. “Lakhs of India’s farmers have been on protest in freezing weather against the three blatantly anti-agriculture laws aimed at bartering their interests in the hands of select crony capitalist friends of the Modi government. They have been blocked from entering Delhi for the last 27 days despite prior notice and peaceful intent,” Venugopal said. “The three laws have caused immense pain and anguish among the farmers and farm labour across India. The farmers have been agitating and requesting the government to annul these legislations. They are sitting on an indefinite strike against these laws and 44 farmers have already lost their lives during the ongoing protests,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-led-delegation-to-meet-president-with-20-million-signatures-against-farm-laws/story-TQoJdpqwydAOq4WCc1M3RN.html
22-12-2020||India||Farmers’ stir: Tomar says hopeful of protesting unions resuming talks with Govt soon||As farmers’ agitation against three farm laws entered its 27th day, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday he is hopeful that protesting unions would soon complete their internal discussions and resume talks with the government to resolve the crisis. He met two more peasants’ bodies from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh that extended support to the legislations. “Representatives of different farmers’ bodies had come to tell that the laws are good and are in the interest of farmers. They had come to urge the government not make any amendments to the laws,” Tomar said after meeting the two groups. “I am hopeful they (protesting farmers’ unions) will soon complete their internal discussions and come forward for talks. We will be able to find a solution successfully,” the minister said. Agriculture Ministry had written to the protesting groups on Sunday, urging them to specify their concerns on the government’s proposal and finalise a date for the next round of talks to end the protests. At least five rounds of formal talks have failed to break the deadlock as the agitating unions have not agreed to anything less than repeal of the laws. UP-based Kisan Sangarsh Samithi (KSS) and Delhi-based Indian Kisan Union (IKU) are among those farmer groups that have extended support to the laws in the last three weeks. The previous groups were from Haryana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. However, nearly 40 groups are agitating against the laws on various Delhi borders. The protesting groups have maintained that the new laws will eliminate the safety net of the minimum support price (MSP), do away with the mandi (wholesale market) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has been saying that these apprehensions are misplaced. Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Singh Nagar as well as former Uttarakhand Minister and IKU National President Ramkumar Walia were also present in Tuesday’s meeting. “The three laws enacted by the Centre are good and are in the interest of the farming community,” KSS President Ajay Pal Pradhan told PTI after the meeting. While supporting the laws, KSS also urged the minister to ensure that procurement at minimum support price (MSP) continues. Pradhan claimed that thousands of farmers who have come in tractors in support of the laws have been stopped at the border and therefore a select group has come for the meeting. In its representation made to Tomar, KSS also requested the Centre to implement the 2011-12 agreement signed between farmers of Gautam Buddha Nagar with Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Development Authorities. “Even after the High Court order, the development authorities are not implementing the agreement under which the UP government had decided to give 10 per cent of the developed land to farmers whose land was acquired for the development and housing project,” Pradhan said. KSS further demanded that the government should notify only that much land which is required for the development. In the Secunderabad industrial area, industries have developed 45 per cent of the land acquired and the rest is not used yet. “The land was acquired in 1972, but only on paper, the industries are made functional. No infrastructure has been developed. There is no proper road and water facility. Villagers are finding it difficult,” Secunderabad Block Pramuk Pushpendra Bhati said. KSS also demanded steps towards modernisation of mandis, use of mandi tax for development of mandis, a scheme to reduce tubewell charges and farm loan at a lesser interest rate, among others. “We have read the farm laws in detail and are in favour of farmers. We urge farmers not to get misled on this issue,” Walia said. The new agri laws will end middlemen and give options for farmers to sell their produce, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-tomar-says-hopeful-of-protesting-unions-resuming-talks-with-govt-soon/story-xzrcHKQgKeRm5xbp8DCCZI.html
22-12-2020||India||Tepid voting marks first phase of gram panchayat polls in Karnataka||Voting in the first phase of the two-phase Gram Panchayat polls was held in Karnataka on Tuesday with most districts recording an average turnout till afternoon. A total of 3019 panchayats having 43,238 seats across 117 taluks are voting today in more than 23,000 booths which will seal the fate of 1.17 lakh candidates.Voting was on between 7 am to 5 pm with one hour later reserved for those affected with Covid-19. The second phase of polls will be held on December 27 with results being declared on December 30. At least 4,377 panchayat wards have already elected their representatives unopposed. The polls are being held on a party-less basis but all parties are looking to have their party workers and sympathisers elected for a majority of GP’s.Till 11 am, Gokak had recorded 20.52% voting, Belgavi 23.1%, Hukkeri 20.5%, Kittur 23.6% and Khanpur 9.36%. Except in Bidar which is using EVM’s, paper ballots are being used across the rest of the state. EC officials expressed confidence that voting is likely to pick up later in the day. Except for some minor glitches, the voting, by and large, has largely been peaceful.However, a candidate Damodar Krishnappa Yaligar who was contesting from Garga village in Gadag district is said to have committed suicide after polling began. Villagers told police that Yaligar feared defeat in the polls and had thus taken the extreme step. The police are investigating the matter.Among the prominent leaders who voted in the Gram Panchayat polls included KPCC president D K Shivakumar who along with his wife exercised his franchise in his native Kanakapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tepid-voting-marks-first-phase-of-gram-panchayat-polls-in-karnataka/story-Fd8qPb5KRT3wjSruuU8mWN.html
22-12-2020||India||Kerala Governor denies permission for special assembly session against farm laws||The Left Democratic Front government in Kerala suffered a jolt on Tuesday after Governor Arif Mohammad Khan turned down its request to convene a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the new farm laws enacted by the Centre.The Kerala government was planning to convene a special session on Wednesday. Earlier the government had approached the Governor with a recommendation to convene the house and he later sought certain clarifications on this. Though the state government replied to the clarifications, the Governor found they were not satisfactory. The Governor also felt that there was no emergency in order to convene a special session in such a short time. The ruling CPI (M) is yet to react but the opposition Congress has criticised the Governor’s decision. “He is acting like an agent of the BJP. His decision is not acceptable. It is the prerogative of the house to decide whether an issue is urgent or not,” said Congress deputy leader in the house K C Joseph. Reeling under many issues like gold smuggling and alleged kickbacks in government projects, the CPI (M) is not likely to engage in an open confrontation with the Governor. Opposition Congress and other parties had also pledged their support to the move to introduce a resolution. In the 140-member house, the BJP has a single legislator. The government was planning a one-hour session to pass a motion to reject these bills after putting it to vote. But its plan fell flat with the Governor’s decision. Earlier the BJP had criticised the move by calling it a politically motivated decision. “It is nothing more than a political gimmick. It is as futile as passing a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA),” said minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan. Earlier the state had announced its plan to challenge the three farm laws in the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-denies-permission-for-special-assembly-session-against-farm-laws/story-jEaBmn2QTp0MQibWWd0EAI.html
22-12-2020||India||NIA conducts searches in Kerala in terrorist group Jund Al Aqsa case||The NIA on Tuesday conducted searches at seven locations in Kerala in connection with its probe against alleged members of proscribed terrorist outfit Jund Al Aqsa who are suspected to be in war-torn Syria, an official said.The houses searched in the Thrissur and Kozhikode districts of the state belong to Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohamed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer, an NIA spokesperson said.The case was registered suo-motu by the NIA in January 2019 under sections of the IPC and the UAPA against six accused -- Hashir Mohammed of Ernakulam; Sidhikul Akbar of Malappuram; Muhammed Irfan of Kannur; Thaha Mohammed of Shimoga district, Karnataka; Sultan Abdulla, of Kozhikode and Fayez Farooq of Thrissur, the official said.These people, while being in Qatar, had conspired from 2013 onwards, conducted preparations or travelled to Syria and joined the proscribed terrorist organizations Jund AL Aqsa or Jabhat AL Nusrah, the NIA official said.Mohammed Faaz, Mohammed Ihthisham, Abdul Sameeh, Rayees Rehiman, Nabeel Mohammed, Mohammed Shaheen and Mohammed Ameer, while being in Qatar till early-2019, were in contact with the accused Sidhikul Akbar and had provided funds to the fugitives based in Syria, the official said.During searches, nine mobile phones, fifteen SIM cards, one iPad, six laptops, three memory cards and various documents have been seized, he said.Further investigation in the case is continuing, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-conducts-searches-in-kerala-in-terrorist-group-jund-al-aqsa-case/story-TIbjbkizhbbu6IuhvzggaO.html
22-12-2020||India||Deeply honoured, says PM Modi on Legion of Merit award||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was conferred the Legion of Merit medal by US President Donald Trump, on Tuesday tweeted that “I am deeply honoured,” adding that the honour recognises efforts of people of both countries to improve bilateral ties. PM Modi further reiterated his government’s “firm commitment” to strengthen the ties between the two countries.Also Read | US President Donald Trump confers Legion of Merit on PM Modi“I am deeply honoured to be awarded the Legion of Merit by @POTUS @realDonald Trump. It recognises the efforts of the people of India & the US to improve bilateral ties, reflected in the bipartisan consensus in both countries about the Indo-US Strategic Partnership,” PM Modi said in his tweet. “The 21st century presents both unprecedented challenges as well as opportunities. The India-US relationship can leverage the vast potential of our people’s unique strengths to provide global leadership for the benefit of entire humanity,” he posted in a subsequent tweet. The 21st century presents both unprecedented challenges as well as opportunities. The India-US relationship can leverage the vast potential of our people's unique strengths to provide global leadership for the benefit of entire humanity.“On behalf of the 1.3 billion people of India, I reiterate my government’s firm conviction and commitment to continue working with the US government, and all other stakeholders in both countries, for further strengthening India-US ties,” PM Modi concluded. On behalf of the 1.3 billion people of India, I reiterate my government's firm conviction and commitment to continue working with the US government, and all other stakeholders in both countries, for further strengthening India-US ties.Trump had on Monday conferred the Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander, on PM Modi for “exceptionally meritorious service “ as the leader of India. It is one of the highest military honours of the US and can only be conferred by the US President. A rarely awarded medal, it is usually given to heads of state or government.Taranjit Singh Sandhu, India’s envoy to the US, accepted the honour on behalf of the prime minister from Robert O’Brien, the US National Security Advisor, in a ceremony at the White House. At the ceremony, the medal was also conferred on Australian PM Scott Morrison and former Japanese PM Shinzo Abe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deeply-honoured-says-pm-modi-on-legion-of-merit-award/story-kAzHloJOoaAubIQChCkm9H.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Board exams won’t be conducted in January or February’: Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal||Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said on Tuesday that the board exams will not be held in January or February.“No board examinations for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted in January or February. A decision on the conduct of examinations will be taken later,” Pokhriyal said during a virtual interaction with teachers.He also said that it is not possible to conduct the board exams in online mode.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had earlier this month announced that board exams in 2021 will be conducted in written mode and not online.Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15.However, a few states have decided to keep them closed in view of a spike in the number of infections.Board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled, and results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.Pokhriyal had on December 10 interacted with students and answered questions about various concerns regarding the conduct of upcoming board exams. He had said during the interaction that consultations with stakeholders are in progress for deciding the dates for board examinations for classes 10 and 12.There have been demands for postponement of board exams to May in view of the continued closure of schools and teaching-learning activities being conducted entirely online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/board-exams-won-t-be-conducted-in-january-or-february-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal/story-VVDmONrr5vl6JFAN1kF6SK.html
22-12-2020||India||Northwest, central India’s minimum temperature likely to drop by 1 to 3 degrees over next 3 days: IMD||After a couple of days of respite from biting cold, minimum temperatures are again likely to fall by 1 to 3 degrees C over Northwest and Central India during the next three days, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its Tuesday bulletin. Cold wave conditions are likely to set in over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Western Uttar Pradesh on December 22, it added. Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions over the same region is expected on December 23 and 24.Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions is also likely over some pockets of Odisha, East Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, and Telangana on December 22 and 23; over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar on December 22.Also Read: Delhi pollution continues to rise, temperature set to drop furtherCold day conditions are likely over some pockets of Bihar during the next three days and over East Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Moderate to dense fog is likely in the morning hours at isolated pockets over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh, and Delhi on December 23. Dense to very dense fog in the morning is expected in isolated pockets over the same region from December 24 to 26.Dense fog is also likely over northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam, and Meghalaya during the next three days and over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next two days. Ground frost conditions are very likely over some pockets of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Punjab during the next three days and over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan during the next two days.“The cloud cover has moved away and the western disturbance [WD] has also passed. There are clear skies now. So, there will be radiational cooling. The minimum temperature is likely to be around 4 degree C in Delhi for the next two days. A mild western disturbance will affect the western Himalayas around December 24 but will have no impact on the plains. Another WD around December 26 is likely to bring light rain to Delhi on December 27. We are also expecting moderate to dense fog in Delhi and other parts of North-Western India for the next two days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. The minimum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was 5.3, 3 degrees C below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-central-india-s-minimum-temperature-likely-to-drop-by-1-to-3-degrees-over-next-3-days-imd/story-PkJ0dJugEo7tPtAw0rfcOM.html
22-12-2020||India||Top BJP leaders make frequent trips to Bengal as assembly polls approach||Apart from the frequent visits of Union home minister Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s national president JP Nadda to poll-bound West Bengal, other top BJP leaders and ministers of the Narendra Modi government are simultaneously making rounds of the state to bolster the party’s campaign ahead of the crucial assembly elections slated for 2021. “It is not just Shah or Nadda. We are also expecting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come to West Bengal even though nothing has been finalized yet. Other central leaders and ministers are meanwhile coming to campaign,” said a senior BJP leader, adding that Shah is expected to come for a week in January. On December 20, when the limelight was on Shah, BJP’s national president of the Mahila Morcha, Vanathi Srinivasan, arrived in West Bengal and has been camping in the state since then. She has been engaged in attending organizational meetings and public outreach programs of the party. While Srinivasan is camping in south Bengal, Union cabinet minister Prahlad Singh Patel made a trip to north Bengal on Tuesday. “Apart from attending a chai chakra - get together over a cup of tea - to reach out to the people and spread the party’s message with an eye on the next assembly polls and attending door-to-door griha sampark campaigns, he is scheduled to address various organizational meetings,” said a senior BJP leader. Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Chandra Maurya was also in the state over the weekend. The party is putting together its biggest election machinery ever in the eastern state and as a part of it, 294 BJP leaders will be arriving in Bengal from Delhi and other states to work with the local unit for polls. They will be part of a 45-member team to be set up for each constituency; existing district committees will assist these teams, a BJP office-bearer said. “Amit Shah and JP Nadda are expected to come to West Bengal every month. The duration of their stay is expected to get longer as elections draw nearer,” said a senior BJP leader. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-member legislative assembly. Poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who has been roped in by Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, however, has challenged the BJP saying that the party will not be able to win more than 99 seats of the state’s 294 assembly seats. On Tuesday, PTI quoted Kishor asking whether the BJP leaders will quit, if they fail to get 200 seats, a target set by Amit Shah for the 2021 elections. The Trinamool Congress had won 211 of 294 seats in the West Bengal assembly earlier.“The BJP central leadership has imported functionaries from other states since they do not have faith in the local leadership,” Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, a three-time TMC MP had earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-bjp-leaders-make-frequent-trips-to-bengal-as-assembly-polls-approach/story-FdiR7GSiWfzBd4Fum8lEBK.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Way to trick farmers’: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Centre’s invitation for next round of talks||Two days after the Centre wrote to farmers’ unions protesting against the three agricultural laws inviting them for the next round of talks at a date of their choice, the protesting farmers on Tuesday said that this was not a step forward by the government but a “way to trick farmers.” They further reiterated that they don’t seek amendments in the laws but want these to be “shunned completely.”“Government has decided its position regarding the farm laws that they’ll not be withdrawn. They released a letter stating that if farmers want amendments in these laws, they want date and time for discussion,” Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said on Tuesday at the Singhu border, which has emerged as the epicentre of these protests.“This is not a step forward by the government but a way to trick farmers. A normal person would think that farmers are stubborn but the fact is that we don’t seek amendments in farm laws, we want them to be completely shunned,” Pandher further said. This is not a step forward by the govt but a way to trick farmers. A normal person would think that farmers are stubborn but the fact is that we don't seek amendments in farm laws, we want them to be completely shunned: Sarwan Singh Pandher, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee https://t.co/dNXYRg0l6UAfter five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5 could not break the deadlock between the two sides, the government had written to farmers’ unions on Sunday inviting them for the sixth round, asking them to choose a date that is “convenient” to them. The government has made it clear that it won’t repeal the three laws, passed under controversial circumstances in September, with the farm unions adamant on a total repeal. Thousands of farmers have been protesting against these laws on the borders of Delhi since last week of November and have repeatedly stressed that they have come prepared “for a long haul.”Protests against the three agricultural laws entered day 27 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/way-to-trick-farmers-kisan-mazdoor-sangharsh-committee-on-centre-s-invitation-for-next-round-of-talks/story-WVFV5R1E6dsAq7j75XujEL.html
22-12-2020||India||India and Japan oppose attempts to ‘unilaterally change status quo by coercion’||India and Japan on Tuesday said they strongly oppose all attempts to “unilaterally change the status quo by coercion” and activities that escalate tension, against the backdrop of concerns about China’s assertive actions across the region. The matter figured in a phone conversation between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Japanese counterpart Nobuo Kishi, according to a readout from Japan’s defence ministry. Without naming China, the readout said the ministers intend to “continue exchanging views in light of the current events occurring in the region”. The statement was perceived as a strong endorsement for India’s demand for restoration of status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, where tens of thousands of Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a faceoff since May. Japan has its own concerns about the activities of Chinese vessels in waters around the disputed Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. Also Read: US Congress stings China with new Tibet law on the next Dalai LamaThe two defence ministers “concurred in sending a clear message that they strongly oppose any attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by coercion or any activities that escalate tension”, the readout said. Singh and Kishi also “shared the view on highlighting the importance of a free and open maritime order based on the rule of law”, it said. They also agreed to “vigorously promote defence cooperation and exchanges to uphold and reinforce the free and open Indo-Pacific” Singh said in a tweet that he and Kishi had expressed satisfaction at ongoing bilateral defence cooperation. “India is committed to further elevate engagements with Japan under the Special Strategic & Global partnership framework,” he added, without giving details. In July, Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki had said that his country opposes any “unilateral attempt to change the status quo” along the LAC after a conversation with foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. In recent weeks, there has been closer coordination between the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – India, Australia, Japan and the US – in the wake of China’s aggressive actions across the Indo-Pacific. Australia’s navy participated in the trilateral Malabar naval exercise after a gap of several years. During their phone conversation, Singh and Kishi exchanged views on regional situations, including in the East China Sea and the South China Sea, and reaffirmed their continued close cooperation, the readout said. The two ministers also discussed recent achievements such as the signing of Japan-India Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) or logistics support agreement in September and the successful completion of the Malabar naval exercise in November. They welcomed the fact that bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation and exchanges were promoted despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh and Kishi further discussed cooperation against risks imposed by infectious diseases that could affect peace and security and the promotion of India-Japan efforts such as sharing lessons learned in humanitarian aid and disaster response operations during the pandemic, finding new opportunities for cooperation in third countries to make them more resilient to the pandemic, and exchanging views on reinforcing the rules-based international order, including working together to counter disinformation in the context of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-japan-oppose-attempts-to-unilaterally-change-status-quo-by-coercion/story-HUHqNQST0nMTTynHwlUThN.html
22-12-2020||India||India has a rich legacy in science, technology and innovation, says PM Modi at India International Science Festival||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that his government is taking steps to make India the most trustworthy centre for scientific learning. Speaking at the inauguration of the India International Science Festival (IISF), he further said that India wants its scientific community to share and grow with the best of global talent.“India has a rich legacy in science, technology and innovation. Our scientists have done path-breaking research. Our tech industry is at the forefront of solving global problems but India wants to do more,” said PM Modi. He also pointed out that the Indian government was ready to address any challenge and improve the research environment.The Prime Minister said that India needs to achieve success in the area of deep sea in the same way it has achieved success in space sector. “In this direction, India is running the Deep Ocean Mission,” he added. All our efforts are aimed at making India the most trustworthy centre for scientific learning. At the same time, we want our scientific community to share and grow with the best of global talent. No wonder India has become active in hosting hackathons: PM Modi https://t.co/YyiwPzoyMJLaunched in 2015, the IISF works towards promoting science and technology. It aims at engaging the public with science, celebrating the joy of science and further showing how science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) can provide solutions to improve lives, according to the narendramodi.in website. The festival also aims to help the youth develop 21st-century skills, with a focus on scientific knowledge, creativity, critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had said on Monday that the festival will start on Tuesday and go on till Friday, adding that this year’s theme is ‘Science for Self Reliant India and Global Welfare’.“India International Science Festival-2020 will start December 22 on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Ramanujan and will culminate on December 25, on the occasion of birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-efforts-aimed-at-making-india-trustworthy-centre-for-scientific-learning-pm-modi-at-india-international-science-festival/story-JJ63ug9gkYFzO3kwtal9rM.html
22-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Air India waives penalty for rescheduling UK, Oman, Saudi Arabia flights and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air India waives penalties for rescheduling bookings to UK, Oman, and Saudi Arabia till Dec 31National carrier Air India on Tuesday announced one-time free rescheduling of tickets for passengers travelling from the United Kingdom, Oman and Saudi Arabia after the government’s decision to stop air travel in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Read moreMumbai: Temperature drops to 16 degrees Celsius as winter arrivesThe mercury plunged to 16 degrees Celsius, the season’s lowest, in Mumbai on Tuesday morning, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreIndia’s active Covid-19 caseload falls below 3-lakh mark, slumps to lowest in 163 daysIndia crossed an important milestone in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the country’s active caseload falling below the three lakh-mark. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Not only have to save the match but win it’, Murali Kartik points out the challenges for Rahane in Kohli’s absenceThe ongoing Test series Down Under is going to take an interesting turn as team India will play the rest of the games without Virat Kohli. As per certain reports, the Indian captain left Australia on Tuesday and handed over the leadership responsibilities to his deputy – Ajinkya Rahane. Read moreRakul Preet Singh tests positive for Covid-19, says she has quarantined herselfActor Rakul Preet Singh has tested positive for the coronavirus. Sharing the news on Instagram, she wrote, “I’d like to inform everyone that I have tested positive for COVID-19. I have quarantined myself. Read moreAayush Sharma’s body transformation, from lean frame in Loveyatri to ripped body in Salman Khan’s AntimEver since the teaser of Salman Khan’s Antim: The Final Truth dropped on Monday, Bollywood buffs have been swooning over Aayush Sharma’s chiselled body and we don’t blame them. Read moreChristmas in a cup: Video of chocolate bomb dissolving in milk may make your mouth waterIf you’re looking for some warmth and comfort in this chilly weather then this Reddit video may just be perfect for you. The clip, showing a chocolate bomb in a cup is the exact kind of comfort in a cup that one needs when the temperature goes down. Read moreProtests at Amritsar airport over re-testing of passengers from UKPassengers arriving from the UK had to undergo Covid-19 test at the Amritsar airport. They were seen waiting in a long queue at the airport to get themselves tested. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-air-india-waives-penalty-for-rescheduling-uk-oman-saudi-arabia-flights-and-all-the-latest-news/story-5L1OACWYd8VVWsbiKamfzL.html
22-12-2020||India||DDC election: BJP’s Aijaz Hussain wins from Khonmoh-II, gives party first victory in Srinagar||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) registered its first victory in Srinagar in the District Development Council (DDC) election after its candidate Aijaz Hussain won the Khonmoh-II seat.Hussain credited the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hard work of party workers for his success. He also said that the DDC election was a fight between the BJP and rest of the parties.“This is a win for the BJP. The propaganda has been bust as people have shown their faith in the prime minister and his policies. This is a message that nationalists are prospering in Kashmir,” he told reporters outside the counting centre at SKICC in Srinagar.Senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had campaigned for the BJP candidate in the predominantly Shia area of Balahama in the Srinagar district periphery.“They all came together against the BJP as they were afraid of it. But, still the BJP won seats from the valley. Now, they should introspect. People want development and this is a vote for development,” said Hussain.The counting for the DDC polls has been completed in Srinagar with the independent candidates winning half of the seats.Though the BJP had expected to reach at least in the double digits alone in Kashmir, however, coming togeather of six parties, especially two big regional parties the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), created hurdles in the victory of the BJP which has been very active on ground since the party took support back from the PDP in 2018 and the coalition government fell down in J&K.The BJP’s state unit spokesman, Altaf Thakur, lost the DDC election from Dadsara segment in Tral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ddc-election-bjp-s-aijaz-hussain-wins-from-khonmoh-ii-gives-party-first-victory-in-srinagar/story-VvYi8ccF5amoiXMy1gVD0N.html
22-12-2020||India||Air India waives penalties for rescheduling bookings to UK, Oman, and Saudi Arabia till Dec 31||National carrier Air India on Tuesday announced one-time free rescheduling of tickets for passengers travelling from the United Kingdom, Oman and Saudi Arabia after the government’s decision to stop air travel in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.Air India said that passengers who were booked to travel on now suspended flights from the UK, Oman, and Saudi Arabia can avail a one-time free rescheduling for travel completed within December 31.“All penalties for one-time rescheduling, cancellation, rerouting will be waived for bookings between 22nd & 31st December,” it further said.#FlyAI : In view of GoI directive on suspension of flights to UK, from 22nd-31st Dec'20, Oman & Saudi Arabia both from 22nd-29th Dec '20, Air India is offering passengers booked to travel during the period one-time free reschedule for travel completed within 31st Dec '21. (1/2)While travel to the UK has been suspended till December 31 over a new coronavirus strain found there, the services to Oman and Saudi Arabia has been temporarily halted for a week after a directive from these countries to check the spread of Covid-19.Saudi Arabia’s interior ministry suspended all commercial travel for a week starting Monday and warned that it might be extended further depending on the circumstances. Oman too has decided to halt passenger traffic via air, land, and sea ports for a week; freights, however, are exempted from this ban.The Union health ministry on Tuesday released a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for epidemiological surveillance to guide the international airports and the state governments regarding the measures to be taken after passengers started arriving in the country from the UK.Air India along with British Airways, Vistara, and Virgin Atlantic had been plying flights to and from the UK under an air bubble agreement between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-waives-penalties-for-rescheduling-bookings-to-uk-oman-and-saudi-arabia-till-dec-31/story-dpKL4lf8NkuggGCj2kjjCI.html
22-12-2020||India||New Covid strain: India to genome sequence all positive samples of UK passengers||All samples of passengers who arrive in India from UK that test positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be re-tested through a spike gene-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test to look for the new variant of Sars-CoV-2 that causes Covid-19, according to the union ministry of health and family welfare. Separate isolation facilities will be created for people who test positive, and those whose samples indicate the presence of new variant of Sars-CoV-2 after the genomic sequencing will continue to remain in the separate isolation unit.While necessary treatment will be given as per the existing protocol, the patient shall be tested on 14th day, after having tested positive in the initial test. In case the sample is found positive on the 14th day, another sample may be taken until two consecutive samples taken 24 hours apart test negative.The health ministry issued a detailed standard procedures for epidemiological surveillance and response in the context of new variant of Sars-Cov-2 detected in the United Kingdom that is known to be at least 70% more transmissible.Also Read: New Covid-19 strain in South Africa: Countries that announced flight suspensions“Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate (isolation) unit coordinated by the respective State Health Authorities. They would earmark specific facilities for such isolation and treatment. Necessary action to send the samples to National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune or any other appropriate lab for genomic sequencing will be initiated at the facility level,” the SOP says.Those who test negative via the RT-PCR method at the airport would be advised to quarantine at home and authorities will follow up to make sure they comply.The government has also initiated a massive exercise to track all UK passengers who have arrived in India in the past four weeks.“The statewise passenger manifest of the flights from UK landing at various International airports in India for the past 4 weeks (from 25th November 2020 to 23rd December 2020) shall be conveyed by the Bureau of Immigration to State Government/Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) so that this data would be provided to the surveillance teams,” it says. These people will be asked to self-monitor their health, and get tested using RT-PCR kits if they develop symptoms.All contacts of those travellers who arrived at various airports on December 21-23, 2020, and tested positive would be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centres (without exception) and would be tested as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.Contacts of the suspected case would also include co-passengers seated in the same row, 3 rows in front and 3 rows behind along with identified cabin crew.All the community contacts (without any exception) of those travellers who test positive would be subjected to institutional quarantine in separate quarantine centres and would be tested between the 5th and 10th day as per current ICMR guidelines using RT-PCR kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-genome-sequence-all-covid-positive-samples-of-uk-passengers-to-check-for-new-variant/story-fc7nwRwodw2TCBDVxc0viP.html
22-12-2020||India||In big slip in Madhya Pradesh, Congress ‘elects’ BJP leader to party post||Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh were left embarrassed after a BJP worker was elected as a secretary of a district unit of the youth wing of their party in the organisational election held this month. While Youth Congress leaders called it a cheap publicity stunt and blamed the BJP worker for his election to the post, BJP leaders raised questions against the election process in the party. Harshit Singhai, who is stated to be a supporter of Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, had left Congress party in March to join BJP. After nine months, he was elected as a secretary of Jabalpur north assembly constituency of MP Youth Congress. The elections for MP Youth Congress were held between December 10 and 12. The results were announced on December 18. In the election, Singhai received 12 votes and was elected as the secretary. MP Youth Congress election coordinator Maqsood Mirza said, “It’s a cheap publicity stunt of BJP. Singhai filed his nomination in March. Later, he joined BJP but he didn’t withdraw his nomination purportedly. The election process was held online and nobody paid attention as there were more than 1800 nominations and Singhai was not a popular leader.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-big-slip-in-madhya-pradesh-congress-elects-bjp-leader-to-party-post/story-gWBGS3p995XRW87AGH5VpJ.html
22-12-2020||India||28 years later: Priest, nun convicted in Sister Abhaya murder case; experts hail verdict||A special Central Bureau of Investigation court in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday found the two accused in Sister Abhaya’s murder case guilty and their quantum of punishment will be announced on Wednesday, bringing a dramatic end to the 28-year-old case. Both accused Thomas Kotoor and Sister Sefi were found guilty of murder (Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code), Section 449 (house trespassing to commit a crime) and Section 201 (destroying evidence) and other sections of the IPC. Special judge K Sanil Kumar will hear the convicts on Wednesday before reading out their sentences. Third accused Sister Sefi broke down in court after hearing the verdict but the main accused Kotoor later said he was innocent and he will prove his innocence in the court of God. Second accused in the case Father Jose Poothrukayil was let off by the trial court last year after no evidence was found against him. While most of the witnesses had turned hostile during the trial, the court said a few prosecution witnesses were strong and convincing. The CBI took over the probe after material evidence in the case was either destroyed or tampered with by the local police and crime branch. But its meticulous and scientific probe earned the central agency a lot of praise.Sister Abhaya (19), a plus-two student, was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam in March 1992. It was initially dismissed as a suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was murder. In 2009, the CBI charge-sheeted Catholic priest Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sefi in the case. Still it took 11 years to reach its logical conclusion due to prolonged legal battles. Abhaya’s brother lauded the verdict. “God is great. Justice has been done to my sister, though it is delayed,” he said. Activist Joman Puthanpurakkal who single-handedly took up the case said his 28 years of work had turned fruitful finally. “It is a slap on the face of church authorities who shamelessly protected the murderers,” he said. He also took the name of a retired Supreme Court judge alleging he tried his best to sabotage the case and implicate him in a false case. Former Deputy SP of the CBI Verghese P Thomas, who first investigated the case and later resigned from the agency alleging that he was pressurized by his senior officers to make it a suicide case, also expressed his happiness. “I paid a heavy price for embracing truth. I resigned when I had eight-nine years service. Most of my batch-mates were later promoted as DIG and IG. Today I feel my sacrifice was worth it,” he said. Leading a retired life, he said his conclusion that it was a clear case of murder had been proved right. Legal experts have also hailed the verdict. “It is a good day for the judiciary. Truth prevailed finally. Credit goes to the CBI team headed by Nandakumar Nair and activists like Jomon Puthanpurakkal,” said senior lawyer B Jayashankar.According to the CBI charge-sheet, on the day of her death, Abhaya got up early to study and went to the kitchen to wash her face. The charge-sheet surmised that she witnessed some sexual activity involving the two priests and nun and was killed because they feared she may disclose what she had witnessed.She was first attacked with an axe and later dumped in the well, the CBI claimed. Although the case created a sensation in Kerala, the church stood by the accused, saying the accused were innocent. Interestingly, the CBI had filed three reports in the case; in first report it said the death of Abhaya was a case of “homicidal suicide.” But this report was rejected by the court, which ordered a fresh investigation. In the second report, the agency said it could not establish beyond doubt whether it was a suicide or murder. In the last report it filed in 2008, the agency said it was a case of murder and arrested the two priests and nun. Jose Poothrukayil was absolved of all the charges before the final trial.Many movies were made based on the theme of the sensational case. The poor parents of Abhaya who valiantly fought for justice died during the long years of legal battle. What makes the case different is that there were a flurry of petitions in different courts and many attempts to scuttle and delay the probe. In 2008 retired ASI of Kerala police V Augustine who investigated the case initially committed suicide. In 2018, the CBI had made former SP K T Michael an accused in the case for destroying key evidence in the case. Later the high court had stayed action against the former SP. During the trail nine witnesses had turned hostile.In 2008 the accused Sefi had filed a complaint against the CBI saying she was forced to undergo a virginity test by the agency without her consent. But the CBI said she did hymenoplasty (a surgical procedure to repair broken hymen) after the case erupted to prove she was a virgin. The CBI later submitted hospital details to cement its claim. Later the court had rejected her plea. Besides the nature of the case in which there was no direct witness, the lengthy legal procedure made the case different. Though the CBI charge-sheeted the three in 2009, the accused moved discharge petitions in different courts. These pleas took nine years to reach any conclusion as the court discharged one of them but rejected the petitions of the other two. Interestingly one of the main witnesses in the case was a small-time robber, Raju. He was on the premises of the convent for stealing areca nuts when the incident took place. He reportedly told CBI officers that he saw two priests and a nun at the convent around the time of Abhaya’s death. He later said he was promised many things to own up to the crime and change his statement but he stuck to his testimony. “I am the happiest man today. I stuck to the truth till the last,” he said after the verdict. The long legal battle put the church in a spot after it supported the accused. It is yet to react to the verdict. A spokesman of the Kanaya Catholic church said it will release a statement later in the day. But reformers in the church want it to change its position and stand with the victim not the accused “It is happiest day in my life. A poor girl got justice after so many years. I hope it will open the eyes of church authorities,” said Sister Lucy Kalapura who was expelled from the congregation last year for supporting a stir against rape accused Bishop Franco Mullakal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-years-later-priest-nun-convicted-in-sister-abhaya-murder-case-experts-hail-verdict/story-dxMSm2TDmQcF96StvpPceK.html
22-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir DDC election results: Independents dominate in Srinagar, win 7 out of 14 seats||Counting of votes for the eight-phased district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir began at 9 am on Tuesday and is currently underway. Later in the day, Srinagar district election officer Shahid Choudhary said that of the 14 DDC seats in Srinagar, seven were won by independent candidates and three went to Apni Party. One seat each, Choudhary said, was won by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), National Conference (NC), People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM).NC and PDP are among members of the six-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD).“Out of 14 DDC seats in Srinagar, independents have won seven seats, Apni Party emerged victorious at three seats and one seat each by BJP, PDP, National Conference, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement,” news agency ANI quoted Choudhary as saying. Out of 14 DDC seats in Srinagar, Independents have won 7 seats, Apni Party emerged victorious at 3 seats, & one seat each by BJP, PDP, National Conference, Jammu & Kashmir People's Movement: Srinagar District Election Officer Dr Shahid Choudhary (file photo)#DDCElections pic.twitter.com/hjXvQhCLLDBJP’s Ajaz Hussain was among those victorious from DDC seats in Srinagar, clinching the Balhama seat. Speaking to media, Hussain said, “We fought against PAGD candidate and BJP emerged victorious at this seat today. I congratulate people of Jammu and Kashmir and the security forces.” We fought against PAGD candidate and BJP emerged victorious at this seat (Balhama seat in Srinagar) today. I congratulate people of Jammu and Kashmir & the security forces: Azaz Hussain, BJP candidate from Balhama, Srinagar#DDCElections pic.twitter.com/MFYMcouVfCNC candidate Kaiser Mir and independent candidate Shabir Aad Reshi were victorious from Khimber and Hawan constituencies respectively.Voting for DDC elections took place between November 28 and December 19, with nearly 2,200 candidates in the fray from 280 seats. These are the first elections in the Valley post abrogation of Article 370 last August, which led to the scrapping of special status of the region and splitting of the-then unified state of Jammu and Kashmir into independent Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-election-results-independents-dominate-in-srinagar-win-7-out-of-14-seats/story-eNnXaSzMybpjS37jBVnveM.html
22-12-2020||India||NEP will help India regain its love for Mathematics||Numbers are one of the most innovative ideas of humankind. They make our everyday life convenient and straightforward. Imagine if numbers are not there, how difficult it would have been to measure, count, access, record and quantify different parameters. The branch of knowledge which deals with the study of numbers, i.e., Mathematics is one of the most distinguished disciplines which has a “continuum” of applications from “zero to infinite”. At times it “differentiates” between the “chaos” and the “stability”, sometimes it “integrates” different disciplines of knowledge. It takes us to the “limits” of truth and encompasses the different “dimensions” of expertise. It makes the “complex” things “real” and fascinates us with the notions of “games” and “probability”. The discipline is inherently alluring and takes a beautiful mind to master it. Srinivasa Ramanujan is one such genius that India has produced. Today we celebrate the birthday of Srinivasa Ramanujan as the National Mathematics Day; I bow my head to this genius. On observing his genius and reading about his notebooks and life, it appears that Ramanujan came to this world to serve the discipline of Mathematics only. He solved many complex problems independently and made pioneering contributions to number theory. Bharatvarsh has a rich tradition and several contributions to Mathematics since ancient times.“Like the crest of a peacock, like a gem on the head of a snake, so is mathematics at the head of all knowledge.” This verse from Vedanga Jyotisha (500 BC) is testimony to the pedestal on which we keep Mathematics. Mathematics or Ganit is a dominant discipline in India since ancient times, and the legacy has continued over generations by Guru-Shishya parampara, books and works. Shulba Sutras written in 800-500 BCE contain concepts of geometrical shapes like square, rectangle and right triangle and square roots, etc. The Pythagorean triples are also highlights of Shulba Sutras. Acharya Pingala in 300 BCE illustrated the idea of sunyata or zero for the first time. There is also evidence of zero as a placeholder in the Bakhshali manuscript. In the fifth century AD, Aryabhata gave the basis of the decimal system and calculated the value of Pi till four decimal places. Brahmagupta in the seventh century AD clearly defined and used zero and mentioned negative numbers. His treaties Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta and the Khandakhadyaka have detailed illustrations about series, geometry, arithmetic and algebra, to name a few. Sridharacharya in the ninth century was the pioneer in finding the roots of a quadratic equation. Siddhanta Shiromani has written in four volumes, namely Lilavati, Bijaganita, Grahagaṇita and Goladhyaya by legendary Bhaskaracharya. These four volumes have complex mathematical ideas in the form of verses. Lilavati was reportedly his daughter, and the text is written addressing her. The works of Bhaskaracharya have theorems and concepts of modern-day calculus, arithmetic, trigonometry, algebra and astronomy. In modern times also mathematicians from India have solved problems of crucial importance. Ramanujan is the epitome of mathematical excellence, apart from him, mathematicians like CR Rao, CS Seshadri, to name a few have done immense service to the discipline. Our IITs have also solved some critical mathematical problems by coming up with AKS (Aggarwal-Kayal-Saxsena) primality test and Karmarkar’s algorithm to illustrate some instances. Prof Manjul Bhargava who won the Fields medal, which is equivalent to the Nobel,brought laurels to India through his number theory. Our contributions to the discipline are of great significance since the genesis of the field. The new National Education Policy (NEP), 2020, has significant provision and provides a platform to build, nurture, foster, encourage and multiply mathematical thinking. It has introduced the reforms needed to balance the need for 21st century employment and entrepreneurship, which is marked by critical, lateral and mathematical thinking. The NEP appreciated the necessity of Mathematical thinking and its importance for the country to become a vishwaguru. Big data analytics, artificial intelligence, machine learning, blockchains are key technologies of today, and mathematics is the core of all of these technologies. Hence, it is critical to building the computation thinking capabilities of our youngsters. The NEP provides the necessary nourishment by making Mathematics enjoyable and engaging using innovative methods from the foundational step itself. It is also mandated in NEP to introduce a coding curriculum from middle school as it helps in developing the computation capabilities and intuitive reasoning. Because the applications of Mathematics are extensive and diverse, by introducing the multidisciplinary curriculum and credit-based mechanism, NEP provides flexibility to students to apply their knowledge. These reforms will be of particular importance to the student inclining Mathematics. Also, policy provisions for establishing Mathematics clubs in Higher Education Institutions for better collaboration and interdisciplinary research. I am sure that the Indian mathematics and education system is bound to “ramp up” under the shade of NEP. All the ideas in the policy are a keystone for a self-reliant India, a vibrant vishwaguru!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nep-will-help-india-regain-its-love-for-mathematics/story-Mk50YqCnHcPStVP6o5GkeM.html
22-12-2020||India||Mumbai court closes cheating case against Naresh Goyal, his wife||A day after the Bombay High Court rejected a petition filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) opposing closure of a cheating case against now-defunct Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita, the metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday closed the case by accepting the closure report filed by the Mumbai police.The MRA Marg police had filed the closure report on November 9 after probing the complaint filed by Rajendran Neruparambil, chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL), against Jet Airways and the Goyals.Neruparambil had alleged that in 2018-19, Jet Airways owed ATIPL payment of Rs 46.05 crore. He further alleged Goyals’ had engaged ATIPL in business despite being aware of the financial crisis faced by the airline, which shut down operations in April 2019, and had accumulated debt of nearly Rs 8,500 crore.Jet Airways, Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita were booked on charges of cheating and a criminal breach of trust in February this year by the MRA Marg police. It was on the basis of the MRA Marg case that ED had initiated the probe into money laundering allegations against the Goyals’.Neither the magistrate court nor the sessions court allowed the ED to intervene in the case to oppose its closure. On Monday, the high court said: “The petitioner, ED, is an independent investigating agency, empowered to investigate offences under the PMLA and FEMA and in the facts cannot be termed as a victim or aggrieved/injured/person interested in the case.”“There is no provision in law which supports the claim of petitioner with respect to its locus to intervene and contest the closure report filed by the respondent No.1- State. Thus, the petitioner cannot be permitted to intervene and contest in the closure report filed by the respondent No.1-State,” the high court said while rejecting the ED’s plea.ATIPL’s lawyer, advocate Dharmesh Joshi, said he would appeal against the order.The ED is conducting a probe against the Goyals and the defunct airline under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act and Foreign Exchange Management Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-court-closes-cheating-case-against-naresh-goyal-his-wife/story-AKZRqtk6AnV7vbIrj9kFhO.html
22-12-2020||India||World’s largest 10,000-bed Covid centre treating 59 patients||As the total number of Covid-19 patients has crossed the 1 crore-mark, the world’s largest 10,000-bed Sardar Patel Covid centre in Delhi’s Chhatarpur area has just 59 patients currently undergoing treatment.According to the data compiled by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which is operating the centre, said that this is the lowest number of patients undergoing treatment at one time. The data also shows that the centre has less than 100 patients for the past four to five days.Officials also claimed that this is the first time since its opening that the number of patients has reached close to 50. According to the data, since July 5, a total number of 11,749 patients have been treated in the Covid centre and hospital.Out of 11,749 patients, 11,374 patients have been discharged till the morning of December 22. According to the data, a total number of 69 patients were under treatment on Monday morning, of which 10 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours.A total of 11 hospitals including AIIMS, Safdarjung, Medanta, Max Hospital, etc, are referring patients to this Covid centre. Recently, when Delhi witnessed the third wave of Covid-19, Sardar Patel Covid centre had witnessed highest number, 2000 patients, the maximum number of patients undergoing treatment at the facility at a time.Considering the Covid situation in Delhi, ITBP had increased capacity of Covid-19 beds at Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur from 2,000 to 3,000.ITBP Director General SS Deswal had said that the new beds will be equipped with a proper supply of medical oxygen and negated the rumours about the shortage of medical oxygen at the Covid-19 facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-largest-10-000-bed-covid-centre-treating-59-patients/story-PGsH6ZudWkqf8DbKfRzDLO.html
22-12-2020||India||14-day travel history, mandatory RT-PCR test for those arriving in India: Centre issues SOPs after detection of new Covid strain||The Union health ministry on Tuesday issued a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for passengers arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) amid the detection of a new variant of the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) there. On Monday, the Centre had announced a temporary ban on flights from the UK into India which would continue till December 31.Several other countries have also announced travel bans to and from the UK with a view to prevent the spread of the new variant (B117), which is said to be 70 per cent more transmissible, as estimated by the European Centre for Disease Control.As per the SOPs issued by the health ministry, all international travellers will be required to declare their travel history of the last 14 days and fill up a self-declaration form to be screened for Covid-19. Those international travellers from UK who arrived in India from 25th November to 8th December 2020 (1st & 2nd week from 25th November) will be contacted by District Surveillance Officers & advised to self-monitor their health: Union Health Ministry https://t.co/CTtvt03791With regard to those coming from the UK, the ministry guidelines said that state governments should ensure that passengers are subjected to Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests on arrival, and in case of a positive sample, it is recommended that spike bases RT-PCR tests should be performed.Passengers that are found to be positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate isolation unit coordinated by the respective state health authorities, the ministry added.Those passengers who test negative through the RT-PCR method will be advised home quarantine. Concerned airlines have been asked to ensure that prior to check-in, the traveller is explained about the SOPs and in-flight announcements must be made explaining all relevant information to the passengers, as per the guidelines.Also Read| Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 will soon reach India: Rajnath SinghThe ministry added that passengers from the UK who arrived in India between November 25 and December 8, 2020 would be contacted by District Surveillance Officers and will be advised to self-monitor their health.Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) earlier said the reproduction of the new Covid-19 variant has increased from 1.1 to 1.5 and people can protect themselves by following the regular protocol- which is social distancing, wearing masks/face coverings and washing hands. Hans Kluge, WHO’s regional director for Europe said that organisation was closely monitoring the spread of the new variant and would “convene member states to discuss strategies for testing, reducing transmission and communicating risks,” without specifying a timeframe.The UK has registered over 2 million Covid-19 cases till now out of which 67,616 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-issues-sops-for-passengers-arriving-from-uk-amid-detection-of-new-variant-of-covid-in-uk/story-xTX6Z3C6kFpuUIcXLkXE1O.html
22-12-2020||India||Pakistan issues visas to Indian yatrees to visit Shadani Darbar, Katas Raj temples||Pakistan has issued visas to more than 90 Indians to visit two prominent Hindu temples in December against the backdrop of ties between the two countries being at an all-time low. The Pakistan High Commission issued visas to a group of 47 Indian yatrees or pilgrims on Monday to visit Katas Raj temple, also known as Qila Katas, in Chakwal district of Punjab during December 23-20. The Katas Raj temple is surrounded by a pond considered sacred by Hindus. Another group of 44 Indian yatrees returned from Pakistan on Monday after participating in celebrations marking the 312th birth anniversary of Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib at Sukkur in Sindh province during December 15-21, the high commission said in a statement. Also Read: Prominent Baloch activist found dead in mysterious circumstances in CanadaShadani Darbar in Sukkur, a temple that is more than three centuries old, is visited by devotees from around the world. The temple was founded in 1786 by Sant Shadaram Sahib, who was born in Lahore in 1708. Indian Sikh and Hindu pilgrims visit Pakistan under the bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974 to participate in religious festivals and events every year, though the numbers have declined amid strains in the relationship. “The issuance of pilgrimage visas to Sikh and Hindu pilgrims is part of the government of Pakistan’s endeavours to facilitate their visits to religious shrines. Pakistan remains committed to preserving sacred religious places and extending all possible facilitation for the visiting pilgrims of all faiths,” the statement said. The Kartarpur Corridor, which allows Indian nationals to make visa-free visits to the gurdwara built at the site in Pakistan where Guru Nanak spent the final years of his life, was closed after the Covid-19 outbreak and is yet to be reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-issues-visas-to-indian-yatrees-to-visit-shadani-darbar-katas-raj-temples/story-N3bcV2y5w5tZTMZIWQgrzO.html
22-12-2020||India||Covid-19 triggering rare, fatal fungal infection: Here’s all about mucormycosis||Gujarat has issued an advisory after some patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state were found infected with mucormycosis, a serious but rare fungal infection, which has an overall “mortality rate of 50%”. In its advisory to doctors and health officials, the state’s health department has said that mucormycosis infects people with a weak immune system and those with other existing illnesses. The department said the advisory is being issued after some Covid-19 patients in Ahmedabad and Rajkot were found infected with mucormycosis. Last week, doctors at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital also found multiple cases in recovering coronavirus disease patients, who were diagnosed with the deadly fungal infection. They said nearly half of them lost their eyesight.Also read | Scientists urge concern, not alarm over new virus strainsThis alarming affliction, although rare, is not new. Black Fungus or mucormycosis has been a cause of disease and death of patients in transplants, and ICU and immunodeficient individuals in the past. However, it is the rapid increase in the numbers seen in unsuspected recovering Covid-19 patients that is causing the grave concern, the hospital said in a statement.Here is all about mucormycosis:1. It is a “serious but rare infection caused by a group of molds called mucormycetes”.2. Mucormycosis most commonly affects the sinuses or lungs after inhaling fungal spores from the air, or the skin after the fungus enters through a cut, burn or other types of skin injury. According to the advisory, it can occur in any part of the body.3. It said though the “overall mortality rate is around 50 per cent”, early identification and treatment can lead to a better outcome.Also read | What we know about the new Covid-19 strain so far4. According to the advisory, people with diabetes or cancer, those who underwent organ transplant, stem cell transplant or people with too much iron in their body are at a greater risk of contracting this infection.5. Mucormycosis “cannot spread between people or between people and animals”. “People get mucormycosis through contact with fungal spores in the environment,” it said.6. The advisory recommended some preventive measures, like wearing N95 masks but said they “have not been proven to prevent mucormycosis”.7. People should also avoid direct contact with a lot of dust, wear shoes, long pants and gloves while handling soil or moss, and clean skin injuries well with soap and water.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-triggering-rare-fatal-fungal-infection-here-s-all-about-mucormycosis/story-ZN9ZD9ewZOwrc4rxIZUACL.html
22-12-2020||India||Tiger conservation body seeks report from Odisha on ecotourism inside reserve||The National Tiger Conservation Authority has asked Odisha chief wildlife warden to submit a status report on the adverse impact of tourism on Satkosia Tiger Reserve by December 18. The move came after wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty alleged that ecotourism activities like camping on sand resorts, river cruise and treetop bridge walks were having an adverse impact on the local wildlife.In his letter to the NTCA, Mohanty had complained that pitching of 20 tents at Badmul on Mahanadi riverbed inside the Satkosia Tiger Reserve would be extremely harmful for local wildlife. “Riverbeds are unique ecological spaces that deserve to be left alone. The Mahanadi river bed within the tiger reserve is used for basking and nesting by turtles and crocodiles. Birds like Indian Skimmers, terns and Pratincoles use it for nesting and feeding. Setting up of tents and allowing tourists to stay on river beds impacts such wildlife and affects their ecological needs, including basking which is vital for metabolism of cold blooded creatures. “Bonfires at night also affect nocturnal wildlife, disorients their vision thereby impacting their ability to feed and move about freely. Similarly, sand sports like basketball, football and volleyball will lead to sand compaction which will make the habitat unsuitable for ground dwelling, burrowing and egg laying fauna,” Mohanty noted in his letter.Chief wildlife warden HS Upadhyay and additional chief secretary of forest and environment department Mona Sharma did not comment on the NTCA letter.In his letter, Mohanty took exceptions to motorized boat cruises inside the Satkosia gorge in the core area of the tiger reserve, alleging that the sound and vibration of OBM engines would disturb aquatic fauna like turtles, fish, crocodiles and avian fauna like migratory waterfowl that are seen in large numbers. Very often crocodiles and turtles that are basking on the river bank have to dive when they see the approaching tourist boat which affects their metabolism dependent upon winter basking, he alleged.Mohanty also said treetop canopy walk, another eco-tourism initiative in Satkosia, would end up disturbing birds who use the tree canopy for nesting and roosting and even for resting. “They would be disturbed if tourists approached them at close distance of 10-15 feet to watch them at the same level much above the ground. Their chicks would be stressed if humans approach them,” he complained in his letter.The NTCA’s letter to the Odisha government also comes in the backdrop of a failed exercise to repopulate the dwindling tiger population of Satkosia, Odisha’s second tiger reserve after Similipal. In June 2018, the NTCA with the Odisha and MP government had relocated a male and a female tiger as part of India’s first inter-state tiger relocation drive. However, the programme was abandoned after the relocated male tiger was poached while two villagers were killed in an attack by the tigress. The tigress, named Sundari, is now housed in a small enclosure waiting to be transported back to Madhya Pradesh.Last month, the state forest department had proposed a 5-year-action plan for Community-managed Ecotourism scheme from the year 2021-22 to 2025-26 amounting to Rs 160.70 crore in which officials suggested corporatising the ecotourism organisation by creating a lean Corporation with chief wildlife warden as its head. The meeting chaired by the chief secretary discussed institutional provision for quick financial approvals, freedom in hiring of employees and engaging domain experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-conservation-body-seeks-report-from-odisha-on-ecotourism-inside-reserve/story-sUBCZGIL0gNRjhYRoWDPWO.html
22-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Report says Delhi economy suffered the most due to pollution in 2019 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s economy suffered the most due to severe air pollution last year: Lancet studyDelhi suffered the highest per-capita economic loss due to air pollution last year in India, according to a study published in peer-reviewed medical journal Lancet on Tuesday. Read moreIndia vs Australia: ‘Let it go and move on’, Steve Smith’s advice to deflated India after Adelaide debacleAustralian batting mainstay Steve Smith has a useful piece of advice for Indian team as both sides prepare to lock horns in the upcoming Boxing Day Test at the iconic MCG on December 26. Read moreMalaika Arora does Adho Mukha Kapotasana and asks fans to bow heads in gratitudeEvery week, Malaika Arora shares a new Yoga asana with her followers on Instagram in an attempt to urge them to stop being lazy and exercise. Read moreMercedes-Benz teases MBUX Hyperscreen spanning entire dashboardMercedes-Benz has given a glimpse of the MBUX Hyperscreen - a large, curved screen unit that extends along the entire width of the vehicle in front of the driver and front passenger. Read moreAmerican YouTuber opens fast-food chain, gives customers free cash and gadgets with each orderYouTube is the best treasure trove when it comes to searching for videos that can blow one’s mind. This video by American Youtuber Jimmy Donaldson aka MrBeast is the perfect addition to that category. Read moreNew Covid strain: Passengers in Mumbai from UK sent to institutional quarantinePassengers who arrived in Mumbai from the United Kingdom (UK) were sent to institutional quarantine in wake of the new coronavirus strain in UK. Meanwhile, the relatives of the passengers felt that the government’s decision to send them for quarantine was a hasty one. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-report-says-delhi-economy-suffered-the-most-due-to-pollution-in-2019-and-all-the-latest-news/story-DWsCtOoJeDfomUA6mWU9mM.html
22-12-2020||India||From mini India to AMU’s buildings: Highlights from PM Modi’s speech at varsity’s centenary celebration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended the centenary celebration of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) via video conference on Tuesday. AMU chancellor Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank were also present.The Prime Minister also released a postal stamp as part of the celebration. This was also the first event at AMU that he was a part of.Here are the highlights from his speech:* The history of education attached to AMU buildings was an integral part of India’s heritage and that he has met several proud AMU graduates during his foreign visits. He said that AMU crafted, polished and inspired millions to contribute towards society.* The country was on a path where every citizen could benefit from the country’s development rest assured about their constitutional rights and freedom without any form of discrimination. He said that the country was on a path where nobody would be left behind or discriminated against on grounds of religion and that everyone would enjoy equal opportunities.* PM Modi also praised AMU for its work during the coronavirus pandemic. He said that AMU’s work towards conducting free tests, making isolation wards, creating plasma banks and contributing to PM CARES Fund was unprecedented and that it showed the seriousness of fulfilling obligations towards society.* He said that the school dropout rate among Muslim girls used to be 70%, a situation that persisted for 70 years, but thanks to the government’s Swachh Bharat Mission, toilets were built in villages which exponentially helped these girls, and as a result, the drop out rate has fallen to 30%.* The Prime Minister called AMU a ‘Mini India’ thanks to its various departments, dozens of hostels, thousands of teachers and professors. He said that the diversity that was on show was not only the strength of the university but also that of the nation.* He urged the university to not let the strength of this diversity get weakened and said that they should work together to ensure that spirit of ‘Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat’ grows stronger day by day in the campus of AMU.*The PM said that nearly 100 years ago, the Founder-Chancellor of AMU, Begum Sultan, worked towards the creation of the modern Muslim community, and with the abolition of practices like talaq, the country had moved in that direction.*He congratulated AMU on the enrolment of women increasing to 35% and said that his government was committed to the education and empowerment of Muslim women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-mini-india-to-amu-s-buildings-highlights-from-pm-modi-s-speech-at-varsity-s-centenary-celebration/story-bk68eKMO8ok3sydcEJYQJK.html
22-12-2020||India||Property details of BJD ministers, MLAs to be made public: Naveen Patnaik||The property details of BJD ministers, MLAs, MPs, chairpersons of panchayat samitis, zilla parishad presidents and sarpanches would be available in the public domain, said chief minister Naveen Patnaik, adding it will help the state fight the corruption menace.While addressing BJD’s state executive council on Monday, CM Patnaik said that public representatives, all government employees, including the chief secretary, will have to submit property lists to Lokayukta. “Corruption is the biggest enemy of development and the Odisha government is focused on transparency. The state has already launched a fight against poverty, diseases, regional disparity, inequality and natural disasters. Fight against corruption will help us in our fight against all ills of society. May it be inequality, poverty or injustice. Odisha will be the first state to initiate such a step to check corruption,” he said.The CM underscored that Odisha’s on-going fight against corruption has brought laurels for the state from across the country. “Odisha is one of the few states which has done a remarkable job by setting up special courts for the trial of corruption cases or confiscation of property belonging to corrupt persons/officials. Over the last year, action has been taken against 91 corrupt officials in the state,” CM Patnaik said.Reacting to the announcement, BJP leader Lekhashree Samantsinghar said the CM’s proposal on submission of property details to Lokayukta was a publicity stunt. “The BJD does not have the intent to fight corruption,” she alleged.Patnaik’s announcement comes in the wake of arrest of additional principal chief conservator of forests, Abhay Kant Pathak, who amassed disproportionate assets worth Rs 9.35 crore, which was 435 % of his total income.In 2011, CM Patnaik had announced that all the ministers in his cabinet will have to submit their movable and immovable property returns by August every year. However, the submission has been irregular over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/property-details-of-bjd-ministers-mlas-to-be-made-public-naveen-patnaik/story-L4h5Jje5lyicmkxQR5UzkI.html
22-12-2020||India||AMU has helped strengthen India’s ties with other countries: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has contributed towards strengthening India’s relations with other countries during the 100 years of its existence. Research done at AMU on various languages and Islamic literature has given new energy to India’s cultural relations with the Islamic world, the Prime Minister said while speaking at the varsity’s centenary celebrations.“In the last 100 years, AMU has also worked to strengthen India’s relations with many countries of the world. The research done here on Urdu, Arabic and Persian languages, research on Islamic literature, gives new energy to India’s cultural relations with the entire Islamic world,” PM Modi during his virtual address. The Prime Minister said that the history of education attached to AMU buildings is India’s valuable heritage. “Today, people from AMU have trained in hundreds of countries of the world, along with the best places in India. The educated people of AMU represent the culture of India, anywhere in the world. History of education attached to AMU buildings is India’s valuable heritage,” PM Modi said. Watch l ‘Development without discrimination’: PM Modi at AMU centenary celebration “I often meet AMU alumni during my foreign visits, who very proudly say that they are from AMU. The university campus is like a city... We also see a mini India. The diversity of AMU is a country’s power. We should not forget this strength nor let it become weak. We have to work towards strengthening the feeling of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat’,” he added. The Prime Minister also released a postal stamp as part of AMU’s centenary celebrations. This is the first time PM Modi is participating in a programme of Aligarh Muslim University. AMU became a university in 1920 through an act of Indian Legislative Council by elevating the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College, which was set up in 1877 by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, to the status of a central varsity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-has-helped-strengthened-india-s-ties-with-other-countries-pm-modi/story-h30ffMPetHITGc8aC8oIrO.html
22-12-2020||India||PM releases postal stamp as part of AMU’s centenary celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday released a postal stamp as part of centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).Chancellor of the University Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin and Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank were also present on the occasion.This is the first time PM Modi is participating in a programme of the Aligarh Muslim University, being held via video conferencing.Earlier in the week, buildings in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) were illuminated for its centenary celebrations.Speaking to ANI, AMU Public Relations Officer (PRO) Omar Saleem Peerzada had said, “A centenary celebration is a landmark event in the history of any university. We are celebrating this event following all protocols of the Covid-19 pandemic. There are webinars, seminars and symposiums going on.”AMU became a University in 1920, through an Act of Indian Legislative Council by elevating the Mohammedan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College to the status of a Central University. MAO College was set up in 1877 by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, the PMO release stated.The University has a campus spread over 467.6 hectares of land in the city of Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. It also has three off-campus centres in Malappuram (Kerala), Murshidabad-Jangipur (West Bengal) and Kishanganj (Bihar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-releases-postal-stamp-as-part-of-amu-s-centenary-celebrations/story-FHdyWm9YHl5TbGHoyHwbEN.html
22-12-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine phase-3 trials cross half-way mark of 13,000 volunteers||Bharat Biotech has announced the successful recruitment of 13,000 volunteers, and continued its progress towards achieving its goal of 26,000 participants for phase-3 clinical trial across multiple sites in the country of India’s first Make in India vaccine candidate, Covaxin, against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The phase-3 human clinical trials of Covaxin began mid-November, targeting 26,000 volunteers across the country at multiple sites.“… this is India’s first and only Phase-3 efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine, and the largest phase -3 efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in India. Covaxin has been evaluated in approximately 1000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, with promising safety and immunogenicity results, with acceptance in international peer reviewed scientific journals,” said the company in a statement issued on Tuesday.Also Read: New Covid-19 strain: Help desks at airports to manage UK passengers upon arrivalHowever, Bharat Biotech’s application for emergency use authorisation (EUA) clearance for their Covid-19 vaccine candidate is still pending with the national drugs regulator, Drugs Controller General of India, for want of adequate safety and efficacy data. Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine by Bharat Biotech is developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) - National Institute of Virology (NIV).This indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility, the only one of its kind in the world. The vaccine candidate is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose Sars-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of at least 300 million doses. “This is an unprecedented vaccine trial ever to take place in India, and we are overwhelmed with the steady rise in participation. We sincerely thank all the 13,000 volunteers across the country for their support in enabling us to bring out a safe and efficacious Indian vaccine for Covid-19. This pro-vaccine public health volunteerism is a morale booster for us to achieve our milestone target of 26,000 soon – Thank you volunteers. Thank you India,” said Suchitra Ella, joint managing director of Bharat Biotech, in a statement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad on November 28 and interacted with the scientists. He congratulated them for the progress they had made in the vaccine trials. The Prime Minister’s visit was followed by the visit of as many as 64 ambassadors and high commissioners from several nations to learn more about the work in the Bharat Biotech facility to produce a safe and efficacious vaccine against Covid-19. (With inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-phase-3-trials-cross-half-way-mark-of-13-000-volunteers/story-b69c0O5zvCjCtVmp62sRqO.html
22-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu bans New Year celebrations at beaches, resorts amid Covid||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday banned New Year revelries on beaches, hotels, clubs and resorts on the night of December 31 and January 1, 2021 as part of efforts to prevent the spread of Coronavirus.There will be no entry to the beaches on these days, and no midnight revelries would be allowed on beach roads, restaurants, hotels, clubs, resorts including beach resorts, and similar places on New years eve and the following day, according to an official statement here.This order restraining gathering of people in large numbers was passed to minimise the spread of the pandemic.“The government has been taking concerted measures to contain the spread of the infection and is slowly relaxing the restrictions after a stringent lockdown period of nearly 8 months.People should cooperate with the government in containing the virus spread,” the release urged.Regular functioning of hotels, restaurants, clubs and resorts shall however continue with the current standard operating procedures in place, the release added.The New Year’s eve celebrations this year has been banned as a precautionary measure as advised by medical experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-bans-new-year-celebrations-at-beaches-resorts-amid-covid/story-Q44VppOfzbc3pCXdTtFzJK.html
22-12-2020||India||100 gram panchayats in UP’s Gorakhpur to be developed as model villages||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to develop 100 gram panchayats in Gorakhpur district as model villages. The villages will be made self-sufficient and act as examples for other gram panchayats.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officers of the district administration that the performance grants and corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds are to be used in gram panchayats to create model villages.In a review meeting with district administration officers, the CM gave instructions for the development of the model villages. He said the villages will have a pond, drainage, roads, open gym, reading room, sports ground and rain water harvesting for water conservation. The district administration should also construct drains, RO water plants, smart classes in the primary schools, anganwadi centers, health centers and community building, CM Adityanath said.The funds received under the performance grant should be used in the development of the model villages, the CM said, adding that focus should be on generation of the income of the villagers so that these villages can become self-sufficient in future.District Magistrate Vijayendra Pandian said a detailed project report has been made for the development of the model villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-gram-panchayats-in-up-s-gorakhpur-to-be-developed-as-model-villages/story-BTXcZ5CjW5oMKU6Vb1arCN.html
22-12-2020||India||US’ Legion of Merit award for QUAD architects sends multiple messages||US President Donald Trump has mainstreamed the QUAD by awarding its original architects Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison with the prestigious Legion of Merit. The US had last awarded Legion of Merit to late Amir of Kuwait Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah on September 18, 2020 as the senior most Royal in the Middle-East for bridging divides in the restive region.The Legion of Merit (Degree of Chief Commander) awarded to Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi for exceptionally meritorious service as the Prime Minister of the Republic of India from May 2014 to November 2020. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s steadfast leadership and vision have accelerated India’s emergence as a global power and elevated the strategic partnership between the United States and India to address global challenges. His personal engagement expanded United States-India ties across all facets of the relationship, helping to establish a strong foundation for an enduring partnership that is based on shared commitment to freedom, democratic principles, the equal treatment of all citizens, and the rule of law. India is a key partner for the United States in the Indo-Pacific, where the two countries are increasing collaboration to ensure freedom of the seas, open and transparent investment and infrastructure development, secure and reliable digital networks, and good governance. Prime Minister Modi’s personal initiative strengthened the defense partnership between the United States and India, enhancing the United States’ ability to secure joint military cooperation that addressed shared challenges. His efforts to expand India’s economic cooperation with the United States has advanced prosperity, investment and job creation in both countries. Prime Minister Modi’s superior effort, personal leadership, and unwavering commitment to advancing strategic cooperation between the United States and India and promoting global peace and prosperity reflect great credit upon himself, the Indian armed forces, and his country.ALSO WATCH | Trump confers Legion of Merit award to PM Modi for elevating India-US ties While the outgoing US president has awarded the Legion of Merit to Modi, Abe and Morrison for their leadership and vision, it can also be interpreted as President Trump telling the world that it was during his time at the White House that these relationships were taken to a different level.“The Legion of Merit basically mainstreams the QUAD dialogue from an experimental stage and towards institutionalisation of the security architecture. The world has now realised that the real father of QUAD is China, which forced democracies to cement ties due to its aggressive behaviour in the South China Sea, East Ladakh and against Taiwan. It is another matter that India, Australia and Japan’s relationship with the US is bipartisan with a shared vision of democracy and values,” said a senior official.The QUAD dialogue took shape after China aggravated the dispute with Japan over Senkaku Islands, with India after the transgression on the north banks of Pangong Tso in East Ladakh sector, Australia after imposing trade sanctions and testing nuclear missiles during US naval exercises in the South China Sea. While China calls QUAD a product of 20th century mindset, the fact is that Beijing’s Middle Kingdom concept with tributary states is an imperial expansion concept of 18th century with Belt Road Initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-legion-of-merit-award-for-quad-architects-sends-multiple-messages/story-bSHX0b7SNJXkmxTiHVU8hI.html
22-12-2020||India||4 of family killed in Chhattisgarh, bodies found in water tank near house||Four persons of a family were found dead in a village of Durg district, while an 11-year-old boy is in a critical condition, police said on Monday.Police said that bodies of Balraj Sonkar (60), his wife, Dularin Bai (55), his son Rohit (30) and daughter-in-law Kirtin were found in and around their house in Khudmuda village under Amleshwar police station of the district on Monday morning. Sonkar’s grandson was found inside the house in a critical condition and has been admitted in a hospital in Raipur, police said. “Four bodies were found floating in the water tank while two were crushed with a heavy object. The incident took place at around midnight,” said Akash Rao, Sub-Divisional Police officer ( SDOP) Patan said. The SDOP said that the boy, who survived the assault, is the only eyewitness of the case and his condition is serious.“Initially, we found two bodies of women and Kirti’s 11-year-old son who was unconscious due to severe injuries. Later, with the help of sniffer dogs, we found bodies of both Balraj and Rohit in a nearby water tank,” said the SDOP. Police said they are yet to ascertain the motive behind the killings and are on the hunt for the accused. The family was engaged in farming, said police, and used to live in a hut on their farm outside the village. The villagers told police that the family had no enmity with anyone and they did not notice anyone going to their house, the police said.“We are working on leads in the case but soon something positive will come out. We are working on all angles,” said the SDOP. Chhattisgarh’s Director General of Police DM Awasthi told reporters that four teams have been constituted to solve the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-killed-in-chhattisgarh-bodies-found-in-water-tank-near-house/story-Jnz8G2OqTtQBOSFFhtuqYO.html
22-12-2020||India||US President Donald Trump confers Legion of Merit on PM Modi||United States’ President Donald Trump has conferred the Legion of Merit, one of the highest military honours of the US, on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “exceptionally meritorious service” as the leader of India. The Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander, was bestowed on Modi on behalf of Trump on Monday. The medal is rarely awarded and can only be conferred by the US President. It is usually given to heads of state or heads of government.The award was received on behalf of the Prime Minister by India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. At the same ceremony on Monday, the Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander, was also awarded to Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.ALSO WATCH | ‘Only direction for US-India ties...’: Minister Jaishankar on Joe Biden win Trump had earlier awarded the Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander, to Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Amir of Kuwait on September 18. Before that, the medal was last awarded in 1991. Also Read: China calls Trump’s cyberattack claims ‘a farce’The Legion of Merit, Degree Chief Commander, is a domed five-pointed American white star plaque of heraldic form and is bordered in purplish-red enamel, with 13 white stars on a blue field emerging from a circle of clouds. Backing the star is a laurel wreath with pierced, crossed arrows pointing outward between each arm of the star and the wreath. The reverse is engraved with the words “United States of America.”The citation for the award conferred on Modi stated it was being bestowed “for exceptionally meritorious service as the Prime Minister of the Republic of India from May 2014 to August 2020”. Modi’s “steadfast leadership and vision have accelerated India’s emergence as a global power and elevated the strategic partnership between the United States and India to address global challenges,” it said. His “personal engagement expanded United States-India ties across all facets of the relationship, helping to establish a strong foundation for an enduring partnership that is based on shared commitment to freedom, democratic principles, the equal treatment of all citizens, and the rule of law”. The citation described India as a “key partner for the United States in the Indo-Pacific, where the two countries are increasing collaboration to ensure freedom of the seas, open and transparent investment and infrastructure development, secure and reliable digital networks, and good governance”. It added that Modi’s “personal initiative strengthened the defense partnership between the United States and India, enhancing the United States’ ability to secure joint military cooperation that addressed shared challenges. His efforts to expand India’s economic cooperation with the United States has advanced prosperity, investment and job creation in both countries.” The citation also said “Modi’s superior effort, personal leadership, and unwavering commitment to advancing strategic cooperation between the United States and India and promoting global peace and prosperity reflect great credit upon himself, the Indian armed forces, and his country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-president-donald-trump-confers-legion-of-merit-on-pm-modi/story-lb3CAyrJOdgT5SNwauA89O.html
22-12-2020||India||New Covid-19 strain: Help desks at airports to manage UK passengers upon arrival||Help desks will be set-up at airports to assist passengers arriving from the UK, who will have to undergo real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for Covid-19. India on Monday announced the suspension of all flights to and from the UK between December 23 and December 31 to prevent the arrival of a new Covid-19 strain believed to spread the infection faster.“The help desks have been asked to be established at various international airports so as to manage the crowd. These people would have queries and since they would need to wait for a few hours till the time test results are declared, arrangements will also be made at the airports for the whole process to go smoothly without any mayhem,” said an official aware of the matter on condition of anonymity.Also Read: India reports lowest daily Covid-19 cases at 19,556 since JulyUnion health ministry’s Joint Monitoring Group, which comprises technical experts, called an urgent meeting to assess the impact in India of the Covid-19 situation arising in the UK, and what measures can be taken. Based on its suggestions, the civil aviation ministry was asked to temporarily suspend flights originating from the UK till December 31.The new coronavirus variant has prompted the UK government to impose a lockdown across the country and tighten restrictions for all of England, especially during the festive period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-strain-of-covid-19-help-desks-at-airports-to-manage-uk-passengers-upon-arrival/story-pNJVTmJwh5ngZcNG8SgzTL.html
22-12-2020||India||PM Modi lauds work on animal conservation after rise in leopard population||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday lauded the efforts undertaken by the government towards animal conservation, following the release of the “Status of Leopard in India” report which recorded a surge in the population of leopards in the country.“Great news! After lions and tigers, the leopard population increases. Congratulations to all those who are working towards animal conservation. We have to keep up these efforts and ensure our animals live in safe habitats,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. This comes after the Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change released the status of Leopard on Monday. India’s population of leopards has gone up 60 per cent and the country now has 12,852 leopards, the ministry has said.Releasing the “Status of Leopard in India 2018” report, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar said that increase in numbers of Tigers, Lions and Leopards over the last few years is a testimony to the conservation efforts and of the fledgeling wildlife and biodiversity of the country.“India now has 12,852 leopards as compared to the previous estimate of 7910 conducted 2014. More than 60 per cent increase in population has been recorded. The States of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra recorded the highest leopard estimates at 3,421; 1,783 and 1,690 respectively”, an official release added.After releasing the report Javadekar said that monitoring of the tiger in India has clearly shown its umbrella role in the ecosystem, which has shed light on other charismatic species like the Leopard.India’s world record tiger survey also estimated the population of leopards and the tiger range was found home to 12,852 (12,172-13,535) leopards. They occur in prey rich protected areas as well as multi-use forests. A total of 5,240 adult individual leopards were identified in a total of 51,337 leopard photographs using pattern recognition software.Madhya Pradesh reported the highest number of leopards followed by Karnataka and Maharashtra.The Union minister had tweeted, “Congratulations to the States of Madhya Pradesh (3,421), Karnataka (1783) and Maharashtra (1690) who have recorded the highest leopard estimates. Increase in tiger, lion and leopards population over the last few years is a testimony to fledgling wildlife and biodiversity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lauds-work-on-animal-conservation-after-rise-in-leopard-population/story-NtUNy04EYuus2hB1NJmYcM.html
22-12-2020||India||NCP slams BJP for trying to to destabilise West Bengal govt||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has accused BJP of misusing powers of Centre to “destabilise” Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal stating that transfer of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from the state is a “very serious” matter. The NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik said that his party chief Sharad Pawar will raise this issue with leaders of other political parties.“BJP is misusing powers of Centre to destabilise the West Bengal government. Law and Order is a state subject. Without any consent, IPS officers has been withdrawn from the state. This is a very serious matter. Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar have discussed this matter,” Nawab Malik told ANI. “Mr Pawar will discuss this issue with leaders of other political parties also. The meeting will be somewhere in Delhi. If necessary, Mr Pawar will definitely go to West Bengal,” he added.On December 17, the Central government asked three IPS officers from Bengal to report for central deputation with immediate effect, overriding the state government’s objections that they could not be spared.They were asked to report for central deputation a day after an attack on BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy near Kolkata earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-slams-bjp-for-trying-to-to-destabilise-west-bengal-govt/story-tleuvtWzJOnBcJemLk0U9I.html
22-12-2020||India||India reports lowest daily Covid-19 cases at 19,556 since July||India recorded 19,556 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest daily rise since July, and 301 deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry’s data showed on Tuesday morning. India’s active caseload has also dropped to 292,518, the lowest in 162 days. The active cases of the coronavirus disease were 301,609 on July 13.India’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 10,075,116 with 9,636,487 recoveries and 146,111 deaths so far, according to the health ministry’s coronavirus dashboard at 8am. The new recoveries have taken the recovery rate to 95.64% on Tuesday. The ministry has said that the daily new recoveries recorded in the country have been more than the daily cases registered since the last 24 days. The gap between recovered and active cases presently stands at 9,343,969.Also read | Strain in Italy, Netherlands, Denmark... as far as AustraliaOn Monday, 71.61% of the new recovered cases were from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala had reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,471 recoveries, 2,627 people recovered in West Bengal followed by 2,064  in Maharashtra.Kerala had reported the highest daily new cases at 5,711 on Monday and was followed by Maharashtra with 3,811 infections and West Bengal with 1,978 new cases. And, 79.20% of the new cases were from 10 states and Union territories, according to the health ministry.Also read | What we know so far about the new coronavirus strainAgain, 10 states and Union territories accounted for 81.38% of the 333 new deaths on Monday. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 98, West Bengal and Kerala followed with 40 and 30 daily deaths, respectively. “India has one of the lowest deaths/mn population globally (105.7). Focussed measures including targeted testing, early identification, timely isolation & prompt hospitalization & Standard Treatment Protocol have ensured that daily fatalities are under 400,” the health ministry had said.More than 77.34 million people have been reported to be infected by the coronavirus globally and 1,701,822 have died, according to a the Covid-19 tally of Johns Hopkins University.Several countries across the world are scrambling to respond to a new strain of the coronavirus, prompting them to suspend travel links with the UK. More than two dozen countries from India to Argentina suspended flight from the UK.Also read | People who returned from UK must test for Covid: Karnataka Health MinisterThe World Health Organization’s (WHO’s) emergencies chief Michael Ryan tried to temper the alarm by stressing the situation was not “out of control”, shortly after a British minister used those exact words to describe the new spread of the new variant. Experts say there is no evidence the UK variant of the virus -- one of several mutations -- is more lethal or will affect the impact of vaccines and it may be up to 70% more transmissible, according to early data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-lowest-daily-covid-19-cases-at-19-556-since-july/story-ryh68obeqj8hmQNBOCCHnK.html
22-12-2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi writes to Yogi Adityanath over cow deaths in UP shelter home||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Monday raised concerns over the “horrific” conditions of cows in Uttar Pradesh and asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take a cue from Chhattisgarh’s ‘Godhan Nyay Yojana’ on their protection. “The UP government may probably take inspiration from the scheme and we all can serve cows. We can save the cows from being forced to live and die in such horrific conditions and can also help our farmers,” said Priyanka in the letter that the state party released to the media on Monday. Drawing attention towards the death of cows in a cow shelter home in Lalitpur, Priyanka Gandhi said the pictures suggest that the cows may have died due to hunger. “You talked about protecting cows while assuming power. Despite your announcements in this regard, efforts of your government have failed. The corrupt officers and those running cow shelters are indulging in corruption and no one knows how many cows are dying for lack of fodder and water,” said Gandhi. The Congress leader detailed how the cow shelters are becoming self-reliant in Chhattisgarh. “Under this Chhattisgarh government scheme, work is being done to protect cows, boost agriculture, conserve the environment, revive canals, take care of stray animals and make organic fertilizer. The Chhattisgarh government has started buying cow dung for Rs 2 per kg. Cow dung for Rs 15 crore per month is being bought as of now. This cow dung, being brought through cow shelter homes, is being used to make vermi-compost which is being sold to government agencies and private consumers at Rs 8 per kg. With this, cow shelter homes are becoming self-reliant,” she said. She further said: “The ‘Godhan Nyay Yojana’ is leading to two main benefits - people are feeding their cows at home and not leaving them, while stray cows are being kept in shelter homes. Those being benefited from the scheme include more than half of women and a large number of unemployed persons of backward classes…. I hope you also want the welfare of cows. So I am writing this letter to you to put a stop to atrocities against the cows. I understand this is my responsibility to make you aware of these issues.” CM Adityanath, who is often seen feeding cows and pictured on many occasions with them, said in November that 524,000 cows are kept in government-run shelters, while more than eight lakh of them have been housed in ‘Kanha Upvan’, the cow shelters being run by local bodies in the state.After the cow shelters started overflowing, the Yogi Adityanath government launched the Chief Minister Destitute Cows Participation Scheme in August last year offering willing farmers to take strays against an affidavit that they would look after them properly at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-yogi-adityanath-over-cow-deaths-in-up-shelter-home/story-NVVcPCLdkNSUrYYQMlMHNJ.html
22-12-2020||India||The man who knew infinity: All you need to know about Srinivasa Ramanujan||National Mathematics Day or Math Day is observed every year on December 22, honouring the legendary mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan Aiyangar on his birthday. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh had inaugurated on this date in 2012, after which it is observed as Math Day every year.Srinivasa Ramanujan was born on December 22, 1887, in Tamil Nadu’s Erode. He had developed a talent for mathematics from a very young age, mastering trigonometry at the age of 12 and was eligible for a scholarship at the Government Arts College in Kumbakonam. He had enrolled in Madras’ Pachaiyappa College at the age of 14.Ramanujan worked at the Madras Port Trust in 1912 where his mathematical prowess was recognised by some of his co-workers, one of whom referred him to professor GH Hardy of Trinity College, Cambridge University. He met Hardy in 1913, a year after which he went to Trinity College where he honed his craft under the Englishman’s tutelage.He received his degree from Cambridge in 1916 and went on to publish several brilliant papers on his subject with Hardy’s help, and the two even collaborated on several joint projects and publications. Ramanujan was elected to the London Mathematical Society in 1917 and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society for his excellent work on Elliptic Functions and the theory of numbers. He was also the first Indian to be elected a Fellow of the Trinity College.Despite not having any formal training in pure mathematics, Ramanujan made priceless contributions to several mathematical concepts like infinite series, continued fractions, number theory and mathematical analysis. He also made notable contributions like the hypergeometric series, the Riemann series, the elliptic integrals, the theory of divergent series, and the functional equations of the zeta function.Ramanujan died at the young age of 32 owing to deteriorating health on April 26, 1920. Robert Kanigel wrote a book about him called ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’ in 2015. His life was also portrayed in a movie with the same name where he was played by British-Indian actor Dev Patel. The film shed light on Ramanujan’s childhood in India, his time in Britain during World War I, and his journey to becoming one of India’s most renowned mathematicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-man-who-knew-infinity-all-you-need-to-know-about-srinivasa-ramanujan/story-19Q6Lt2rIY87V75VLGHhzI.html
22-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 63 insurgents surrender in front of Assam CM Sonowal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Assam CM Sonowal welcomes 63 surrendering insurgentsFormer self-styled deputy commander-in-chief of the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) Drishti Rajkhowa and 62 other rebels from four insurgent outfits of the region surrendered with arms and ammunition in front of Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday. Read moreNew Covid-19 strain: Air India directs crew to remain isolated during domestic, international layoversNational carrier Air India has issued a directive to its crew members across international and domestic stations to remain isolated in their allocated rooms for the complete during of their layovers in light of the discovery of a new strain of the coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2) said to spread faster. Read moreDelhi’s pollution increases, temperature to fall furtherPollution levels in the national capital continued to increase on Tuesday and its air quality index (AQI) reading reached 350 at 7am, which is considered to be in the “very poor” zone. Read moreSaudi Arabia suspends Air India, other flights for a weekAll international flights, including those of Air India’s, to and from Saudi Arabia were suspended for a week on Monday owing to fears over a new strain of coronavirus that put London and all of southern England on a Christmas lockdown last week. Read moreIndia vs Australia: Poor technique, not bouncers the real issueAs the Border-Gavaskar series heads into its second Test and India lick their wounds from the Adelaide collapse, talk has turned to the use of the short ball during the tour. There has been a spate of injuries from batters being hit by bouncers; Australia’s opener-in-waiting Will Pucovski got one on his helmet that felled him, ruling him out of the first Test. Read more Gauahar Khan’s yellow lehenga for Chiksa ceremony is one look that every bride-to-be should bookmarkActor and model Gauahar Khan is all set to tie the knot to her fiance Zaid Darbar on the weekend. The couple of the hour kickstarted their wedding festivities with a haldi-like ceremony, known as Chiksa. In this ceremony, Chiksa is applied to the bride and groom to keep the buri nazar at bay. The wedding that is going to be a grand multiple-day event has the fans of the star couple excited. Read moreSara Ali Khan’s attempt at rhyming gives Akshay Kumar a headache as they shoot for Atrangi Re, watch videoActors Akshay Kumar, Sara Ali Khan and Dhanush were spotted at the Taj Mahal, shooting for their upcoming film, Atrangi Re. Akshay’s picture from Monday in Shah Jahan’s costume had caused quite a stir. Read moreWatch: ‘Letters with blood’: Farmers’ new plan to pressurise govt amid protestFarmers continued to intensify their protest near the national capital. Demanding repeal of three recent agri-reform laws, the protestors started a relay hunger strike. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-assam-cm-sonowal-welcomes-63-surrendering-insurgents-and-all-the-latest-news/story-3YdgiZg6eDZzvQsGFCKnEN.html
22-12-2020||India||Chhattisgarh declares 3-day mourning as mark of respect to Motilal Vora||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel declared a three-day state mourning on the demise of Motilal Vora, former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and veteran Congress leader, on Monday. “In this duration of state-mourning, national flags hoisted on government buildings will fly at half-mast and no entertainment or cultural programme will be organised. The government has also decided that the last rites of Vora would be performed with state honour,” a press note issued by the Chhattisgarh government stated. Vora died due to post Covid-19 complications at Fortis Escort Hospital in Delhi. He was 93. The veteran leader had been admitted to the hospital a few days ago with a urinary infection. He also had a lung infection and was put on ventilator support, his family said. He will be cremated in Chhattisgarh. A former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Vora was a Rajya Sabha member from Chhattisgarh. He has also served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer for 16 years till 2018. The post was handed over to another senior leader Ahmed Patel after a reshuffle by the Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he was “among the senior-most Congress leaders who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades.” “Shri Motilal Vora Ji was among the senior-most Congress leaders, who had vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti,” PM Modi wrote in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-declares-3-day-mourning-as-mark-of-respect-to-motilal-vora/story-3cSUY3HlIYdPM6cEvYoYuK.html
22-12-2020||India||Timeline: Verdict in 1992 Sister Abhaya murder case today||A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram is set to pronounce its verdict in the Sister Abhaya’s murder case on Tuesday nearly three decades after she was found dead inside a convent. Sister Abhaya, a Class 12 student, was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam on March 27, 1992.Initially, the case was ruled as a suicide by the local police and the crime branch but it was handed over to CBI after protests erupted. The case was delayed as it meandered through various levels of the judiciary. In almost 30 years that the case trial has gone on for, several of the 177 witnesses have either died or turned hostile. Besides the murder case, the court will also deliver its verdict on some of the witnesses who turned hostile.Here is a timeline of the key moments in the Sister Abhaya murder case:March 27, 1992: Sister Abhaya’s body is found in a well of St Pious Convent in KottayamJanuary 1993: State crime branch files a closure report saying it was a case of suicide but protest erupts thereafterMarch 23, 1993: The case is handed over to CBI after human rights activist Jomon Puthenpurackal took the matter to courtSeptember 1996: CBI concludes in its first report that the case was that of suicide. Court rejects its report and asks for reinvestigation.March 1997: CBI in its second report says that the case was a homicide, not a suicide. The court again rejects its findings. CBI starts a fresh investigation.2007: Case picks up speed as SP Nandakumar Nair took over the probeDecember 2008: CBI tells a court in Ernakulam for the first time in its third report that it was a murder and arrests three accused - two Catholic priests, Father Thomas Kottoor and Father Jose Poothrukayil, and a nun, Sister Sephy. They were charged with murder, destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy and other charges. According to the charge sheet, Abhaya was killed because she was witness to some alleged immoral activity involving two priests and a nun. She was attacked with an axe before being dumped in the well, the central agency claimed.January 2009: All the three are granted bail after spending six months in jailJuly 17, 2009: CBI files charge sheet in the case against the three accused. The three file discharge plea and it takes nine years to decide it. Many other petitions also came up during this period delaying the trial.March 2018: Courts acquit Father Poothrukayil over lack of evidence.August 26, 2019: A trial in the case starts after 27 years. Many witnesses turn hostile.September 19, 2019: CBI produces a retired professor Thresiama George, who had taught Abhaya at BCM College in Kottayam, as a witness. She raises serious charges against main accused Father Kotoor.December 22, 2020: Day of verdict||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timeline-verdict-in-1992-sister-abhaya-murder-case-today/story-4cK0CdT3q8XHUdJSCcSOFP.html
22-12-2020||India||63 insurgents give up arms in Assam, CM Sonowal welcomes them||Former self-styled deputy commander-in-chief of the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) Drishti Rajkhowa and 62 other rebels from four insurgent outfits of the region surrendered with arms and ammunition in front of Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Monday. Rajkhowa, an expert in rocket propelled grenades (RPG), was the second most important man in ULFA-I after commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah. Rajkhowa had surrendered before security forces in Meghalaya last month. A large number of arms and ammunition, including assault rifles, pistols, grenades, etc, were handed over by the rebels from ULFA-I, United Peoples’ Revolutionary Front (UPRF), Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) and Peoples’ Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK). “It’s nice that several children of Assam who were engaged in anti-national activities have decided to return to mainstream and join in nation building. I welcome them all back,” said Sonowal at a function held at Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra in Guwahati. “Our effort would be to ensure proper rehabilitation of those who have given up violence. I urge those who have laid down arms today to avail the various schemes launched by our government to help them,” he added. This was the third major laying down of arms ceremony by rebels in Assam this year. In January, three days after signing of the third Bodo peace pact, 1615 cadres of three factions of National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) had given up arms. The same month, 644 rebels of 8 militant outfits - ULFA-I, NDFB (S), Kamtapur Liberation Organisation, National Liberation Front of Bengalis, Rabha National Liberation Front, Communist Party of India-Maoist, National Santhal Liberation Army and Adivasi Dragon Fighter had laid down arms. With Monday’s ceremony, the total number of rebels laying down arms in such big numbers and joining the mainstream increased to 2,323 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63-insurgents-give-up-arms-in-assam-cm-sonowal-welcomes-them/story-rcDhbR8ODrzRBjCTK7acKM.html
22-12-2020||India||Air India asks crew to remain isolated during domestic, international layovers||National carrier Air India has issued a directive to its crew members across international and domestic stations to remain isolated in their allocated rooms for the complete during of their layovers in light of the discovery of a new strain of the coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2) said to spread faster.The directive comes right after India joined a growing list of countries on Monday to seal off access to people who have been to the United Kingdom, suspending all flights to and from the country between December 23 and December 31 in order to stop the arrival of the new strain.“As Britain battles a resurgence of Covid-19, there is disturbing news of the new mutated strain being up to 70% more contagious, as per some sources. Southeast England and the city of London have been put under a strict ‘stay-at-home’ as the virus spread has been termed to be ‘out of control’ and the situation declared to be alarming,” the circular issued on Monday noted. HT has reviewed a copy.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“ Keeping in view the gravity of the situation, crew laying over at all domestic/international stations are hereby directed to remain isolated in their allocated rooms for the complete duration of the stay. This directive is for the strictest compliance and any contravention of the same may irresponsibly expose you or others to this global scourge,” it added.The UK government will impose a Tier 4 lockdown across the country and tighten restrictions for all of England, especially during the festive period.Viruses mutate often as the biological process of replication within hosts they infect is not always a perfect process. The Sars-Cov-2 has also been mutating, but none of these changes have been seen as worrying as yet.Experts from the Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium on Saturday said the new variant is significant because it now “accounts for an increasing proportion of cases in parts of England”, “has an unusually large number of genetic changes, particularly in the spike protein”, and the mutations have “have potential biological effects”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-strain-air-india-directs-crew-to-remain-isolated-during-domestic-international-layovers/story-xZXSZn1LPLhqBluH1MX2VM.html
22-12-2020||India||Man gets death penalty for rape-murder of 5-year-old girl in Assam||A court in Assam on Monday awarded death penalty to a man for the rape and murder of a five-year-old girl two years ago. The additional district and sessions court in Biswanath district sentenced Mangal Paik to death for the crime committed in December 2018 near Dikorai tea garden under Sootea police station. The accused, a relative of the victim, had lured her away from her house on the pretext of giving her chocolates and had raped and killed her in a nearby jungle. The body of the girl, which was buried near a pond, was later recovered following the arrest of the accused. “This court held the accused guilty of the charges of rape and murder under several sections of IPC and POCSO and sentenced Paik to death,” prosecution lawyer Jahnabi Kalita told journalists outside the court after the verdict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-gets-death-penalty-for-rape-murder-of-5-year-old-girl-in-assam/story-l7eOvxRM3jyaDoIoPpiPhO.html
22-12-2020||India||Karnataka local body election 2020: 3,019 gram panchayats go to polls in first phase||Polling began in the first phase of the two-phased Karnataka local body elections in 3,019 gram panchayats on Tuesday. More than 50% of villages in the state will exercise their franchise in 23,706 booths in this phase amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Voting began at 7am and will end at 5pm.Even though chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led BJP state government wanted to defer the polls due to the pandemic, the Karnataka high court directed the state election commission to conduct the polls.Owing to the pandemic, the state election commission made the wearing of masks and maintaining social distance mandatory during voting. Hand sanitisers would also be made available in polling booths. The number of voters in each booth has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000. Covid-19 positive voters would be allowed to exercise their franchise in the last hour of the polling.State election commissioner B Basavaraju said that electronic voting machines (EVMs) will be used in Bidar district and ballot papers will be used in the rest of the state.Karnataka has a total of 6,004 gram panchayats out of which polls are being conducted in 5,762 gram panchayats. According to poll officials, 162 gram panchayats whose term is yet to be completed will not be going to the polls. Elections will also not be conducted in six other gram panchayats regarding whom cases are pending in the court. 33 gram panchayats that are completely upgraded to town panchayats and 41 which have been partially upgraded will also not go to polls.In all, there are about 29.7 million eligible electors to elect 92,121 gram panchayat members for which 45,128 polling booths have been set up, and over 2.70 lakh polling officials will be deployed.The polls will witness a triangular contest among the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S). The local body elections act as indicators of the grassroots level reach of the parties and therefore performing well in these polls is crucial for the parties.Currently, Congress has the most number of seats in civic bodies across Karnataka. In 2019, the party bagged 509 of the total 1,221 wards in 56 urban local bodies (ULB) while the BJP got 366 wards. Meanwhile, JD(S) won 174 wards and independent candidates emerged victorious in 160 wards.The second phase of polling will be held on December 27. Counting of votes would be held on December 30.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-local-body-election-2020-3-019-gram-panchayats-go-to-polls-in-first-phase/story-Y4MATgLP7xb8McuExe90vO.html
22-12-2020||India||Lashkar terrorists surrender to security forces on appeal of families||Two local terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) surrendered on appeal of families during the encounter with security forces at Tongdounu here.According to the Kashmir Zone Police, during the encounter between terrorists and police/security forces at Tongdounu, Kulgam, two local terrorists of Lashkar-e-Taiba surrendered on appeal of families.Incriminating materials including two pistols and ammunition recovered, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lashkar-terrorists-surrender-to-security-forces-on-appeal-of-families/story-lD6GB7LFE2FNPBaQisGpLL.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Did not let the pandemic delay or derail our government’s initiatives’: Jai Ram Thakur||Three years since he was unexpectedly catapulted to the top job in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, 55, is firmly in the saddle politically. But he faces the uphill task of keeping a bevy of poll promises, made tougher by an unrelenting Covid-19 rampage that has battered the state’s economy, already weighed down by a surging debt burden of ₹55,000 crore. With his understated, hands-on style of governance, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader from Mandi, who enters his fourth year at the helm on December 27, has been quick to reset his priorities to blunt the opposition’s charge of below-par performance. In an exclusive interview with Ramesh Vinayak in Shimla on Sunday, Thakur exuded an air of quiet confidence in his ability to deal with the challenges ahead. Edited excerpts: How do you look at three years of your government? Overall, it has been a satisfactory performance. The last one year, since March, has been disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic which adversely impacted the state financially and also certain big projects. But we didn’t let the health emergency delay or derail initiatives that we had taken at the outset of our term... There is not a single major issue that people hold against my government. Which are those initiatives? Since its inception, Himachal Pradesh has seen two parties’ rule by rotation. Every five years, the new government used to begin its term with a spirit of revenge against the last regime... I put an end to the politics of vendetta... We also launched the Jan Manch scheme in which all ministers, along with officials, hear public grievances at a pre-decided venue on the first Thursday of every month... On the social welfare front, our government reduced the limit for old-age pension from 80 to 70 years and expanded the ambit of the Narendra Modi government’s Ayushman Bharat scheme that benefited 22 lakh of the state’s 70 lakh population. For those left out, we introduced the Him Care scheme for free treatment. Similarly, as a state version of the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme that covered 1.5 lakh families, was implemented Grahini Suvidha, covering another 2.86 lakh beneficiaries. Today, Himachal Pradesh is the only the state where each household has a cooking gas facility. How is it that Covid-19 continues to surge in Himachal, while it is on the decline in other states? The spike in two months has coincided with the onset of winter and the wedding season... There was casualness in adhering to the government- imposed caps on the number of attendees. So, we had to reimpose restrictions and tighten enforcement. The limit for social gatherings has been restricted to 50. Night curfew is in place in the four worst-hit districts of Shimla, Kullu, Kangra and Mandi. As a result, the number of daily cases has dropped from 800 to 300. With 9,000 tests daily, our testing is much higher than others... the caseload has shown a sharp decline from 1,000 to 300 in the past week. We will review the night curfew on December 23. What has been the impact of the Covid crisis on the state’s economy? We have suffered an economic loss of at least ₹30,000 crore. The hardest hit is tourism that has been a big generator of employment and revenue. Industrial, agriculture and horticulture sectors were less impacted. Drug manufacturing at Baddi, one of Asia’s major pharma hubs, went on even during the lockdown. What is your wish list for the Centre? We are pressing for external-aided projects. A ₹1,892-crore tourism infrastructure project funded by the Asian Development Bank is at an advanced stage, but it has been on hold. There has also been a pause on the centrally-funded national highway projects. We are expecting the Finance Commission’s nod on state-specific projects. Your government faced flak over a health department scam in the purchase of Covid supplies that led to the resignation of the state BJP chief. Has that not hurt the government’s image? More than the government, it was an individual case. Soon after the scam surfaced, the government acted swiftly and arrested the health director, that too amid the pandemic. State party president Dr Rajeev Bindal resigned on moral grounds. Had he not done that...That would have hurt us more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-let-the-pandemic-delay-or-derail-our-government-s-initiatives-jai-ram-thakur/story-CPDHDfknIc5fF2CFpoHwGJ.html
22-12-2020||India||Court cannot interfere when woman marries as per wishes, converts: HC||There is nothing a court can do if an adult woman marries according to her wishes and also decides to convert to some other religion, observed the Calcutta high court on Monday as it dealt with a matter relating to an interfaith marriage. The issue before the bench, headed by justice Sanjib Banerjee, pertained to a petition by the father of a 19-year-old Hindu woman, who got married to a Muslim man and also converted to Islam. While the father alleged pressure on his daughter, the woman recorded her statement before a magistrate, stating that she married a person of her choice and would not want to go back to her parents. As she was about to meet a district judge to record her statement finally, the father submitted in the HC that he feared his daughter might not feel free to testify. He pleaded that before she meets the judge, his apprehensions regarding pressure on his daughter should be allayed. The bench accepted the father’s plea and directed for a meeting between the woman and the additional public prosecutor of the HC on December 23 before she finally records her statement. But at the same time, the bench, in its order, said: “If an adult marries as per her choice and decides to convert and not return to her paternal house, there can be no interference in the matter.” The case comes amid controversy over a stringent anti-conversion law in UP which bans conversion by fraud, coercion, enticement or marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-cannot-interfere-when-woman-marries-as-per-wishes-converts-hc/story-etBuBfSmfCyey4e1jG1bnJ.html
22-12-2020||India||BJP will struggle to cross double digits in bengal, says Kishor, triggers row||Throwing down a challenge to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the run-up to the Bengal polls due in about five months, Prashant Kishor, chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist, said on Monday that he would leave his “space” if the BJP wins more than 99 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. Kishore tweeted: “For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in #WestBengal. PS: Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!” BJP leaders scoffed at the claim, saying it was ambiguous because Kishor hadn’t spelt out what he meant by “space.” A top executive at I-Pac, Kishor’s company, said he meant leaving his job as an election strategist. “What he meant is quite obvious. He will leave his work if the BJP wins more than 99 seats in Bengal. Those in the BJP, who counter this, should be asked whether they will quit politics if he is proved right,” the executive said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-struggle-to-cross-double-digits-in-bengal-says-kishor-triggers-row/story-UWwGvRKIoC0o5rqhP2oERN.html
22-12-2020||India||Govt open to more tweaks if farm talks resume: Official||The Union government hasn’t ruled out more concessions or amendments to the three farm laws and a set of recent proposals it sent out to farm unions should not be considered final, provided farmers restart negotiations and spell out their objections, a person with knowledge of the matter said. The government has worked the back channels to bring farmer groups back to the negotiating table, the person cited above added, asking not to be named. In its back channel talks, the government has urged farm unions not to insist on the repeal of the three contentious farm laws as a precondition for the dialogue. The government is open to working out additional concessions but a repeal of the laws is not an option, the person said. “The government believes that extensive safeguards for each and every apprehension can be included in the laws to put an end to all vulnerabilities of farmers through discussions. The proposals sent so far to the farmers are not final. This is the government’s position.”Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana are protesting a set of reforms they say will hurt their livelihoods. These changes include lifting restrictions on agribusiness engaged in farm trade, deregulating agricultural markets, allowing traders to stockpile essential commodities and a new contract farming regime. The person quoted above said a fresh invite for talks may be sent to farmers. On Sunday, a top agricultural ministry bureaucrat wrote to Darshan Pal, a farm leader, asking him to clarify what objections farm unions had to the government’s last proposal on December 9. In the written proposal, the government had offered amendments to some provisions of the laws for greater oversight on deregulated markets, sparing farmers penalties for stubble burning, which cases pollution and promising to keep providing farmers subsidised power instead of direct cash transfer, but farm union said they won’t call off their agitation until the laws were fully repealed. “The Modi government is fundamentally wrong in treating agriculture as a base for growth of corporates. We will launch a counter campaign against lies propagated by the PM, agriculture minister and the BJP,” said Avik Saha of Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Farm unions haven’t shown any signs that they are interested in resuming dialogue with the government since calling off talks on December 8, citing a stalemate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-open-to-more-tweaks-if-farm-talks-resume-official/story-QcMyBOOommgwq7uwYagSzN.html
22-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: Mansion of a dozen labourers||It looks like a museum. Nothing like this old-fashioned balcony exists anywhere else in the immediate vicinity.What is it like to actually live in this building?It turns out that this elegant Walled City mansion is a rent-free home to a dozen labourers. They work for a construction material supplier who sits in the shop below, here in Mohalla Qabristan neighbourhood. The building belongs to him.“It’s at least 100 years old, but our family moved to a bigger house, nearby, a long time ago,” he says.The entry is dramatic. The steep unlit staircase abruptly opens into a tiny, cluttered courtyard. It doesn’t feel like the same building—that from the outside looks so grand.This morning, the courtyard smells of amla (gooseberry) hair oil and Lifebuoy soap. One corner is piled up with ladders and ballis (wooden poles), probably the work equipments of the dwellers. The only room on this floor has its door partially open. Three men are asleep, loudly snoring.The landing above is accessed by a makeshift metallic staircase. Two tin-roofed sheds comprise the living quarters of another set of labourers. In one, Zafar is making meat curry for lunch, while Annu is having his breakfast—aloo subzi and roti. There’s no window, and street sounds have grown fainter, as if coming from very far. The room looks bare, yet it has all the basic household essentials, including a gas cylinder. A broom is plonked beside a tall earthen pot. A metal trunk is plopped up on what appears to be the remains of a dressing mirror—“we picked it from a kabadi walla (waste picker),” says Zafar. Clothes are hung from a metal chord. A hand-held mirror on the wall is reflecting the aforementioned trunk, making it look like a painter’s framed ‘still life’.By this time some of the residents have already left for work, Zafar says. On clambering down back to the street, the house no longer looks like a museum, but very contemporary, pulsating with the presence of the people living in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-mansion-of-a-dozen-labourers/story-wEmNDmSKm6ctbQjpnxn6mJ.html
22-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The big news of Monday was the big news of Sunday, which was the big news of Saturday – the new strain of the coronavirus in the UK. Following the lead of many other countries, India too stopped flights from the UK till the end of the year, but it may be too late. According to a report in virological.org by researchers from several UK universities – the report was authored for the Covid-19 Genomics Consortium, UK, a public-private partnership that seeks to “collect, sequence and analyse the whole genomes of virus samples in the UK” – the first samples of the strain (now called B.1.1.7) was collected on September 20. That’s three months back, which probably means that most countries barring the entry of travellers from the UK, or stopping flights to and from that country are probably too late. There is a very high probability that the strain has already entered their countries.Between the time I wrote Dispatch 229 on Sunday and the time I am writing this, scientists have figured out even more about this strain, and the bad news would appear to be that, at least in a laboratory setting, it is more infective than the older strain. It also emerges that the strain is now the dominant one, at least in the UK, but that should not come as a surprise to anyone – that’s how mutations often work. According to the report in virological.org, three of the new strain’s multiple mutations (17, according to most reports), are interesting. One, which I wrote about in yesterday’s dispatch, Mutation N501Y, effects a change in the spike protein of the virus, possibly making it bind better with human cells; another, also in the spike protein, could, researchers suspect, help the virus evade the host’s immune system; and the third, whose effects are not known, is close to the cleavage site of the spike protein. This is the site which reacts with the human enzyme furin, resulting in the spike protein breaking into two parts, with one part (S1), attaching itself to the ACE receptor found in human cells, facilitating the entry of the viral matter. It’s easy to see how all this could make the new strain more infective, but as I pointed out yesterday, we will not know for sure till more studies of infectivity happen, and more genomes of the virus are analysed – and both need to happen across the globe.India may be seeing a lull in new cases, but this is no guarantee that the new strain isn’t here already. The country has had a so-called travel bubble with the UK since May, with 70 flights a week between the countries. This can be established through a large-scale genomic analysis. India has been analysing viral genomes from around the country, and while this does not seem to have been on the same scale as the UK’s, if there were a new strain of the virus rapidly emerging as the predominant one, it is likely to have been picked up.The UK scare is likely to push India (and many other countries) to sequence more genomes of the virus. According to an article in Science (sciencemag.org), the UK’s efforts at identifying the new strain were helped by the fact that one of the commonly used RT-PCR tests in that country, TaqPath, showed pieces of only two genes in the result if the virus was the new strain (as compared to pieces of three genes for the older strain; one of the genes is hidden by one of the mutations). This kit is approved for use in India too (according to the website of the Indian Council of Medical Research), but this columnist doesn’t know how many labs, if any at all, use it. That would be a good starting point for India’s investigations into the new strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-GjInMRHZdpunOOSc3joXFI.html
22-12-2020||India||‘Don’t lie’: Mamata hits back in election slugfest||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday dismissed Union home minister Amit Shah’s contention about lack of development in the state as “garbage of lies”, announced additional funds for social welfare schemes and accused the central government of dividing the country, pulling out all the stops against an aggressive Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that is ready to challenge her in the assembly elections early next year.First, Banerjee held a press conference at the state secretariat in the afternoon and countered Shah’s claim that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, which stormed to power in 2011 after ending a three-decade Left rule, failed to deliver and lagged behind other states on various parameters, except corruption and extortion.“I want to tell Amitji that you are the home minister and it does not suit you to shell out lies provided by your party workers without cross-checking,” Banerjee said, rebutting Shah, who visited the state over the weekend to bolster the BJP’s election campaign and launched a scathing criticism of the TMC administration. “I will only speak on two things today: he said we are a zero in industry, [but] we are number one in MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises). He also said that we have not constructed village roads, [but] we are number one on that count too and this information has been shared by the government of India,” Banerjee said.“Why are you speaking garbage of lies to people. Tell the truth,” she added, while also highlighting the success of her government’s schemes for distributing cash among girls of economically backward families and bicycles among students. “Some people coming from Delhi are jealous and they keep spreading falsehoods.” On Sunday, Shah visited Visva Bharati, Bengal’s only central university set up by Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore in Birbhum, and led a massive BJP rally in the heart of Bolpur town. Banerjee on Monday also said she had written a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, reiterating the state’s request to route the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme funds through her government for disbursal among the farmers. Under PM-Kisan, the Centre provides an income support of ₹6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment. The amount is paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000 — one every four months. The Bengal government has yet to implement it, as well as the Ayushman Bharat health scheme. “We never said we will not give the money to the farmers, but we wanted that the funds be routed through the state government,” Banerjee said.She announced the increase of expenditure on social welfare and development schemes by an additional ₹8,700 crore. This amount, she said, will be disbursed over the next month and allotted to different departments, ranging from panchayat to health. “The government spent ₹20,212 crore in 2020-21 on development expenditure...But after witnessing the demand for such schemes at the camps being held for the “Duware Sarkar” (government at the doorsterp) programme, we have decided to release an additional ₹8700 crore over the next one month,” Banerjee said, referring to a flagship outreach programme launched by her government earlier this month. The BJP was quick to hit back. “The CM’s announcement made it clear that she treats people only as vote bank. The TMC government works only for political benefits,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of the BJP’s state unit.Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, called a press conference and questioned the state‘s refusal to implement central schemes. “She wrote [to the Centre] that this money (for PM Kisan) should be given to the state government. Why should that be done when beneficiaries are getting the money directly in their accounts across the country?” he asked. Speaking to reporters, Banerjee also announced that she will visit Birbhum district on December 28 for an official meeting, and also lead a roadshow the next day. Later in the evening, she inaugurated the Christmas festival at Allen Park in the city’s posh Park Street area, where she said the BJP-led government at the Centre was bent on “dividing the country”.“The BJP government has cancelled the public holiday on Christmas after coming to power. Why did they do so? Don’t they have any regard for the sentiments of the Christian community?” Banerjee said. “Is there secularism in India? I am sorry to say that a typical politics of hatred is going on.”Banerjee’s remarks appeared to refer to the BJP government’s decision in 2014 — it came to power that year — to celebrate December 25 as “Good Governance Day”, a move that triggered widespread controversy amidst apprehensions that the holiday will be scrapped. To be sure, Christmas remains a public holiday as per the Centre’s list. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said it was Banerjee who violated secular values by declaring monthly stipend for Imams of the state’s mosques. “A person who makes political statements from administrative meetings every day has no right to talk about the Constitution,” he said. Meanwhile, the election heat in Bengal appeared to have reached Mumbai, where ruling coalition member Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) hit out at the BJP. Speaking to reporters, Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik said Banerjee called up NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday. The BJP’s “use” of central machinery to “destabilise” the Bengal government could be discussed by other non-BJP parties in Delhi, Malik said, in an indication that the fiercely fought Bengal election could be catapulted to the national stage. Banerjee’s government has been at odds with the Centre over a host of issues; the latest being the Centre directing three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to join central duty for their alleged dereliction of duty during an attack on the convoy of BJP president JP Nadda in the state on December 10. “The IPS officers have been withdrawn without the consent of the West Bengal government, which is very dangerous. West Bengal chief minister has discussed the issue with Pawar saheb,” Malik said. He added that the BJP’s “programme to destabilise” elected governments in states “is not right and not in line with democracy”. (with HTC in Mumbai, and agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-lie-mamata-hits-back-in-election-slugfest/story-2FBHjRm5VQrb6p57SYQ0YL.html
22-12-2020||India||India suspends UK flights||India joined a growing list of countries on Monday to seal off access to people who have been to the UK, suspending all flights to and from the country between December 23 and December 31 in order to stop the arrival of a new strain of the coronavirus Sars-Cov-2 feared to spread faster. All passengers who arrive from the UK on December 21 and 22 will be asked to take an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport, with only those who test negative be allowed to go home, where they will need to isolate for seven days. Anyone who tests positive will be taken to institutional quarantine or to a medical facility if their health requires, the government announced. The move came hours after an emergency meeting of the Union health ministry’s joint monitoring group (JMG), which reviewed information from the UK where authorities on Saturday released details of B.1.1.7, a new strain of the coronavirus with an unusually high number of changes. After receiving the expert group’s opinion, the civil aviation ministry announced suspension of flights to and from UK.“Considering the prevailing situation in UK. Government of India has decided that all flights originating from UK to India shall be temporarily suspended till 31st December 2020 (23.59 hours). This suspension to start w.e.f. 23.59 hours, 22nd December 2020,” the ministry said in a statement, which was reiterated separately by minister Hardeep Singh Puri.“As a measure of abundant precaution, passengers arriving from UK in all transit flights (flights that have taken off or flights which are reaching India before 22nd Dec at 23.59 hrs) should be subject to mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival at the airports concerned,” it added.“It is just a precautionary measure. This strain has not been found in India,” said Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan.A second top official, too, said genomic sequencing has not found such a variant in India.“We have not found anything related to the UK strain so far in any of our samples. Be it in our laboratory in National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune or any other laboratories across the country doing genome sequencing, there is no evidence of this mutation in our samples,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“We have imposed a 10-day suspension on flights to and from UK after a thorough review by the government. We will reassess the suspension period as per the situation prevailing in the country,” an aviation ministry official said, asking not to be named. Passengers will not be allowed to leave the airport until the test results are out, and states will make arrangements for waiting passengers. Those whose test results are positive will be isolated, and those with negative results will have to mandatorily remain in home isolation for a week.Some states, such as Maharashtra and Kerala, separately announced tougher restrictions. The aviation ministry official quoted above said that the Centre too could announce similar restrictions as a whole for arrivals from other European nations. Genomic sequencing repository Nextstrain showed the variant found in UK was also circulating in Denmark, and similar mutations – although in a different strain – were seen in some samples from South Africa. India has been operating international flights through bilateral transport bubbles with 23 countries including UK since calling off scheduled overseas flight operations when it announced the lockdown in March. India’s bubble agreement with UK covered at least 70 flights per week, according to the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The airlines flying these routes were Air India, British Airways, Vistara and Virgin Atlantic. The new coronavirus variant has prompted the UK government to impose a Tier 4 lockdown across the country and tighten restrictions for all of England especially during the festive period. Viruses mutate often as the biological process of replication within hosts they infect is not always a perfect process. The Sars-Cov-2 has also been mutating, but none of these changes have been seen as worrying as yet. Experts from the Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium on Saturday said the new variant is significant because it now “accounts for an increasing proportion of cases in parts of England”, “has an unusually large number of genetic changes, particularly in the spike protein”, and the mutations “have potential biological effects”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-suspends-uk-flights/story-QMUMArhX9wRilV7HFyl48L.html
22-12-2020||India||PM Modi to release cash, speak to farmers in Dec 25 outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will release the next tranche of PM-Kisan, the direct cash-transfer scheme for farmers, making payments worth ₹18,000 crore to 80 million farmers and also chat with some of them virtually on Christmas Day, the agriculture ministry has said. Modi released the first tranche in 2019 and will do so again at a time when thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, are protesting three agricultural laws they say will hurt their livelihoods. The government says the reforms will give farmers more market access and boost investment in the farm sector. “It will be a freewheeling conversation. The Prime Minister is likely to talk about the new farm laws and how they will benefit farmers,” an official said, requesting anonymity. Under PM-Kisan, the government provides income support of ₹6,000 a year to farmers with a valid enrolment, paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000 — one every four months. It was launched on February 24, 2019, when the first instalment was paid. The Prime Minister will most likely ask farmers impromptu questions on how they have benefited from the scheme and “take a briefing from them on what they are growing and what else they want to see done for them ahead of the budget”, the official said. Farmers from all four corners of the country will be connected online through panchayat for the interaction, according to the official. The Prime Minister also intends to use the session to receive feedback on the ground realities of farming, he said. The Modi government has ramped up its outreach of farmers in the face of a massive, ongoing agitation by thousands of farmers who have encircled Delhi and are calling for the scrapping of a set of farm-reform laws. The protest entered its 26th day on Monday.PM Modi has been frequently explaining the benefits of farm reforms and often assured farmers that the existing government support mechanism, including minimum support price and agriculture mandis, will continue. “Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has expressed his feelings by writing a letter to the farmer brothers and sisters, attempting to have a polite dialogue. I request all the farmers to read it,” PM Modi had tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-release-cash-speak-to-farmers-in-dec-25-outreach/story-AS9N8LgkcwgRI8TYYjdR3L.html
22-12-2020||India||New manual on graft investigations: CBI looks to finish probes within 9 months||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has decided to complete majority of its investigations under the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act within a maximum nine months, according to the latest Crime Manual of the agency, which was updated after 15 years. The existing one-year deadline in corruption cases will apply only in those cases wherein a high ranking government official such as a joint secretary or secretary is accused, and the probe is being supervised by an officer of additional director rank or above in the CBI, people familiar with the development said. For cases against lower-rung government officers, like clerks or section officers etc, CBI’s investigating officers (IOs) will have to complete probes within six months. CBI’s latest Crime Manual — which has been prepared by a task force led by additional director Praveen Sinha after consulting legal experts, retired officers of the agency and other experts — has for the first time given a provision to form “investigation teams” in complex cases rather than depending on one Investigating Officer (IO). The manual, which is referred to by the CBI officers while initiating a preliminary enquiry (PE) or First Information Report (FIR) and conducting investigations, had become outdated as courts had struck down several criminal laws and there have been amendment in various laws as well. The Prevention of Corruption Act and the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) have also been since amended, and Supreme Court has passed several judgments, which have been taken into account while updating the manual for the benefit of IOs, said the officer. The manual also gives special thrust on investigations abroad. Officials cited above said a special chapter has been dedicated in the manual explaining how to conduct investigations abroad as well as procedures and the functioning of Interpol. “We have comprehensively revised our SOPs (standard operating procedures) so as to enhance the speed and quality of investigation and in consonance with global best practices,” said an officer who did not want to be named. The new manual will explain to the IOs the procedure to collect the digital evidence as large number of cases related to child pornography, phishing, and bitcoins etc. having international ramifications are being reported. It also has information about preventive vigilance functioning of CBI so that field units can use the same, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-manual-on-graft-investigations-cbi-looks-to-finish-probes-within-9-months/story-jMrsVFs3bCnCnjJNonCjSL.html
22-12-2020||India||60% rise in leopard numbers in 4 years; Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra top states||The union environment ministry has said there has been over 60% increase in population of leopards in India since 2014. There were at least 12,852 leopards in the country in 2018 compared to 7,910 leopards estimated in 2014 according to the ministry’s ‘Status of Leopards in India 2018’ report released on Monday.Madhya Pradesh has the highest number of leopards—3,421 followed by Karnataka—1783 and Maharashtra—1690. Leopard population had increased in all states of central India when compared to previous estimates of 2014. When it comes to different landscapes of India, central India and Eastern Ghats were found to have 8071 leopards stretching across Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra and Northern Telangana. The Shivalik Hills and Gangetic Plains landscape extending from Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh to parts of Bihar 1253 leopards were recorded. In the Western Ghats which includes protected areas in Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu 3387 leopards were recorded while only 141 were estimated for northeastern hills and Brahmaputra plains.The estimation exercise hasn’t considered other leopard occupied areas such as non-forested habitats (coffee and tea plantations), higher elevations in the Himalayas, arid landscapes and majority of the northeastern landscape. “The population estimation should be considered as the minimum number of leopards in each of the landscapes,” the report cautions.Genetic analysis of leopards during the study has indicated that leopard populations across the country are not strictly genetically structured as opposed to tiger populations which show structuring. Parts of northeast for example have genetically distinct tiger populations. But the leopard population in India is largely continuous, the estimation of their population by the National Tiger Conservation Authority(NTCA) has revealed.The findings of NTCA however contradict a study published in the journal PeerJ in February. The study by Wildlife Institute of India and Bengaluru based Centre for Wildlife Studies which used faecal samples to study genetic markers found four distinct sub-populations of leopards in India with high genetic variation—leopards of the Western Ghats, Deccan Plateau-Semi Arid region, Shivalik and the Terai region in North India. The assessment of genetic data had also revealed a possibly human-induced 75-90% population decline among leopards in India in the past 120-200 years.NTCA in its leopard population estimation has acknowledged that leopard populations are increasingly becoming fragmented due to low wild prey densities. “This has resulted in leopards venturing out into human dominated landscapes and ending up in conflicts. Intense conflicts are mostly reported from hills of Shivalik-Terai landscape and parts of Central India. The forests of Central Indian landscape harbours the largest population of leopards in its fragmented forest patches. While genetic data and population data suggest that leopard populations across is continuous, there is an increasing need for corridor connectivity, and improvement of habitat, to reduce interface with humans and thereby reducing the chance of conflict,” the report has concluded. “Based on an ever-increasing number of reported leopard deaths over the past decade due to a combination of factors such as roadkills, poisoning, electrocution and persecution by humans, the leopard population should at best remain stable if not decrease since 2014. Such a drastic increase in the population of a large carnivore (apex predator) within such a narrow time period, and that too in a constantly deteriorating habitat, is ecologically impossible. Since the report does not mention anything about the difference in sampled area between 2014 and 2018, one can safely attribute the increase to a gross underestimation in 2014 coupled with an increase in the total area sampled in 2018,” said Anish Andheria, president, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT).“The current estimate is based on sampling that was carried out in tiger-bearing areas. While leopards coexist well with tigers, they have a much wider distribution than tigers. This means that a significant portion of leopard habitat such as the entire state of Gujarat and innumerable leopard-bearing habitats such as the Sanjay Gandhi Nation Park, Jhalana are not sampled in this exercise. This means that in the future, if these are included in the estimation process, the population will go up further. To summarise, while the 2018 figure seems far more realistic compared to that of 2014, it is far from representing the real leopard situation on the ground. Having said this, India is the first country that has even attempted to estimate its leopard population. For more accurate results the government will have to carry out an exercise that is designed specifically for leopards, and one that covers their entire range,” he added.“Leopard numbers can increase substantially but that doesn’t show whether leopard occupancy has increased. If leopard area also increases then that is a sign that they are safe. Leopard area may be out in the full report which will be published later. Leopard numbers fluctuate a lot due to presence of tigers. In protected areas where tiger numbers are low, leopard numbers increase. They can also increase due to better habitat management. In Tadoba we saw leopard numbers jump from 80 to 120 in 3 to 4 years,” said Bilal Habib, Head, Animal Ecology and Conservation Biology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-rise-in-leopard-numbers-in-4-yrs/story-qnL8cprKCnPopwclbkHkAJ.html
22-12-2020||India||New Covid strain not yet found in India: Experts||India has not yet detected the new strain of coronavirus that has spread to some parts of the United Kingdom, top government officials said on Monday, describing the curbs on flight services as a “measure of caution”.The new strain is feared to be more infective and could 70% more transmissible, experts in UK said over the weekend, prompting over 40 nations – including India – to suspend flight operations. “It is just a precautionary measure. This strain has not been found in India,” confirmed Rajesh Bhushan, Union health secretary.Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), also said, “We have not found anything related to the UK strain so far in any of our samples. Be it in our laboratory in National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune or any other laboratories across the country doing genome sequencing, there is no evidence of this mutation in our samples.”As part of epidemiological surveillance, India has been performing virus genome sequencing to follow mutations.“It is an ongoing process that started some eight months ago. The process is that if there is any new mutation found in the virus then it is compared with past mutations to figure out the change. So far, there have only been minor mutations seen in the virus which is not of much consequence, and nobody has identified anything of this particular UK strain,” Dr Panda said.“We are constantly vigilant, and it is not like the strain has mutated in the UK and suddenly we will start looking for this mutation. If there is a mutation it will show up in the surveillance but so far there is nothing of consequence,” he added. Virology experts who have been performing genome sequencing also say they haven’t come across this particular strain as yet.“We have been sequencing but so far nothing of this sort has been identified. There are two things, antigenic drift and antigenic shift wherein drift is a minor change and shift suggests a major mutation in the virus structure. Many a times even if there has been a mutation we have to see what impact it has clinically. There have been mutations detected in Sars-Cov-2 virus in the past but those haven’t meant much clinically,” said a senior virologist at a prominent government laboratory approved to perform Covid-19 testing, while asking not to be named. The mutation should not be a cause for concern, the virologists said, as it has shown to be more transmissible, which means it will spread faster, and not more virulent.“There are three causes of worry when we talk of virus mutation: transmissibility, pathogenicity (the strength to cause disease), immunogenicity (to provoke body’s immune response). In both the cases, in the UK and South Africa, the strains have been found to be more transmissible. The virulent part has not been established yet,” said Dr Jacob John, former virology department head, Christian Medical College, Vellore. “It partly explains the second wave that the world is seeing; however it will be difficult to predict the epidemic pattern in India as we don’t have a systemic approach to pandemic research in India. We don’t have the relevant data. We treat outbreaks more like a law and order problem in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-strain-not-yet-found-in-india-experts/story-n8S2ODv01FvDUmnc0sQCzH.html
22-12-2020||India||Road to safety: On the vaccine trail||The wall is new — so new, in fact, that it is yet to be plastered over. It has been built in the large room of a public health clinic in Bihar’s Dharbanga to create another room. It is secured with a collapsible gate, but as with most walls, it is what lies behind (or will soon lie behind) that’s interesting — an air-conditioned vault that will house 2021’s most precious commodity, Covid-19 vaccines. In Hathua, in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, roughly 60km away as the crow flies from the clinic with the room with the brick wall , the women and children’s ward of the district hospital is empty. That isn’t surprising because it is no longer a women’s and children’s ward. In the ward, a cement platform has been readied. It will support a walk-in cooler that is being installed, a mega-refrigerator that can store vaccines at between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. It’s not just Bihar — across India, large cities, nondescript towns, districts big and small, are all scrambling to add critical infrastructure to meet the challenge of vaccinating 300 million people by July 2021, and, if all goes well, hundreds of millions more by the end of the year. India has recorded in excess of 10 million cases of the viral disease, and suffered 146,163 deaths, and while the per-million statistics are better than most countries (including those in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, a club of mostly rich nations), and the case fatality rate is among the lowest in the world in such a large country, it is clear that life and work — both have been disrupted radically in 2020 — will return to normal only when enough people have been vaccinated.This is easier said than done. It requires the government to mobilise millions of workers, significantly augment health infrastructure in a country that spends less than 2% of its GDP on the sector, create a seamless network between states, ministries, agencies and local administrations and, also, a huge outreach effort that, at once, spreads awareness about the benefits of vaccination and quickly quashes malicious rumours of the sort that often circulate over messaging platforms. To be sure, India is no stranger to mass immunization measures. It launched a vaccination programme for newborns way back in 1978. Seven years later, it expanded the programme to make it universal and cover all districts. Every year, it gives 11 types of vaccines to close to 26.7 million newborns and 29 million pregnant women. It even boasts two national training centres for cold chains in Pune and Delhi that provide technical training in maintenance of facilities that constitute the backbone of the immunization outreach. As an aside, it emerges that one of the vaccines that is part of the universal immunization programme, the BCG one, may provide people with some form of protection against severe versions of Covid-19, one reason being offered by researchers for India’s better-than-expected Covid-19 metrics.Magnitude of the task The addition of vaccines over time to the universal programme, particularly the introduction of the pulse polio vaccine in 1995, has led to a wider and more robust network of better logistics and solid infrastructure, but that is not enough. The sheer scale and urgency of administering Covid-19 vaccines poses a stiff challenge even to the old hands in India’s success story in vaccination. For India never had to immunize 300 million people in six months. And states such as Bihar, home to 99 million people (if it were a country, it would be the 15th most populous in the world), are key to meeting this challenge. The infectiveness of Covid-19 has resulted in its own network effect — no one is safe till everyone is — which means poor and backward states such as Bihar will have to vaccinate people with the same efficiency that richer and more developed states do. At the heart of Bihar’s effort is a five-storeyed building in Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital campus. This is one of India’s largest state vaccine stores—the Centre that stores and supplies vaccines across the state. Each floor of this building has massive halls packed with containers of different shapes and sizes. There are countless cardboard boxes full of syringes, used cold boxes, Thermocol covers, piles of small plastic ice packs, yellowing from years of use. This is the Centre that fuels the immunization programme in this part of the Hindi heartland. The ground floor has several rows of mega-sized refrigerators. Then there are three walk-in-freezers (WIF). These super-cool white boxes have a temperature range of minus  15 to -25 degrees Celsius. Barring some research facilities or top hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, or the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore,, where refrigerators with far lower temperature capacities are available, these WIFs offer the lowest temperature vaults in India’s vast health sector network. The poorer version of the WIF are the walk-in-coolers (WIC) that can maintain 2 to 8 degrees Celsius temperatures. Both look like mini containers. “These WIFs are 20 cubic metres. But they are enough to store 1.5 to 2 lakh vials. Our total capacity in all WIFs and WICs is 2 million vials,” explained Dr. NK Sinha, the state immunization officer.“We are encouraging the private sector to contribute in capacity augmentation. We have given the cold chain specifications to the corporate affairs ministry and the heavy industry ministry so that industries can know what they need to build,” said union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Cold storages, Bhushan points out, are being set up maintaining geographical equity. “Once you plot the 29000 available cold storages on map, you realize where all we need to have more cold storage facilities. We also don’t require cold storages as long as we can easily transport vaccines to the last point by road,” he adds. Dry as a cold desert Nearly all districts in India possess these super stores. But their existing capacities will fall short when the vaccines start arriving. “We can’t pack these fridges with vaccines; 25% space has to be kept vacant for circulation of the cold air. Also, we need to keep our regular vaccines,” added Dr. Sinha.Indeed, public health systems around India will have to keep the universal vaccination programme going; this is, after all, the lifeline for millions of children and pregnant mothers. But this also means that the Centre and the states can tap only 150,000 out of 239,000 vaccinators. “If everyone joins the Covid vaccine administration measure, how can we run the regular pulse polio or BCG camps?” a senior official involved in the vaccination drive asked. Unlike domestic refrigerators, both WIF and WIC have shelves all along their inside walls to store the vaccines. They are as dry as a cold desert, powered by two powerful compressors, and people can walk inside to take out vaccines or add fresh stock. Stepping inside a WIF is akin to taking a walk outside in Antarctica, albeit in summer and on a good day. There’s a basketful of fat, thermal jackets, trousers and gloves kept beside these vaccine vaults. Such walk-in refrigerators are easy to install or dismantle but not available at all nodes of the vaccine network. The smaller centres have deep-freezers and ice-lined refrigerators, the mini versions of the WIF and WIC. They offer same range of temperatures as their big brothers, but are easier to install. And they are easy to identify too — all freezers have blue bodies and all refrigerators, white ones. The larger vaccination centres, where people will be vaccinated, will have these mini-freezers and refrigerators. In other sites, especially mobile or pop-up ones, small cold boxes lined with ice packs, will come in handy. These cold boxes are the ones pulse polio vaccinators carry in their door-to-door campaigns. But states aren’t just counting what they have — they are adding more. At the seminar room in Patna’s new secretariat, the state’s principal secretary of health Pratyaya Amrit waves a list of additional cold chain infrastructure required for the state. “We require 8 WICs, 2 WIFs, 432 ice-lined refrigerators and 549 deep freezers. The centre has assured us of all help.” And once he gets them, Amrit also has a plan to deal with a quintessential developing-world problem, power cuts. The temperature tracker app In the US, United Parcel Service (UPS) and FedEx Corp. have devised systems to track and measure in real-time, for each individual vaccine pallet, metrics such as temperature, light exposure and motion. India, too, will have a somewhat similar protocol to track real-time the location of delivery vans carrying vaccines, stock positions and the people being vaccinated. The Central government will closely monitor all vital data. But while FedEx and UPS don’t have to face power cuts in Europe or the US, uninterrupted power is not available in every part of India. “We have individual generators attached to each and every WIF and WIC,” said Amrit, “to ensure a steady flow of electricity”. There’s also a small black box with a digital panel perched on the wall above the deep freezers and ice-lined refrigerators in the room at the Muzaffarpur hospital. The labels suggest these were given by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the national health mission. These black boxes or temperature alert machines, flash the temperature of the refrigerator it is attached to. But its utility doesn’t end here. Ram Ratan, the AIIMS-educated state programme officer for immunization, summons a hospital employee who takes out his mobile phone, opens an app and shows the details of the real-time temperatures of each one of the vaccine storages. “There will be an alert if the temperature rises. We will know immediately and take appropriate steps,” said the employee. Ratan added that he can “monitor all vaccine vaults across Bihar with the help of this, sitting in Patna.” But to store the vaccines, states have to get them first. The supply chain At the crowded Basant Vihar restaurant (a favourite of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar), Dr. NK Sinha, the state immunization officer, recalls how the premier Rajdhani Express had to be requisitioned to deliver polio vaccines to the state in 1995. India already has a detailed plan on the supply chain for Covid-19 vaccines even though no vaccines have got approval from the Indian drug regulators so far. To be sure, transporting vaccines will be easier than storing them. All possible vaccine candidates for India, from Serum Institute of India’s Covishield to Pfizer Inc.’s mRNA vaccine will require 2 degrees to 8 degrees Celsius temperature for transportation. Covishield, developed by the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca Plc., can be stored, transported and handled at 2 degrees to 8 degrees, BioNTech SE and Pfizer’s vaccines need to be stored at minus 70 degrees Celsius, but can be kept for up to five days at 2 degrees to 8 degrees. The same temperature can keep Moderna’s product stable for 30 days but if it needs to be stored for longer, the vaccine requires a temperature of minus 20 degrees Celsius. The Gamaleya vaccine can be stored at 2 degrees to 8 degrees. Much of the long-distance movement of the vaccines in India will be by air. The last mile transport is likely to be over the road. Today’s India boasts of 137 airports covering all 28 states and eight Union territories and as of March 2017 the road network runs over 5.8 million kilometres, a significant expansion of the country’s transport capacity from the early years of economic liberalization. Indian Railways, too, has nine refrigerated parcel vans but they are unlikely to be used, according to officials. From airports, refrigerated vans and insulated vaccine cars will take the quickest possible route and maintain strict temperature controls to deliver the vials at designated points. The vaccines will be treated like VIPs and will receive police protection during transportation. The centre’s guideline to this effect to the states says: “Vaccine safety need to be ensured during storage, transportation and delivery of vaccine with sufficient police arrangements so that there are no leakages in the delivery system.” Every state has made elaborate preparations already. Bihar, according to a power point presentation by the principal secretary of health Amrit, has one that details every part of the plan — from picking up the vials at the airport, sending them to storage, then moving them across the state. “The vaccine pallets will come to the state vaccine store in refrigerated vaccine vans. The same vehicle will be used to send them to regional vaccine stores (Bihar has 10 such stores),” said Amrit. “The regional centres will send the consignment to all the district vaccine stores in insulated vaccine vans (smaller vans that carry the vials in cold boxes).” These vans will take the vaccines to designated cold chain points, the final storage destination before the vaccine pallets are sent to vaccination sites. At every level, right from the production lines to the jabs, the Union government will keep a close eye. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan described the transportation model as the hub and spoke method and said, “the entire programme will be monitored by the central government. The discussions and debate For Bhushan and other officials involved in Covid-19 management at the Centre, weekend breaks have become a rare luxury. According to an official, “for the past five months, there are at least five-six meetings daily related to Covid management over different echelons of the central government.” Reviews with states, inter-ministerial or intra-ministerial discussions, meetings with cabinet secretary or the Prime Minister’s Office dominate the long days of the Covid-19 managers of the Narendra Modi government. India is yet to sanction emergency authorization to any vaccine at the time of writing this article, but way back in July, when Covid-19 vaccine trials entered a defining stage worldwide, Indian authorities started preliminary discussions on a wide range of issues, from logistics to ethics, to set the stage for a smooth supply and effective use of a vaccine when it is ready. A month later, On August 8, the cabinet secretariat formed an expert committee comprising representatives of a host of ministries and institutions to oversee all aspects of its Covid-19 vaccine plan, from identification of the vaccine to buying to financing the purchase to distribution and administration. “The expert group or Negvac led by member Niti Ayog Dr. VK Paul doesn’t have any fixed schedule for meeting. It summons a meeting as and when required. It doesn’t even have a WhatsApp group for members to keep in touch daily. For them, landlines and webinars are the most effective medium of interactions,” a member of the panel said on condition of anonymity. Negvac is short for the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration Prime Minister Modi held a series of meetings with the state chief ministers and two all-party meetings over the last six months. He is also regularly briefed on the Covid-19 situation and all aspects of the vaccine plan. On November 28, Modi visited the facilities of Bharat Biotech International Limited, Serum Institute of India and Zydus Cadila Limited to see first hand how these companies were getting along with their vaccine development and manufacturing. But all plans eventually arrive at the same point — administration of the vaccine. The final challenge Sitting next to his supervisor at a small office in Patna’s state vaccine store, a middle-aged official says that neither he nor any of his family members will take the vaccine. His supervisor, who holds a key position in the immunisation programme in the state, looked visibly embarrassed. But there are many who are worried about two unknown enemies that can seriously hamper the prospects of the vaccine plan: misconceptions and rumours. “In rural Bihar, people think Covid is an urban illness. They refuse to believe that it has spread across rural India too,” said Onkar Chand, the social mobilization coordinator in Darbhanga. “And as a result, a large part of the rural population might flatly refuse to take vaccines. Any refusal to take vaccines not only dampens the campaign but also make others sceptical about the vaccine programme” added Dr. NK Sinha. The local administration is aware of this. Muzaffarpur district collector Chandrasekhar Singh accepts that false rumours resulting in a boycott of vaccines is a risk factor that he has thought about a lot. “We plan to do a door-to-door campaign. We will involve influential political leaders as well as religious heads to campaign for us. The information and communication plan is one of the critical areas of the overall Covid programme,” Singh adds. In his last few meetings, apart from reiterating the importance of mask and social distancing to combat Covid-19, the Prime Minister himself has spoken of the need to collectively counter the menace of rumours. Similar rumours in 2018, usually speared through WhatsApp, caused concerns about child-lifting in many parts of the country and resulted in many innocent people being lynched. “There is always a possibility that a recipient might die due to natural causes after taking jabs. But even that can be fuel for the gossip mills,” said a Union government official who asked not to be named. As Prataya Amrit returns for a quick lunch at home, a family member shows a forwarded message in WhatsApp that says, “vaccination will start from tomorrow.” “Just imagine. No vaccine has been decided yet but such rumours have already started spreading.”The Centre’s guideline for the states too, acknowledges the challenge of “ensuring over 1.3 billion people in India receive factual and timely information and updates on vaccine rollout progress and benefits.” . It adds that outreach efforts need to address “public’s anxiety and queries regarding government’s decision for prioritization of vaccine administration, apprehension about the vaccines introduced after a short trial, and fear of adverse events, misconception about vaccine efficacy, rumours and negative narrative in the media / social media space.” But far away from the world of rumours, on a bright December morning, a group of auxiliary nurses at a vaccination centre in Muzaffarpur say they are not worried about false rumours. “We are ready to push Covid vaccines (likely to be intramuscular one, one adds helpfully) when the time comes.” Another demonstrates how the vaccines will be delivered with single-use syringes that automatically disable themselves once used. A third explains how ice boxes must sweat for a few minutes before the vaccines can be kept in them for use at the inoculation centre. India’s Covid-19 managers have many things to worry about, but if these nurses in Bihar are any indication, the administration of the shots isn’t one of them. “When a newborn arrives for BCG or pulse polio, we feel as if its our own child. When people come for Covid vaccines to use, they will be treated like our family members,” smiles Sunita Kumari, one of the nurses, as she prepares a vaccine for a pregnant woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-to-safety-on-the-vaccine-trail/story-FJ2iOS1qbryyzkoOedG9lK.html
22-12-2020||India||Kisan Ekta page taken down due to spam alert after ‘increased activity’, says Facebook||Facebook on Monday said that Kisan Ekta Morcha’s Facebook page was taken down as increased activity on the page had initiated an automated response against spam content. “As per our review, our automated systems found an increased activity on the Facebook page www.facebook.com/kisanektamorcha and flagged it as spam, which violates our Community Standards. We restored the page in less than three hours when we became aware of the context. The review showed that only the Facebook page was affected by the automated systems while the Instagram account remained unaffected,” a company spokesperson said.The social networking faced a massive backlash from civil society after the page, which is run by a farmers’ collective, went down late Sunday evening. It sparked widespread criticism, with farmers saying the move was an attempt to muzzle their voices.It wasn’t immediately clear why the company took down the website purely based on an automated system alert. Hindustan Times on Sunday reported that Kisan Ekta Morcha’s Facebook page, less than five days old, had notched up 75,000 followers. The group collects and collates information from different farmers’ unions and posts them across social media. “Now this is #TooMuchDemocracy. A peaceful protest by #Kissan & @Facebook deletes @Kisanektamorcha Facebook page,” the farmers group tweeted after its Facebook page was taken down. The group also received a restriction on its Instagram account, after which it was not allowed to post videos or photographs. According to Baljeet Singh, the head of the group’s information technology cell, the page was taken down for being in violation of the social media website’s community standards.“We had posted clips countering Narendra Modi’s speech from day before yesterday,” Singh said on Sunday. “Each of his lies was countered with facts and examples. Subsequently, we started a live broadcast with (Swaraj India’s) Yogendra Yadav and in the middle of the broadcast, the page was taken down.” After massive outrage, Facebook later restored the page. “The vast majority of our work fighting spam is done automatically using recognizable patterns of problematic behaviour,” the Facebook spokesperson added. “For example, if an account is posting over and over in quick succession that’s a strong sign something is wrong. However, we also rely on our human review team to work on cases where human expertise is needed to understand the context of a particular situation. In Q3, 2020 out of the 1.9 billion pieces of content removed globally for violating our policies on spam, we restored 74.9 mn pieces of content, when we identified issues ourselves.”A Digital rights activist, however, disagreed with the social networking website’s assessment.Internet Freedom Foundation trustee and lawyer Apar Gupta said the takedown demonstrated faulty processes that ignore user rights, “As per the statement issued by Facebook it is evident that human review is not being conducted prior to its algorithms taking down pages. This clearly indicates that the system itself is faulty and requires oversight as well as clear notice and appeal processes prior to page and account takedowns,” he said.Raman Chima, Asia Pacific Policy Director at Access Now — Facebook’s conduct here shows the tremendous drawbacks of the company’s over-reliance on supposedly automated systems to handle issues relating to content governance. The use of automated tools to regulate content should only be for exceptional cases; not a norm. The actions of platforms have real world consequences on those seeking to exercise their fundamental rights. Despite its repeated statements about the importance of India to it, it does not appear that Facebook is engaged in open, transparent discussion with civil society in India on its practices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-ekta-page-taken-down-due-to-spam-alert-after-increased-activity-says-fb/story-pNiE5otiEq5LhxqZ8duWRI.html
22-12-2020||India||Motilal Vora (1927-2020)‘He was an ideal example of a political worker and leader ’||Motilal Vora was an ideal example of what a political worker and a leader should be. He was always committed to his work and to performing the duties assigned to him from time to time. My relations with him goes back to 1966, when he was not even in the Congress party. Even yesterday, I had sent a bouquet of flowers for him. He was happy to see that and had told his family members that he wanted to talk to me. That was our friendship. Voraji patiently listened to the grievances of Congress workers and would extend a helping hand to everyone in whatever way he could. He was perhaps among the few politicians who held a post – either in a government or the party – throughout his career. He was perhaps also the only person in India who was elevated from a minister of state to a chief minister. Voraji was known for striking a perfect balance between different leaders. Despite late leader Arjun Singh proposing his name as the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, he maintained a fine relationship with Shyama Charan Shukla and Madhavrao Scindia as well. There was a time when the people of Madhya Pradesh would describe the state government as “Moti-Madhav Express.”Digvijaya Singh would often narrate how he, as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president, would send party delegations to Voraji (then chief minister) daily with demands and grievances and how he would send them back happy. Along with assurances, Voraji would offer them tea also. He would never say no to anything. It was these qualities that endeared him to all. There are many political events in which he played an important part, but I don’t want to get into those details. Everybody remembers how he {as the state governor then} administered the oath to Mayawati as Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 1995. He had friends and admirers across political parties. In a way, Voraji was a symbol in himself, and this is what the younger generation should learn from him. It is a great loss but I will add that he lived life to the full and passed away without much suffering. It is a personal loss to me. I have lost a good friend today. (As told to Aurangzeb Naqshbandi) The writer is a senior Congress leader||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/motilal-vora-1927-2020-he-was-an-ideal-example-of-a-political-worker-and-leader/story-fgSwOEmQMydTlwbMKvlvOI.html
22-12-2020||India||MP govt cautious over EC order in probe against officers, ministers||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of Madhya Pradesh is proceeding cautiously on a communique from the Election Commission of India (ECI)suggesting a probe of at least three Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, a state administrative service official and several politicians for alleged use of unaccounted money in the 2019 general elections. The politicians include three ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government and two ex-ministers whose names surfaced during income tax raids conducted on two aides of the then chief minister Kamal Nath and certain others associated with them in connections with allegations that they had made “extensive use of unaccounted cash” during the elections, according to officials who requested anonymity and an official communique by the ECI, which asked the government to register a case after a probe by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW). The communique has been posted on its website.What has worried the state government are the names of several politicians of the ruling party, including the ministers, in a report by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) submitted to the state government last week; some are said to be eyeing vacant cabinet berths,the officials said. The CBDT report may delay a planned expansion of the cabinet, BJP functionaries said. Names of these officers and politicians came to light during the raids against the political advisor to the then chief minister Kamal Nath, RK Miglani, the then officer on special duty to Nath, Praveen Kakkad, and certain others associated with the two, in Bhopal and Delhi in April 2019, as per the I-T department. The ECI’s official communiqué said: “After deliberations, Commission directed to forward copy of the report of CBDT dated 28.10.2020 to the chief electoral officer, Madhya Pradesh, to lodge a criminal action before designated authority, e.g. Economic Offence Wing, State of Madhya Pradesh against concerned for violation as per extant Electoral and other relevant laws. Commission has also directed union home secretary to initiate appropriate departmental action against All India Service officers and also to chief secretary, Madhya Pradesh for similar action against state officer.” When asked by journalists about the findings of the report, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said: “The law will take its own course and nobody will be spared.” Home minister Narottam Mishra spoke in a similar vein. He said: “ECI and CBDT sent the report to the chief electoral officer and chief secretary in the state after an investigation. As directed by the ECI, the matter is being forwarded to EOW for further action. Nobody will be spared if he or she is found involved in corrupt practices.” EOW’s superintendent of police Rajesh Mishra said: “EOW has not received any report yet.” When contacted and asked if the ECI had set any deadline for the state government to lodge a first information report in the case, joint chief electoral officer of Madhya Pradesh Dharnendra Kumar Jain said: “There is no deadline. The state government is expected to look into the report and initiate the action on its part.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-cautious-over-ec-order-in-probe-against-officers-ministers/story-xfTDo7CQxGqmUB7tjXN67I.html
22-12-2020||India||Refund full fee if admission is cancelled, UGC tells varsities||Higher education regulator University Grants Commission (UGC) has warned institutions of action in case they do not offer full refunds to first-year students who are unable to join their courses because of financial hardship or any other reason amid the Covid-19 pandemic after receiving admission.UGC sent out the warning after it was flooded with complaints that universities disregarding the guidelines set by the regulator. UGC had specified in its guidelines for the academic calendar of 2020-21 that because of the pandemic, first-year undergraduate and postgraduate students and their parents were facing financial hardship and they should be charged no money for cancelling admission up to December 31.In a letter dated December 17 to vice chancellors of all universities, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said the regulator had received scores of complaints and submissions claiming non-refund or partial refund by colleges of money they had already paid for admission.“To be crystal clear, the entire lees including all charges be refunded in totality (zero cancellation charges) on account of cancellation/ migration up to 31.12.2020. Thereafter, on cancellation/ withdrawal of admissions up to 31.12,2020, the entire fee collected from a student be refunded in full after deduction of not more than Rs. 1,000 as processing fee,” said the letter by Jain.Jain said the Commission had been receiving several references in the form of Right to Information applications, complaints, public grievances or court cases on non-refund of fees by universities/ institutions in violation of the UGC guidelines. T“The Commission has taken a very serious view of such complaints. Most of these complaints have come from the students who have taken admission in private or self-financing universities and deemed to be universities and later opted out for one or the other reasons,” Jain said.The UGC asked universities to ensure compliance with its directive, warning that they could face punitive action if they didn’t. Such action could include a recommendation for withdrawal of affiliation, withholding of grants, declaring a college or varsity ineligible for grants or publishing a notice informing the public about violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refund-full-fee-if-admission-is-cancelled-ugc-tells-varsities/story-PME8uMKbxlNDe40zgt8SXI.html
22-12-2020||India||India should not worry about our ties with Pakistan, says Russia||Russia on Monday said it was committed to developing its relationship with Pakistan although India should have no concern about such moves as they are within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and aimed at ensuring regional stability. Moscow’s efforts to develop relations with Islamabad fit in with the basic values of the strategic partnership between India and Russia, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev told a news briefing. His deputy, Roman Babushkin, said Russia’s ties with Pakistan were “independent in nature” and the two sides have a trade and economic agenda. “If you take a look at the substance of our ties with Pakistan and the priorities we are committed to, you could easily see they would correspond to the basic values of Russia and India, especially the privileged and strategic partnership – issues like regional stability, transparency, fighting terror, drugs and crime first and foremost,” Kudashev said in response to a question on a perceived uptick in ties between Moscow and Islamabad. Economic cooperation between Russia and Pakistan, Kudashev said, was a key to progress and predictability. “Our ties with Pakistan are naturally no exception to the values of our ties with India,” he added. Babushkin said India should not be worried about Russia’s commitment to respecting the sensitivities of any other country. “Russia is very cautious when it comes to respect of sensitivities but at the same time we regard our relations with Pakistan are independent in nature and we also have a bilateral trade and economic agenda. We are quite committed to developing this relationship further, including from the point of view of Pakistan being a partner country in the framework of the SCO,” he said. SCO comprises eight member-states -- India, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan;“The basic principle of Russian foreign policy is to have bilateral relations not aimed against any other country. This is the very important principle we are following when it comes to cooperation with every country in the world, including Pakistan,” he added. Babushkin said a recent exercise between the Russian and Pakistani armies focused on counter-terrorism. “Such kind of collaboration, including experience sharing and capacity building, is quite natural for all SCO member states. We have reached an advanced level of exercises with India including the three services. All of that is important from the point of view of how we proceed to ensure regional stability. Promoting dialogue and a unified agenda are also instrumental for the same reasons,” he said. India has in the past expressed concerns about possible arms deals between Russia, the supplier of a majority of weapon systems used by Indian armed forces, and Pakistan. In response to an another question, Babushkin said Russia and India closely consult each other on the situation in Afghanistan. The current negotiations between the Taliban and the US are being conducted on the basis of agreements between the two sides. Russia wants these negotiations to be successful and lead to a “forward-looking solution in Afghanistan” so that the war-torn country can have a “maximum possible representative government” that takes care of the interests of all national and ethnic groups, Babushkin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-not-worry-about-our-ties-with-pak-says-russia/story-T0ZBWTQzgjRARrnwT6jHbM.html
22-12-2020||India||Despite US sanctions threat, S-400 deal ‘advancing well’||Russia’s ongoing deals with India for military hardware, including for S-400 air defence systems, are “advancing well” despite the threat of potential US sanctions, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev said on Monday. There can be “good progress” if decisions related to the procurement of Ka-226 helicopters and production of AK-203 assault rifles are expedited, and Russia is prepared to share the most advanced technologies with India in line with the “Make in India” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” {Self-Reliant India} initiatives, Kudashev told a news briefing. His remarks came against the backdrop of the US imposing sanctions last week on Turkey over its $2.5-billion deal with Russia for the S-400 air defence system under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). US officials have warned that India’s acquisition of high-tech Russian systems could attract similar sanctions. “As far as current deals [are] concerned, we are advancing well, including with S-400 supplies. If relevant decisions to start work related to Ka-226 helicopters and AK-203 rifles production are expedited, soon we will see good progress, which is especially important due to deep interests expressed by the Indian armed forces,” Kudashev said. India and Russia signed a $5.4-billion deal for five S-400 systems in October 2018, and the first batch is expected to be delivered by the end of 2021. All deliveries will be completed in a five-year period. Asked specifically about the threat of US secondary sanctions against India under CAATSA, Kudashev said Russia, like India, doesn’t recognise sanctions other than those imposed by the UN Security Council. Roman Babushkin, chargé d’affaires at the Russian embassy, described US secondary sanctions on arms purchases from Russia as “illegal tools of unfair competition and pressure”. Kudashev said both Russia and India were disciplined members of the international arms control regimes and their bilateral military-technical cooperation will not introduce “any threat to the regional balance”. “As far as sanctions are concerned, it’s hard to predict and let the Biden administration first announce publicly its plans and foreign policy vision. We do not recognise or welcome unilateral sanctions as a tool...of inter-state or international relations, sanctions other than those applied by the UN Security Council, this is also the case of Turkey,” he said. “As far as India is concerned, we share the same platform. India’s position is crystal clear – no sanctions are acknowledged other than those applied by the UN Security Council. Whatever the future is, we believe that our ties will stand the coming challenges,” he added. Kudashev said the “unparalleled defence cooperation” between India and Russia was based on “real exchange of technologies and joint ventures, helps India to advance local production and expand its military export potential”. The two sides are working on co-development and co-production of equipment, components and spare parts, improving the after sales service system and deepening localisation programmes. Russia is also looking forward to participating in Aero-India 2021, where it will showcase the Su-57, Su-35 and MiG-35 combat jets, Ka-52, Ka-226, Mi-17B-5 and Mi-26 helicopters, and the S-400 and Buk missile systems. “We are ready to share almost everything we have, doubly so since the “Make in India” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives and the emergence of the military-technical economic corridors in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh create especially favourable conditions. There are no obstacles to our cooperation,” Kudashev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-us-sanctions-threat-s-400-deal-advancing-well/story-LsDbYrG8l1htstXJXH6YmK.html
22-12-2020||India||Maharashtra orders night curfew for 15 days, quarantine for travellers from abroad||The Uddhav Thackeray government has decided to impose a seven-hour night curfew in cities across Maharashtra from Tuesday for the next 15 days and order travellers from abroad to quarantine themselves. The curfew will be effective in all municipal corporation areas across the state between 11 pm and 6 am till January 5.Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, however, asserted that the night curfew did not imply that people couldn’t step out at all. “There is a difference between a night curfew and a lockdown. While in a lockdown, individuals cannot step out of their homes. In a curfew, more than 5 people cannot assemble outside during the specified hours. So, offices that function overnight or something like dairy transportation can still operate. Taxis, cars and auto rickshaws will also run just like before,” he said.ALSO WATCH | Covid update: Oxford vaccine shows 70% efficacy; Maharashtra’s travel curb Chahal added that the curfew was being imposed due to violations of social distancing norms. “Even on Sunday night, our teams visited some nightclubs and found violations. This is why the decision of night curfew had to be taken. This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated,” he said.The Maharashtra government has also decided to keep all travellers from European and Middle-Eastern countries in institutional quarantine for 14 days. People landing at the state’s airports from other countries will be asked to home quarantine themselves, the state government said.Travelers coming from European and Middle-East countries should be kept at institutional quarantine facilities. Their RT-PCR tests should be conducted on the 5th or 7th day and they will be allowed to go home after completion of the quarantine period.“Municipal commissioners have been directed to develop institutional quarantine facilities at hotels or by developing temporary facilities close to airports,” the chief minister said.The decision was taken in a high level meeting called by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday, a precautionary measure considering the new variant of the Sar-CoV-2 found in Britain that is believed to spread faster than the previous strains. Thackeray said the government and people had to be vigilant for the next 15 days.“A total of five flights are arriving from the United Kingdom by tomorrow night when the Centre’s order to suspend UK flights will come into force. Nearly 1,000 passengers arriving in these flights will be quarantined in hotels. We have arranged 2,000 rooms (1,000 rooms in luxury hotels and 1,000 rooms in budgeted hotels) in hotels across the city. BEST buses will be used to transport them to the hotels,” Chahal said.“If any of the passengers are found to be symptomatic, they will be directly shifted from the airport to GT hospital where beds have already been reserved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-orders-night-curfew-for-15-days-quarantine-for-travellers-from-abroad/story-azpo1rM37Ma9PHoD516SYM.html
22-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: Protesting farmers to meet farmers supporting new laws||Farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws entered day 26 on Monday as the impasse between the government and farmers’ unions continues.The Centre on Sunday invited farmers’ unions to join discussion with the government again and asked them to fix the date of the meeting at Vigyan Bhavan according to their convenience.Intensifying their protest against the Centre’s contentious agricultural reform laws, the farmers on Sunday said that they would observe a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday at all protest sites and halt toll collection on highways in Haryana from December 25 to 27. Before that, the protesters will celebrate Kisan Diwas on December 23. Addressing a press conference, Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said farmers would observe a day-long relay hunger strike on Monday. He also said that the protesters are being harassed by the Haryana government. “Protesters are being threatened by the Haryana government. This is against the direction of the Supreme Court. I urge them to stop harassing farmers from tomorrow,” Yadav said. Union minister VK Singh said on Sunday that the ongoing protests were “more political” in nature. He claimed that “actual farmers are very happy with what has been done in last six months.”Various organisations associated with the farmers’ agitation observed ‘Farmer Martyrs Homage Day’ on Sunday in the memory of farmers who died since the agitation began. 33 farmers who had been participating in the struggle have died since 26th November, according to the AIKS. Follow all live updates here:Farmers accuse Centre of neglecting their interestsFarmers protesting on Jaipur- Delhi highway accused the Centre of not paying heed to their demands despite the new laws possessing a threat to their livelihoods. The Jaipur-Delhi highway has been partially blocked by ongoing protests against the new farm laws, reported PTI. Protesting farmer attempts suicide near Singhu borderA 65 year old farmer from Punjab protesting at the Delhi-Singhu border tried to commit suicide on Monday. He was admitted to Rohtak’s PGIMS hospital and is said to be in a stable condition. Nirajnan Singh, who hails from Taran Taran, is said to have written a suicide note which is now being probed by the police, reported PTI.Protesting farmers at Singhu border line up for blood donationProtesting farmers on Monday lined up to donate blood in a donation camp organized by Rehras Sewa Society, a Ludhiana based NGO. More than 240 farmers had donated blood since the camp was started in Sunday, reported news agency PTI.Bhartiya Kisan Union protests against PM Narendra Modi in BathindaThe Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) took to protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the District administration Complex in Bathinda .The farmers’ body was protesting against the new farm laws brought by the Centre. Farmers group in UP starts relay against new farm laws A group of 11 farmers led by District Panchayat member Bablu Kalia started an indefinite relay hunger strike in Bindki area on Sunday, reported news agency PTI. Kalia told the news agency that the farmers will continue their protest till the new farm laws are completely withdrawn. Protesting farmers to meet farmers supporting new lawsWe’ll go and meet those farmers’ groups who’re supporting the Centre on three Farm laws. We’ll take information from them about how they’re benefitting from Farm law and will learn the technology, which they’re using to sell their crops: Rakesh Tikait, Spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union, reports ANI.Farmers continue protest at Burari’s Nirankari Samagam ground, Tikri borderFarmers continue to protest against the new farm laws at Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari and Tikri border demanding the withdrawal of the laws, reports PTI. Farmers to start relay hunger strike from todayFarmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders on Sunday, decided to step up pressure on the government to repeal the new farm laws and announced a relay hunger strike at all the protest sites from Monday onwards, while asking agitators from across the country to join them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-farmers-to-start-relay-hunger-strike-from-today-to-mount-pressure-on-govt/story-N90Dj6E4kHG5Az8LwMZLMK.html
