23-12-2020||India||Bengal BJP issues show-cause notices to key state leaders for ‘anti-party’ remarks||Two important state-level leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bengal unit and two district leaders have been served show-cause notices by the party for violating discipline and making “derogatory and anti-party statements” before the media last week. Their offence can lead to summary expulsion, said the notice. The leaders have been asked to reply within a week. The accused leaders include BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu and president of the state Mahila Morcha (women’s front) Agnimitra Paul. Though the notice dated December 22 does not say what statements were made, leaders in the party as well as those who have been accused told HT that they publicly opposed induction of certain leaders from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) at the West Midnapore district rally of Union home minister Amit Shah on December 19. The most prominent among the defectors is Suvendu Adhikari who resigned from the cabinet last month. Paul and Basu, for example, said on December 18 that they did not want Jitendra Tiwari, the TMC legislator from Pandabeswar in West Burdwan district and the outgoing mayor of Asansol town to join the BJP. Incidentally, Union minister of state Babul Supriyo, the Lok Sabha MP from Asansol, also expressed his reservations about Tiwari. The BJP distanced itself from Supriyo’s statement. Tiwari, however, backed out at the last minute and returned to the ruling party on the night of December 18 even after resigning from all posts. Before making the U-turn he even attended a closed-door meeting with Adhikari and the other dissidents. “As per Article 25D of the constitution of the BJP such action should result in your immediate expulsion,” says the letter sent to Basu, Paul, president of the Alipurduar district unit, Ganga Prashad Sharma and president of the Nagrakata area unit in Jalpaiguri district, Santosh Hati. Adhikari and six other TMC legislators, a TMC Lok Sabha member, three MLAs from the Left and Congress and at least 20 other district-level leaders of the ruling party joined the BJP at Shah’s rally in Midnapore town. This marked the biggest defection of elected TMC leaders in the run-up to the assembly polls due in about five months. “Nobody is above the discipline of the party. They have been warned and asked to reply to the notice,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. Induction of workers and leaders from the TMC is a bone of contention in BJP units in several districts and there have been unruly incidents in the recent past. Ghosh, however, argued that there is rivalry between old BJP members and those who joined recently. “Paul is not an old member. She joined the BJP less than two years ago. These theories are baseless,” said Ghosh. On Wednesday, Lakshmi Soren, a BJP leader from Gazole in Malda district, resigned from the party and joined the TMC in protest against the induction of the TMC’s Gazole legislator Dipali Biswas. Biswas won the seat in 2016 as a CPI (M) candidate but later joined the TMC. She is still a sitting legislator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-issues-show-cause-notices-to-key-state-leaders-for-anti-party-remarks/story-jApS3Thuxvv1JKqg4ViaNM.html
23-12-2020||India||AIMPLB members, Sunni Central Waqf Board officials spat over legality of Ayodhya’s upcoming mosque||With two AIMPLB members terming the proposed construction of a grand mosque in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village as against the Waqf Act and Shariat laws, the Sunni Central Waqf Board on Wednesday asserted that the upcoming shrine is perfectly legal. All India Muslim Personal Law Board member Zafaryab Jilani on Wednesday said the proposed mosque in Ayodhya following last year’s Supreme Court verdict is against the Waqf Act and “illegal” under the Shariat laws. “According to the Waqf Act, mosques or land of mosques cannot be bartered. The proposed mosque in Ayodhya violates this Act. It violates the Shariat law as the Waqf Act is based on the Shariat,” said Jilani, who was also the convenor of the Babri Masjid Action Committee. Countering Jilani’s allegation that the land for the upcoming mosque in Dhannipur village was given to Muslims in exchange of the Ram Janmabhoomi site in Ayodhya, Sunni Central Waqf Board (SCWB) chairman Zufar Farooqi told PTI that it is not a bartered piece of land. He pointed out that the land in Dhannipur village was allotted to the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board in pursuance of the Supreme Court order and to take its possession the Waqf Board had to pay stamp duty. “The Waqf Board has paid a stamp duty of Rs 9,29,400 to take possession of this land,” he said. He also said “the land is the property of the Waqf Board but it itself is not a ‘Waqf”. Elaborating the concepts of Waqf and Waqf Board, the SCBA chairman said Waqf comprises a property denoted in name of Allah by a believer in Islam working for charitable purposes. Thus only a believer of Islam can create Waqf, he said, adding Waqf Board is not an individual and it cannot create any Waqf on its own. “The Supreme Court has not accepted Babri Masjid as Waqf, if it had accepted the land as Waqf, we would have won the case but the court clearly said the donation is not valid,” Farooqi said. He added that five acres of land given to the Waqf Board is not in the lieu of the Babri Masjid land but as a “restitution” or relief by the apex court. “There is no shifting of the then Babri Masjid as the Babri Masjid premises was given to Hindu party by the Supreme Court order last year. The Dhannipur land was given in ownership to Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board by same apex court order and it is not a Waqf land,” he explained. Farooqi is also the chairman of the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) which had unveiled in its Lucknow office on Saturday the blueprint of the mosque and a hospital to be built on a five-acre plot of land in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village. Athar Hussain, the secretary of a trust formed to build the mosque in Ayodhya, however, refuted Jillani’s allegations, asserting that everyone interprets the Shariat in his own way. When the land has been allotted under the directive of the Supreme Court, it cannot be illegal, he said. “The power for interpretation of Shariya does not lie in the hands of some limited people. The mosque is the place for offering namaz. So what is wrong if we are building a mosque?” asked Hussain. Countering Jilani’s allegations, Hussain also accused him of spreading misinformation. “Jilani Sahab is such a competent lawyer. If we are violating any Act like the Central Waqf Act, why does he not challenge it in a court of law and get our supposedly illegal acts stopped?” he asked. “If he is not doing so, he is simply spreading misinformation and doing what is against the Shariat and teachings of Quran,” he asserted. Another executive member of AIMPLB SQR Ilyas too earlier termed the upcoming mosque as only of symbolic value, while accusing the Sunni Central Waqf Board of working under the government pressure. “We have rejected the proposal to accept the land for the mosque at any other place. We lost the title suit and so we don’t need land for a mosque,” he said. “The Muslims have rejected this land at Dhannipur given in compensation. The mosque being built by the trust constituted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board is just a symbolic one,” he said. The issue was first raised by MP Asaduddin Owaisi at a meeting of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s executive committee held on October 13. All the members were of the view that the exchange of land for the mosque was not permissible under the Waqf Act and in turn “illegal” under the Shariat law. The Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid disputed structure was demolished in December 1992 by “kar sevaks” who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built by demolishing an ancient Ram temple. After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. On the directive of the apex court, the Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aimplb-members-sunni-central-waqf-board-officials-spat-over-legality-of-ayodhya-s-upcoming-mosque/story-3WPcOYzYmcvZOvolzheS6L.html
23-12-2020||India||SC students to get scholarship money directly||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday decided to give a big push to efforts to ensure that Scheduled Caste (SC) students receive ample opportunity to pursue higher education by increasing the budget of a key scholarship scheme fivefold.The Centre also decided that the scheme would be made simpler and funds would be put directly into students’ bank accounts.Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thaawar Chand Gehlot said the Centre’s share of the cost of the scheme vis-a-vis that of the states had also been increased. The Centre will pay 60% of the scholarship amount while the states would bear 40% of the cost, he said at a press conference. According to a person aware of the developments, the Centre’s contribution at present is around 11% under a committed liability scheme.The CCEA has approved major and transformatory changes in the centrally sponsored Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for students belonging to Scheduled Castes to benefit at least 40 million SC students in the next five years so that they can successfully complete their higher education, an official statement said.“Today’s Cabinet decision on post-matric scholarship will ensure greater educational access to youngsters belonging to SC communities. Ensuring top quality and affordable education to our youth is an important focus area for our Government,” PM Modi tweeted.The Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for Scheduled Castes allows students to pursue any post-matric course starting from Class 11 and onwards.The cabinet has approved a total investment of Rs 59,048 crore, of which the Centre would contribute Rs 35, 534 crore, or 60%, with the states providing the rest. The central assistance was around Rs 1,100 crore annually during 2017-18 to 2019-20.The central government is committed to giving a big push to this effort so that the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education of SC students would reach the national standard within five years, the statement said. The GER ratio for SC students is around 20% while the national average is 27%.The focus of the scheme would be on enrolling the poorest students, timely payments, comprehensive accountability, continuous monitoring and total transparency. A campaign will be launched to enrol the students, from the poorest households passing the 10th standard in the higher education courses of their choice, it added.According to government estimates, 13.6 million students currently not pursuing higher education would be able to do so in the next five years because of the revamped scheme.The scheme will be run on an online platform with robust cyber security measures that would assure transparency, accountability, efficiency, and timely delivery of the assistance without any delays, the statement said.Social justice secretary R Subrahmanyam said nearly two-thirds of SC students in higher education will benefit from the scheme.Social activist Beena Pallical said the support is a lifeline for students from weaker sections. “We really welcome the move to strengthen the scheme and increase the funds and making the scheme robust,” she said.Eminent educationists and former UGC member Inder Mohan Kapahy said: “If the target of 50% GER envisaged in NEP 2020 is to be achieved, huge investments shall be required to encourage socially backward classes for higher education. At present, the GER is around 27%, and for SCs and STs, it is 20% & 15%, respectively. The Union government increasing the budget for Post Matric scholarships over 550% shall certainly help.”Merger of film media unitsThe Union Cabinet approved the merger of four government film media units with the NFDC with an aim of converging activities and resources and better coordination to ensure synergy and efficiency in achieving the mandate of the bodies.An official statement said the Films Division, the Directorate of Film Festivals, the National Film Archives of India and the Children’s Film Society, India will be merged with the National Film Development Corporation Limited by expanding the memorandum of articles of association of the NFDC, which will then carry out all the activities performed by the four organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-students-to-get-scholarship-directly-in-accounts/story-dhe7an6lODDfIxfSdRlJFO.html
23-12-2020||India||First tigress tranquilized, radio-collared for translocation to Rajaji Tiger Reserve||After years of waiting, the Uttarakhand forest department on Wednesday tranquilized the first tigress in the state in the Corbett landscape, for translocating it to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department said, “The first tigress in Uttarakhand was tranquilized in the buffer area of Corbett Tiger Reserve on Wednesday. The tigress will be shifted to Rajaji Tiger Reserve on Thursday as part of the project to increase the density of the big cat there.” The project for translocation of tigers to the western part of Rajaji was approved by the central government in 2016. Last September, a team from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) visited Rajaji to conduct reconnaissance for the translocation exercise and had suggested a soft release of a pair of tigers in the reserve’s western side. In a soft release, tigers are released in a large enclosed area where they are kept for a few days to check if the animals have any diseases before being completely released in the wild. A total of five tigers, including two females, will be translocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve. . Rajaji Tiger Reserve at present has around 37 tigers with only two tigresses in its western part, which is spread over 570 sq km. The reserve has a carrying capacity of 83 tigers, revealed a recent survey conducted by the state forest department. The eastern and the western part of the reserve are divided by a busy traffic corridor making it difficult for the tigers to migrate between the two parts. On Wednesday, director of Corbett wrote to the Garhwal Motor Owners Union Limited stating conditions ahead of starting a bus service between Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar. Rahul, director of Corbett Tiger Reserve, who uses his first name, in the letter, wrote that this bus service will continue till further orders with only one-way traffic on any single day. The conditions further state that buses will not run during heavy monsoon, fare will be charged only at Pakhro and Dhela gates, from the point of view of wildlife conservation two forest officers will be allowed to travel daily free of cost. The bus will not be allowed to ply before sunrise and after sunset. During forest fire season, bus drivers will be held responsible if any passenger throws any combustible item outside the bus like match sticks and that bus staff will help the forest department by reporting about fire incidents. The bus will not stop anywhere while crossing the tiger reserve area and no one will be allowed to de-board. The conditions also state that wildlife will have the first right to cross roads and if they are hurt in the process then action will be taken under relevant sections of the Wildlife (Protection) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-tigress-tranquilized-radio-collared-for-translocation-to-rajaji-tiger-reserve/story-jaikhRF3heNudusv6xBP0L.html
23-12-2020||India||Jharkhand government to waive farm loans up to Rs 50,000||The Jharkhand government in a cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to waive all agriculture and farm loans up to Rs 50,000, benefiting about 9.07 lakh farmers in the state. The government has got Rs 2,000 crore budgetary sanction for the move in the current fiscal.Detailing the move, cabinet secretary Ajoy Kumar said those farmers who have paid at least one EMI in the loan tenure period will be eligible.The farmers will have to submit their ration card and Aadhar numbers linked to banks to which the loan amount will be transferred under direct benefit transfer upon completion of KYC in concerned bank branch and verification on mobile phone.The farmers have to provide their mobile number and Re 1 token money with the application.The cabinet also approved ‘fasal rahat yojana’ aimed at providing relief to the farmers who have faced crop loss and ‘pasudhan yojana’ meant for improving upon income of the families involved in cattle farming.The government decided to do away with the insurance companies on verification of complaints regarding poor payment of compensations against premiums collected. Instead, the government would compensate the farmers for crop loss under fasal rahat yojana. Rs 100 crore has been earmarked for the purpose in 2020-21.Approval was given to a scholarship scheme for aspirants belonging to ST communities and willing to pursue masters from universities in the United Kingdom. The name of the varieties and courses too got the nod.The cabinet secretary said the scholarship will cover annual tuition fees and a maximum of 10,000 pound/sterling against maintenance, besides VISA and cost of air passage and local travel.Approval was also given to lac farm management and production. Ajoy Kumar said it would increase annual income of about 12 lakh farmers by about Rs 5,200 per annum. Fourteen forest farms have been identified.The decks were cleared for providing micronutrient fortified and energy food to the children in the age group of 6 to 36 months (general) and 6 to 72 months (malnourished) besides expecting mothers through 38,432 anganwadis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-government-to-waive-farm-loans-up-to-rs-50-000/story-19dFAKyUouRqyq1Cyw6MMO.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Judges’ hallmark to become keener on justice, not merely on law’: CJI||Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde on Wednesday said every great institution and judges’ hallmark is to become keener on Justice and not merely on law. CJI Bobde inaugurated an e-Sewa Kendra at the High Court of Tripura this afternoon and said telecommunication technology has revolutionized people’s access to justice delivery system from courts.The Supreme Court came up with the e-Sewa Kendra concept under its project on e-courts. These kendras have been useful during the Covid-19 pandemic for people to access justice delivery system as the lower courts were shut down during the period. These centres are located at the entry gate of courts and other legal institutions. Praising Tripura for its role in accomodating people who came from erstwhile East Pakistan in 1971, and for giving talents like Sachin Dev Burman, Rahul Dev Burman, the chief justice of India said that though the state is lacking in resources, history of the state show that resources are not primary part in human life. Citing Archbishop of Canterbury William Temple, the CJI said the Archbishop used to visit lawyers in courts and said he wasn’t knowledgeable about the law, as he was more invested in justice.Also read: Summit called off due to Covid, mutually agreed, underline India, RussiaOn a similar note, CJI Bobde appealed judges to become more driven towards justice and said, “It’s the hallmark of every great institution and judges that they are keener on justice and not merely on law”.Saying that the e-kendra could make justice ‘technology-dependent’, he said that e-Sewa kendras strive to eliminate these problems and make courts more accessible for common people. Referring to an ancient British adage about legal aid services, the CJI said accessing justice was perceived similar to entering a rich hotel, which was open to all but not accessible for service. “It is this meaninglessness of such words which the e-kendra seeks to eliminate and to alleviate the problems,” he said, adding that these technological access points would henceforth bring legal aid closer to people, especially from humble backgrounds. Among dignitaries who joined the event today, Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court Akil Kureshi, Justice Subhashish Talapatra, Justice SG Chatterjee, Odisha Lokayukta Justice Ajit Singh, and others were seen sharing the dais.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-hallmark-to-become-keener-on-justice-not-merely-on-law-cji/story-qPVRr0spZrARErrfrsQrUP.html
23-12-2020||India||Congress demands Karnataka CM’s resignation over corruption allegations||The Congress on Wednesday demanded the removal of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa over the allegations of corruption against him. Addressing a virtual news conference, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the Karnataka High Court judgment had rejected CM yediyurappa’s plea to quash FIRs filed against him over an alleged illegal de-notification of land in Bellandur area of Bengaluru city. “Karnataka and corruption go hand in hand. The silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda is mysterious,” he said. “The arch of immunity accorded to Yediyurappa is shocking,” Singhvi said. “We demand his resignation or he should be removed by the Governor. The BJP should free him from all the posts,” he added. On October 11, he said the Congress had given the example of contractors and people talking of corruption in the matter of an apartment. The Karnataka High Court, in its 20-page judgment, said the case against the chief minister cannot be quashed, added Singhvi. “But do you feel that any action will be taken against him? No. Because the BJP ruling at the Centre and in the state is indulging in politics of shamelessness,” Singhvi said. “Don’t listen to us, but don’t give homilies on corruption to the whole world and keep eloquently silent at all levels when Yediyurappa and Karnataka and corruption intersect and come to the public domain. Have some shame, some political shame and do not practice the politics of deception by providing a special constitutional arc of immunity to your chief minister,” he said. Singhvi urged the Prime Minister to take action against Yediyurappa. “The whole country is waiting for the Prime Minister to perform his Rajdharma, his constitutional dharma. We will not hesitate to keep on reminding him of his constitutional dharma,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-karnataka-cm-s-resignation-over-corruption-allegations/story-Tas7HRMC4Elg7X2AHkPv9H.html
23-12-2020||India||BTP withdraws support from ruling Congress govt in Rajasthan||The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) which has two MLAs in the Rajasthan assembly, on Wednesday, announced the withdrawal of support to the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state.The BTP, which supported Gehlot during the political crisis and Rajya Sabha polls earlier this year, was miffed with the ruling party as it chose BJP over it in Zila Pramukh elections in Dungarpur. BTP state president Velaram Ghoghra said, “We supported the ruling government during the political crisis and Rajya Sabha polls but they betrayed us in the Zila Pramukh elections. Congress joined hands with BJP to prevent BTP from forming the board in Dungarpur Zila Parishad; therefore, we have announced the withdrawal of support.” He said during the crisis, a 17-point memorandum was submitted but despite the assurances, it was not fulfilled. The Congress MLA levelled allegations of acceptance of a bribe of Rs 10 crore by BTP MLAs to defame them.He also alleged that the Congress party’s local leadership neglected the party. Ghoghra said that intimation about withdrawing support had been forwarded to the Governor, Chief Minister and assembly speaker. In the 200-member Rajasthan assembly, Congress has 105 MLAs, BJP-71, RLP-3, CPI (M)-2, BTP-2, RLD-1, and 13 legislators are independents and 3 seats are vacant. Commenting on the development, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the entire incident of BTP will be analysed and if there is any misunderstanding it will be cleared. “We believe in giving respect to all and everyone will be taken together for the development of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/btp-withdraws-support-from-ruling-congress-govt-in-rajasthan/story-hFuvXEosQBIsOV1ZuvNy2N.html
23-12-2020||India||Cold wave conditions prevail in most parts of north India||Cold and foggy weather conditions prevailed in parts of north India on Wednesday with most of Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh reeling under sub-zero temperatures. Dense fog occurred at a few places over Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Bihar.Odisha continued to reel under cold wave for the third day while the minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to four degrees Celsius. In Kashmir, cold conditions intensified with most parts of the valley witnessing a dip in their minimum temperatures. The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since it snowed on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, a Meteorological Department official said.The weather department has forecast that the cold and dry weather would continue till December 25. . The Valley reeled under sub-zero night temperatures as well, even though there was a slight improvement in the mercury at most places.Srinagar - the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir - recorded a low of minus 5 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night’s minus 5.2 degrees Celsius.Some parts of Delhi were shrouded by fog. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of four degrees Celsius, which was four notches below normal. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded a low of 3.7 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.The Safdarjung observatory had recorded a minimum of 3.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest this season so far.The minimum temperature had increased slightly on Monday and Tuesday under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting the upper reaches of the Himalayas. In Himachal Pradesh, the tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 7.7 degrees Celsius. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 0.6 degrees Celsius, while Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of 1.2, 3.7 and 4.1 degrees Celsius, respectively. The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded as 6 degrees Celsius. Cold conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab, with the minimum temperature hovering below normal limits.Hisar in Haryana braved the chill recording a low of 2.7 degrees Celsius while Adampur and Ludhiana in Punjab also reeled under biting cold recording respective minimums of 2.5 degrees Celsius and 2.8 degrees Celsius.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Patiala, Faridkot, Halwara and Bathinda also experienced a cold night recording respective minimum temperatures of 3.4 degrees Celsius, 4.6 degrees Celsius, 4.1 degrees Celsius, 4.3 degrees Celsius and 5.2 degrees Celsius.In Rajasthan, Sikar was recorded as the coldest place with a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius. Sikar was followed by Pilani, where the night temperature was recorded at 4.4 degrees Celsius.Odisha’s Phulbani in Kandhamal district registered a low of 4 degrees Celsius, making it the coldest place in the state.Cold wave is likely to prevail at one or two places in 11 districts in the next 24 hours.The mercury in picturesque Daringbadi in the Mountainous Kandhamal district also dropped to 5 degrees Celsius.Light frost was reported from both Phulbani and Daringbadi on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-prevail-in-most-parts-of-north-india/story-CnBsp11YH0h0wS3ezsgRbM.html
23-12-2020||India||Folk singer who hosted Amit Shah’s lunch in Bengal caught in BJP-TMC tug of war||Days after Union home minster Amit Shah had lunch at his humble home at Bolpur in Bengal’s Birbhum district, folk singer Basudeb Das Baul has been caught in a tug of war between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Shah, who was on a two-day tour of Bengal, took a chopper ride to Bolpur on December 20 to visit Visva Bharati, the state’s only Central university set up by Rabindranath Tagore and also lead a BJP rally. In between, the two programmes, Shah had home-cooked lunch at the singer’s home and also enjoyed his music. On Tuesday evening, Das was spotted at the office of the TMC district president Anubrata Mondal. Das complained before the local media that he was not given an opportunity to talk to Shah and seek a job or higher education facilities for his daughter. “After Shah left, nobody from the BJP bothered to talk to me although they came to me with the request to host the lunch. I did all the shopping. They only bought the sweets served that day,” said Das. “I am under no pressure from the TMC. I came to Mondal voluntarily,” he added. “I have told the education cell of our party to ensure that the singer’s daughter gets admission to the bachelor of education course. Shah’s visit to his home was nothing but a drama,” said Mondal. The BJP jumped into the fray without wasting time. Anupam Hazra, who was the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Bolpur before joining the BJP in 2019, posted a note on social media along with his photograph with Das. “How come nobody bothered to inquire about this family in 10 years? After Shah visited their home, everybody is suddenly showing concern,” said Hazra who accompanied Shah on Sunday. Das is the third person in Bengal who got caught in political crossfire for playing host to Shah. On November 5, Shah had lunch at the home of Bibhishan Hansda, a member of the tribal community at Chaturdihi village in Bankura district. “Had amazing Bengali food at Shri Vivishan Hansda ji’s home in Chaturdihi village. No words can express their warmth and hospitality,” Shah tweeted. A day later, chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged in public that the food was cooked by a Brahmin brought from outside. She also alleged during the same speech that the food was brought from a “five-star hotel”. Leaders from the TMC and the BJP, as well as officers from the district administration, called on Hansda with the offer to get the best treatment for his teenage daughter Rachana who is suffering from diabetes. TMC leaders also claimed that Hansda, a marginal farmer, had always been a party supporter but the tribal man claimed to be an apolitical person with no connection with either of the parties. “I am not part of any organization. If anyone takes pity and offers to help I will accept it but it should not be part of politics,” Hansda said last month. TMC’s top leaders even accused Shah of playing caste politics. “Reality behind @AmitShah Ji’s token meals - he used ST Community & the concerned family as political tool & didn’t even bother to speak to them for a moment. Mr Home Minister, did you come here only for a photo-op? #BengalAsksAmitShah,” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee, TMC Lok Sabha MP and nephew of Mamata Banerjee. Significantly, when Shah was having lunch at Hansda’s home, the TMC government made a surprise move at Naxalbari in Darjeeling district. Gita Mahali, the poor tribal woman who played host to Shah and cooked lunch for him during a similar visit in April 2017, was appointed as special home guard at Naxalbari police station. She was given an appointment letter. Ranjan Sarkar, the TMC district president said the government came forward as the BJP did nothing for the Mahalis in three years. The chief minister also announced that the government will form separate organizations to look after the welfare of backward caste communities. Referring to Shah’s visit to the folk singer’s home in Bolpur, education minister Partha Chatterjee on Wednesday said, “Shah heard his song but did not listen to his maan ki baat. Only Mamata Banerjee is concerned about the people of Bengal,” said Chatterjee. Maan Ki Baat (spoken from the heart) is a popular radio show through which Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the nation. The folk singer said he will be present at the TMC roadshow that the chief minister will lead in Bolpur town on December 29. It will start from the Dakbungalow Road intersection from where Shah’s roadshow was flagged off on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/folk-singer-who-hosted-amit-shah-s-lunch-in-bengal-caught-in-bjp-tmc-tug-of-war/story-5bVe2UItb8WxFj1Xlb4ybL.html
23-12-2020||India||These states have imposed night curfew and other measures to check Covid-19 spread||After a new strain of coronavirus was discovered in the United Kingdom, countries all over the world started imposing travel restrictions. Some Indian states took an added precaution by announcing a night curfew. With Christmas and New Year coming up, these states have taken this extra precaution to ensure social distancing norms are followed and the spread of Covid-19 remains checked. Maharashtra was one of the first states to impose a night curfew once the new strain was discovered. Iqbal Singh Chahal, the commissioner of Mumbai’s civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “This is not a normal new year which is why we cannot have normal celebrations. The curfew is being imposed to ensure that such violations are not repeated”. Chahal further explained the difference between a total lockdown and a night curfew: “While in a lockdown, individuals cannot step out of their homes, in a curfew, more than 5 people cannot assemble outside during the specified hours. So, offices that function overnight or something like dairy transportation can still operate. Taxis, cars and auto-rickshaws will also run just like before.”The states where night curfew is being strictly imposed includes:-Karnataka: The state government in Karnataka amended the night curfew timings in the state on Wednesday. The revised curfew will now be imposed from Thursday till January 1 from 11 pm-5 am, the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. Movement of people is prohibited unless for essential activities. Earlier in the day, chief minister B S Yediyurappa had announced that the curfew would be imposed from Wednesday night till January 2 adding that all activities would go on as usual from 6am-10pm but cautioning against venturing out after 10 pm.Maharashtra: The Maharashtra government has imposed a seven-hour night curfew for 15 days from December 22 to January 5, in all major cities between 11 pm and 6 am to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. However, offices, taxis, private cars, and auto-rickshaws are allowed to operate in the night following the existing norms. Gujarat: Ahmedabad administration had imposed night curfew in the city from 9 pm to 6 am in November until further notice. Ahmedabad is the only city in Gujarat where such a curfew has been imposed, amid a sudden spike in new cases during the festive season. Ahmedabad’s night curfew is the only one not imposed in response to the new strain of coronavirus. Himachal Pradesh: The Jai Ram Thakur government has decided to impose night curfew in Shimla, Mandi, Kangra and Kullu districts. The curbs will remain in place from 10 pm to 6 am till January 5, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said. The state government had decided to impose night curfew from November 23.Punjab: Chief minister Amarinder Singh on December 11 ordered an extension of the night curfew imposed in all cities and towns till January 1, 2021. Additional restrictions were imposed on gatherings, a total of 100 people can get together for indoor festivities and 250 individuals for outdoor ones, during non-curfew hours in the state. The government had earlier imposed a night curfew from December 1 to December 15.Manipur: The Manipur government has imposed a night curfew in the state from 6pm to 4am starting from the end of November till the end of this year to control the spread of coronavirus. The government has also restricted ceremonial gatherings to 20 people or less.Rajasthan: The Rajasthan government on Wednesday imposed a night curfew on December 31 in all cities with a population of over one lakh, reported PTI. Restrictions will remain in place from 8 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1, bursting of fire crackers on New Year’s eve have also been banned by the government. Markets were also ordered to close by 7 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-list-of-states-that-have-imposed-night-curfew/story-fw3CttJdu4RyBaqYaDHATP.html
23-12-2020||India||Summit called off due to Covid, mutually agreed, underline India, Russia||India and Russia on Wednesday dismissed a report that their annual summit wasn’t held this year for the first time in two decades because of purported differences over the Indo-Pacific and Quad, with both sides saying the meet was called off due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov created a buzz in diplomatic circles by saying recently that Western powers were using an “aggressive and devious” policy to engage India “in anti-China games by promoting Indo-Pacific strategies”. Russian diplomats subsequently clarified that Moscow understands India’s inclusive vision of the Indo-Pacific based on international law, but has concerns about the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – a grouping that brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US – since it could jeopardise regional cooperation. Responding to the report on the purported reason for the India-Russia Summit not being held this year, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a brief statement: “The India-Russia Annual Summit did not take place in 2020 because of the Covid pandemic. This was a mutually agreed decision between the two governments. “Any imputation otherwise is false and misleading. Spreading false stories on important relationships is particularly irresponsible.” A statement issued by the Russian embassy quoted ambassador Nikolay Kudashev as saying that the summit was postponed “due to epidemiological reasons”. The envoy described the report as “far from reality” and said the “special and privileged strategic partnership” with India is “progressing well despite Covid-19”. “Staying in close touch with our Indian friends to work out new dates for the summit, postponed due to epidemiological reasons. We are confident that it will be held in the near future, while Russian-Indian relations will continue its further development,” Kudashev said. During a media briefing on Monday, Kudashev had said the pandemic “did not stop our bilateral engagements, although it eventually affected the schedule of our contacts, including the annual bilateral summit”. The envoy had said Russia now expects the summit “to be held in 2021 along with other important high-level events, including civil and defence inter-governmental commissions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/summit-called-off-due-to-covid-mutually-agreed-underline-india-russia/story-jMFrODfhHH8KNIZeNzKCaP.html
23-12-2020||India||Centre should listen to the voice of people of J-K: Omar Abdullah||The Centre should listen to the people’s voice against the abrogation of Article 370 since it has itself termed the DDC polls as a victory of democracy, National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Wednesday. Addressing party workers at NC headquarters Nawa-i-Subah, he said the people have made clear their view by supporting the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in the District Development Council polls.The NC leader also said he does not foresee assembly elections in the union territory anytime soon because of the poll results. The seven-party PAGD swept the maiden DDC polls by winning 110 seats out of 276 for which results were declared, while the BJP emerged as the single largest party by getting 74 seats after securing the biggest vote share in Jammu and Kashmir.“If you really say that democracy has won, then you will have to listen to the voices of the people, and the people of Jammu and Kashmir have said it with a huge majority that they do not accept (the decisions of) August 5, 2019,” Abdullah said.The Centre abrogated Article 370 – which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir – and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories on August 5 last year. “We also accept it (that democracy has won). When did we say that we do not trust democracy? It is another thing that you do not trust us. We have been saying this from day one that we will fight for our rights but not unlawfully or unconstitutionally. We are not for disturbing the atmosphere in this state, but to make it better,” Abdullah said.Omar said the results of the DDC elections have proved that the BJP will not be able to “bury” the NC. “The next elections in J-K are very far because of the defeat of the BJP in this election. I do not think they will have the assembly elections here anytime sooner. If they believed in democracy, they would have sounded the bugle of the assembly elections,” he said.Referring to the alliance with other mainstream parties for seeking the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state, Abdullah said the PAGD was formed in “very difficult” circumstances and “its aim was not power”.He said the party rendered many sacrifices for the alliance and many of his colleagues were not happy with the seat-sharing arrangement.“We could have many more seats had we not contested in the alliance. But, for achieving a bigger goal, small or big sacrifices have to be made… It was our duty to keep aside our differences and to come on a single platform for our identity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-should-listen-to-the-voice-of-people-of-j-k-omar-abdullah/story-kIBI3wWT3L9LfuEH1dWVoL.html
23-12-2020||India||Bihar cop sent to judicial custody on rape charges||A police constable, who was arrested on Monday on charges of sexually assaulting a lady constable in a hotel in the state capital, was sent to judicial custody for 14 days on Wednesday.Saharsa SP Rakesh Kumar has suspended the policeman after he was sent to judicial remand as the policeman is currently posted at Saharsa.According to the police, the incident came to light after the woman’s husband who is also a constable told the police that he was informed around 12 am on Monday that the accused, identified as Rajiv Kumar, lured his wife on some pretext and took her to a hotel to rape her, he said.Additional SHO Yogendra Ravidas said that on the basis of the statement, the police raided the hotel and both were found there. “The police arrested Rajiv and sent him to jail,” he added.However, the lady constable on Wednesday appeared before the court of ACJM -3 and gave her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC where she denied the allegations made by her husband against the accused. “Nothing happened with me at the hotel,” she said in her statement. She also refused to undergo any medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cop-sent-to-judicial-custody-on-rape-charges/story-tPu8M5PRXv0EyPk9bAVVwI.html
23-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi’s daily Covid tally drops further with 871 new cases logged in last 24 hrs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 871 new Covid-19 cases as recoveries cross 600,000The daily number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi fell further on Wednesday, as the national capital logged 871 new infections in the previous 24 hours, according to the government’s Covid-19 dashboard. With this, the capital city’s Covid-19 tally reached 619,618. Read moreKarnataka revises night curfew schedule, to be imposed from tomorrow till Jan 1The Karnataka government revised the night curfew timings in the state, which is being brought in as a precautionary measure in accordance with the central government’s advice amid fears of a new variant of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) detected in the United Kingdom. Read moreStalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra PradeshAn 18-year-old girl was set ablaze after being strangled by her stalker in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district late on Tuesday night, the police said. The accused is in police custody. The half-burnt body of the girl was found in an agriculture field at Badanapalli village on the outskirts of Dharmavaram town on Wednesday morning. Read moreUttarakhand HC seeks state’s reply on suggestion to ban UK tourists during MahakumbhUttarakhand high court on Wednesday directed the state government to file a reply on the suggestion to ban entry of tourists and pilgrims from the UK during the four-month-long Mahakumbh fair which will begin from January. The development comes in the wake of the surfacing of the new strain of Covid-19 virus in the UK. Read moreUS Covid-19 relief bill has new law providing for up to 10 years in prison for illegal streamingA piece of legislation has been added to the much-awaited Covid-19 stimulus bill, passed by the US Congress after months of negotiation, that severely punishes streamers who pirate large amounts of copyrighted content. Read more‘For me, national duty comes before everything else’: Former India spinner Dilip Doshi says he wouldn’t have returned home had he been in Virat Kohli’s shoesIndian captain Virat Kohli’s decision to return home for the birth of his first child in the middle of the Test series in Australia has led to several current and former cricketers giving their opinion on the issue. While the BCCI accepted Kohli’s request and granted him paternity leave, several former India cricketers have been of the opinion that Kohli should have put playing for India ahead of his personal interest. Read moreSoul movie review: Jamie Foxx adds the magic touch to Pixar’s mindbending musicalDisney has a history of appropriating cultures for profit, but it’s also a studio that has always been conscious of the changing times. Soul, the new Pixar movie, is a confident stride in the right direction. Read moreApple iPhone 12 mini review: A fierce, little deviceEver since I wrote my first smartphone review I have been cribbing about how big phones are a nightmare. How women can’t fit them into our astoundingly shallow pockets and always have to carry a bag or a purse everywhere just so we have a place to keep our devices and not end up dropping or losing them. Read moreTwitter asks netizens to roast 2020. Responses will leave you in splitsWithin a few days 2020 will come to an end. From the pandemic to the wildfires, this year seemed like a series of unfortunate events. So, it’s no wonder that when Twitter shared a tweet asked people to ‘roast’ 2020 they didn’t wait to come up with all sorts of replies. Read moreWatch: Army Chief Gen Naravane visits Ladakh; reviews situation along LAC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-daily-covid-tally-drops-further-with-871-new-cases-logged-in-last-24-hrs-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Gq2wz4oybKtwi2UP4EiGN.html
23-12-2020||India||Delhi records 871 new Covid-19 cases as recoveries cross 600,000||The daily number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi fell further on Wednesday, as the national capital logged 871 new infections in the previous 24 hours, according to the government’s Covid-19 dashboard. With this, the capital city’s Covid-19 tally reached 619,618.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe total number of recoveries from Covid-19 in Delhi crossed 600,000-mark to reach 601,268 as 1,585 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, giving it a recovery rate of 97.03%, the dashboard showed. The number of fresh fatalities also came down, with 18 people succumbing to the disease as against 25 from the previous tally. This means that the virus has thus far claimed a total of 10,347 lives in Delhi. The number of active cases, meanwhile, also fell and is currently at 8,003. 🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 23rd December 2020🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/A5eztLr2z8The 871 new Covid-19 cases were from a total of 87,861 samples tested in the preceding 24 hours, the data also showed. This is an increase of 5,475 from the previous number of Covid-19 tests.Also Read | Delhi records 939 new Covid-19 cases; recoveries near 600,000 markEarlier in the day, Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder of Genestring Diagnostic Labs, which is handling Covid-19 testing of all passengers at the Delhi airport, told news agency ANI that a total of five passengers who arrived at the Delhi airport on two flights last night, had tested positive. Around 470 passengers who arrived on the two flights were tested, Dr Agarwal further said. Positive samples are being sent to NCDC, Delhi for genome sequencing. Only after a few days, it can be confirmed if it is the same strain or a different strain: Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder, Genestring Diagnostic Lab https://t.co/RBgs1B6qKK“Positive samples are being sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi for genome sequencing. Only after a few days, it can be confirmed if it is the same strain or a different strain,” she added.The government had on Monday announced a temporary ban on flights from the United Kingdom till December 31 after a new coronavirus strain was discovered there. The ban came into effect at 11:59 pm on Tuesday. The government has also made RT-PCR testing of passengers arriving from the UK mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-871-new-covid-19-cases-as-recoveries-cross-600-000/story-FrpZn2K423BkTpwUVRg39I.html
23-12-2020||India||Stalker strangles teenager, sets body on fire in Andhra Pradesh||An 18-year-old girl was set ablaze after being strangled by her stalker in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district late on Tuesday night, the police said. The accused is in police custody.The half-burnt body of the girl was found in an agriculture field at Badanapalli village on the outskirts of Dharmavaram town on Wednesday morning.According to Dharmavaram (Rural) police inspector P Janardhan Naidu, parents of the girl, who had been working as an outsourced employee in State Bank of India, Dharmavaram branch, approached the police at around 9.30 pm on Tuesday night, stating that their daughter had not returned home.“The missing girl’s parents identified the body in the field as that of their daughter,” the inspector said.The victim’s mother told the police that Gutti Rajesh had been stalking her daughter for quite some time and was forcing the 18-year-old to marry him.The police said preliminary investigations revealed that the victim might have been taken to the spot by Rajesh on the pretext of talking to her.“We have taken the accused into custody and are presently investigating him to determine if any other accomplices were involved in the execution of this barbaric crime,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-strangles-teenager-sets-body-on-fire-in-andhra-pradesh/story-5ju8nEAkHxSHRhNnbZXrlJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Army chief General Naravane reviews troop preparedness in forward areas along LAC||Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Wednesday visited areas in eastern Ladakh, including the south bank of Pangong Lake, and reviewed the preparedness of troops at the forefront of a nearly eight-month standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Naravane, who reached the forward areas at 8.30 am, visited troops of XIV Corps, popularly known as the “Fire and Fury Corps” and part of the Udhampur-based Northern Command. Besides making a first-hand assessment of the situation on the disputed border, he inspected accommodation created for the frontline troops to cope with the harsh winter. Among the areas visited by Naravane was Rechin La, one of the regions on the south bank of Pangong Lake where Indian troops occupied strategic heights in an operation during August 29-30 to pre-empt moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. Lt Gen PGK Menon, who took over as commander of the Leh-based XIV Corps in October, and senior army officers received the army chief at a forward airbase. “General MM Naravane #COAS visited forward areas of #FireandFury Corps including Rechin La and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC,” the army said in a string of tweets. Naravane was briefed by Menon and other local commanders on the operational preparedness of the forces. Naravane carried out an inspection of the accommodation for troops on the forward line of defences at Rechin La, and appreciated efforts made by the formation to make troops comfortable along the LAC. He also visited forward base Tara and appreciated the “high morale and state of readiness” while interacting with local commanders and troops. During these interactions, the army chief exhorted troops deployed in forward areas to “continue working with same zeal and enthusiasm”. He also distributed sweets and cakes to the troops ahead of Christmas before returning to New Delhi in the evening. India and China held their latest round of diplomatic talks on the standoff along the LAC on December 18, after a gap of more than two months, though there were no signs of an immediate breakthrough. Following the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides agreed to hold another meeting of senior army commanders in order to work towards complete disengagement and de-escalation at all friction points along the LAC in line with existing agreements and protocols. India mobilised close to 50,000 troops in mountainous forward areas in eastern Ladakh, who have now dug in for the winter in sub-zero temperatures. China has arrayed a similar number of forces on its side of the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-general-naravane-reviews-troop-preparedness-in-forward-areas-along-lac/story-lHeFk34gWewZnZFgHZznpJ.html
23-12-2020||India||PM Modi to address centenary celebrations of Visva Bharati University at 11 am tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the centenary celebrations of Visva-Bharati University in West Bengal on Thursday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), the address will take place through video conferencing.PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday that he is looking forward to the address which will begin at 11 am.“Looking forward to addressing the centenary celebrations of the iconic #VisvaBharati University, Shantiniketan, among our premium centres of learning which is closely associated with Gurudev Tagore. Do tune in tomorrow, 24th December at 11 AM,” PM Modi said on Twitter. Looking forward to addressing the centenary celebrations of the iconic #VisvaBharati University, Shantiniketan, among our premium centres of learning which is closely associated with Gurudev Tagore. Do tune in tomorrow, 24th December at 11 AM. pic.twitter.com/d4ZAcA9IUeWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar and the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal will be present during the ceremony, the PMO further said.Founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, Visva-Bharati is the oldest central university in the country. In May 1951, Visva Bharati was declared to be a Central University and an institution of national importance by an act of Parliament.PM Modi addressed the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) through video conference on Tuesday, where he talked about the university being a mini-India and its diversity being the strength of the country.It was only the third time in the 100-year history of AMU that a sitting Prime Minister addressed its event, university officials said. The last time it happened was in 1964 when then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri addressed a university gathering.The Prime Minister said that the country is moving on the path that “no one is left behind due one’s religion, everyone gets the opportunity to move ahead, everyone is able to realise their dreams”.PM Modi talked about university’s contribution to nation-building and noted that research done in the varsity on Islamic literature and Urdu, Arabic and Persian languages gives new energy to India’s cultural relations with the entire Islamic world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-centenary-celebrations-of-visva-bharati-university-at-11-am-tomorrow/story-DIHXDun6EAuvlRutTSBGfK.html
23-12-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi to hold protest, meet President on Thursday with 20 million signatures against farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will lead a delegation on Thursday to President’s House to submit around 20 million signatures collected from across the country over the last three months seeking repeal of three farm laws passed by Parliament. Before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, Gandhi will also lead a protest against the three farm laws enacted in September.Congress MP K Suresh said that the demonstration will begin at 10:45 am from Vijay Chowk.“Rahul Gandhi along with Opposition leaders met President and submitted the memorandum to resolve farmers’ issue. But there was no action from the President and the government. Rahul Gandhi will lead demonstration tomorrow at 10:45 am from Vijay Chowk to Rashtrapati Bhavan with Congress MPs,” news agency ANI quoted Suresh as saying.“After that, he and other senior leaders will meet the President of India and submit a memorandum containing 2 crore signatures for his intervention to resolve the farmers’ agitation,” he added. Gandhi earlier undertook a tractor rally across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign against the laws.The Congress launched a nationwide campaign in September for collecting appeals of farmers, farm labourers, and other stakeholders addressed to President Kovind for repealing the laws.Hundreds of farmers are protesting at the borders of Delhi since November 26 against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The government has held several rounds of talks with the farmers so far but no breakthrough has been achieved.On December 8, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had held a meeting with the 13 representatives of farm unions. However, a day later, farmer leaders rejected a proposal sent by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-hold-protest-meet-president-on-thursday-with-20-million-signatures-against-farm-laws/story-NZfMX54YDuat4vwWovCoXP.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmer unions say they are ready for talks if govt comes up with a concrete proposal||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday held a press conference at the Delhi-Singhu border asking the government not to repeat the promise of amendments to the new farm laws that have been already rejected but to come up with a concrete proposal in writing so further rounds of talks can be scheduled. “We have already told home minister Amit Shah that protesting farmers will not accept amendments,” national president of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, Shiv Kumar Kakka said.Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav, who was also present at the press conference, said that the government’s new letter is an attempt to defame the farmers’ movement. “United Farmers Front today has written a letter to the government. It states that the government should not question the letter written by the United Farmers’ Front previously as it was a unanimous decision. Govt’s new letter is a fresh attempt to defame farmers’ association” Yadav stated. The union was referring to the recent proposal sent by the Centre to the farmers’ unions, in which it offered to hold a fresh round of talks at a date and time of the unions’ choosing. Till now, five rounds of talks have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. While the Centre has reiterated that the laws won’t be scrapped and has instead proposed amendments, the unions have been adamant on a total repeal since the first day of protests. Pointing to the Union agriculture minister’s meeting on Monday with a five member delegation, under the banner of the Hind Mazdoor Kisan Samiti (HMKS), who are in favour of the new farm laws, Yadav remarked that it is a concerted attempt at breaking the farmers’ movement. “The government is constantly holding talks with so-called Farmers’ leaders & organisations, who’re not associated with our movement at all. This is an attempt to break our movement. The Government is dealing with protesting farmers, the way it deals with its opposition.” Yadav stated. As the farmers’ protest entered its 28th day, Yadav announced that the protesting farmers’ union is ready for talks with the government and are waiting for the Centre to approach the farmers’ with clear intentions and open mind. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Molla claimed the government wanted to tire the farmers out so that the protest would end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-say-they-are-ready-for-talks-if-govt-comes-up-with-a-concrete-proposal/story-bUqESFyIQzDgK24VVPMEJM.html
23-12-2020||India||Three bike-borne men rob Rs 5.3 lakh from Uttarakhand’s US Nagar||Three bike-borne men robbed an employee of a cash management company on Wednesday and fled with a bag containing cash worth Rs 5.35-lakh and cheques. The police have formed five teams to nab the miscreants. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar, said, “It is yet to be clear whether the spot where the incident took place is in Uttar Pradesh or in Uttarakhand, but we have formed five teams to scan the CCTV footage to nab the miscreants.” Kunwar said Sachin Sharma, a resident of Balwant Enclave colony works in a Radiant cash management company. “He was on his way to the bank to deposit the cash and cheques at about 12.30 pm. When he was near the railway station, three bike-borne miscreants stopped him at gunpoint and fled after snatching the bag,” he said. The SSP said Sharma alerted the police and they rushed to the spot and collected the necessary information about the incident. “According to Sharma, the bag contained Rs 5.35-lakh cash and cheques worth Rs 23 lakh,” he said. Police scanned the CCTV installed on the route and spotted three bike-borne miscreants as per the detail provided by Sharma. “Teams have moved to UP and some places of US Nagar. The police are waiting for a complaint from the victim to register the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-bike-borne-men-rob-rs-5-3-lakh-from-uttarakhand-s-us-nagar/story-tBdnIpELaT54MNalAXnlqI.html
23-12-2020||India||India submits 9-point plan for WHO reforms||India has proposed a nine-point plan for reforms of the World Health Organization (WHO), including changes in mechanisms to monitor health emergencies that can cross borders and giving the head of the UN body greater power to declare an international public health emergency. The proposals, which have been formally conveyed to UN and WHO authorities, also include changes and improvements in the body’s funding and governance, transparency in use of funds, and a greater role for the world body in ensuring fair, affordable and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The Indian government has repeatedly raised the need to reform WHO at multilateral forums such as the G20 and BRICS this year, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticised the body for not reflecting contemporary realities. India’s calls for WHO reforms, especially after the body’s initial handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, have been backed by countries around the world. The Indian government’s proposals, contained in the document “Approach on WHO reforms”, call for devising “objective criteria with clear parameters” for declaring a “public health emergency of international concern” (PHEIC) such as the Covid-19 pandemic. The WHO director general currently has to convene a committee of experts, the International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee, to declare an international emergency. India has proposed the WHO chief should be empowered to declare a PHEIC if there is “broad agreement, though not a consensus” within the emergency committee. “The emphasis must be on transparency and promptness in the declaration process,” the document stated. The Indian recommendation is relevant in view of WHO’s regulations which state the emergency committee gives advice on declaration of a PHEIC when there is “inconsistency in the assessment of the event” between the WHO chief and the affected country – something that revelations have pointed to in the case of Covid-19. The Indian government pointed out that most of the financing for WHO’s programmes comes from extra-budgetary contributions earmarked for specific issues. Since WHO has little flexibility in using these funds, voluntary contributions should be “unearmarked to ensure that the WHO has necessary flexibility for its usage in areas where they are required the most”, it recommended. WHO’s regular budget should also be increased so that core activities “are financed from it, without putting an overwhelming financial burden on developing countries”, it said. Noting that member states have little say in selection of WHO’s activities, expenditure and concurrent monitoring, the Indian government called for effective involvement of all countries in budget implementation and spending. “Strong and robust financial accountability frameworks” should be created, a “significant amount of transparency with respect to data reporting and disbursement of funds” should be established, and the efficiency of funding mechanisms such as the WHO Solidarity Response Fund should be strengthened, it said. With Covid-19 having exposed gaps in implementing the International Health Regulations 2005 (IHR), which defines countries’ rights and obligations in handling health emergencies that can cross borders, India called for strengthening capacities in countries found to be deficient and for enhancing international cooperation. Calling for a global framework for managing infectious diseases and pandemics, including capacities such as testing and surveillance systems, the document highlighted the “need to establish a system facilitating pan-world surveillance by leveraging innovating ICT tools”. The Indian government said it is important for member states to have a greater say in the functioning of WHO and pointed out the two policy-making organs –World Health Assembly and Executive Board – are only playing a “peripheral role”. With most of the work in WHO being done by technical committees of independent experts, there is also a need to review the functioning of these panels. “The pandemic laid bare various gaps in the preparedness of healthcare systems across the globe, which could have been reviewed and strengthened in a timely manner,” the document said. The Indian government also called for efforts to “ensure fair, affordable and equitable access to all tools for combating [the] Covid-19 pandemic and, therefore, the need to build a framework for their allocation”. WHO’s work in this direction should be supported, and Covid-19 vaccines are a “global public good and TRIPS waiver as proposed by India and South Africa would go a long way in effective international and national response” to the pandemic, it said. It also pointed out that “as a reflection of vaccine nationalism, some developed countries have been signing bilateral agreements with vaccine manufacturers, leaving very little space for developing countries to get fair, affordable and equitable access” to vaccines. In May, India was elected to WHO’s Executive Board and will chair the body during 2020-21, putting it in a position to suggest key reforms to the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-submits-9-point-plan-for-who-reforms/story-FVboitfg5k408Pf4CM9BTN.html
23-12-2020||India||NIA arrests Khalistani terrorist at Delhi airport upon his deportation from Cyprus||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday arrested absconding Khalistani terrorist Gurjeet Singh Nijjar at the Delhi airport on his deportation from Cyprus, where he was hiding. He has been arrested for allegedly hatching a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy in India for a separate state of Khalistan.A resident of the Ajnala town in Amritsar, Nijjar left for Cyprus on October 19, 2017, a release issued by the NIA stated, adding that his transit custody shall be obtained and he will be taken to Mumbai for further investigation.The NIA had registered a case on January 10 last year against Nijjar and another accused Harpal Singh under Section 3 &25 of the Arms Act, 1959; Sections 37 & 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951 and Section 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.Further investigations by the NIA revealed that Nijjar, Singh and a third accused Moin Khan had orchestrated a criminal conspiracy to revive Sikh militancy for the ultimate objective of forming a separate state of Khalistan.The trio through social media platforms used to post images and videos of the 1984 Operation Blue Star and Jagtar Singh Hawara - a convict in the assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh.“Pro-Khalistani posts related to a proscribed outfit named Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) were also put up to motivate like-minded Sikh youths and others to join the Khalistani movement,” the NIA release added. The agency had earlier filed a chargesheet against the three of them in a special NIA court on May 23, 2019.This arrest comes almost a week after the NIA had sentenced and convicted a Tamil Nadu-based engineer Mohamed Naser Packeer for seven years of rigorous imprisonment in an Islamic State (ISIS) conspiracy case. Naser, who is a certified ethical hacker from Chennai, was working as a Web developer and graphic designer in Dubai in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-khalistani-terrorist-at-delhi-airport-upon-his-deportation/story-giLM6gQ53c6BXdUBlCAKVK.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Resounding slap for extremists, terrorists’: RS Prasad on J&K DDC poll results||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday hailed the district development council elections, the first set of polls in the newly formed union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, as a victory of hope, democracy and the prime minister’s vision for J&K.BJP, which emerged as the single largest party, won 75 seats in the polls. Prasad asserted that the Gupkar alliance, a coalition of opposition parties in Jammu and Kashmir, was only formed cause the parties could never have fought the BJP single-handedly.“People are calling this a victory of the Gupkar alliance but if you see the numbers, BJP has garnered more votes than NC, PDP and Congress combined,” Prasad said. “BJP has 4,87,364 votes, while NC got 2,82,514, PDP got 57,789 and Congress got 1,39,382 votes.”Prasad also added that the voting percentage in areas such Shopian, Bandipura and Pulwama has increased since the 2019 Lok Sabha election, dismissing that the people were unhappy with the union government’s decision to strip J&K’s special status.Also read: Agriculture minister says hopeful farm unions will discuss govt’s request“The people of Kashmir have delivered a resounding slap to extremists, terrorists and their patrons,” Prasad said. “The defeat of Gupkar Alliance from the area of Burhan Wani is important for additional reasons. The so-called killing of Burhan Wani was made an issue of international campaign by thAlliance’snts. Today the Gupkar Aliance’s defeat from that area shows the change of wave in J&K,” he added.Prasad also said that the people of Kashmir have seen development after years, restoring their faith in democracy. “The people have rejected those who rule and instead chosen those who work,” Prasad said.The Union minister also hailed the victory of 52 independent candidates, of which he said many are supporters of the BJP. “Democracy is turning its pages in Jammu and Kashmir. Instead of throwing stones, people are now exercising their franchise using ballot papers,” he said.“People make a habit of disparaging the prime minister and questioning his popularity,” Prasad said. “But from Ladakh to Telangana, Rajasthan to Assam and Bihar, people have elected Narendra Modi as their leader.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resounding-slap-for-extremists-terrorists-rs-prasad-on-j-k-ddc-poll-results/story-l1hzcTZU1bIKrRHpcv1Z8O.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Reflects people’s faith in democracy’: Amit Shah on Jammu and Kashmir DDC elections||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday congratulated the people of Jammu and Kashmir for “such great turnout” in the maiden district development council (DDC) elections. Shah also “heartily thanked” the people for voting his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the single-largest party in the elections.“I heartily thank our sisters and brothers of J&K for voting BJP as the single largest party in the District Development Council elections. BJP under the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji will continue to work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the J&K region,” Shah tweeted on Wednesday. “Congratulations to the people of J&K for such great turnout in DDC polls. I applaud the efforts of our security forces & local administration for successfully conducting these multi-phased elections. This will further boost the morale and trust of people of J&K in democracy,” he added. I heartily thank our sisters and brothers of J&K for voting BJP as the single largest party in the District Development Council elections. BJP under the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji will continue to work relentlessly towards the prosperity and development of the J&K region. Congratulations to the people of J&K for such great turnout in DDC polls. I applaud the efforts of our security forces & local administration for successfully conducting these multi-phased elections. This will further boost the morale and trust of people of J&K in democracy.“Modi government is doing everything possible to restore the grass root democracy in Jammu & Kashmir. The recently held DDC polls for the first time in the history of J&K is the testimony of the same. The mass participation in these elections reflects people’s faith in democracy,” Shah posted in a subsequent tweet. Modi government is doing everything possible to restore the grass root democracy in Jammu & Kashmir. The recently held DDC polls for the first time in the history of J&K is the testimony of the same.The mass participation in these elections reflects people’s faith in democracy.As of 4:30 pm on Wednesday, the BJP had won 75 of the 280 DDC seats. The National Conference (NC) was second with 67 seats, followed by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at 27 seats. The Congress was victorious on 26 seats. Independent candidates, meanwhile, won on 50 seats. The BJP made inroads in Kashmir for the first time, winning three seats in the region while the majority of its seats were from the Jammu region. Jammu and Kashmir DDC elections tally at 4.30 pm: BJP- 75National Conference - 67Independent - 50J&K PDP: 27Congress: 26Apni Party: 12(Data source: J&K State Election Authority) pic.twitter.com/748nN4PEcjThe NC and PDP had contested as members of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a collective of six regional parties seeking restoration of Article 370. Together, the PAGD was victorious on 110 seats.The eight-phase DDC polls, which took place between November 28 and December 19, were the first major electoral exercise in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 last August, which led to the scrapping of the region’s special status. Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh, were further split into two separate Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reflects-people-s-faith-in-democracy-amit-shah-on-jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-elections/story-N5osOYgh2r7Yb5PjSSUTOL.html
23-12-2020||India||Rules to stop coronavirus variant stoke chaos at Indian airports||Passengers flying into India’s biggest airports on Wednesday complained of long waits and confusion as authorities sought to impose rules to try to stop the spread of a new more transmissible variant of the coronavirus.Like many countries, India has suspended flights from Britain, where cases have soared because of the variant.People arriving from Britain before the ban came into force on Wednesday were being tested, including Kamini Saraswat whose plane landed in New Delhi just before midnight.Despite pre-booking a test, her turn came nine hours after arrival and she told Reuters she was still stuck at the airport waiting for the result.“There is no clear communication,” said Saraswat, 28. “There is no social distancing.”Cellphone footage taken by Saraswat, shared with Reuters, showed long lines of passengers and crowds packed together around desks to get themselves tested.India’s hardest-hit state of Maharashtra, home to financial capital Mumbai, has taken additional measures, quarantining most passengers arriving from Europe and the Middle East for a week. Many European and Middle Eastern countries have also suspended flights from Britain, but act as transit hubs for the big airlines flying into India.Ishwari Gaurav Naik, who arrived in Mumbai from Dubai at around 2 a.m. on Wednesday, said she had to wait more than six hours before authorities sent her and three family members to a quarantine facility.“There was huge chaos there,” Naik said from her temporary accommodation at a school. “Nobody knows anything. There is no coordination between staff.”Delhi and Mumbai airport officials declined to comment, and local officials in both cities and India’s federal health ministry did not respond to questions from Reuters. Federal authorities have said that all required measures will be undertaken but have given few details of how the extra checks will be staffed.India’s plan to track down and screen all arrivals from Britain since Nov. 25 is also getting stretched.Immigration officials are tasked to provide the details of all travellers from Britain since then. They will be then contacted by state and district health officials.A 54-year-old British citizen who flew into Mumbai on Monday morning said he was yet to receive either the result of his airport coronavirus test or any follow-up calls.“The intention may be very good, but it is all down to the execution,” he said, declining to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rules-to-stop-coronavirus-variant-stoke-chaos-at-indian-airports/story-r88zfGFkHSjY0fc3QTEEmN.html
23-12-2020||India||At this Uttarakhand prison, it is Jail Premier League cricket||Jail authorities in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani are hosting a cricket tournament called the Jail Premier League (JPL), like the much-touted Indian Premier League, inside jail premises. Inmates fond of cricket are showing their talent and others are enjoying the event, an official said. Senior jail superintendent Manoj Arya said, “To make inmates mentally and physically fit we have organised JPL in our jail premises. This event does not only provide an opportunity to showcase their sporting talent but also provides recreation to the other inmates.” Haldwani jail houses around 1450 inmates, including 51 women. Jail administration organises several kinds of entertainment activities on national holidays as well as other festivals. JPL is one of them, said a jail official. Eight teams have been formed and each game lasts 10 overs each side. Two or three games are played per day. The tournament began on December 15 and will end on January 8. Arya said, “Open space of the jail premises is being used as ground and a temporary pitch and boundary have been demarcated for the game. Inmates playing cricket and familiar with cricket rules have been appointed as umpires. Other inmates, as spectators, enjoy the event. Sports equipment has been managed through the social organisations of the city” “We organise several kinds of sports and cultural events for the recreation of the inmates from time to time. Ramleela also was staged during Navratri. We will be organising cultural programmes on Christmas and on December 31 in jail premises,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-this-uttarakhand-prison-it-is-jail-premier-league-cricket/story-TYMr2146fGxlJaE2iLEmhM.html
23-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Uttarakhand tables bill to grant ex-gratia to dependents of martyred army, para-military personnel and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand proposes ex-gratia to dependents of martyred army, para-military personnelThe Uttarakhand government, on the second day of winter session in Assembly, tabled Uttarakhand Martyr’s Dependent Ex-gratia Grant Bill, 2020 to provide a one-time ex-gratia for livelihood to dependents of soldiers of armed forces and paramilitary forces in future, killed in war or border skirmishes. Read More‘Not even fully Jammu based’: Omar Abdullah jibes BJP after DDC election resultsNational Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday took a swipe at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the results of District Development Council (DDC) election poured in. Abdullah said the numbers show that the BJP is not even “fully Jammu based” party. Read MoreJammu and Kashmir Police bust terror network in AwantiporaThe police in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora, along with the Army and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), busted a terror network, news agency ANI reported. The network of proscribed outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad was involved in the grenade lobbing incidents in Tral . Read More‘Befitting reply to Mehbooba Mufti’: Anurag Thakur’s jibe after Jammu and Kashmir DDC election resultsWith Gupkar Alliance getting a clear majority in many of the districts in Jammu and Kashmir District Development Council election and the BJP emerging as the single largest party, both the alliance of the regional parties of J&K and the BJP. Read MoreAmerica denies China expelled US Navy warship near Spratly IslandsChina falsely claimed that it expelled an American warship from the South China Sea (SCS) on Tuesday, the US Navy has said, adding that Beijing’s statement was an effort to assert its illegitimate claims. Read MoreNerdy but with style: Fashion icon Sonam Kapoor Ahuja, in 90s inspired Bhaane dress, leaves us with hearts in eyesThere is no fashionista who has her finger firmly placed on the sartorial pulse and is not inspired by Bollywood slayer, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja. Gifted with the rare trait of acing any retro look or urban contemporary apparel, Sonam never fails to cut a stylish figure. Read MoreWild horses ‘steal’ baby stroller from couple, incident sparks laughterIn an incident which probably can only be described as bizarre, a few horses ‘stole’ a baby stroller from a couple in Florida. Shared on the official Twitter profile of Dikembe Dudes, an American rock band, the post thread is filled with images and videos that detail the incident. Read More‘Rahul Gandhi won’t know if potatoes grow above or below soil’: BJP leaderMadhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra lashed out at Rahul Gandhi and the Congress party over their support to the protesting farmers. The BJP leader said that Rahul Gandhi does not even know if potatoes grow under or above the soil. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-uttarakhand-tables-bill-to-grant-ex-gratia-to-dependents-of-martyred-army-para-military-personnel-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ptXgtuEUZvk5NJuIHiNeCK.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Whatever they want to add and subtract…’: Agriculture minister Tomar says hopeful farmers’ unions will discuss Centre’s request||On a day when protests against the Centre’s three agricultural laws entered day 28, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday yet again expressed hope for a solution, reiterating that the government was ready for a discussion at a time and date as per “convenience” of the farmers’ unions.“Through various schemes, we will fill all gaps in agriculture sector, which will benefit farmers and ensure that they get the right price…Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, we saw that the work related to farming and agriculture wasn’t affected,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying. “I would also like to thank banks, as they brought more than 1 crore farmers under Kisan Credit cover during the pandemic gave farmers Rs 1 lakh crore in the last eight months. We’ve undertaken some reforms and will bring in future,” he added.Tomar further said, “I’m hopeful that farmers’ unions will discuss our request. Whatever they want to add and subtract from the government’s proposal, they should tell us. We’re ready for a discussion at the time and date of their convenience. I’m hopeful for a solution,” Tomar further said. I'm hopeful that Farmers' Unions will discuss our request. Whatever they want to add & subtract from govt's proposal, they should tell us. We're ready for a discussion at the time & date of their convenience. I'm hopeful of a solution: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar https://t.co/pDs4qoylHc pic.twitter.com/xliL2EVQKYThe Union agriculture minister was referring to a proposal sent by the Centre to the farmers’ unions on Sunday, in which it offered to hold the sixth round of talks at a date and time of the unions’ choosing. Total five rounds of talks, including one each on December 1, 3 and 5, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. While the Centre is firm that the laws won’t be scrapped and has instead proposed amendments, the unions are adamant on a total repeal.The farmers’ unions are scheduled to meet on Wednesday and take a call on the government’s proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatever-they-want-to-add-and-subtract-agriculture-minister-tomar-says-hopeful-farmers-unions-will-discuss-centre-s-request/story-xhtrrSgXyUURkVdVOz9T0L.html
23-12-2020||India||‘No need to convene Assembly session unnecessarily’: Union minister Muraleedharan backs Kerala governor||Union minister V Muraleedharan has backed Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan’s decision to deny permission for special Assembly session, saying a proposal is already there to convene the House from January 8.“There was already proposal to hold Assembly session from Jan 8 so Governor asked the government as to what was the urgency for special session. He said there was no need to convene the House unnecessarily,” Muraleedharan said while speaking to news agency ANI.The Piarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government wanted to convene the special session against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September, but governor Khan declined their request.Apart from the state government, Congress and other opposition parties in Kerala also supported the move to introduce a resolution against the farm laws. Muraleedharan told ANI that passing a resolution amounts to wasting public money, adding it will have no effect because when Parliament passes a law, it is applicable in the entire country. I feel Governor's point is justifiable because convening Assembly session to pass the resolution amounts to wasting public money. This resolution will have no effect because when Parliament passes a law, it is applicable in the entire country: Union Minister V Muralidharan https://t.co/U9vxsxsPzN“I feel Governor’s point is justifiable because convening and assembly session to pass the resolution amounts to wasting public money. This resolution will have no effect because when Parliament passes a law, it is applicable in the entire country,” the minister said.Muraleedharan’s remarks come after Congress MP K Suresh termed the governor’s decision to reject the special assembly session as an “undemocratic and anti-constitutional act”.Meanwhile, a delegation of Congress leaders led by Rahul Gandhi is set to meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and will submit 20 million signatures taken from all over the country in the last three months seeking the removal of the farm laws. Party leader KC Venugopal had earlier said that Congress had launched a nationwide campaign in September for collecting memoranda of appeals addressed to President Kovind which was signed by farmers, farm labourers and other stakeholders opposing the laws.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-convene-assembly-session-unnecessarily-union-minister-muraleedharan-backs-kerala-governor/story-wEA61pjQx9UhqiGvwtm8FN.html
23-12-2020||India||Cabinet approves revision in DTH guidelines, license to be now issued for 20 yrs: Union minister Javadekar||Union information and broadcasting (I&B) minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said that the Cabinet has decided to approve revision in the guidelines for providing Direct-to-home television (DTH) services in the country.Addressing a press briefing, Javadekar said that license for DTH would be issued for 20 years and the license fee would be collected on a quarterly basis. Previously, the license for all service providers was issued for a duration of 10 years, according to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI).“Cabinet today decided to approve revision in guidelines for providing DTH services in the country. Now, DTH license to be issued for 20 years, the license fee will be collected quarterly,” the Union minister said.Earlier, the TRAI issued a consultation paper on December 7 seeking views and comments with regard to the regulatory framework recommended for DTH services. A written response was sought from stakeholders on the consultation paper by December 14 and on the feedback by December 19. Cabinet today decided to approve revision in guidelines for providing DTH services in the country. Now, DTH license to be issued for 20 years, the license fee will be collected quarterly: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar https://t.co/HYffH2vmGNThe regulatory authority had first issued recommendations on “Regulatory Framework for Platform Services” for DTH and multi-system operators (MSOs) services in 2014 which were referred back by the broadcast ministry in October 2020. MSO is defined as an authorised service provider that provides cable TV services to its subscribers.Also Read: Prasar Bharati signs MoU with Electronics and IT Ministry to launch 51 education TV channelsJavaderkar during the briefing also said the cabinet approved the merger of Films Division, Directorate of Film Festivals, National Film Archives of India, and Children’s Film Society, India with National Film Development Corporation.Meanwhile, Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot, who was also a part of the briefing said the Cabinet had approved a post-matric scholarship scheme worth Rs 59,000 crore for over 4 crore Scheduled Caste (SC) students in five years. He added that the Centre would spent an amount of Rs 35,534 and the balance would be spent by state governments.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-revision-in-dth-guidelines-license-to-be-now-issued-for-20-yrs-javadekar/story-owsIVMLHazhS0hME0ADgsL.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Not even fully Jammu based’: Omar Abdullah jibes BJP after DDC election results||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday took a swipe at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the results of District Development Council (DDC) election poured in. Abdullah said the numbers show that the BJP is not even “fully Jammu based” party.“I congratulate them (BJP) for their 3 seats (in Kashmir) but what about our 35 seats in Jammu. Admit that we’ve pan J&K presence. BJP keeps calling us Kashmir based party. If we are Kashmir based with 35 seats in Jammu, then they are not even fully Jammu based,” news agency ANI quoted Abdullah as saying.According to latest set of results, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), led by the National Conference, bagged 112 seats in the first-ever elections to the 288 DDCs while BJP emerged as the single-largest party winning 75 seats. The counting of votes is still underway.Out of 140 seats in Jammu region’s 10 districts, the BJP has won 71 that include eight in Doda, 11 in Jammu, 13 in Kathua, three in Kishtwar, two in Rajouri, three in Ramban, seven in Reasi, 13 in Samba and 11 in Udhampur district.The National Conference, meanwhile, has won 25 seats - one in Doda, one in Jammu’s Dansal, six in Kishtwar, two in Poonch, five in Rajouri, six in Ramban, three in Reasi and one in Samba district.In a tweet earlier in the day, Abdullah had said, “It’s amusing to see the desperation of the BJP propaganda wallas. Yesterday it was about 3 seats in the valley & today it’s about being the single largest party. They aren’t even embarrassed about making comparisons with @jknc which contested far fewer seats due to an alliance.”The PAGD comprises of seven parties - National Conference (NC), People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Hakeem Mohammad Yaseen Shah’s Jammu and Kashmir People Democratic Front (PDF), Communist Party of India (Marxist), Javid Mustafa’s Jammu and Kashmir People Movement (JKPM), Sajjad Lone’s Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference (JKPC) and Muzaffar Shah’s Awami National Conference.While NC leader Farooq Abdullah was chosen as president of the PAGD, Mehbooba Mufti was picked to play the role of the vice-president. The polling was held over eight phases beginning November 28 and ending on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-even-fully-jammu-based-omar-abdullah-jibes-bjp-after-ddc-election-results/story-D4P98xyzqYCMWxmr2JFRgM.html
23-12-2020||India||216 Maoists killed in encounters in Chhattisgarh in 3 years: Govt||The Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday said 216 Maoists have been killed in encounters with security forces while 966 ultras have surrendered in the state in last three years.During this period, the highest number of 82 Maoists were killed in Sukma district, the government informed the state Assembly.Besides, the maximum number of 333 rebels also surrendered in Sukma, it said.In a written reply to a question by Congress MLA Dhanendra Sahu, state home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu said, “216 Maoists were killed and 966 surrendered from 2018-19 till November 30 this year.” During this period, the highest number of Naxal deaths were reported in Sukma district (82), followed by Bijapur (46), Dantewada (30), Rajnandgaon (17), Narayanpur (16), Bastar (7), Dhamtari (7), Kanker (6), Kabirdham (3) and one each in Gariaband and Kondgaon districts, the reply said.Of the 966 cadres who surrendered, 333 laid down their arms in Sukma, 300 in Dantewada, 164 in Narayanpur, 77 in Bijapur, 46 in Kondagaon, 36 in Bastar, 7 in Rajnandgaon and 3 in Kanker, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/216-maoists-killed-in-encounters-in-chhattisgarh-in-3-years-govt/story-MY3wxWpXk9iTpYbmVaiEPN.html
23-12-2020||India||Tripura orders resumption of classes 9 and 11, says Covid-19 under control||Almost twenty days after the reopening of colleges and schools for the students of classes 10 and 12, the Tripura education department has announced resumption of classes for students in standard 9 and 11 from December 28, stating that the Covid-19 situation in the state is under control.“As it reveals that the situation of Covid-19 is under control in the State, so the students of Class-IX & XI (both government, government aided and private unaided schools) shall be allowed to attend schools wef 28th December, 2020,” a notification issued by the joint secretary of secondary education, Saju Vaheed, on Tuesday late evening.However, the students need to get a consent letter from their parents for attending classes.The concerned headmasters and principals have been asked to arrange for routine sanitisation, thermal scanning and hand washing of the students, staff and also parents of the students. They have been also asked to maintain six feet distance between students in classrooms.The educational institutions in the state were closed since mid-March due to Covid-19 pandemic. There are nearly 4,400 government and aided schools in the state.Also Read: Tripura’s college student starts business, provides employment to people during pandemicThough schools and colleges were closed for more than eight months, the education department launched online classes; video lectures on local TV channels, students’ helpline call centre and SMS based classes for the students during the period.According to the latest health department’s report, a total of 33,188 Covid-19 patients were recorded in the state including 380 patients, who died. Two others died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-orders-resumption-of-classes-9-and-11-says-covid-19-under-control/story-cGcFT6sJgfKdTUuALBjOzM.html
23-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir Police bust terror network in Awantipora||The police in Jammu and Kashmir’s Awantipora, along with the Army and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), busted a terror network, news agency ANI reported. The network of proscribed outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad was involved in the grenade lobbing incidents in Tral and Sangam areas, ANI quoted the police officials as saying.The six arrested terror operatives have been in contact with Pakistani handlers and have targeted security forces by lobbing grenades upon security forces in recent past, the police further said, according to ANI.The police have recovered incriminating material, including explosive substance, from the possession of the arrested operatives. A case has also been registered.Also Read: Prominent Baloch activist found dead in mysterious circumstances in CanadaLast month, the police had arrested two persons in Awantipora whom they described as operatives linked to Jaish-e-Mohammad.The arrested persons were identified as Bilal Ahmad Chopan of Wagad Tral and Mursaleen Bashir Sheikh of Chatlam Pampore.The police said that these people were providing logistic support and shelter besides transporting of arms/ammunition of the terrorists in Pampore and Tral areas of Kashmir.Also Read: Lashkar terrorists surrender to security forces on appeal of familiesLast month, security forces had also discovered a cross-border tunnel, which was used by four Jaish terrorists to enter Jammu before they were killed in an operation at Ban toll plaza near Nagrota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-bust-terror-associate-network-in-awantipora/story-tjwiLm1KISTRGpuBOxhmvM.html
23-12-2020||India||Ayodhya mosque against Waqf Act, illegal under Shariyat law: AIMPLB||All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) member Zafaryab Jilani said on Wednesday said the mosque which is planned to come up in Ayodhya following last year’s Supreme Court verdict was against the Waqf Act and “illegal” under the Shariat laws.Athar Hussain, the secretary of a trust formed to build the mosque in Ayodhya, however, said everyone interprets the Shariat in their own way and when the land has been allotted under the directive of the Supreme Court, it cannot be illegal.The blueprint of the mosque and a hospital to be built on a five-acre land in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur village was unveiled on Saturday at the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) office in Lucknow.The IICF has been formed by the Uttar Pradesh State Sunni Central Waqf Board to construct the mosque and other utilities on the plot.“According to the Waqf Act, mosques or land of mosques cannot be bartered. The proposed mosque in Ayodhya violates the Act. It violates the Shariat law as the Waqf Act is based on the Shariat,” said Jilani, who was also the convenor of the Babri Masjid Action Committee.Another executive member of AIMPLB SQR Ilyas said, “We have rejected the proposal to accept land for the mosque at any other place. We lost the title suit and so we don’t need a land for a mosque.” He alleged that the Sunni Central Waqf Board was working under the pressure of the government.“The Muslims have, however, rejected this land at Dhannipur given in compensation. The mosque being built by the trust constituted by the Sunni Central Waqf Board is just a symbolic one.” The issue was raised by MP MP Asaduddin Owaisi at a meeting of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s executive committee was held on October 13. All the members were of the view that the exchange of land for the mosque was not permissible under the Waqf Act and in turn “illegal” under the Shariat law.“The power for interpretation of Shariya does not lie in the hands of some limited people. The mosque is the place for offering namaz. So what is wrong if we are building a mosque?” posed Hussain.The Ram Janambhoomi-Babri Masjid disputed structure was demolished in December 1992 by “kar sevaks” who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built by demolishing an ancient Ram temple.After a protracted legal tussle, the Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, ruled in favour of the construction of a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a “prominent” place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh.On the directive of the apex court, the Uttar Pradesh government allotted the five-acre plot in Ayodhya’s Dhannipur for the construction of the mosque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-mosque-against-waqf-act-illegal-under-shariyat-law-aimplb/story-0QrFb4aJkLrQA8HwjzkceJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Pakistan summons Indian diplomat over ‘ceasefire violations’||Pakistan on Wednesday summoned a senior Indian diplomat to register its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC).The Foreign Office alleged that a 50-year old civilian was killed and two teenagers aged 16 and 18, and a four-year-old child sustained injuries due to the firing in Hotspring and Jandrot sectors on Tuesday.The Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding, investigate this and other such incidents of ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the Working Boundary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-summons-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations/story-avBPgiKOj26Ymu83ibJOYI.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Befitting reply to Mehbooba Mufti’: Anurag Thakur’s jibe after Jammu and Kashmir DDC election results||With Gupkar Alliance getting a clear majority in many of the districts in Jammu and Kashmir District Development Council election and the BJP emerging as the single largest party, both the alliance of the regional parties of J&K and the BJP attempted to project the verdict in their favour. BJP’s DDC polls in-charge Anurag Thakur said the election results are a befitting reply to Mehbooba Mufti who had refused to unfurl the Tricolour. “Independent candidates have polled more votes than the Congress and the PDP. The same Mehbooba Mufti who’d refused to unfurl the Tricolour has got a befitting reply today,” Anurag Thakur said.Mehbooba Mufti’s tricolour comment stoked a major controversy as she had said she will hoist the tricolour only when the state flag of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir will be allowed. This was the first-ever poll in Jammu and Kashmir after it was turned into a union territory. To contest this election, the local parties of Jammu and Kashmir came together and formed Gupkar Alliance, which is near the majority mark. The alliance has won 110 seats but the BJP has emerged as the single-largest party by getting 75 seats and the maximum vote share in Jammu and Kashmir. “The trust which the J&K people have put in Modiji, the support which they’ve shown to his policies and to his work to strengthen the democratic principles, are the reasons why BJP has got 3 seats in the Kashmir Valley,” Anurag Thakur said.Here is where the parties stand as of now:The results of four constituencies - one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir and Poonch and Rajouri districts in Jammu region - were still awaited.Out of the 276 seats for which results have been declared so far, Independent candidates have won 49, ahead of Congress (26) and Mehbooba Mufti’s PDP (27). But PDP is part of the winning alliance. Omar Abdullah, on the other hand, questioned how BJP could be the single largest party while the National Conference did not contest from many seats because of the alliance. Countering BJP’s ‘victory of democracy’ claim, Omar Abdullah said had BJP believed in democracy, they would have announced Assembly elections by now. “With this defeat, I don’t think BJP government will conduct Assembly elections here anytime soon. They would have announced the polls by now had they believed in democracy. So, we have time to strengthen our party,” he said.“We must also accept that there are some weaknesses in our organisation in some areas. We were expecting to win the election at some seats but could not,” he added.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/befitting-reply-to-mehbooba-mufti-anurag-thakur-s-jibe-after-jammu-and-kashmir-ddc-election-results/story-1ZyE9aa3E5PquYS3j9h3RI.html
23-12-2020||India||NGT directs Centre, states to install ‘Bird Diverters’ on existing solar and wind powerlines||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday directed the Centre through the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and other states to install ‘Bird Diverters’ on existing solar and wind powerlines as soon as possible and preferably within four months.A bench of the NGT, headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel issued several directions on Wednesday while disposing of a petition on an NGO, Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation through Bhanu Bansal who stated that there is an urgent need to protect and conserve the great Indian bustard as the same is on the verge of extinction.Tribunal further directs the respondents to provide fresh permission only after ensuring the underground powerlines in new projects. It has also directed the MoEFCC to take appropriate steps to ensure that EIA includes Impact on Biological Diversity for such kinds of Solar Energy Projects.The respondents in the matter were, MoEFCC, National Board of Wildlife, National Biodiversity Authority, States of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharastra.Petitioner NGO, represented by Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal highlighted the issue of extinction of an endangered species namely Great Indian Bustard GIB). The plea submitted that the said species is listed as critically endangered and is a Schedule 1 (Highest Protection Status under Wildlife Protection Act -1972) Animal.The plea stated that according to the recent population assessment, the largest population of around 169 GIB occur in Thar landscape of Rajasthan (Desert National Park in Jaisalmer alongside Jodhpur) and around 15 GIB each, occurring in Gujarat (Lala-Naliya Sanctuary and itsneighbourhood in Kachchh), Maharashtra (Bustard Sanctuary and its neighbourhood in Kurnool) and Karnataka (Bellary).Petition lawyer Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal submitted that being a low and heavy flyer, GIB faces a High Risk of fatal collision with power lines. He submitted that in order to protect and conserve GIB, MoEFCC issued a project namely “Habitat Improvement and Conservation Breeding of Great Indian Bustard- an Integrated Approach”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-directs-centre-states-to-install-bird-diverters-on-existing-solar-and-wind-powerlines/story-y5CQeB2biIzDTZqTevVOgI.html
23-12-2020||India||Maoists attack bridge construction site in Bihar, rough up workers: Police||A group of Maoists attacked a bridge construction site in Jamui district, thrashing workers and shooting indiscriminately, during the early hours of Wednesday, said police.“The incident happened near Harni-Khalari village along Kiul river, where a bridge is being constructed by Roongta Company at a cost of Rs 4.32 lakh. It seems to be a fall out of levy (extortion) demanded by Maoists,” said a police official, adding that an FIR was filed against the extremists with the Khaira police station.Police said around 20 Maoists arrived at the site searching for an official of the company. When they did not find him, police added, they assaulted those working there, asking them to stop the work. Police sources said that the ultras had demanded levy from the bridge construction company and were regularly threatening them for the last two weeks. “When the company finally declined to pay the levy, the rebels attacked the construction site and destroyed the equipment,” the source said.One of the injured labourers, Nandlal, told police that a dozen-odd men raided their site to know how they could start the construction work without taking ‘permission’ from them.Jamui SP Pramod Kumar Mandal confirmed the incident and said that raids are on against the suspects. Three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. SHO of Khaira police station CP Yadav said three employees - Raj Kumar Pandit, Prayag Sao and Ganesh Das - were injured and referred to a primary health centre. Yadav refused to comment if the Moaists attacked the construction site to demand extortion money or to register their presence.Earlier on December 16, Andhra Pradesh-based Gaytri private limited construction company received a levy demand call of Rs 32.5 crore from suspected Maoists. The company is involved in the project funded by Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDC) for improvement and upgrading and strengthening 54-km stretch of Kadirganj- Khaira Road (SH-82) that connects Jamui and Nawada districts, considered a Maoist hotbed. A case has been filed with Khaira police in the district on the basis of the statement of administrative manager Sudhir Kumar Shandilya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-attack-bridge-construction-site-in-bihar-rough-up-workers-police/story-ZHuPvChHqi9tDJamHjkYUI.html
23-12-2020||India||Odisha makes 14-day home quarantine mandatory for people arriving from UK||As the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 causes havoc in the United Kingdom, the Odisha government has joined the list of Indian states to enforce mandatory quarantine for those arriving in the state from the UK. The Naveen Patnaik government has issued an order for mandatory 14-day home quarantine for such persons.Additional chief secretary of health and family welfare, PK Mohapatra, said passengers with travel history of the UK and those transiting through the airports in the UK within the last 14 days will be required to fill up the Self Declaration Form upon arrival at Bhubaneswar and Jharsuguda airports. The passengers will be advised to remain in mandatory 14-day home quarantine with self monitoring and periodic monitoring by the Rapid Response Team.“If any such person is found symptomatic within the quarantine period, RT-PCR test will be conducted. If he/she is tested positive, he/she will be isolated in an institutional isolation facility and advised treatment as per the protocol,” Mohapatra said.He added that even if a person with travel history of the UK is tested negative, he/she will be advised to complete the 14 days home quarantine period, the letter mentioned.Also Read: Jagannath temple reopens after a gap of 9 months with conditionsSeveral states including Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka have announced standard operating procedures for quarantining passengers arriving from the UK to these destinations.Meanwhile, India has temporarily suspended all flight operations between India and the UK till December 31, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-makes-14-day-home-quarantine-mandatory-for-people-arriving-from-uk/story-IaTjkEMC8mWSNQhFVfNFMJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Sister Abhaya Murder: Kerala priest, nun get life imprisonment||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday sentenced Father Thomas Kotoor and Sister Sephy to life imprisonment for murdering Sister Abhaya, who was found dead in a well at Pious X Convent of the Knanaya Catholic order in Kottayam in March 1992. Both were sentenced under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Main accused Thomas Kotoor will have to undergo double life-term for trespassing into the convent (Section 449) but he can undergo both sentences concurrently, the court said. Besides this, the two convicts will have to undergo seven-year jail for destroying evidence (Section 201) and each will have to pay Rs five lakh fine. They were held guilty by the court on Tuesday. Earlier, main accused Thomas Kotoor informed the court that he was undergoing treatment for cancer and pleaded for lesser punishment. Sister Sephy also sought commutation but the prosecution opposed their contention saying they deserved no sympathy. The murder of 19-year-old Sister Abhaya was initially dismissed as a suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was murder. In 2009, the CBI charge-sheeted Kottoor and Sefi. But the case witnessed many twists and turns and a flurry of petitions which delayed the trial inordinately. According to the CBI charge-sheet, on the day of her death, Abhaya got up early to study and went to the kitchen to wash her face. The charge-sheet surmised that she witnessed some sexual activity involving the two priests and nun and was killed because they feared she may disclose what she had witnessed.She was first attacked with an axe and later dumped in the well, the CBI claimed. Although the case created a sensation in Kerala, the church stood by the accused, saying the accused were innocent.“I am the happiest man today. Both got what they deserved. It is time for the church to do an introspection whether they should shield people like them or not,” said activist Jomon Puthanpurackkal, who took up the case and fought a long legal battle. Former CBI deputy superintendent of police Verghese P Thomas, who first investigated the case and later opted for voluntary retirement after he allegedly came under pressure to write off the death as a suicide, expressed his satisfaction at the verdict. Although most witnesses had turned hostile during the trial, the court said a few prosecution witnesses had been convincing. Interestingly one of the main witnesses in the case was a small-time robber, Raju. He was on the premises of the convent for stealing areca nuts when the incident took place. He reportedly told CBI officers that he saw two priests and a nun at the convent around the time of Abhaya’s death. He later said he was promised many things to own up to the crime and change his statement but he stuck to his testimony.Many movies were made based on the theme of the sensational case. The poor parents of Abhaya who valiantly fought for justice died during the long years of legal battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sister-abhaya-murder-kerala-priest-nun-get-life-imprisonment/story-nyiOYBzQM0ywboYzJkDSGK.html
23-12-2020||India||‘Lotus blooming in Jammu and Kashmir,’ tweets BJP, Omar Abdullah says NC can’t be destroyed||After the majority of the results of the District Development Council election in Jammu and Kashmir were out on Wednesday morning, in which the BJP managed to get 74 seats, the party thanked the people of Jammu and Kashmir for “their univocal belief in the politics of development and good governance.” Terming the result as lotus blooming in Jammu and Kashmir, the party congratulated the “brave and dedicated karyakartas who worked fearlessly and tirelessly to make this possible”.“The DDC election result is a victory of the policies of the government of India, and of the Jammu & Kashmir administration in successfully conducting the polls. The greatest win is for the locals who have endorsed the country’s democratic system,” BJP general secretary Ram Madhav said.“This election has proved that no matter what you do against National Conference, you can’t put an end to its existence. Only Almighty or public has that power. Spread lies and propaganda but truth will come out someday,” National Conference leader and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah said.  Lotus blooms in Jammu and Kashmir!We heartily thank the people of Jammu and Kashmir for their univocal belief in the politics of development and good governance.We congratulate our brave and dedicated Karyakartas who worked fearlessly and tirelessly to make this possible. pic.twitter.com/2bMFvB1tuRHere are the major takeaways of the maiden election in the newly created union territory:> The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) swept the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls by winning 110 seats.> BJP emerged as the single largest party by getting 74 seats after securing the largest vote share.> Omar Abdullah, however, said that BJP can’t claim to be the largest party as the regional parties contested in far fewer seats because of the alliance.> The counting of votes for the 280 DDC constituencies – 14 each in 20 districts – started on Tuesday morning after the peaceful culmination of the eight-phase election from November 28 to December 19. > The results of four constituencies – one each in Bandipora and Kupwara districts of north Kashmir and Poonch and Rajouri districts in Jammu region – are still awaited.> Independent candidates have emerged as big winners in Jammu, with 49 of them having been declared elected so far from 280 seats, putting them ahead of parties like the Congress and the PDP. Among the big Independent wins is Taranjit Singh defeating BJP’s two-time MLA and former minister Sham Lal Choudhary in Suchetgarh in Jammu region by a slender margin of 11 votes.> Five out of the seven former ministers who contested the DDC election in Jammu and Kashmir have won, while two belonging to the BJP suffered defeats.> Former BJP minister Sham Lal Choudhary lost by a razor-thin margin of 11 votes in Suchetgarh constituency of Jammu district in the maiden District Development Council (DDC) election.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lotus-blooming-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tweets-bjp-omar-abdullah-says-nc-can-t-be-destroyed/story-bSHJJhjoNKFj7Pz6wwY6zN.html
23-12-2020||India||No public interest in disclosing names of electoral bond buyers, says CIC||The Central Information Commission (CIC), India’s transparency watchdog, has said no public interest is involved in disclosing the names of buyers of electoral bonds while reiterating the argument that such information cannot be shared under the Right to Information (RTI) Act as it is held in a “fiduciary” capacity -- a move that reflects a change in position from an order it issued in January. “There appears to be no larger public interest overriding the right to privacy of the donors and donees (recipients) concerned,” information commissioner Suresh Chandra said in an order issued on December 21.In January, another bench of the CIC said in an unrelated case that the electoral bonds process should be more transparent and the names of those buying them should be declared.Maharashtra-based RTI applicant Vihar Durve had sought details from State Bank of India (SBI) of those who bought electoral bonds from the bank and donated them to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Left parties, from domestic branches of the bank between 2017 and 2018.The electoral bond scheme allows citizens and corporate entities to buy monetary instruments from SBI and donate them to political parties, which can redeem them for money. Citizen groups have for long argued that in the interest of transparency, the identity of such donors must be disclosed.Also Read: ADR seeks urgent hearing on electoral bonds case in Supreme CourtAfter being dissatisfied with the reply of SBI’s public information officer, who refused to provide the names of the donors on grounds that it was third-party information that cannot be shared, Durve filed an appeal with the bank’s First Appellate Authority (FAA).FAA also ruled that the information related to electoral bonds issued to political parties was held by SBI in a fiduciary capacity and that the names of the donors could not be disclosed because they fell in the bracket of “third party information”.Section 8 of the RTI Act prohibits sharing of third-party information without written consent of the third party. However, the section also says that the information can be shared if the information officer is convinced that it would serve “larger public interest”.Durve, in his petition, contended that declaring the names of the donors will serve the larger public interest of ensuring transparency in the funding of political parties. He also said that electoral bonds were an opaque way of funding with citizens not knowing who, especially e corporate entities, were donating money to the parties.“Citizens need to know which companies are funding which party to infer whether they (corporate) are influencing policy making,” Durve said.The applicant filed an appeal with the CIC in September 2018. On December 21, 2020, CIC upheld SBI’s stand, holding that “disclosure of names of donors and the donees may be in contravention of provisions contained in section 8 (1) (e) (j) of the RTI Act.”The section exempts a public authority from giving citizens’ information available with it in fiduciary relationship, if a competent authority is satisfied it would not serve larger public interest. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), political parties have received a total of 12,452 electoral bonds worth Rs 6,210.39 crore until January this year, from January 2017. The BJP received about 60% of the total funding through electoral bonds and Congress about 31.5%.ADR also said the funding received through electoral bonds was more than the money generated through the sale of coupons, vouchers or cash donations for the BJP. ADR in October filed an application in the Supreme Court seeking an early hearing of its petition demanding scrapping of the electoral bonds. saying it was in violation of various transparency regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-public-interest-in-disclosing-names-of-electoral-bond-buyers-says-cic/story-ooeZmLT8p8tl5g5ahTqLBN.html
23-12-2020||India||Modi govt committed to farmers’ welfare; hope they soon withdraw stir: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday reiterated the government’s commitment to farmers’ welfare and hoped the farmers protesting against three farm laws enacted in September will soon withdraw their agitation. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not allow any harm to the farmers under any circumstancesIn a series of tweets on the occasion of late former prime minister Charan Singh’s birth anniversary that is observed as Kisan Diwas (farmer’s day), Rajnath Singh cited measures Modi has taken in the farmers’ interest. He added Charan Singh, who was known to espouse the farmers’ causes, has inspired Modi to take these measures. Rajnath Singh noted key ministers have talked with protesting farmers to convince them to end the agitation against the farm laws.आज किसान दिवस के अवसर मैं देश के सभी अन्नदाताओं का अभिनंदन करता हूँ। उन्होंने देश को खाद्य सुरक्षा का कवच प्रदान किया है। कृषि क़ानूनों को लेकर कुछ किसान आंदोलनरत हैं। सरकार उनसे पूरी संवेदनशीलता के साथ बात कर रही है। मैं आशा करता हूँ कि वे जल्द ही अपने आंदोलन को वापिस लेगें।“...The government has been talking to them [farmers] with the utmost sensitivity. I hope they will soon withdraw their agitation,” he said. Rajnath Singh paid tributes to Charan Singh, saying the latter voiced concerns of farmers and worked for their welfare. “He [Charan Singh] always wanted that farmers should get a good price for their produce so that their income increases and that their honour always remained secure.” He lauded the farmers for providing the country food security.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-committed-to-farmers-welfare-hope-protesting-farmers-soon-withdraw-stir-rajnath/story-d5O3h4UWIRbvLMosYaha4M.html
23-12-2020||India||China, US, UK, Russia have started vaccinating, says Rahul Gandhi, questions India’s progress||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not deploying coronavirus vaccines in the country despite other countries beginning their respective vaccination drives. “23 lakh people in the world have already received Covid vaccinations. China, US, UK, Russia have started. India ka number kab ayegaa, Modi ji? (When will India’s number come?),” he tweeted. India is yet to approve a vaccine for its vaccination drive but reports say that the government could approve the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine by next week. They are also considering the emergency use authorisation requested by Bharat Biotech and Pfizer. The government has assured that the vaccine would be deployed only when its safety has been proven.The Ministry of Health has said that they have ramped up storage facilities for the vaccine and that in the beginning, the vaccine would be administered to 100 people a day who would then be monitored but eventually, everyone would be administered the shot. Frontline workers are the first in line to get vaccinated in the first phase of the vaccination drive.The US have authorized the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech and the Moderna coronavirus vaccines with several high ranking government officials like Vice President Mike Pence, president-elect Joe Biden, Anthony Fauci and health secretary Alex Azar receiving either of the two. The UK has authorized use of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine with 130,000 people administered the shot within the first week of the vaccination drive. The country is currently facing a grave coronavirus crisis with the emergence of the new B117 mutated strain that is 70% more transmissible than the original. Prime Minister Boris Johnson was forced to impose lockdown upon London and southern England during the Christmas period to contain the spread. China has deployed Sinopharm’s coronavirus vaccine to inoculate its citizens against the virus while Russia has deployed the Sputnik V vaccine. India currently has 10,099,066 confirmed coronavirus infections and the death toll stands at 146,444 as per Johns Hopkins university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-us-uk-russia-have-started-vaccinating-says-rahul-gandhi-questions-india-s-progress/story-PMnVts9sBMgXP8Fhm0yowN.html
23-12-2020||India||Jagannath temple reopens after a gap of 9 months with conditions||After a gap of more than 9 months, the Jagannath Temple in Puri reopened on Wednesday morning with the family members of the temple priests getting the first chance to see the Lord.After the door of the sanctum sanctorum was opened at 4.59 am, rituals like Mangal Alati, Mailam, Tadaplagi, Abakash Niti were performed following which the family members of the temple priests queued up inside the 12th-century shrine.Overwhelmed by the chance to enter the temple, several women devotees broke down. “I can’t describe how I felt after seeing the Lord after so many months. I cried. I have never seen the deities so beautiful,” a woman devotee told a local TV channel. Another devotee said she never felt so relieved in her life. “All these months I wanted to see the Lord. Now I am sure the pandemic would end,” she said.The temple was closed since March 20 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Even the annual Rathayatra of the deities in June and Nagarjuna Vesha, held after a gap of 26 years, last month, were held without the presence of common people.Puri district collector Balwant Singh said the servitors and their families will be allowed darshans till December 25. Families of servitors have been asked to carry the health insurance card. In case of unavailability of the health card, they can furnish other identity cards to gain entry.Also Read: In Odisha, 22 rare idols stolen from 13th century Shiva temple “From December 26 to 31, rest of the residents of Puri town will get the chance to visit the temple. Puri municipality officials will visit each ward and issue a token in the name of the head of the family. The district administration will decide the timing of the visit of the ward residents. Locals have been asked to visit the temple only during the permitted time slot. The temple will remain closed on January 1 and 2 to avoid the surge of visitors. From January 3, people from outside Puri can visit the temple with all precautions,” he said.From January 3, a negative test report for Covid-19 has been made mandatory. Entry of children below the age of 10 years and elderly persons above the age of 65, have been prohibited.Meanwhile, the process of opening of other important temples of Odisha such as Bhubaneswar’s Lingaraj temple, Aradi’s Akhandalamani temple, Puri’s Sakshigopal temple and Jagatsinghpur’s Sarala temple has started. The Lingaraj temple would open its doors to the devotees from December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-reopens-after-a-gap-of-9-months-with-conditions/story-SREHY8hoC3QwNeoGtgohgJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Army chief Naravane reviews situation along LAC||Indian Army chief General MM Naravane on Wednesday visited areas on the southern bank of Pangong Lake and reviewed the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the standoff with China. Naravane, who reached the forward area at 8.30am, visited troops of the XIV Corps, which is part of the Udhampur-based Northern Command. He is expected to return to New Delhi in the evening, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. ALSO WATCH | Army Chief Gen Naravane visits Ladakh; reviews situation along LAC “General MM Naravane #COAS visited forward areas of #FireandFury Corps including Rechin La and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC,” the army said in a tweet. General MM Naravane #COAS visited forward areas of #FireandFury Corps including Rechin La and undertook a first-hand assessment of the situation along the LAC. He was briefed by #GOC #FireandFury Corps and other local commanders on the operational preparedness of our forces. pic.twitter.com/W0xVgMO1Oz“He was briefed by #GOC #FireandFury Corps and other local commanders on the operational preparedness of our forces,” the army said, without giving further details.India and China had held their last round of diplomatic talks on the standoff in Ladakh sector of the LAC on December 18, after a gap of more than two months, though there were no signs of an immediate breakthrough. Following the meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs, the two sides had agreed to hold another meeting of senior army commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-naravane-reviews-situation-along-lac/story-L61KM1VhCNGUUwvdPjAiWL.html
23-12-2020||India||Unfortunate that farmers have to protest for rights, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday said it is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmers, but unfortunately cultivators are now forced to stage protest for their rights.On the occasion of the National Farmers’ Day, the former Union agriculture minister in a post on Twitter wished for justice to the farmers.Thousands of cultivators have been protesting at the border points of Delhi since November 26 against the Centre’s three new farm laws.“It is the responsibility of those in power to aptly honour farmer who forms an important part of economy. But unfortunately the farmer of the country is now forced to stage protest for his rights and demands,” Pawar tweeted.“Wishing for justice to the farmer on the occasion of the National Farmers’ Day,” he added.Farmers protesting at the Delhi border points have been demanding a repeal of the new agri laws.Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-that-farmers-have-to-protest-for-rights-says-sharad-pawar/story-Te3XG3OQcAofgITg4OcYzN.html
23-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rahul Gandhi to hold protest demonstration against farm laws on Thursday, later meet President and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi to hold protest demonstration against farm laws on Thursday, later meet PresidentCongress leader Rahul Gandhi will lead a protest on Thursday against the three farm laws enacted in September before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind along with a delegation of his party’s lawmakers. Read moreFarmers’ protest: Chilla and Ghazipur borders remain closedDelhi’s border crossing points with Uttar Pradesh at Chilla and Ghazipur continued to remain closed on Wednesday because of the farmers’ protest even as the traffic police have suggested alternative routes for motorists. Read more Covid-19 deaths in India largely due to patients reporting late at hospital: GovtFewer patients are dying in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as compared to other countries, and deaths happen largely because patients are reaching hospital late, say experts in the government. Read more Chaudhary Charan Singh is PM Modi’s inspiration, says Rajnath Singh, wishes farmers on Kisan DiwasUnion minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday took to Twitter to wish the farmers of the country on the occasion of Kisan Diwas, which is celebrated on December 23. Read more India vs Australia: Shubman Gill, Ravindra Jadeja spend long hours in nets, in line to be picked for 2nd Test in MelbourneWith Virat Kohli already back in India for the birth of his first child and Mohammed Shami out of the series with a fractured wrist, multiple changes are expected in the Indian playing for the second Test against Australia in Melbourne starting Saturday. Read moreWoman battling Covid-19 receives care package, letter from postal worker in HoustonLisette LeJeune hailing from Houston is isolating at home as she and her two sons battle coronavirus. As she’s unable to leave her house she is dependent on her family members to send her groceries and medical supplies through mail. Read more Watch: ‘Doctors, nurses are real Superman & Wonder Woman’: Rajnath Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rahul-gandhi-to-hold-protest-demonstration-against-farm-laws-on-thursday-later-meet-president-and-all-the-latest-news/story-d3fUTgulMJaC44laankBbN.html
23-12-2020||India||Karnataka imposes night curfew between 10pm and 6am till January 2||Karnataka authorities decided to impose night curfew in the state till January 2, state chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced on Wednesday. It is the second state after Maharashtra which has imposed such measures amid concerns regarding the new strain of coronavirus (Covid-19).“This (night curfew) has been done to prevent and contain the coronavirus strain found in the UK. We are also monitoring international passengers arriving in the state,” news agency ANI reported state health minister Dr K Sudhakar as saying. “It will be applicable for the entire state.. I request all public to cooperate to prevent and contain the new Covid- 19 strain,” he also said.The Chief Minister made the announcement following a meeting with Health Minister K Sudhakar, members of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for Covid-19 and senior officials.The curfew will be imposed between 10pm to 6am till January 2.The new variant of Covid-19, VUI–202012/01, has been found in the UK. It accounted for nearly 60% of all cases in London by mid-December and thought to be 70% more transmissible than earlier versions of the coronavirus. Scientists are still researching on the effects, virulence and severity of the new strain.In precautionary measures against the new variant, authorities in India have suspended flight operation from and to the UK till December 30. The government also mandated RT-PCR tests of passengers who have arrived from Britain in the last few days.On Tuesday, 22 people -- including six from Delhi -- tested positive for the virus, and their samples were sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-imposes-night-curfew-till-january-2/story-VJkdNuOGczPF56FFIXm33I.html
23-12-2020||India||Farm laws: Rahul Gandhi to hold protest demonstration on Thursday, later meet President||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will lead a protest on Thursday against the three farm laws enacted in September before meeting President Ram Nath Kovind along with a delegation of his party’s lawmakers to submit around 20 million signatures collected from across the country over the last three months seeking repeal of the legislation.“After that [the protest] he [Gandhi] and other senior leaders will meet the President and submit a memorandum with 2 crore [20 million] signatures seeking his intervention,” Congress leader K Suresh said.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersGandhi earlier undertook a tractor rally across Punjab and Haryana as part of the campaign against the laws.The Congress launched a nationwide campaign in September for collecting appeals of farmers, farm labourers, and other stakeholders addressed to Kovind for repealing the laws.“The government has chosen to brazenly defame, discredit and eventually tire out the lakhs of protesting farmers. The Modi government and its ministers have chosen to insult them,” Congress leader KC Venugopal said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-hold-protest-demonstration-against-farm-laws-on-thursday-later-meet-president/story-bGhNZcFlSC2r8EdC5XjJtK.html
23-12-2020||India||When will India’s turn come: Rahul Gandhi to PM on Covid-19 vaccinations||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi when will India start its Covid-19 vaccination drive while saying the US, the UK and Russia have started it. “23 lakh [2.3 million] people in the world have already received Covid vaccinations. China, US, UK, Russia have started. India ka number kab ayegaa, Modi ji? [When will India’s turn come?]” asked Gandhi, who has been critical of the government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. 23 lakh people in the world have already received Covid vaccinations.China, US, UK, Russia have started...India ka number kab ayegaa, Modi ji? pic.twitter.com/cSmT8laNfJThe Congress has been attacking Modi and his government for “failing to control” the spread of the virus. It has maintained Modi should tell the nation his strategy and the plans to contain the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-s-turn-come-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-on-covid-19-vaccinations/story-FPVscZ5OxJwMl2tl8stSSM.html
23-12-2020||India||Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi slipped below 1%, says health minister Jain||Delhi’s health minister Satyender Jain on Wednesday said that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the capital has dropped to below 1 per cent and more than 80,000 samples are tested every day for the deadly virus. As per the health bulletin released on Tuesday, 82,386 samples were tested.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“Covid-19 positivity rate has fallen below 1 per cent in Delhi. Over 80,000 tests are being conducted every day,” the minister was quoted by ANI as saying.Delhi on Monday recorded 803 fresh cases of coronavirus, the lowest since August 16. It was the first time in 128 days that the national capital recorded below 1,000 positive cases of Covid-19. The positivity rate that used to be more than the national average during the months of October and November was reported to be 1.29 per cent on Monday, as per the Delhi health bulletin. The minister had also said that Delhi’s positivity rate is at an all-time low in 128 days.Suggesting that Delhi is witnessing a slowing down of the third wave of the virus, the people still need to be cautious and wear a mask. He said wearing a mask is the only solution to avoid the virus especially with the new mutation of coronavirus that has been discovered recently in the United Kingdom. Door to door checking will be done of all returnees from the UK who arrived in Delhi in the past two weeks, the health minister added.India on Wednesday recorded 23,950 new coronavirus cases and 333 deaths as per the data of the Union health ministry. On Tuesday, the country had recorded less than 20,000 cases for the first time in 173 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-delhi-slipped-below-1-says-health-minister-jain/story-tbbROIEATQ6u7DJO5bv3LN.html
23-12-2020||India||Abhaya murder case: Father Thomas Kotoor, nun Sephy get life term, after 28 years||A day after a CBI court in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram pronounced a catholic priest and a nun guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya, first accused Father Thomas Kotoor was sentenced to double life term on Wednesday. Third accused Sister Sephy too has been sentenced to life imprisonment in the case that goes back to 1992.Both accused Thomas Kotoor and Sister Sefi were found guilty of murder (Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code), Section 449 (house trespassing to commit a crime) and Section 201 (destroying evidence) and other sections of the IPC. In 1992, 19-year-old Sister Abhaya, a plus-two student, was found dead in the well of the Pious X Convent in Kottayam. The case was initially dismissed as a suicide by the state police and crime branch, but the CBI later concluded that it was murder. In 2009, the CBI charge-sheeted Catholic priest Thomas Kottoor and Sister Sephy in the case. In 1993, the case went to the CBI after a human rights activist took the matter to the court. In its first report in 1996, the CBI said it was a suicide case but a year after it said in its second report that it was a homicide. In 2008, the CBI submitted its third report charging two Catholic priests, Father Thomas Kottoor and Father Jose Poothrukayil, and a nun, Sister Sephy with murder, destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy and other charges. According to the charge sheet, Abhaya was killed because she was witness to some alleged immoral activity involving two priests and a nun. She was attacked with an axe before being dumped in the well, the central agency claimed.In 2009, all three of them were granted bail. The trial of the came began in 2019 after 27 years. One of the main witnesses in the case was a small-time robber, Raju. He was on the premises of the convent for stealing areca nuts when the incident took place. He reportedly told CBI officers that he saw two priests and a nun at the convent around the time of Abhaya’s death. He later said he was promised many things to own up to the crime and change his statement but he stuck to his testimony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhaya-murder-case-father-thomas-kotoor-gets-double-life-term-after-28-years/story-HCw7l8vBazKi4CarLsAr2I.html
23-12-2020||India||Tamil Nadu government permits Jallikattu amid Covid-19; negative certificate mandatory||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday allowed Jallikattu celebrations in the state amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). As per the advisory, the event will held with 50% audience. While for participants, negative certificate for Covid-19 is mandatory. Jallikattu is a custom practiced where cattle stock are worshipped, during the Pongal festival, primarily in Tamil Nadu. It is a sport where a bull is let loose among a crowd of people. The participants are supposed to take control of the bull by holding its hump for as long as they can.The festival is celebrated on Mattu Pongal, the third day of the harvest festival. The bull species called Bos indicus, or humped cattle, is specifically bred for Jallikatu. The bulls that do well at the event are used latter for breeding.Over the years, the festival has faced major criticism from several animal welfare groups who have described Jallikattu as “barbaric.” But political parties and people of the state have insisted that it is part of Tamil Nadu’s tradition and culture. The move comes ahead of Tamil Nadu going to assembly polls in early 2021. Earlier this week, the government banned New Year celebrations on beaches, roads, hotels and resorts to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-government-permits-jallikattu-amid-covid-19-negative-certificate-mandatory-not-more-than-50-spectators-allowed/story-WFNrYPU9J4mSGlDbQRtRGL.html
23-12-2020||India||Chaudhary Charan Singh is PM Modi’s inspiration, says Rajnath Singh, wishes farmers on Kisan Diwas||Union minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday took to Twitter to wish the farmers of the country on the occasion of Kisan Diwas, which is celebrated on December 23 — on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh.Thie year, the day comes amid the ongoing protest of the farmers which is moving from strength to strength. Farmers will skip a meal today in a symbolic protest.The Centre-farmers’ talks hit a roadblock after the fifth round of talks as the farmers said they want complete repeal of the three farm laws. Unless the Centre concedes, there will be no further talks, agitators said. Union agriculture ministry has invited the farmers for the sixth round of talk the date of which will be decided by the farmers.“Today, on the occasion of Farmers Day, I greet all the contributors of the country. They have provided the country with food security. Some farmers are agitated about agricultural laws. The government is talking to them with full sensitivity. I hope that they will withdraw their movement soon,” Rajnath Singh tweeted.Reiterating that the farm reforms won’t harm farmers, Rajnath Singh wrote, “Chaudhary Charan Singh wanted the income of farmers to increase, their crops to get remunerative prices and their honour to be protected. Prime Minister Narendra Modi drew inspiration from him and took several steps for the welfare of farmers. He will not let the interests of farmers to get hurt.”“Former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singhji was a pioneer among the farmer leaders of the country. The country will always remember his contribution,” Rajnath Singh wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaudhary-charan-singh-is-pm-modi-s-inspiration-says-rajnath-singh-wishes-farmers-on-kisan-diwas/story-7iKtHTz3JvYNKydYq7FzfL.html
23-12-2020||India||BJP may hold events for farmers across the country on Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold events for farmers on the occasion of late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birthday on December 25 at block levels to explain how the farm laws enacted in September will benefit them, people aware of the matter said. It will also highlight steps the government has taken for the farmers amid protests by farm unions demanding the scrapping of the three laws.The Centre is also expected to pay Rs18,000 crore to 90 million farmers under its PM-Kisan scheme on December 25.In a letter to functionaries across the country, BJP general secretary Arun Singh has asked them to install big TV screens for beaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on the occasion. It says BJP chief JP Nadda wants the party workers to organise large gatherings of farmers at block levels to ensure they listen to the speech.Also Read: Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmersSpecial leaflets prepared for awareness about the government’s “pro-farmer initiatives” would also be distributed. Singh has urged party workers to get the leaflets translated into local languages.The local level programmes would begin an hour before the speech. BJP functionaries have been asked to give details of steps such as the increase in minimum support prices the Centre has taken for the benefit of farmers.Singh has urged BJP workers to gather outside Agricultural Produce Market Committees and cooperative organisations for similar events and gatherings. In his letter, Singh has said Modi is committed to working for farmers and the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-plans-farmer-events-across-the-country-on-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary/story-vQ5L09bfFNfoYu5bAjJQ4H.html
23-12-2020||India||Covid-19 deaths in India largely due to patients reporting late at hospital: Govt||Fewer patients are dying in India due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as compared to other countries, and deaths happen largely because patients are reaching hospital late, say experts in the government.The country’s deaths per million population due to Covid-19 currently stand at 106, and the global figures show that 216 patients are dying of Covid-19 per million population in comparison.“The deaths are low in number and our analysis shows that most of the positive cases, who are serious, come to a hospital late; when their condition has fairly deteriorated. It is important to get tested and seek medical aid in time to avoid complications,” said Dr VK Paul, in Tuesday’s media briefing on Covid-19 update.India’s disease trajectory shows there has been a constant decline in both the number of new deaths and new cases reported daily.Also Read: India records 23,950 new infections in 24 hours, 22% rise from yesterday“In India we are seeing 7,300 cases per million population currently and global figures show 9,600 cases getting reported per million population. Ttat goes on to show that the country has managed to control the disease quite well,” said Rajesh Bhushan, union health secretary.The comparison of past seven days’ data on Covid-19 cases per million showed that average daily new cases had declined from about 46,000 between November 4 and 10 to about 24,000 in the week between December 16 and 22.On Monday, India had reported less than 20,000 new cases after almost 173 days, and health ministry attributes the steady decline in numbers and deaths to sustained efforts at the ground level both from the central and state governments.“Teams of experts were sent to states that were reporting a higher caseload to assist governments in managing the condition on ground. Experts would look for areas that needed special focus and drafted mitigation plans accordingly. All that has worked in bringing the numbers down overall, and the result is here for all to see,” said a senior health ministry official.“Having said that, there is absolutely no reason to drop our guards yet as there have been multiple waves of the disease already. The surveillance and other measures will continue along with people observing Covid-appropriate behaviour, which is absolutely necessary in curtailing the transmission rate,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-deaths-in-india-largely-due-to-patients-reporting-late-at-hospital-govt/story-lx6A9cVW7jej0TQiwWqDrO.html
23-12-2020||India||Kisan Diwas 2020: Congress, SAD extend support to protesting farmers||As farmers protesting against the three agriculture laws passed in September are intensifying their protest on the occasion of Kisan Diwas 2020, many political parties have extended their support. Farmers have decided to skip a meal today to honour the day and amplify their dissent against the new laws. The Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab has asked its members to observe fast in solidarity with the farmers. According to reports, party leader Sukhbir Singh Badal decided that the party would observe Farmers’ day and send out a message that Punjabis stand united against the ‘black laws’ that can destroy farmers. The Indian National Congress will hold statewide protest in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. In Kerala, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on Tuesday marched to the Raj Bhavan to send out a message of solidarity with the protesting farmers against the new laws.Also Read | Kisan Diwas 2020: As farmers intensify protest, here’s everything you need to know about Chaudhary Charan Singh’s birthdayThe birth anniversary of former Prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh marks National Farmers’ Day (Kisan Diwas). Kisan Diwas celebrates the contribution of the former prime minister to the agricultural reforms of India. Defence minister Rajnath Singh too greeted farmers on the occasion and said that the government is holding talks with them with full sensitivity. He hoped that the agitation against the laws would end soon.“On Farmers Day, I greet farmers of the country. They have provided the country with food security. Some farmers are agitating against farm laws. Govt is holding talks with them with full sensitivity. I hope that they’ll end their agitation soon,” the defence minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-diwas-2020-congress-sad-extend-support-to-protesting-farmers/story-f4jC58tYIVojSstrQZg8iO.html
23-12-2020||India||Karnataka minister accused of seeking Rs 1cr bribe alleges conspiracy||A day after it belatedly came to light that a complaint has been lodged with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office (PMO) against Karnataka excise minister H Nagesh, accused of seeking a bribe of Rs one crore for a transfer, the minister said he was being targeted for being a Dalit.In a letter written to the PMO, Sneha, the daughter of L N Mohan Kumar, the joint commissioner of excise department in Ballari, has alleged that the minister, through intermediaries, demanded a sum of Rs one crore for Kumar’s transfer to Bengaluru.Sneha, in the letter to the PMO, said that her father was suffering due to ill-health and sought a transfer to Bengaluru, which had a vacancy in an equivalent position, for good medical treatment. However, the minister, through two aides-- Manjunath and Harsha-- demanded a sum of Rs one crore to sanction the transfer. She also said that in spite of bringing the issue to the notice of deputy CM Ashwath Narayan, no action was taken against the minister.Responding to the letter written to the PMO, excise minister Nagesh claimed that Mohan Kumar had lost his mental balance and was making all kinds of false allegations. He also claimed that Sneha was a habitual complainant against authorities. “I completely deny these charges as they are baseless and false. I am being targeted because I am a Dalit,” the minister said on Tuesday.Nagesh also said that he would file a defamation case against Kumar and his family members for allegedly making baseless charges. “I also have information that Kumar may have lost his mental balance. I believe this is nothing but a political conspiracy to finish off a scheduled caste leader,” he said.Also Read: Karnataka sees around 79% voting in first phase of gram panchayat pollsThe official in question is said to have been forced to go on leave, though HT could not independently verify the same. Efforts to reach Kumar on his mobile were also unsuccessful. Opposition parties have alleged that more than 600 transfers have been done in the excise department in the last one month alone after taking bribes.The Congress on Tuesday tweeted, “@BJP4Karnataka Minister@HNageshMulbagal has been demanding 1 Cr for posting officials says a complaint to Supreme Leaders. Do you have it in you to remove him from Cabinet or is the PM @narendramodi’s slogan of “Na Khaunga, Na Khanedunga” just another of his many jhumlas.”Nagesh was one of the two independent candidates who got elected in the May 2018 assembly polls. He initially joined hands with the Congress and the JDS and was made the minister for small scale industries in the H D Kumaraswamy led coalition government. Later, however, he switched sides and extended support to the BJP to form the government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-accused-of-seeking-rs-1cr-bribe-alleges-conspiracy/story-h3detuQ7dcwPfFJTxnRIXO.html
23-12-2020||India||India records 23,950 new infections in 24 hours, 22% rise from yesterday||A day after recording the lowest number of daily Covid-19 infections, India on Wednesday reported 23,950 new cases, taking the total tally to 10,099066. On Tuesday, the 24-hour tally reached the lowest with only 19,556 cases recorded on Monday. This was the lowest after 173 days.The number of active cases has dropped below 2 lakh and is now at 1,89,240The health ministry on Tuesday issued a new SOP in the context of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2 detected in the United Kingdom, making it mandatory for all states to test passengers travelling from or transiting through airports in the UK. Passengers testing positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility in a separate (isolation) unit coordinated by the respective State Health Authorities. Those who are found negative on testing with RT-PCR at the airport would be advised quarantine at home and followed up.A total of 26,895 people have been discharged in the last 24 hours while 333 people died of Covid in the same time period. India’s recovery rate is at 95.65 per cent and the mortality rate s 1.45 per cent. The number of active cases forms only 2.90 per cent of the total case.According to the Union health ministry’s data, Kerala, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh have reported the maximum number of cases.“India continues to be among nations with the lowest Covid cases per million population and lowest deaths per million population. New Covid cases as well as new Covid cases deaths per million population reported in the last 7 days are also among the lowest. Average daily new cases have shown a continuous decline from 46,301 during the first week of November to 24,135 this week. Average daily deaths has also come down from 556 during the first week of November to 343 this week. Total active Covid -19 cases is less than 3% and India’s recovery rate is more than 95%,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.On the new strain of the virus, he said there is no need to panic and this will have no impact on the potential if emerging vaccines. “There is no need to panic. We are yet to spot such a virus in our country for which there are intensive efforts in the offing. This virus increases infectiousness but does not increase propensity for death or hospitalization or severity of the disease. Mutation is a very common behaviour in viruses. The current mutation says that 17 mutations have happened all at once. Its tendency to enter our cell has become higher. Transmissibility has increased with this mutation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-23-950-new-infections-in-24-hours-22-rise-from-yesterday/story-B1q57Vd9ORfGcOJLe1RrVO.html
23-12-2020||India||Power ministry notifies rules for consumer rights||The Union power ministry has notified rules to ensure the rights of consumers and to mandate standards of service such as round-the-clock electricity supply. The rules also provide for penalties for power distribution firms in case they do not maintain mandated standards of services.“The Ministry of Power has promulgated rules laying down the rights of consumers... These Rules emanate from the conviction that the power systems exist to serve the consumers and the consumers have rights,” the ministry said in a statement on Monday when the Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules were notified.“ Distribution Companies across the country are monopolies – whether government or private – and the consumer has no alternative - therefore it was necessary that the consumers’ rights be laid down in Rules and a system for enforcement of these rights be put in place.”Also Read: India plans to allow relinquished coal-fired plants to sell powerThe statement said implementation of the rules shall ensure that new electricity connections, refunds, and other services are given in a time-bound manner. It added that wilful disregard for consumer rights will result in penalties for service providers. The statement said the rules are aimed to benefit about 300 million existing and prospective consumers.According to the rules, an automatic compensation mechanism will be put in place.The ministry in September published a set of draft rights for electricity consumers under the Electricity Act, 2003, which has a consumer charter. The latest rules empower consumers and introduce new supply rights for them.The Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 2020, seek timely and simplified procedure for connections, expedited modification of the existing ones, 2% to 5% rebate on serving bills with a delay of 60 days or more. It allows payment of all bills worth Rs 1,000 or more online.The policy proposes suspension of licences in case of non-availability of adequate power supply arrangements and the imposition of penalties in case of disruptions in supply to consumers, except due to force majeure condition or technical faults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-ministry-notifies-rules-for-consumer-rights/story-3Aj1SSEnrEeqbcqcHkyUKL.html
23-12-2020||India||CVC asks all agencies, departments to vacate stays within 6 months||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has directed all the investigation agencies and government departments to take immediate steps to ensure stays granted by trial or high courts in civil or criminal matters are vacated within six months and proceedings are commenced in consonance with the Supreme Court’s March 2018 judgement, people familiar with the matter said.A three-judge Supreme Court bench on March 28, 2018, said stays will automatically lapse after six months, except in exceptional circumstances, in all pending matters before high courts or other courts related to Prevention of Corruption Act or other civil or criminal cases. It noted that several proceedings were adjourned sine die on account of stays granted by trial courts or high courts and this has badly hit the trials.Also Read: Exit deals don’t negate right to compensation: Supreme Court orderIn a circular on Tuesday, the CVC said, “In respect of those cases, where stay was granted by a trial court more than six months ago and also in cases based on Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) investigation, which have been kept in abeyance due to court orders, the issues may be examined in light of the aforementioned judgement of the SC [Supreme Court].”It said appropriate and immediate steps may also be taken, in consultation with the organisation’s counsels/legal branch, to ensure that the stays are vacated within six months.People familiar with the matter said several high-profile accused usually avoid trials in corruption, money laundering and other cases by availing stays for a longer period from the lower or the high courts. “This period is also often used by the accused to tamper with the evidence or threaten the witnesses. Any stay should not exceed six months as stated by the SC [Supreme Court]. It will also help us get convictions in time,” said a CBI officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-asks-all-agencies-departments-to-vacate-stays-within-6-months/story-nMLsiIY9XqP7CQH64QjTyN.html
23-12-2020||India||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora’s last rites conducted at hometown Durg||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh, Motilal Vora’s last rites took place with full state honours at Shivnath Muktidham at his native town of Durg on Tuesday. His elder son Arvind Vora performed the last rites. Chhattisgarh chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, MP CM, Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat and other senior leaders of the BJP and Congress were present to pay tributes to the leader, who breathed his last in a Delhi hospital on Monday. Leader of Opposition Dharamlal Kasuhik, former chief minister Raman Singh, JCC (J) legislator Dharamjeet Singh and state ministers and MLAs also paid homage to the leader. The mortal remains of Vora reached Raipur from Delhi on Tuesday morning and were received by state Congress president Mohan Markam, MLA Vikas Upadhyay and Mayor Aijaz Dhebar. From the airport, the mortal remains were taken to the party’s state office- Rajiv Bhavan-- where party leaders and workers paid their last respects. Meanwhile, the second day of winter session of Chhattisgarh Assembly was adjourned for the day after paying tribute to Vora. While paying a rich tribute to Vora, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said the void created by his death could never be filled. On Monday, Chhattisgarh government declared three-day state mourning. Also Read: Motilal Vora (1927-2020)‘He was an ideal example of a political worker and leader ’“In this duration of state-mourning, national flags hoisted on government buildings will fly at half-mast and no entertainment or cultural programme will be organised. The government has also decided that the last rites of Vora would be performed with state honour,” a press note issued by the Chhattisgarh government stated. A former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Vora was also a Rajya Sabha member from Chhattisgarh. He also served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer for 16 years till 2018. The post was handed over to another senior leader Ahmed Patel after a reshuffle by the Congress president Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-congress-leader-motilal-vora-s-last-rites-conducted-at-hometown-durg/story-JB2FftXrMGA7ISlZDBguEN.html
23-12-2020||India||New textile policy likely to be focussed on boosting domestic industry||The government is coming up with a new textile policy that promises to boost the domestic industry, promote cultivation, processing and branding of organic cotton, and to set up hubs to manufacture machinery with the help of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), officials familiar with the matter said.“In keeping with the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat [to make India a self-reliant nation], the idea is to increase the domestic production of several components in the sector to make India a global textile player,” said a textile ministry official on the condition of anonymity. “We import nearly 75% of machinery for the textile sector. The aim is to change that and manufacture the machinery indigenously.”News agency Press Trust of India on December 2 quoted textile secretary Ravi Capoor citing a Niti Aayog-led study that found Rs 13,000 crore worth machinery was being imported for the industry. The study highlighted that India has reached nowhere in terms of technology up-gradation except in the spinning segment.Also Read: ‘RE: Think, Act, Create’ launches The ReFashion HubOfficials said seven mega textile hubs are expected to be set up across the country as per the policy. End-to-end production, from raw material to export of the finished product, would be available at these hubs. A mega textile park spread over 1,000 hectares of land will boost the growth of integrated textiles.Officials said a textile research institute will be set up in Coimbatore under the policy. “A draft of the policy is likely to be floated for public feedback soon,” said a second official.Officials said the policy seeks a structural shift to make India a man-made fibre (MMF) rather than a cotton-driven industry. HT on December 9 reported the Union textile ministry was considering over Rs 10,000 crore production linked incentive scheme to encourage the industry. The ministry has identified 50 key sectors such as sanitary napkins and winterwear for the scheme with a five-year gestation period. It has removed the anti-dumping duty on purified terephthalic acid and acrylic fibre to boost the MMF sector. “The next step is to remove it from viscose fibre,” the second official said. “The world is moving towards MMF, we need to embrace that as well.”Officials said the proposed policy also seeks to boost handcart and handloom sectors. “The move will take the industry forward and not let it be primarily subsidiary oriented,” the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-textile-policy-likely-to-be-focussed-on-boosting-domestic-industry/story-J70lYm1PpvtRWQFqYG71BO.html
23-12-2020||India||BJP MP asks Hardeep Puri to disqualify Tata Sons from Air India’s bidding process||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member of parliament (MP) Subramanian Swamy has written to civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, urging the government to disqualify Tata Sons from the Air India disinvestment process till a final decision on his plea against Tata Sons & Air Asia India is taken by the court. Subramanian in 2013 had filed a writ petition in the Delhi high court challenging the illegal grant of license to Air Asia India which is a joint venture with Tata Sons. According to Subramanian, his hearing was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the next date is in January 2021.The letter written by Subramanian on December 14 not only mentioned his writ petition but also the first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 28, 2018. The MP also mentioned that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) too has case of money laundering registered against some of the officials of Air Asia for obtaining Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval from the finance ministry.Tata Sons did not respond to the paper’s query.Also Read: Air India waives penalties for rescheduling bookings to UK, Oman, and Saudi Arabia till Dec 31Subramanian’s letter read, “In my Writ Petition on 09.07.2018 seeking a status report by CBI and ED in Air Asia India Pvt. Ltd...the order dated 11.07.2019 honourable Delhi High court impleaded CBI as a respondent and had issued notice for the purposes of getting status report with respect to the instant matter in a sealed cover.” Subramanian stated that it was evident from the documents and facts that Air Asia Berhad (a suffix used in Malaysia to identify a public limited company) of Malaysia and all the accused involved falsely prepared documents and created an “optical Illusion for the purpose of securing permission from the government of India with a premeditated conspiracy to illegally grab control of air space of domestic airlines by foreign airlines violating various norms”.The MP said, “I have learnt from various news reports that Tata Group is In the race to buy Air India and has started negotiations with Singapore Airlines to buy out Air India. In public Interest and in the interest of justice, Tata Sons and/or with any other foreign or domestic airlines in Joint venture or alone should be disqualified from the process of bidding or any other procedure initiated by the government to buy Air India till final adjudication of my PIL before the Delhi high court and Supreme Court and any/all investigations is pending with ED ot CBI or any other authority probing the subject matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-asks-hardeep-puri-to-disqualify-tata-sons-from-air-india-s-bidding-process/story-ZLm4oh66pXS8pO1IqayVOP.html
23-12-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Lessons Indian manufacturing can take from Wistron violence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lessons Indian manufacturing can take from Wistron violenceOn December 12, workers turned violent at Wistron Corporation’s Apple iPhone plant in Karnataka’s Kolar district. Initial reports suggested planned violence by the workers and estimated losses to be as high as Rs 430 crore. As more details came in, the picture changed. Not only have the estimated losses been significantly lowered (to a range of Rs 20-50 crore), it has emerged that the workers had a genuine reason to be unhappy. Read moreMay even approach Rahul Gandhi for Ram temple donation: VHPDonations would be sought from every Hindu in the country for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya and even Congress leader Rahul Gandhi may be approached for the same, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, said on Tuesday. Read moreDelhi’s air quality continues to be ‘severe’Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the “severe” category on Wednesday morning, with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) reading reaching 435 at 7am. Read moreChinese envoy meets President as Nepal’s communist party is headed for a splitChinese ambassador Hou Yanqi on Tuesday evening met Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari at the presidential palace Shital Niwas, people familiar with the matter said. The hour-long meeting comes two days after the President signed off on Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s recommendation to dissolve parliament, a precursor to the split in Nepal’s communist party that the Chinese leadership had been trying to avert. Read moreIndia vs Australia: The case for a twin-spin attack this Boxing Day“Shane Warne used to always look at a seaming wicket and say, ‘If it seams, it is sure to spin’. That was always Warney’s approach to pace-friendly pitches.” These were pace great Glenn McGrath’s words, spoken from India’s broadcast studio during the Adelaide Test, on long-time team-mate and the greatest leg-spinner the world has seen. There is a reason why Warne took 319 of his 708 wickets at home in Australia, where the pitches are predominantly suited for McGrath’s, and not Warne’s, tribe. Read moreSussanne Khan issues clarification, says reports about her arrest are ‘completely incorrect and irresponsible’Hrithik Roshan’s ex-wife, Sussanne Khan, has issued a clarification after it was reported on Tuesday that she had been booked for violating Covid-19 protocols at a Mumbai club. It was also reported that cricketer Suresh Raina had also been arrested. Read moreSee you later alligator: 6-foot-long crocodile freed from a storm drain in FloridaPicture this: You’re a nonchalant Floridian going out for a morning stroll. Between the sunshine lightly falling on your face and the wind softly brushing your hair, you don’t have a care in the world. When suddenly, you see a crocodile’s face poking out of a storm drain. Read moreWatch: Covid: Is new virus variant more deadly? CSIR DG comments amid India alertAfter the Government of India said that a new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 coronavirus discovered in the United Kingdom hasn’t been found in India yet, director general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research commented on the features of the mutant virus. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-lessons-indian-manufacturing-can-take-from-wistron-violence-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2VPU6QBvTOpisHxzSkt6YK.html
23-12-2020||India||Two die, 15 fall sick after ammonia gas leak in IFFCO-Phulpur plant in UP||Over a dozen employees fell sick and two others lost their lives at the Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) plant in Phulpur after Ammonia gas leak incident on late Tuesday. The employees who fell ill have been admitted to the hospital, news agency ANI reported quoting Prayagraj DM. The gas leakage has stopped now.Investigation has also been launched to ascertain the cause behind leakage.Meanwhile,Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident. He has also instructed officials to carry out relief work expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-a-dozen-fall-sick-after-ammonia-gas-leak-in-iffco-phulpur-plant-in-up/story-jqfu8bX2JnpCd3BwAvv8rN.html
23-12-2020||India||In Bengal, if you are with BJP, you lose: Saugata Roy||Home minister Amit Shah has just concluded a two-day visit to West Bengal where 10 politicians defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including seven legislators from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). The BJP is expecting major gains in the upcoming assembly elections, buoyed by the induction of its latest heavyweight recruit from TMC, former minister Suvendu Adhikari. Adhikari was one of the key members of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s team. HT spoke to former union minister and MP Saugata Roy about what impact he expects Adhikari’s exit to have on TMC. Roy told HT’s Sunetra Choudhury that Adhikari was pressured by cases filed by the Enforcement Directorate, but the Muslim vote will be an insurmountable factor for the BJP.We just saw Amit Shah concluding what seems to be a successful trip to Bengal, Would you agree that BJP’s influence in Bengal is growing?Not at all. I do not think that the BJP’s influence is growing. There is no proof on the ground of the same. Amit Shah has gone, they spent crores of rupees and in one of these programmes, they got lots of people but they are all outsiders. I do not think that a large number of people will join the BJP. They said so but only six TMC MLAs joined, no deluge, no nothing. So what is it? Amit Shah had two rallies; Mamata, if she goes, will hold a rally double the size. So how does it prove that BJP’s influence is growing?One of the instances that is being cited is that Suvendu Adhikari was one of Mamata Banerjee’s key people who led the whole Nandigram protest.No, no, he didn’t lead. Suvendu was a youngster at the time. He had just become an MLA. He played a role, his father also played a role. He didn’t lead the Nandigram protest, he is not a Nandigram local. He is from a place which is about 100 km away from Nandigram. But Suvendu had some relevance as a popular leader. Having gone to BJP, he will lose the Muslim support base. Nandigram itself is 40% Muslim.But isn’t this talk about the Muslim base what the BJP is banking on? What will they use to polarise the vote?In Bengal, 30% people are Muslim. Any leader who doesn’t command any support, they don’t realise that without the Muslims, they will be hard-pressed. BJP can’t get that percentage of votes and will be at a disadvantage. So you’re saying that BJP’s usual strategy won’t work in Bengal because of simple arithmetic?No, it doesn’t work. Apart from other political factors, if you are with BJP, you lose volume. But we saw seven people joining and they said by the time elections are here, we will see many other people crossing over. Isn’t that a matter of concern?Not yet. We have 218 MLAs and I don’t think that the number defecting from Trinamool will be large. Some of the people that have gone with Suvendu, they are such non-entities that they would not have a got a nomination this time. Even if they got, they would lose. Why did Suvendu Adhikari really leave?Suvendu is very ambitious He wants to be chief minister or at least deputy chief minister. He wanted that assurance in TMC and we couldn’t give him that. Allurement too. The BJP is capable of offering financial allurements and Suvendu has some problem with ED cases. So all these taken together, BJP put some pressure on him and offered him something. But ultimately, it will not be fulfilled. BJP will not make anybody who is not from RSS {Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh} background chief minister or deputy chief minister. In Assam, they didn’t make Himanta Biswa Sarma the chief minister. In Tripura, they brought in Biplab Deb, a non-entity, because he had an RSS background.What happened at your meeting with Suvendu Adhikari on December 1?Suvendu was playing a game. He had several rounds of talks with me, then we had a final meeting in which Abhishek (Banerjee), Sudip (Bandhopadhyay) and Prashant Kishor were also present....{then} we spoke to Mamata. We made Suvendu speak to her. Mamata told him “Suvendu, you work in the party, what’s the problem?’’ He said “No, Didi, I will be with you.’’ So, I said that to the press. Suvendu had said that he’ll say everything on the 6th of December. ..Then next day, he sent me a WhatsApp {message} that said “since you have leaked it to the press, we can’t work with you.’’ But his deal with BJP was already finalised. We knew that. He took that as an excuse. Then he went out himself trying to gather MLAs, but he couldn’t get that many.One of the charges that he and the BJP have made is that they see dynastic politics in TMC. That there has been a lot of attention paid to Abhishek Banerjee {Mamata Banerjee’s nephew}?No, no, how can Suvendu talk of dynastic politics?. His father and brother are MPs. He was MLA and minister. His younger brother is the chairman of a municipality. it does not suit him to talk of dynastic politics. And Mamata or anybody else from TMC has not said that Abhishek will be chief minister. He is not the CM candidate. So you are building up a mythical opposition to Abhishek.Is there resentment among party insiders against Prashant Kishor and his style of working?Prashant Kishor doesn’t decide anything, he advises strategy. He is doing a good job and suggesting good programmes to the party. BJP has gone from a handful of seats to 18 in the Lok Sabha from Bengal and now Prashant Kishor says that it won’t cross double figures. Isn’t that by itself a huge jump and how is TMC countering that?By being active. TMC is not sitting idle and we have reached out to people. I will hold a meeting in Suvendu’s hometown tomorrow {Wednesday} and Mamata is travelling and attracting huge crowds. We can’t sit idle in our offices and pontificate, we have to go to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-if-you-are-with-bjp-you-lose-saugata-roy/story-rq7L3Z5SYQwU9eVMPtHu5H.html
23-12-2020||India||Most cities in northwest India record ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ air||Most cities and towns in northwest India recorded "very poor" to "severe" air quality on Wednesday due to a drop in wind speed which has slowed the dispersion of pollutants.The air quality index (AQI) of Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Meerut, Noida is in "severe" category with a reading of above 400.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi under ministry of earth sciences (MoES), “Surface winds are likely to remain light and ventilation will be poor resulting in deterioration in air quality.” The ventilation index on Wednesday is likely to be only 2,500 m2/s on Wednesday and 3,000 m2/s on Thursday. The ventilation index is a function of the mixing height and the wind speed and defines the ability of the atmosphere to disperse contaminants. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor. Mixing height is the height at which pollutants mix in the air.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality continues to be ‘severe’There was respite from the biting cold for a couple of days but minimum temperatures are again likely to fall by 1 to 3 degrees Celsius over northwest India and central India during the next three days.India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its bulletin said "cold wave" conditions are likely to set in over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh on December 22 with "cold wave to severe cold wave" conditions predicted over the same region on December 23 and 24."Cold wave to severe cold wave" conditions are also likely over some pockets of Odisha, east Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Telangana on December 22 and 23; over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Bihar on December 22."Cold day" conditions are likely over some pockets of Bihar during the next three days and over east Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. Moderate to dense fog is likely in the morning hours at isolated pockets over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on December 23, and dense to very dense fog in the morning hours at isolated pockets over the same region during December 24 to 26.Dense fog is also likely over northern parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Assam and Meghalaya during the next three days and over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim during the next two days. Ground frost conditions are very likely over some pockets of Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab during the next three days and over Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next two days.“The cloud cover has moved away and the western disturbance has also passed. There are clear skies now so there will be radiational cooling. The minimum temperature is likely to be around 4 degrees Celsius in Delhi for the next two days. A mild western disturbance will affect the western Himalayas around December 24 but will have no impact in the plains. Another WD around December 26 is likely to bring light rain to Delhi on December 27. We are also expecting moderate to dense fog in Delhi and other parts of N-W India for next two days,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. The minimum temperature in Delhi on Tuesday was 5.3 degrees Celsius, three degree below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-central-india-records-very-poor-to-severe-air/story-pbsTLcEn6vO6b1sNCZHX2O.html
23-12-2020||India||May even approach Rahul Gandhi for Ram temple donation: VHP||Donations would be sought from every Hindu in the country for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya and even Congress leader Rahul Gandhi may be approached for the same, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, said on Tuesday. Rai, who is also the vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), said the campaign to collect funds would commence from Makar Sankranti (January 14) next year and continue till Maghi Purnima (February 27). “Extensive preparations are being made for undertaking the world’s largest non-governmental and public participatory campaign for collecting funds. Donations will be taken from every Hindu in the country. In 16,000 villages of Kashi region, workers will visit every house,” he said while talking to reporters at Prayagraj. When asked if donations will also be taken from Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi, Rai said: “We have not fixed any boundary lines and we will go to everyone and workers could even approach him.” Showing cheques of donation, he said donations of Rs 2 lakh have been given by followers of other religions also, so there were no limitations. He said residents in 16,000 villages of Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Robertsganj, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Amethi, Kaushambi and Sultanpur of Kashi kshetra will be approached for donations during this campaign. Donors can purchase coupons valuing Rs 10, 100 and 1000 bearing pictures of the proposed Ram temple and even government workers can personally offer donations, however, government’s money will not be taken in this fund collection initiative in any way, said Rai. He added that receipts will be given to those who donate more than Rs 1000. For the fund collection campaign, teams of three workers each are being formed, he added. Also Read: BJP using the Ram temple public donation drive as part of 2024 election campaign, alleges Shiv SenaDonations from all over the country will be deposited SBI, Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Bank of Baroda (BoB) within 48 hours of collection.On the issue of the construction work for the temple, he said engineers were working hard to build a strong foundation in the crumbling sand below to extend the life of the temple. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has donated Rs 11 lakh for temple construction from his own account. Spiritual guru Morari Bapu has donated Rs 11 crore, IPS officer Kishore Kunal has donated Rs two crore and Shiv Sena Mumbai has sent Rs one crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-even-approach-rahul-gandhi-for-ram-temple-donation-vhp/story-3aF6IWu56vFT1DqcW23OrK.html
23-12-2020||India||Consuming farm liqour ‘taadi’ can prevent from catching Covid-19: BSP’s UP unit chief||Bahujan Samaj Party’s Uttar Pradesh unit president Bheem Rajbhar has claimed that if people consume large quantities of farm liquor ‘taadi’, they will not catch Covid-19. He also claimed that ‘taadi’ has immunity power and a drop of it is purer than the water of the Ganga river.  Addressing a party programme in Rasra area of the district on Monday, Rajbhar said, “If people consume ‘taadi’ in huge quantities, then they will not get infected by Covid-19. In the Rajbhar community, the upbringing of children is done by making them drink ‘taadi’,” he said, citing no medical evidence.Hitting out at former Uttar Pradesh Cabinet minister and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, he said, “Some people are trying to realise their vested interests by misleading people of the Rajbhar community. One should stay alert of these people. People of the community have got respect in the BSP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consuming-farm-liqour-taadi-can-prevent-from-catching-covid-19-bsp-s-up-unit-chief/story-3CeITVQ2AKksnf9vyY5zfL.html
23-12-2020||India||New Covid strain not detected in samples tested in India, says ICMR-NARI director||Mutant strain of coronavirus found in the United Kingdom was not seen in the samples tested from various parts of India, Dr Samiran Panda, director of ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute (NARI) said on Tuesday. Speaking to ANI, Dr Panda said, “We have tested samples collected from the various parts of the country and haven’t seen the mutant strain found in the UK. We shouldn’t think that this will definitely come to India.”“The transmission and severity of the disease are not known. This particular finding needs to be seen in scientific light and also in the right perspective. We need to be watchful as Covid-19 is a new phenomenon and was unknown to the immune system. The virus changes under immunological pressure for survival and due to proliferation as well,” he explained.Dr Panda said that whether the new strain of the virus will cause a serious public health threat is unclear as of now. “We are keeping tracking of the viral genome that is circulating within the country. Over the last six-seven months, the viral genome studies that have taken place involving over 2,000 samples that have not identified this mutation.”He said that India is not a country where all the states are behaving homogeneously. Some of the states are witnessing an upsurge of infection. Behavioural intervention which are the key prevention measures for breaking the chain of virus transmission should be strengthened, irrespective of the new mutant coming to India or not.Panda said that seven-eleven sub-types of coronavirus are already known but not each one that is identified needs to be seen with panic.“It is time for us to remain watchful but not to panic. We need to keep a track of human being infected. Many are asymptomatic but those symptomatic, are they recovering well and continue to recover? The fatality rate is remaining low? If all the clinical indications like the severity of the disease, fatality rate are remaining low, we don’t need to panic at all but we need to be watchful that the scientists are coming across,” he told ANI.Any vaccine against virus works by stimulating the immune response against different components of the virus. It is premature to think that the efforts to develop a vaccine is going to fall apart. There isn’t enough scientific evidence to say that the vaccine is going to fail, he said.“We are having our surveillance. There have been a large number of the sample tested and we haven’t seen mutants. But this does not mean that we can let our guards down, it will be disastrous,” Dr Panda concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-strain-not-detected-in-samples-tested-in-india-says-icmr-nari-director/story-plBZ4r0kLidDEHnP9v4BSM.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest day 28: Decision on further talks with Centre today, Kisan Diwas to be observed through fast, agitation, gherao||On December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address some farmers virtually, which will coincide with the 30th day of the ongoing protest Dilli Chalo by the farmers, started from November 26. Before that, a decision on the next round of talks with the Centre is likely as the Centre has already invited them and now it’s on the protesters to fix a date. On Wednesday, on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, farmers will skip a meal protesting against the three agriculture laws, recently passed by Parliament.Here are the latest updates of farmers’ protest:1. About 32 farmer union leaders will meet on Wednesday to decide the next course of action — pertaining to further talks with the government. The Union agriculture minister on Sunday wrote a letter to the leaders and asked them to fix a convenient date for the next round of talks. The leaders met on Tuesday but the date will be finalised today.2. On the occasion of Kisan Diwas 2020, which is observed on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, farmers are all set to intensify their protests. Farmers will skip lunch as a symbolic protest to the three farm laws. The Congress will hold a statewide protest across Uttar Pradesh.3. The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and its associate unions said they will observe December 23 as “Skip Lunch” day to express solidarity with the farmers.4. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday met a few farmers’ groups from Delhi and Haryana who are supporting the news laws.5. Farmers camping at UP Gate on Delhi-Ghaziabad border on Tuesday blocked all 14 lanes of the National Highway 9 for eight hours.6. From December 25 to 27, farmers will halt toll collection in Haryana. Farmers have also decided to band plates during PM Modi’s Mann ki Baat on December 27.7. Kerala state government called a special assembly session on Wednesday to discuss and pass a resolution against the farm laws. But governor Arif Mohammed Khan did not give approval for the session. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was “regrettable”.8. The protesting farmers are strengthening their presence on social media. A social media cell of the farmers’ collective has been set up, headed by Majha Kisan Committee vice president Baljeet Singh Sandhu, which will host a webinar on Thursday where senior farmers’ leaders will address all queries. The zoom webinar will be open for 10,000 people. 9. Seeking President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention for withdrawal of the three farm laws, the Congress said a memorandum signed by two crore farmers would be handed over to him on December 24 by a party delegation, led by Rahul Gandhi.10. Harpreet Singh, a farmer from Punjab, objected to Punjab BJP using his photo on its Facebook page to accompany a post which says minimum support price will continue. Harpreet said he is sitting with the protesters at Singhu border and his photo was used without his permission.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-day-28-decision-on-further-talks-with-centre-today-kisan-diwas-to-be-observed-through-fast-agitation-gherao/story-34o2nFAydNFNvvHRwVfijP.html
23-12-2020||India||Air Quality Commission directs switching over of all industries in Delhi to PNG||The Commission of Air Quality Management on Tuesday stressed the need to switching over of all industries in Delhi NCR to Piped Natural Gas (PNG) while adding that the industrial sector is one of the major contributors to air pollution here.The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas reviewed the progress of switching over of industries operating in Delhi to PNG during a meeting, which was attended by representatives of the city government, the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) and the Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL).According to the statement from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, about 1,644 of industrial units spread across 50 industrial areas here had been identified to switch over to PNG. Though a sizable number of industries are using PNG, the Commission stressed the need to switch over to PNG by all identified industries in Delhi. The IGL, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the Delhi government were also asked to work in close coordination with the industrial units so as to target the completion of infrastructure work and switch over to PNG by January 31, 2021. DPCC was also directed to inspect and identify the industries using unapproved fuels and to take stringent penal action in case of non-compliance, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-commission-directs-switching-over-of-all-industries-in-delhi-to-png/story-ZRbxSeiLjchLGrBhKmdtKK.html
23-12-2020||India||Serum Institute submits more data for emergency use licence||The Serum Institute of India (SII), which is manufacturing and testing the Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine in India, has submitted new data to regulators for its application for an emergency use licence, officials aware of the process said on Tuesday, adding that a meeting will now be called this week to assess the information.The meeting will also review data for the vaccine candidate by Pfizer, which too applied for emergency approval but sought more time when the last meeting was held on December 9. The applications are being assessed by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO)’s Subject Expert Committee (SEC), which had sought more data from SII in its last meeting on December 9, and gave Pfizer time till it was ready.“The company (SII) yesterday (Monday) submitted the additional data that was asked by the subject experts. They have submitted both preliminary data from the trials in India, and the updated UK immunogenicity data. Pfizer is also ready with its data and has sought for a fresh date,” said a senior government official in the know of things, who did not wish to be named.Earlier in the day, Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, confirmed that one of the companies got back with the additional data but did not name SII. Experts at CDSCO are currently reviewing the data before they convene the meeting of SEC. A similar review is also underway at the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK. It is the trial in the UK and Brazil from where Oxford-AstraZeneca determined the vaccine may be 62%-90% effective. During the last meeting, SEC indicated it may wait till MHRA’s assessment was complete and it had decided on whether to clear the vaccine in UK before the data presented by SII was reviewed. The official quoted above said that may not necessarily need to be. “Since both the regulators have the data, it is now a matter of who will review it first. There is always a possibility that India regulator may grant the necessary approvals if it is satisfied with the data that has been submitted,” the official said. While SII did not comment, a source close to the company confirmed they had submitted all the relevant data. In addition, Bharat Biotech also sought an approval. The SEC asked the company to present efficacy data, which is likely to take longer to derive since its late stage trials began in mid-November. Bharat Biotech is yet to reply, the person quoted above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-submits-more-data-for-emergency-use-licence/story-b4at1OnzLo3RVzHmT76NkK.html
23-12-2020||India||Amid rumblings in Congress, dissenters stress on need for hands-on chief||When seven of the 23 senior Congress politicians who called for a sweeping organisational overhaul in August met party president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday, they offered several suggestions to revive the 135-year-old political party. Key among the suggestions was the role of the president who, they said, should be hands-on and lead from the front.Termed an icebreaker, this was the first in-person interaction amid the Covid-19 pandemic between representatives of the group of dissenters and Sonia Gandhi and other party leaders. Hindustan Times spoke to several of the 20-odd attendees on the kind of changes the group wanted in the party. Individual members of the group who spoke by turn put forward their views as did and some other attendees such as former finance minister P Chidambaram. Many of the changes suggested in the All India Congress Committee (AICC) were put forward by Chidambaram, who didn’t reply to queries from HT. “There should be people who sit in the office daily and be available for meetings and not the kind of ghost town that it (Congress headquarters) is now,’’ one of the group of seven dissenters who attended the meeting said on condition of anonymity. “We wanted a President to work within a revived intra-party institution.’’Uncertainty over leadership has weakened the Congress and demoralised its workers, the controversial letter written by 23 leaders to Sonia Gandhi on August 7 said, warning the high command of the erosion of its support base with the desertion of functionaries across states, and calling for an overhaul of the party organisation and a “visible” leadership.The letter also sought introspection of the reasons behind the party’s “steady decline,” and appealed to the Congress leadership to take the initiative for the formation of a “national coalition of democratic and secular forces” against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Of the 23 signatories to the letter, leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, his deputy in the House Anand Sharma, former union ministers Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor, former chief ministers of Haryana and Maharashtra Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Prithviraj Chavan and the head of the party’s legal department Vivek Tankha attended the meeting. The institutions that the letter writers referred to at Saturday’s party meeting were both existing ones and some new ones they want created. For instance, they suggested the appointment of one, two or even more working presidents who would help the party president function more effectively. This proposal has done the rounds for years now especially around the time Rahul Gandhi was to take over as party president, which he did in December 2017, only to give up the post in May 2019 after the Congress’s debacle in the general elections, paving the ground for Sonia Gandhi to become interim party chief. The concept of a working president has been revived with greater vigour since then.The only precedent of a working president in the Congress dates back to the Rajiv Gadhi era. Because he was Prime Minister and also the Congress president, he chose veteran Kamalapati Tripathi as working president and Arjun Singh became party vice-president.“The idea is to have a more consultative management of the party,’’ said another key leader. To this end, the letter writers also suggested that the Pradesh Congress Committee chiefs be empowered to do more. They pointed out that at the moment, PCC chiefs were reporting to general secretaries who were “de facto kings.’The letter writers, especially Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, also proposed restarting the Parliamentary board of the Party. This is a body that still finds mention in Article 25 , clause A of the party’s constitution. The clause says the body will be headed by the party president and will have nine other members, one of whom will be the leader of the party in Parliament.“People confuse the function of the board. The constitution says that its purpose is to regulate and coordinate the parliamentary activities of Congress’ legislatures,’’ said the second leader cited above. The August letter writers suggested that the Parliamentary board meet regularly so that it can take a coordinated view of current issues. When this was suggested, however, Sonia Gandhi pointed out that the body had been scrapped by PV Narasimha Rao when he was party president in 1992. Party insiders said Rao’s was a nuanced move.”`During the plenary session at Tirupati (in 1992), Arjun Singh, Jitendra Prasad and others formed a syndicate and won elections to the Congress Working Committee (CWC). Since they would now have a say over the members of the Parliamentary board, Rao said that there wasn’t a point in having a board . A day later, they were made to issue a resolution that empowered the Congress president (Rao) to reconstitute all bodies,” one old-time Congressman said.Finally, a suggestion was made to hold elections to choose members of the CWC, the highest decision making body of the party. The last time elections took place to the CWC were under Sitaram Kesri in 1997. In the last plenary session of the Congress, Ghulam Nabi Azad moved a resolution that junked elections to the CWC in favour of members’ nomination by the Congress president. The CWC’s term expires in 2022 and the letter writers want the a switch-back to the system of elections by then.One of the changes suggested at Saturday’s meeting was immediately accepted. Former minister Manish Tiwari proposed “chintan shivirs”, or introspection meetings; its acceptance was announced by the Congress’s Pawan Bansal. Tiwari didn’t respond to queries from HT. Now the letter writers are waiting for the party to move on their other suggestions. They include one for the party to articulate a clear ideological view. For instance, HIndustan Times learns, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor said he didn’t agree with the soft Hindutva approach being espoused by some party members in the north. Some of the August letter writers are optimistic that the leadership will accept their proposals for reform, but others are sceptical. “They are just going through the motions. Why else would they have a press conference a day before to announce 99% want Rahul Gandhi to return,’’ said one of signatories, requesting anonymity.Another signatory said he and other signatories didn’t have any problem with Rahul Gandhi becoming the Congress president through an election process. He warned that he and the others would resist any move to “impose a proxy” on the party. There are others among the dissenters who feel that the Gandhis did make an attempt at rapprochement .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rumblings-in-congress-dissenters-stress-on-need-for-hands-on-chief/story-VrLkHsIM7JgtNS1zhXPnJO.html
23-12-2020||India||Delhiwale: What lies beneath...||Nothing here but silence. And the two graves at the centre. This is the windowless crypt of Rahim’s tomb, in central Delhi’s Nizamuddin East. What the visitors see up there in the breezy principal tomb chamber, directly under the gumbad (dome), are the empty gravestones, the cenotaphs. But here in the underground lie the original graves of Mughal-era poet and nobleman Rahim, and of Mah Banu, his wife, in whose memory the building was conceived. The 16th century mausoleum was undergoing years-long restoration, led by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, that finished last week. Truth be told, the building has always been cloaked in melancholic beauty. But it was in a derelict state. The interiors were dark, musty, and smelt of bat shit.Now, decades of grime have been removed to uncover the original surface of the monument’s walls. The patterns have been reclaimed, the authentic designs cleaned up, or restored where they were found missing. Geometric patterns, symbols and religious calligraphy are again visible. The ceiling in the cenotaph is showing a clear view of its floral patterns.You will cherish all this delicate artistry but unfortunately, you won’t be able to experience the underground crypt. This part of the mausoleum isn’t accessible to visitors, though this reporter did manage an exclusive access.This evening... oh well, it doesn’t seem like evening in the vault, or like any other time of the day really. In this world of the permanently dead, there seems to be no connection to the outside. The place would be terrifying in the darkness but the lighting—two lamps currently on—has turned the whole chamber into an arresting work of minimalism.The lamps have lit up parts of the walls, leaving out some parts in patterns of darkness. Until some years ago this crypt was a network of cracks, discloses Rajpal Singh, chief engineer, Aga Khan Trust for Culture. “Our work started here with underpinning foundations and stitching the cracks—some over a foot wide.” The crypt has a passage, the so-called parikrama, turning around the graves. Walking along it is like wading through spaces dappled in sudden eclipses and auroras. Niches scooped into the walls appear to be shadows within shadows. In some places, the blurry line on the floor separating light from darkness flickers like a time zone limit, gradually drawing day and night apart, as it sometimes can be seen from airplane windows.But the couple’s graves are entirely soaked in light. Up there, in the main tomb chamber, as you’ll Instagram in real time the stunning walls and splendid dome, remember that a much sparse but equally haunting exquisiteness exists directly underneath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-what-lies-beneath/story-Dupw76tZMNBR84XiMOf4KP.html
23-12-2020||India||NIA probing Khalistani funding for protests against India overseas||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case to investigate alleged funding of Khalistani terrorist groups abroad for organising on-ground campaigns, and demonstrations outside Indian missions in the UK, the US, Canada, Germany and other countries, people familiar with the development said.According to the case registered last week, Khalistani elements based in India are also receiving funds through non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the people added, requesting anonymity.The agency has named as accused US-based Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, UK- based Paramjit Singh Pamma and Canada resident Hardeep Singh Nijjar who, under the banner of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), are collecting funds for a rebellion against the Indian government, according to the first information report (FIR).NIA has, for the first time, given the addresses of the three: Pannun (167-05, Powel Boulevard, Unit-22 White Stone, New York), Pamma (41, Bowden Road, Smethwick, UK) and Nijjar (8193, 143-A Street, Surrey BC, Canada and 1418, 142 Street, 72 Avenue, BC Canada).The people familiar with the development cited above said the fresh FIR will empower NIA to investigate SFJ’s activities in various countries. If required, an NIA team may even visit these countries soon to probe the source of funding of the Khalistani groups.This is NIA’s second FIR for conducting an investigation abroad after an amendment to the NIA Act last year that empowered the agency to probe terror activities against Indians and Indian interests overseas. Earlier this year, the agency filed a case to investigate a terror attack on a gurdwara in Kabul on March 25 in which 27 Sikh devotees, including an Indian, were killed.According to the latest FIR, “as part of the conspiracy, huge funds are being collected abroad for on-ground campaign and propaganda against government of India including staging demonstrations outside Indian missions in the US, the UK, Germany, Canada and so forth. These campaigns are being spearheaded by designated terrorists Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Paramjit Singh Pamma, Hardeep Singh Nijjar and others”. HT has reviewed a copy of the FIR.“It has also been learnt that large amounts so collected are being sent through NGOs to pro-Khalistani elements in India, to undertake terrorist acts and to strike terror in the people of India,” the FIR said. It added: “SFJ leadership has planned large scale disruptive activities to damage government and private property and also disrupt supplies and essential services to the life of community of India”.For this, the agency said, SFJ and other pro-Khalistani elements, through an incessant social media campaign and otherwise, are radicalising and recruiting impressionable young people to campaign for and carry out terrorist acts for the creation of a separate nation of Khalistan.Earlier this month, the central agency filed a charge-sheet against Pannun, Nijjar and Pamma along with 13 others in a separate 2019 case to investigate SFJ’s role in India.SFJ has been banned by the ministry of home affairs (MHA;) properties of Pannun, Nijjar and Pamma in India have been ordered to be seized.Intelligence agencies have alerted the government that Pakistan is actively supporting their activities and providing them funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-probing-khalistani-funding-for-protests-against-india-overseas/story-jWvN7ynH1iUBg6C9JEBQYI.html
23-12-2020||India||Delhi suffered most loss due to air pollution: Study||Among Indian states, Delhi suffered the highest per-capita economic loss because of premature deaths and illnesses caused by air pollution last year, followed by Haryana, according to a study published on Tuesday by the science journal The Lancet, which highlighted the price being extracted from the nation by bad air.The study said India was bearing massive losses to its economy and productivity because of the health impact of air pollution. National GDP suffered a loss of 1.36% because of air pollution last year, it said. In comparison, the total health expenditure in India is only 3.8% of GDP. In 2019, 1.67 million deaths in India were attributable to air pollution, accounting for 17.8% of the total deaths.Delhi’s per-capita state gross domestic product (GDP) loss in 2019 was to the tune of $62 and neighbouring Haryana suffered a per capita GDP loss of $53.8, said the report titled “Health and economic impact of air pollution in the states of India: the Global Burden of Disease Study, 2019”. The highest loss to overall state GDP was recorded by Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populated state, at 2.15% followed by Bihar at 1.95% and Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan at 1.7% each. These are states with a relatively low per-capita state GDP.GDP per capita measures the sum of marketed goods and services produced within a territory, averaged across everyone who lives within it.Delhi has ranked consistently among the world’s most populated cities in global surveys in recent years because of emissions from automobiles and power plants, as well as construction dust and cooking with solid fuels. The problem worsens during the winter months, when the capital gets shrouded by thick, smoky haze because of post-harvest farm fires lit by cultivators in states such as Punjab and Haryana to clear their fields of stubble. The Capital suffered an overall economic loss to the tune of 1.08% of state GDP last year because of both outdoor and indoor pollution and around 1.06% for outdoor pollution alone. The comparative figures of loss due to outdoor air pollution for UP and Punjab are 1.34% and 1.22%, respectively.Between 1990 and 2019, the death rate per 100,000 population has increased by 115.3% in India because of exposure to high outdoor air pollution. The death rate because of exposure to household air pollution has decreased by 64.2%because of a decline in the use of solid fuels. The death rate due to exposure to ground level ozone increased by 115% during the 29-year period.It estimated that economic loss caused by premature deaths due to air pollution in India last year was $28.8 billion and from morbidity due to air pollution was $8 billion. Of the total economic loss of $36.8 billion, 36.6% was from lung diseases, which included chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (21.1%), lower respiratory infections (14.2%), and lung cancer (1.2%), The rest was from ischaemic heart disease (24.9%), stroke (14.1%), diabetes (8.4%), neonatal disorders (13.3%), and cataract (2.7%).“The most common cause of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) globally is tobacco smoking; more than 90% of COPD cases are liked to smoking. But in India one of the main causes of COPD is air pollution, particularly indoor air pollution,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. “PM 2.5 emissions can go up to 30,000 micrograms per cubic metres when food is being cooked with solid fuels in a closed kitchen.”“When it comes to the health impacts of outdoor pollution, it is important to understand what are the pollution particles made of – it being emitted from burning of rubber, kerosene or diesel etc. For example, diesel emissions are carcinogenic because they consist of polyaromatic hydrocarbons which have a role in development of lung cancer. A majority of deaths caused by air pollution is due to COPD,” he added.The economic impact of air pollution was estimated by the authors based on output per worker. The output per worker in each state in 2019 was calculated as the labour share of GDP multiplied by GDP in 2018-19, divided by the number of people who were employed.“Air pollution has the potential to impede accumulation of future human capital by reducing children’s survival, undermining their health, and reducing their ability to benefit from education. The cost savings resulting from the prevention of productivity losses attributable to air pollution would contribute to the formation of new human capital,” the study said. It cited the example of the US where every dollar invested in the control of air pollution since 1970 is estimated to have yielded an economic benefit of $30. “The economic impact of this health loss due to lost productivity is huge at 1.4% of the country’s GDP in 2019, besides a roughly estimated expenditure of 0.4% of GDP on treatment of air pollution related diseases. The health and economic impact of air pollution is highest in the less developed states of India, an inequity that should be addressed,” said Prof Lalit Dandona, director of the India State-Level Disease Burden Initiative, national chair of population health at the Indian Council of Medical Research and senior author of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-suffered-most-loss-due-to-air-pollution-study/story-ZNVLIe6GR3o7bhiV7jCbSI.html
23-12-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The fact that a handful of people who flew into various parts of India from the UK have tested positive for the coronavirus is cause for alarm simply because these infections were discovered the instant India tightened its screening process for inbound fliers. It’s very likely that for the past seven months, ever since India restarted flights to and from other countries through so-called travel bubbles, there has been a steady trickle of infected people into (and also out of) the country. The screening process was tightened following panic over the new strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus identified in the UK (as far back as September, although it is only in recent weeks that it has hit the headlines after becoming the dominant strain in the country, and causing a surge in infections). UK officials have said the new strain is 70% more contagious (or infective) than the old one. They also say that in many parts of the country, it has become the dominant strain. That would mean at least some of the people identified as Covid-positive in Monday’s screening at airports could potentially be carrying the new strain.Indian health officials insisted at a briefing on Tuesday that the new strain hasn’t been spotted in India, but this is one of those statements that is economical with the truth. The reality is that India does not sequence enough viral genomes for this to be said with any amount of certainty, but in all the briefings (and it’s usually by the same worthies who are in charge of India’s Covid response) I’ve listened in on, I have never heard the terms “we don’t know” or “we can’t say for sure” ever being used. Indeed, what they lack in knowledge, these people usually make up for with certitude. The correct answer, for instance, to a query on whether the new strain is in India would be: it hasn’t been identified in our tests, but we do not sequence enough viral genomes to say for sure; we are now increasing the volume of genomes we sequence. That wasn’t so difficult, now, was it? As I wrote in Tuesday’s column (Dispatch 230), given that the new strain has been around since September, and flights have been operating between various airports in the two countries, there is every likelihood that the strain may already be in India – but we do not know for sure.In Tuesday’s column, I wrote about how the UK had caught a lucky break – one of the commonly used RT-PCR tests showed only pieces of two genes in the result, as compared to the three it usually does. One of the new strain’s 17 known mutations was responsible for this. The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard when it comes to diagnostic tests for Covid. It identifies the viral RNA (ribonucleic acid, the genetic material) by converting it into complementary DNA, which it does using an enzyme called reverse transcriptase. Then a series of chemical reactions are used to amplify the complementary DNA sections. The quantum of viral DNA is then measured using fluorescent markers. The test in question in the UK was calibrated to check for three different RNA targets – and because of the mutation, it found only two. Ergo, the country didn’t really have to keep sequencing viral genomes to figure out whether the infection was caused by the new strain – if a test showed only pieces of two genes in the result, it indicated the virus was the new strain.Apart from aggressively sequencing more viral genomes, India would do well to collect more information – for instance, every RT-PCR test also measures viral loads – from the molecular tests it conducts (the rapid antigen tests, apart from being unreliable, aren’t of much use in this context) rather than simply treating the output as a binary yes/no. Indeed, had a system to do this been in place, health officials here might have been in a better position to answer the original question: is the new strain in India?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-r40I7sSla5s3NpVGX2CG0K.html
23-12-2020||India||Strain infectious, but not more lethal: Govt||The new variant of the coronavirus is more transmissible but does not appear to lead to higher mortality or hospitalisation and is unlikely to make the current class of vaccines ineffective, top Indian government officials said on Tuesday, citing the information available till now on a mutation that was first spotted in the UK and has since triggered a global alarm. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said India has stepped up genomic surveillance in order to detect if anyone has the new mutation in the country, with a particular focus on people who arrived from Britain in the past month. At least 21 people in five cities, including five at Delhi airport, tested positive for Covid-19 after landing from the UK on Tuesday. Their samples will now be sent for genomic sequencing. To be sure, information is still being gleaned about the new mutation and any conclusion, either on its effects or its possible resistance to vaccines, cannot be made with any certainty at this stage.“The new strain has 17 changes and one of them, N501Y, is of the area which instructs the spike protein, the part that the viruses uses to enter cells. Because of this, it appears that the strain’s tendency to enter cells is higher... Does this make the disease severe? It does not seem to. Neither does it appear to increase the chances of death or hospitalisation,” Paul said.But, citing data discussions with experts, Paul said the development was worrying and that the government is vigilant since the new variant has a tendency to infect more people. Accordingly, the government will expedite genetic sequencing of all virus samples received at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Department of Biotechnology (DBT) laboratories. “Is it a reason for panic? No. Is it something we should be vigilant about? Certainly,” he said, while adding that current evidence also suggests that the vaccines that have been developed and are being tested are unlikely to become obsolete due to these mutations. “All vaccines developed till now will work for this variant too.”The Union government also announced a new set of guidelines to trace and survey people who returned from the UK in the past month, advising states to separately quarantine them at institutional facilities if any of them develop symptoms. All such symptomatic people will be tested and if positive, the samples will be sent to genetic analysis to check for the B.1.1.7, the strain found in the UK.The same genetic sequencing protocol will apply for samples of those who tested positive upon arrival on Tuesday, the last day for flights to and from UK before an embargo comes into force till December 31. In all, 22 people were found with the virus in five cities: eight (including a crew member) in Amritsar, six in Delhi, four in Ahmedabad, three in Kolkata and one in Chennai. According to the protocol, people sitting in the same row and up to three rows in front or behind any of the infected patients will be traced and quarantined with a test 5-10 days later. Experts said that the new variant may already be in India. “The possibility that it hasn’t arrived in India is low,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), which is one of the labs that has been sequencing Sars-CoV-2 genomes. He explained that the virus has been found to be more transmissible but the transmission can happen only if people are not wearing masks. If precautions are not followed, the new variant may lead to super-spreading events, he added. “It is likely that the new variant may have already come to India, you will find it only if you are looking for it. This is the reason why we need to scale up the number of genomic sequencing that we are doing. India has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world and it is likely that some variant like it might have generated within the country too,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. Bhushan also spoke on the infection trends in India during Tuesday’s briefing. “Countries like the US, Brazil, the UK, Russia and Germany are showing new peaks in Covid cases. In comparison, India’s trajectory has shown a sustained decline in Covid-19 cases since mid-September,” he said. Bhushan on Monday wrote to the civil aviation ministry, citing recommendations from the group of experts who reviewed the information released from the UK. Experts from the Covid-19 Genomics UK Consortium on Saturday said the new variant is significant because it now “accounts for an increasing proportion of cases in parts of England”, “has an unusually large number of genetic changes, particularly in the spike protein”, and the mutations “have potential biological effects”. Shortly after, UK PM Boris Johnson said the variant could be up to 70% more transmissible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strain-infectious-but-not-more-lethal-govt/story-H6YBznlHf3QXpHYYOFZ71O.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers harden stand as suspense lingers over talks||Protesting farm unions have said they will write to British lawmakers and Prime Minister Boris Johnson not to travel to India to take part in Republic Day celebrations next month until the Modi government scraps three pieces of legislation they say will hurt their livelihoods.Uncertainty over resumption of talks between farm unions and the government over three contentious agricultural laws lingered on as farm unions said Tuesday they needed wider consultations on whether to hold negotiations again. “We will make more toll plazas freeways and write to Boris Johnson to defer his India visit as a mark of protest,” Kulwant Singh, a senior farm union leader, said. Farm unions were to decide on a response to a set of written concessions sent out by farm minister Narendra Tomar to end the month-long agitation by farmers against the three pro-reform agricultural laws. The unions have constituted a five-member committee to discuss with representatives of nearly 450 organisations protesting the three farm laws on whether and when to hold talks with the government, a senior farm leader said. On December 20, a senior farm ministry bureaucrat wrote to the unions on behalf of the agriculture minister, urging farmers to resume talks and suggest a date. The concessions offered by the government, which the farmers have rejected, include greater oversight on proposed free markets, sparing farmers penalties for pollution-causing farm fires, an assurance on support prices and allowing farmers access to civil courts to settle disputes. Protesting unions held a meeting on Tuesday. They will meet again on Wednesday at 3pm to arrive at a decision, Darshan Pal, a senior member leading the protests at Delhi’s Singhu Border, said. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a major platform of farm unions, said the government was pushing “farmer leaders to give specific point-by-point critique of the clauses (in farm laws)” although the farmers’ representatives “unanimously concluded and explained on December 3 that the Acts have to be repealed”. “But the government selectively picked issues and is now trying to claim that those are the main issues,” AIKSCC secretary Avik Saha said. Tens of thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have hunkered down along Delhi’s borders demanding scrapping of the laws. The changes pushed by the government allow free markets for agricultural trade, permit traders to stockpile farm commodities for future sales and a national law on contract farming. Farmers say easing of restrictions will erode their bargaining power and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. Protests by farmers have continued, with cultivators resorting to a relay hunger strike and chalking out plans to intensify their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-harden-stand-as-suspense-lingers-over-talks/story-Z3C9xrDTxEyG71WzXaWwZN.html
23-12-2020||India||Farm unions plan ‘global’ protests against new laws||“Anti-capitalists of the world, unite” — a rephrasing of Marx’s iconic slogan “workers of the world, unite” — will reverberate in at least 10 global cities on December 26 in response to a call given by farm unions, who are coordinating plans for a global protest against three agricultural laws pushed by the Narendra Modi government. Farm leaders say there will be no dearth of protesters from the Indian diaspora. A plethora of anti-Walmarters and opposers of big corporations in the US and elsewhere, apart from independent farmers’ organisations, are also ready to respond to their call , they said. Cities where demonstrators have confirmed participation include global financial hubs, New York, Sydney and London. Protests have also been planned in other overseas towns and cities including Leicester in the UK, Sacramento, Calif., Houston, Melbourne and Ontario.The standoff between the Union government and farmers continues over the passage of new legislation to open up the country’s antiquated agricultural sector to private investment, a move the government says will enable farmers better incomes and modernize the farm sector. Farmers say the reforms will leave them at the mercy of private corporations. The Modi government has repeatedly said it is inclined to find a solution through discussions, which ended in a stalemate on December 8.The global protest is part of a five-point agenda drawn up to take the agitation forward, said Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India, a leader of the agitation. “We had made five big announcements,” he said. “One, on December 21, there will be a relay hunger strike. Two, on 23rd, on Kisan Day, we urge everyone to skip one meal in remembrance of our farmers.” “Three, on 26th and 27th, we will write to National Democratic Alliance’s allies to withdraw support to the laws. Four, on these both days, we have called all Indians abroad to stage demonstrations in front of Indian embassies and consulates. Five, during the next Mann Ki Baat(radio address) of the PM, farmers will bang thalis (utensils),” Yadav said. To be sure, the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the platform of protesting farm union, is limited to the Indian diaspora only, according to its protest programme. But foreign entities opposed to big corporations are ready to join in. “Big corporations have common global policies that hurt interests of consumers and small growers,” said Anastasia Elliot of Walmart Watch, a Washington-based non-government organisation. “So, anti-capitalists of the world must unite to protect larger interests of society whether in developed or developing countries. We support Indian farmers,” she said over the phone on Monday. A section of the Indian Sikh diaspora has already carried out large protests in Canada, the US, the UK and Australia. Mewa Singh, the head of Non-Resident Indian Council in Punjab’s Ropar, said his office was coordinating with Indians abroad on making the protests global. “My son, a resident of Texas, Houston, will lead the protests there,” he said. Sikhs make up 1.4% of Canada’s population, but their close knit community is an influential voting bloc. “We stand by Punjab’s farmers because that’s who our forefathers were,” said Banda Singh, a resident of Brampton, Ontario. Indians abroad are also sending political petitions to their lawmakers. India recently summoned Canada’s high commissioner to convey its strong displeasure following Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s statement that Indian farmers had a right to protest. The Canadian envoy in New Delhi, Nadir Patel, was told clearly that India considers such statements as “unacceptable interference” in the country’s internal affairs and these actions, if they continued, will have a “seriously damaging” impact on the ties. However, the possibilities of the farmers’ protests metamorphosing into a fresh global backlash are distinct. “The Indian government has used disproportionate force on peacefully protesting farmers. We will protest in front of parliament building on December 26,” said Sukhdev Gill, a dairy worker in Australia’s Victoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-plan-global-protests-against-new-laws/story-bsxa3xkNjAzBDn7BCuVWEJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Bengal BJP leader sends divorce notice to wife who joined TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Saumitra Khan on Tuesday sent a divorce notice to his wife Sujata Mondol Khan, a day after she joined the ruling Trinamool Congress. The legal notice for “mutual divorce under section 13(B) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955” said that the couple were not in cordial terms and had been living separately for the past six months. The couple could not be contacted for their comments. Meanwhile, the state administration posted four police personnel at Sujata’s house in Bankura district, while three armed police personnel were deployed to give her round-the-clock security. Twists and turns straight out of a Bollywood movie played out on West Bengal’s political stage on Monday, shortly after Sujata joined the TMC. “Sujata, I will send you papers for mutual divorce. Please sign them and do not use Khan, my surname, from today,” an emotionally charged Saumitra said in a press conference on Monday as a family drama involving melodramatic exchanges between him and his wife was aired on live television. Later in the day, Sujata said in an interview to mediapersons: “I married him going against the wish of my family. I love him and will always do so. I still have the red sindoor (vermilion) on my forehead (a sign of a married woman).” “Can a personal relationship end in divorce because of politics? No TMC leader told me that I have to divorce him to join the party,” she added. Saumitra is a former TMC leader who joined the BJP in January 2019. He was the TMC’s Lok Sabha member from Bishnupur in Bankura district. He retained the seat by contesting for the BJP and was made president of the state BJYM about three months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-leader-sends-divorce-notice-to-wife-who-joined-tmc/story-fAHcMTlhzOzX2McXVzO7zN.html
23-12-2020||India||Exit deals don’t negate right to compensation: Supreme Court order||A real estate developer cannot deal with homebuyers rights to claim compensation for delays in the completion of their apartments by merely offering refunds or some other exit option, the Supreme Court has ruled. In the order that could strengthen the rights of homebuyers under the Consumer Protection Act, the court has held that the right to claim compensation is independent of schemes offered by developers that give an option to the buyers to rescind their purchase. It also held that the damages to a consumer can be over and above the amount mentioned in the developer-buyer agreement, defined as the contractual rate of compensation for delays. In its order last week, a bench of the apex court headed by justice Dhananjay Y Chandrachud, highlighted that “a genuine flat buyer wants a roof over the head” and therefore, schemes offering them a refund of what they had paid to date would not be sufficient. “For a genuine flat buyer, who has booked an apartment in the project not as an investor or financier, but for the purpose of purchasing a family home, a mere offer of refund would not detract from the entitlement to claim compensation,” held the bench, which also included justices Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee. The developer, said the bench, cannot assert that buyers who continue to be committed to the agreement for purchase of the flat give up their right to adequate compensation. “Mere refund of consideration together with interest would not provide a just recompense to a genuine flat buyer, who desires possession and remains committed to the project. It is for each buyer to either accept the offer of the developer and opt out, or continue with the agreement for purchase of the flat,” it said. The court also addressed another contention regarding the appreciation of the capital value of the flats with the passage of time, stating that this factor could only be one of the considerations while determining the quantum of damages but that it cannot deprive the consumers of a just and fair compensation. The order came as the bench dismissed DLF Home Developers Limited’s appeal against compensation to the flat buyers of the Capital Greens project in Delhi. The developer, through senior advocate Pinaki Misra, challenged the order of the National Consumer Commission, arguing the delay in completion of the apartments was due to certain reasons beyond the control of the developer. Misra added that the developer also offered to its buyers refunds of the amount paid by them, together with interest at the rate of 9% per annum. Representing the home buyers, senior advocate Shyam Divan defended the consumer commission’s order, directing DLF to pay compensation in the form of simple interest at the rate of 7% annually from the promised date of delivery for possession till the date on which the possession is actually offered. Affirming the order in favour of the home buyers, the bench said that “the fact that the developer offered an exit option with interest at 9% would not disentitle the flat purchasers from claiming compensation.” The other argument by DLF, with respect to unmanageable circumstances, was also rejected with the court noting that if fatal accidents at the site stalled the work while it was found that accidents took place due to a developer’s laxity in adhering to safety norms, the flat buyers cannot be made to suffer. “The flat buyers had to suffer on account of a substantial delay on the part of the appellants. In such a situation, they cannot be constrained to the compensation of Rs 10 per square foot, provided by the agreements for flat purchase,” clarified the court, commenting on the contractual rate. However, in accordance with a previous ruling on the rate of interest, the bench ordered that the compensation on account of delay will be 6% per annum instead of 7%.“We welcome the order of the Supreme Court because it will empower the thousands of homebuyers who have been suffering for a long time at the hands of the developers, who have delayed their projects for many years, and still denying justified compensation with refund of the investment. But we hope that this order will be implemented at the ground by the authorities to safeguard the rights of the homebuyers,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association. “We will look into this order in detail and then figure out as to how it will impact the real estate sector ahead. But any order that gives power to the consumer helps the sector as it restores the faith of the homebuyer...So we hope this order will positively impact the realty sector,” said Subodh Goyal, secretary of the western Uttar Pradesh chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exit-deals-don-t-negate-right-to-compensation-sc-order/story-H88vC7xRTSBsqiPOfcvyDL.html
23-12-2020||India||Love or ‘jihad’? A consent dilemma||He was a factory supervisor looking for a leg-up in his career. She was finishing her final year in school. They met at a tuition centre in the dusty central Uttar Pradesh town of Shahjahanpur. It was the spring of 2017. He sat on the bench behind her; during a break between classes to prepare for competitive examinations, he asked her a question, she turned back to respond, and they started talking. In April that year, the tuition batches were shuffled and she missed classes for five days, When she came back, he walked to the head of the class, said hello and asked for her phone number. She was taken aback for a moment, but wrote it on a piece of paper and gave it to him. On April 20, they spent all night on the phone talking; at sunrise, he asked her if she would date him – in local parlance, proposed to her. She said yes. “In a few months, he knew what I wanted, how I felt, without me saying anything,” she added. Mohammad Shamim and Simran Sagar’s love story could have ended there. But in June, her parents caught her talking to him on the phone. Alarmed by the fact that he was Muslim, they confiscated her phone and quickly started looking for a suitable groom. Weeks later, she rejected the match they found. She had graduated high school by then and started a job, but her parents forced her to quit. “They locked me up in a room, refused to get me go out. For six months, I had no contact with the outside world.” During this time, her parents beat her almost every day. Eventually, she tricked her parents into letting her out, found a spare phone in the house and called Shamim. Over the next year, they plotted the future of their relationship – Shamim brought his family on board and the couple turned their attention to convincing her parents: He moved to Delhi to get a better job and salary, she obeyed her family’s every order to soften them up. By this year, they were feeling confident they would get married, but a new law against forced conversions by marriage, coercion or enticement put a spanner in their plans. “The atmosphere in Shahjahanpur became very bad. There were right-wing people in our locality opposed to interfaith relationships, they could do anything. Any whiff of our plans was enough for a first information report,” said Shamim. “My family was connected to lawyers and our house is 500m from the [police] station, so I was worried that if they found out about Shamim, they would take him to police,” said Sagar. “We heard of so many cases. It was clear to us that we had to leave UP,” she added.The concept of Love Jihad The law they’re referring to is the month-old UP Prohibition Of Unlawful Conversion Of Religion Ordinance 2020 that spells out punishment of up to 10 years in jail for conversion by marriage. The law was in line with a promise made by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to stamp out “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women, but one that the courts and the Union government do not officially recognise.  Shamim and Sagar had no plans to convert – he thinks a person’s faith is their biggest treasure – but they feared that if they applied for a marriage licence at home, then her parents and right-wing groups would file a case against them.Under the 1954 Special Marriage Act (SMA), a couple has to wait 30 days from the date of filing an application and in Uttar Pradesh, notices go to the houses of the applicants, followed by police verification. “We never wanted to run away, but realised it was too dangerous. We could be jailed, I could be beaten up. We had to run away to Delhi,” said Sagar. The new law has galvanised Hindu activists and many leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who say the ordinance was required to stop forced conversions and point out that eight other states already have anti-conversion statutes on their books. Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, both ruled by BJP, are bringing similar laws. But the law has also riled activists and opposition parties, who say it is unconstitutional because it practically outlaws interfaith relationships and bolsters “love jihad”. Judicial challenges to the law are pending before the Allahabad high court and the Supreme Court. Drafted by the UP law commission, the new ordinance is sweeping in its remit of conversions. Conversions using force, coercion, allurement, deceit and fraud are made non-bailable and cognisable offences, which means a police officer can arrest a suspect without a warrant and start an investigation without the permission of a court. Allurement can mean anything ranging from the offer of a gift or money to free education, employment, even the promise of a better lifestyle. Threatening divine displeasure is also outlawed. Complaints can be filed by a blood relation, in-law or adopted relative of a person undergoing the conversion. Anyone deemed to have helped in conversion can be booked.Burden of proof The ordinance provides for imprisonment of between one and five years and a penalty of not less than Rs 15,000. In cases where a minor girl or a woman from the scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities is involved, the imprisonment ranges from three years to 10 years and a penalty of at least Rs 25,000. The law provides for voiding a marriage if it is found to be solemnised primarily to convert a woman. The burden of proof will be on the defendants. There are two other curious provisions: One, that if anyone “reconverts” to their immediate previous faith, it is not deemed to be a conversion. And, for repeat offenders, the quantum of punishment is doubled. The law mandates a two-step verification process. If a person wants to change their faith, they will have to apply to the district magistrate two months in advance. This is double the period stipulated in the 1954 Special Marriage Act. The forms for these affidavits are meticulous – one has to provide name, both parents’ names, permanent address, current address down to the house and ward number, age, sex, occupation, marital status, monthly income, dependents, caste status, the faith one is converting to and details of the person performing the conversion. Once a magistrate receives this application, a police inquiry will be ordered to check the “real intention, purpose and cause” of conversion. In the second step, the applicant needs to send a separate affidavit to the magistrate within 60 days of the conversion. The magistrate will then display a notice for 21 days to invite objections, after which the conversion can be confirmed. The government is clear that the law was needed to protect women from harassment and fraudulent men. AN Mittal, chairman of the committee that drafted the law, said experts studied the law in south Asian countries, and rulings of the top court and high courts and existing laws. “It will be very effective in checking such conversions and harassment of women. A victim woman or her family can now fearlessly go to the police,” Mittal said.FIRs and arrests Since November 28, at least 25 people have been arrested under 11 different FIRs lodged across nine districts. Mohammad Asif almost became the 26th. The 24-year-old man worked at a medical store in the low-income neighbourhood of Duda colony on the outer fringes of Lucknow. Two years ago, Raina Gupta, the 21-year-old daughter of a driver and a domestic help, moved to the area and love quickly blossomed between the neighbours, whose houses were barely 15m away. The families agreed, and decided to solemnise the marriage on December 2. Between them, they spent Rs 85,000 to deck their exposed brick, half-finished houses with streamers and lights. “The groom was following each and every ritual done in Hindu marriages, like tying turmeric bud on the wrists. The bride’s family had made arrangements for the wedding feast,” said a family friend on condition of anonymity. “Everything was going well until the policemen came.” Around 8pm, police barged into the wedding, tipped off by local right-wing activists. Despite being told that both families had consented, the police dragged them to the police station, and told them to register their marriage under the norms of the new law. The families were let go after the couple assured the police that no one was converting their faith. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), South, Suresh Chandra Rawat defended the police action. “The police didn’t intervene in anybody’s personal affair, but the two families were suggested to proceed according to the new law to avoid any inconvenience in the future,” he said. It was the police’s duty to enquire that there was no forced or dishonest religious conversion, and once the couple applies at the district magistrate’s office, a proper verification will be done of both families, he added. But the incident has taken its toll on the families, who have withdrawn from all social interaction and are suspicious of every visitor. The couple still hasn’t applied for a licence under the Special Marriage Act and are reluctant to proceed without consulting lawyers. “They haven’t dared to apply fearing police action and trouble from Hindu outfits,” said the man quoted above. “They aren’t even stepping out of home.” The right-wing argumentProponents of the new law point towards the biggest case registered under the ordinance as proof that strict provisions are needed. On November 30 in the far-flung eastern UP district of Mau, police booked 14 Muslim men from West Bengal under the new law on a complaint by a local businessman that his 30-year-old daughter was abducted to convert her faith. The father alleged that Shabab Khan lured the woman, whose name was withheld by the police, a day before her marriage. Khan worked as a driver in the house, and was married, the father added. “He was part of a gang which lures innocent Hindu girls, exploit them physically and mentally, and then force them to convert,” he said. A local resident said Khan was dismissed from his job by the father days before he started looking for matches for his daughter, and that the woman was in a relationship with Khan. Along with Khan, his wife, and 13 relatives and friends have been booked – five were arrested last week. But activists point out that the couple could have eloped to escape the marriage that the father had planned, and that there was no proof of abduction, or that the woman didn’t consent to the relationship. That shouldn’t matter, believes Baldev, a right-wing activist in Bijnor district who only gave his first name. The 22-year-old man is unemployed, but spends his days scouring neighbourhoods for interfaith lovers, specifically Muslim men accompanying Hindu women. He has a list of local landlords who report any “untoward” activities, and a contact in the local administration who keeps an eye out for any marriage applications or notices. To Baldev, the protection of Hindu women is an essential part of social service because fraudulent conversions by “charming” Muslim men are a threat to society. “They don’t tell our sisters their real identity and lure them into relationships. Often, they have two or three wives. The law is good, but we also need to stop such activities in our localities,” he said. He gets most of his information from local men in markets, and landlords and keeps his group abreast on WhatsApp on couples seen skipping classes, or out together. He keeps an especially sharp eye on Muslim-majority localities and on houses rented by young, working Muslim men. “We need to protect our faith, otherwise we will slip into a minority. We aren’t against love but against forced radicalisation,” he added.On an overdrive Many such vigilante groups, which have mushroomed in recent years, have gone into overdrive since the new law was promulgated. In two-high profile cases, in Moradabad and Lucknow, it was right-wing activists who first informed the police about an interfaith wedding. In a third case, in Kushinagar, the right-wingers tipped off the police but after the wedding was stopped, the authorities found that both the groom and the bride were Muslim. “We only keep a watch on such instances. Whenever we come across such cases, we report to the police for further action. It is our moral responsibility,” said Brijesh Shukla, an office bearer of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha. What complicates matters are the strict rules under the Special Marriage Act in UP, where notices of marriage applications are sent to the permanent addresses of families, and a police inquiry is ordered in many cases. This is unlike the procedure in Delhi, where no such notices are sent. “In many cases, fringe groups visit these marriage offices and follow up on the notices. By having photos and addresses of couples, these displays act as a direct threat to their life and privacy,” said Shubhangi Singh of the Association for Advocacy and Legal Initiatives. The public notice provision is currently under challenge in the Supreme Court. What most couples do, she added, is to get the help of middlemen who bribe clerks and lower government officials so that the notices are suppressed and not sent home. “This law has further emboldened those who oppose interfaith unions; the 30-day wait period and the police verification under the SMA needs to go,” said Asif Iqbal, founder of Dhanak, a non-government organisation that helps interfaith couples. Interfaith relationships have always been rare – the religion of man and woman is different for only 2.5% of couples in India – and for most of history, it was not regulated by law. The first interfaith marriage law was made by the colonial state in 1869 on the insistence of the Brahmo Samaj, a reformist movement. But under this law, you had to give up your faith if you got married to someone from another religion. This provision was amended in 1923. Hindus could now have a civil marriage without giving up their faith, but they were disqualified from inheriting family property. The requirement to give up faith remained for others.All these hurdles were removed in the 1954 Special Marriage Act.A bureaucratic event? “It was supposed to be a good law, but over the last 70 years, the bureaucratic hurdles have increased, mainly due to the rules enacted by each state government,” said Saptarshi Mandal, a professor at Jindal Law School. He drew a distinction between the Special Marriage Act and the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act, under which no verification is needed and religious ceremonies are valid marriages. “Marriage in all other laws is a religious event. In Hindu marriages, walking around a fire is held as valid, even photographs. Rituals in Christian or Muslim marriages are considered marriages. There is no stipulation for certificates. But in Special Marriage Act, marriage is made into a bureaucratic event,” he added. To him, the bureaucratic process signals an inbuilt suspicion of interfaith unions in the law – which is also reflected in anti-conversion statutes in states across India. “At one level, the UP law is nothing new. So much oversight on interfaith relationships is due to a fear of conversions. Ideally, if you respect religious freedom, then the decision to convert is a personal one. The state should keep out of it,” he added. As a term, love jihad is relatively new and originated far away from UP. It was first used by Christian and Hindu groups to describe a spate of alleged conversions to Islam in coastal Karnataka and Kerala in October 2009. The following year, then Kerala chief minister VS Achuthanandan popularized the term in a speech, and then in 2016, the conversion of Akhila Ashokan to Hadiya snowballed into a legal tussle that sparked an anti-terror probe and a landmark judgment by the Supreme Court. But anxiety around interfaith unions in UP dates back 100 years. In the 1920s, Hindu organisations such as the Hindu Mahasabha and Arya Samaj started printing pamphlets and handbills on abduction of Hindu women by Muslim men. Titled provocatively as Hindu Auraton ki Loot, these pamphlets hinted at a global conspiracy to pillage Hindu honour. The groups used posters, novels, myths, rumour and gossip for the theory to seep into small hamlets. “This was between the non-cooperation and the civil disobidience movements, and there were several communal clashes and riots with the rising Muslim League. There was a targeting of the Muslim male and a disciplining of the Hindu woman with increased scrutiny on her behaviour and expression of love,” said Charu Gupta, a professor at Delhi University. Rumours go digitalMany of these pamphlets carried minute instructions –don’t wear lac bangles because the business is controlled by Muslims, don’t buy groceries from Muslims, don’t hire them as teachers. Local newspapers were a key component of this campaign, which even targeted Muslim civil servants. “This is not say that women were not cheated, they were, across faiths. Rumour mongering that was primarily in print has become digital, on WhatsApp, now. But the key difference is that it used to be a peripheral voice, but now the state is involved,” Gupta added. Things came to a head in 1938, when the daughter of a prominent Hindu lawyer in Kanpur, Bimla Devi, eloped with the son of a Muslim merchant and converted her faith. The case roiled UP, and stoked communal tensions to the extent that the then British governor mentioned it to the Viceroy in two letters. The police charged the Muslim man with abduction, and the case reached the Allahabad high court, but not before a smear campaign against one of the sitting Muslim judges. “The sensational case rocked the UP press for many months. Many of the leading papers followed it graphically and gave lengthy details of court proceedings,” noted Gupta in her book Sexuality, Obscenity, Community: Women, Muslims, and the Hindu Public in Colonial India. Eventually, the court awarded the woman’s custody to her parents; she was reconverted to Hinduism through shuddhi (purification ceremony) at the Arya Samaj temple in Kanpur, and married to a Hindu man. Not once was Bimla Devi allowed to appear in court. Sagar and ShamimIn November, Simran Sagar hatched a plan. She told her parents that she was ready to end her relationship with Shamim and get married. She had just one condition: Allow her to get a job. Her parents agreed, and within a week, Sagar escaped from her house, reached Delhi and was reunited with Shamim on December 11. With nowhere to go, the couple went to Dhanak for lodgings. “It felt like a dream. Even though we were in a small room and couldn’t go out, we were with each other,” she said. The couple have grand plans for the future – she wants to study computer science and he wants to get a better job and support her education. They want to remain in Delhi – she loves roaming around the city – but hope to regain contact with their families one day. “We know we did something wrong, so we will keep trying,” said Shamim. After being denied shelter by the Delhi government, the couple moved the high court, which ordered on Wednesday that they be given protection and a safe house. On Wednesday night, roughly 3.5 years after they first met, the couple moved into a government safe house, sharing a room and living together as a couple. They have to wait for a couple of months before registering their marriage, but they aren’t anxious. “It is a special moment for us; we want to show the world that there is only love between us, no jihad,” Sagar said. (With additional reporting by Sudhir Kumar in Varanasi and S Raju in Meerut)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/love-or-jihad-a-consent-dilemma/story-1jl3r0H6eAbmc58vX3sNcO.html
23-12-2020||India||New Covid strain may be in India already: Experts||A new variant of the coronavirus that originated in the United Kingdom sometime in September is likely to have already reached India, experts said on Tuesday, calling for increased whole genome-sequencing based surveillance to detect the new mutation and prevent further spread. The new variant, VUI–202012/01, which accounted for nearly 60% of all cases in London by mid-December, is thought to be 70% more transmissible than earlier versions of the coronavirus. Scientists are still researching on the effects, virulence and severity of the new strain. To prevent the new mutation from taking hold in the country, the government has banned flights from UK from Tuesday night, and administered tests to passengers who have arrived from Britain. On Tuesday, 22 people -- including six from Delhi -- tested positive for the virus, and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. ALSO WATCH | ‘New Covid-19 strain not in India yet but can’t…’: Director ICMR-NARI “The possibility that it hasn’t arrived in India is low,” said Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), one of the labs sequencing Sars-CoV-2 genomes. He explained that the virus was found to be more transmissible. but added that the transmission could occur only if people were not wearing masks. If precautions are not followed, the new variant may lead to superspreading events, other experts warned. “It is likely that the new variant may have already come to India, you will find it only if you are looking for it. This is the reason why we need to scale up the number of genomic sequencing that we are doing. India has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world and it is likely that some variant like it might have generated within the country too,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. He estimated that the country sequences one genome of the virus for every 3,000 positive cases, whereas the World Health Organization said that one genome in 300 positive cases should ideally be sequenced. “And, it is not like we do not have the capability. There needs to be more focus on it,” he said. At a government briefing on Tuesday, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that India will use its network of laboratories under the Indian Council of Medical Research, Department of Biotechnology, and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research to sequence more samples, especially from the travellers from UK who test positive. “Our labs have been asked to prioritise the recent virus samples and send them for genetic sequencing. The ICMR, CSIR, and DBT labs have been doing it so far but it will be scaled up. The positive specimen from passengers from UK in the last few days will also be sequenced,” he said. Dr Agarwal said some Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) kits that use the particular gene where the mutation has happened for detecting virus may give out false negatives. “We need to recalibrate our tests. The -PCR usually uses two genes to detect the presence of the virus, we might not insist on a double gene positive to give a positive report,” said Agarwal. The United Kingdom has already issued guidelines for its labs to adapt the processes to ensure that the RT-PCR tests can detect this variant. A cause of concern was that the mutation was at the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein, which the virus uses to enter the human body. This protein is also one of the targets of vaccines currently being developed. But experts said that vaccines would remain effective despite the mutation. “Think of the protein used by a vaccine as a surface; the immune response generated is against the complete surface, so even if there is a change in a particular point the vaccine still remains effective,” said Dr Jameel. Dr Agarwal added, “The vaccine produces many antibodies and even if some do not bind, the vaccine remains effective. Other than that, there is T-cell immunity that is generic and a mutation in the binding site does not change that,” referring to cells that kill infected cells and prevent the virus from spreading.Increased surveillance through genomic sequencing might also help the country find the “ideal variant” for a natural vaccine for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-strain-may-be-in-india-already-experts/story-7ABVDSoUTigOot5BUuUhML.html
23-12-2020||India||AMU ‘mini-India’, its diversity nation’s strength: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that “politics can wait but development cannot”, and stressed that ideological differences should be set aside for the sake of national goals.Modi was delivering the keynote address as chief guest at the centenary celebrations of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) — the first time an incumbent Prime Minister has participated in an AMU event since Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1964. Addressing the university’s students, teachers and staff through a video link, the PM said: “There are elements in society who get uneasy when steps are taken for progress. They try to create negativity but sooner or later get marginalised. We have to understand that politics is an important aspect of society. But in society there are also issues other than politics and one has to rise above them for nation.”Though the address was delivered virtually, elaborate security preparations were made — including a police contingent deployed at the campus’s Bab-e-Syed gate — with a section of the university’s students opposing the PM’s participation in the event.The AMU has been a site of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA. Things came to a boil on the night of December 2019, when students and police clashed on the campus.In his speech, Modi rooted for the mission of making an “Atmanirbhar Bharat”, or self-reliant India, and said that time should not be wasted, like it was in the past, on differences. “We are aiming to build a New India where youth and students of AMU can play a major role,” he said while describing the university as “mini-India”.“The AMU campus is like a city in itself. We see a ‘mini-India’ among different departments, dozens of hostels, thousands of teachers and professors. The diversity which we see here is not only the strength of this university but also of the entire nation,” Modi said, hailing the contribution of the AMU in nation-building and in elevating India’s position internationally through extensive researches.As a premier institute of higher learning, the 100-year-old AMU has seen its students and faculty members being awarded with the prestigious Padma awards, President’s Award, and Sahitya Akademi awards. There are about 34,000 students at present.The PM also stressed on AMU’s diversity. Urdu and Hindi, Arabic and Sanskrit are all taught on the campus, he said. Along with Quran, the translations of Gita and Ramayana are kept in the library. “This diversity is the country’s strength. We have to neither forget it nor let it get weakened,” he said.Modi spoke about the efforts taken by the government to ensure that people — he made a specific reference to Muslim women — stayed in school. “The drop-out rate among Muslim girls was more than 70% and this situation persisted in India for 70 years. The government started Swachh Bharat mission, built toilets in villages, and toilets for school-going girls. Now this rate has fallen to nearly 30%,” he said, while applauding that 35 % of all AMU students are women. “I assure you that no citizen, irrespective of religion, cast and creed would be left behind on the path of Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas,” said Modi.The Prime Minister also spoke about the pride that former students have in their AMU roots.“It is fascinating to see how the history of education attached to the AMU buildings is India’s valuable heritage. I often meet AMU alumni during my foreign visits, who very proudly say that they have studied at AMU,” he said.“At AMU, the researches are done in Urdu, Arabic and Persian. This is commendable,” Modi said. “The research conducted in Islamic history elevates the position of India in the Islamic world and gives new energy to India’s relations with them.”AMU public relations officer Omar Peerzada said it was a historic and successful event.AMU vice chancellor professor Tariq Mansoor said: “Today is a historical day...our university not only completes 100 glorious years of its inception, but after a gap of 56 years, an incumbent Prime Minister of the country took part in the celebrations. “ “The presence of the Prime Minister has ignited possibility and hope among all of us. For centuries despite diversities, we are living as a people in oneness and this is what makes Bharat unique and this is a message to the whole world,” he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amu-mini-india-its-diversity-nation-s-strength-pm/story-dPOCyGpevBLWsZYFwhzhON.html
23-12-2020||India||Gupkar sweeps Valley, BJP largest in Jammu||A newly formed grouping of six parties made significant political gains in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and was on course to winning over 100 of the 280 seats in the recently held District Development Council (DDC) elections — the first major direct polling exercise in the region after the scrapping of its special status in August last year, trends and results showed on Tuesday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which fielded central ministers such as Jitendra Singh and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi for campaigning in the eight-phase polls, was set to grab the second spot. The Congress was poised to become a distant third. The outcome was on expected lines: while the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) comprising two Kashmir powerhouses — the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) — and four other parties swept the Muslim-majority Kashmir region (140 seats), the BJP advanced another step towards cementing its political clout in the Hindu-dominated Jammu (140 seats).The PAGD was “deeply indebted & grateful to the people of J&K”, NC leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah said on Twitter, reaffirming the grouping’s “commitment to use all democratic & legal weapons at our disposal to continue to fight for our rights”.“The BJP had made this election a prestige issue about Art 370 & J&K’s special status. The people have now spoken & it’s for those who believe in democracy to pay heed to these voices,” he posted.On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to the then state of J&K, and bifurcated it into two Union Territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests.The PAGD, which also comprises the Peoples Conference, the Communist Party of India-Marxist, the Peoples Movement and the Awami National Conference, took shape in October 2020 to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.“Today’s DDC results have made it clear that people of J&K voted en masse for @JKPAGD, thus rejecting the unconstitutional decision to abrogate Article 370. They have overwhelmingly supported @JKPAGD, which stands for restoration of J&K’s special status,” Mehbooba Mufti, PDP leader and another former chief minister, tweeted.PDP chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari, however, said the alliance had expected to do better.In the BJP camp, the party’s J&K spokesperson Anil Gupta termed the results a “victory for democracy” and a “slap” for those who were saying Kashmiri people had lost faith in democracy after the Centre’s Article 370 move. “The BJP did well all across J&K...,” he said.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said: “We would win 70-80 seats on our own, and we also hope that 30-40 independents supported by us will emerge winners. Therefore, we anticipate a bumper win.”Of the 231 seats whose results were declared by 10pm, PAGD won 92, the BJP 59, the Congress 19, and former minister Altaf Bukhari’s Apni Party eight seats, according to official figures of the State Election Authority of the UT of J&K. The other seats went to independents and smaller parties.While the PAGD contested 220 seats, the BJP 183, the Congress 118, and the Apni Party 134 seats.Wins or trends were available for 278 seats, while counting was underway in many places late into the night. The Election Commission stopped counting in two seats, in which a contestant each was found to be from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, according to polling officials. Final results were expected by or after midnight.In Jammu, the PAGD won or was leading in 26 seats, the BJP in 72 seats, and the Congress in 17 seats as of 10:15pm, according to provisional numbers. And in Kashmir, the PAGD won or was leading in 84 seats, the BJP in three seats, and the Congress in nine seats.While PAGD candidates performed exceptionally in south, central and north Kashmir, the alliance missed the mark in the Srinagar district (14 seats), where BJP nominee Ajaz Hussain registered a significant win in the Kanmoh II seat. Apart from this, the other seats the BJP won or was leading in the Kashmir Valley were Tulail and Kakapora in Pulwama.Another highlight of the results was PDP leader Waheed Para, who is under house arrest for his alleged links with militants. He won in his Pulwama constituency by a huge margin.J&K state Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the results meant defeat for the BJP. “They brought top Union ministers and top leaders for election campaigning. Still, they could not win more than 50-60 seats. This shows that people have rejected their slogans,” he said.Held under the shadow of Covid-19, the elections witnessed a turnout of 51.76% over the eight phases from November 29 to December 19, and were the first major direct polling exercise since the nullification of Article 370. Last year in October, Block Development Council elections were held in J&K, though the NC and the PDP boycotted them.Political analyst Pervaz Majeed said the PAGD should have won more seats in the DDC elections.“In the backdrop of the August 5, 2019 situation, the enthusiasm of people in these elections must be surprising to many. After the panchayat elections of 2011 and assembly elections of 2014, this was an electoral exercise that saw good involvement of people.“Moreover, it is a huge political development that the BJP found candidates in Kashmir who fought on its ticket and in fact ran the party’s campaign,” said Majeed, an assistant professor of journalism at Kashmir University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-sweeps-valley-bjp-largest-in-jammu/story-sUV6MgKj3tI0s6pKYP2fFI.html
23-12-2020||India||Stalin submits graft charges against CM to Guv, Palaniswami rebuts allegations||MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) senior leaders submitted a 97-page document to governor Banwarilal Purohit on Tuesday with a list of corruption charges against chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami, his deputy O Paneerselvam and six other ministers of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government. Stalin levelled allegations of corruption, abuse of public office, obstruction of justice and other criminal offences against Palaniswami, Panneerselvam and accused senior ministers of amassing wealth disproportionate to their income. There were also charges against local administration minister SP Velumani, health minister C Vijayabhaskar, electricity minister P Thangamani, fisheries minister D Jayakumar, revenue minister RB Udhayakumar and food minister R Kamaraj. “We have provided this evidence to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). We have filed several cases but no action has been taken,” Stalin told reporters after meeting Purohit. “The governor has the power of the Anti-Corruption Act of 2018. It is on that basis that we have lodged the complaint.” Stalin has requested the governor to direct the DVAC to inquire and register cases under Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 2018. The DMK’s document, titled ‘Large Scale Corruption’ by chief minister and the council of ministers of AIADMK government (2016-2020), states that Palaniswami indulged in corruption in awarding highway road tenders to his relatives.Reacting to Stalin’s petition, chief minister Palaniswami told reporters in Thoothukudi that there was no room for corruption as tenders were issued online. He was flanked by revenue minister RB Udhayakumar and food minister R Kamaraj who responded to the specific allegations. “It is DMK which is indulging in corruption and their cases are pending in court,” Palaniswami said, showing documents. “All this will come out soon. DMK is spreading false news and seeking attention.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-submits-graft-charges-against-cm-to-guv-palaniswami-rebuts-allegations/story-rU2KPI2LfDVuXyUioznRxJ.html
23-12-2020||India||Farmers’ protest updates: BKU leaders meet Narendra Singh Tomar at Krishi Bhawan||The farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws entered day 27 on Tuesday as talks between the protestors and the Centre fail to produce any decisive result. As the Centre called for dialogue with the protestors’ representatives, the farmers have given the sense that they will not accept anything other than complete rollback of the three laws. Several farmers on Monday intensified their agitation against the government as they went on indefinite hunger strikes. The Bharatiya Kisan Union took to protesting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside the District administration Complex in Bathinda. The protestors also took the time to meet and have a dialogue with farmers supporting the laws, in order to educate themselves regarding how the laws might be beneficial to them. Farmers had also taken part in a blood donation camp organised by Rehras Sewa Society, a Ludhiana based NGO.The farmers’ agitation is against the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre back in September. Follow all live updates here:Around 2 crore signatures urging the withdrawal of farm laws to be submitted to the President, says Cong leaderCongress leader KC Venugopal told newsagency ANI that around 2 crore signatures from all over the country, urging withdrawal of the three new farm laws have been collected. He further stated that a delegation led by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will meet with the President on December 24 to submit it.Some farmer leaders met me to extend support to the new farm laws: Narendra Singh TomarUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told news agency ANI that some farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh met with him to express their support for the new farm laws. He further added that these leaders asked that no amendments be made to the new laws. Farmers all over the country have been protesting against the new farm laws, a meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union and the minister is reported to have taken place today at Krishi Bhavan. Meeting between BKU leaders and Narendra Singh Tomar underway at Krishi BhawanA meeting between Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the new farm laws, is currently underway at Krishi Bhawan, reports ANI. The famers’ body has been protesting against Centre’s new farm laws at Delhi border.Protesting farmers show black flags to Manohar Lal Khattar Farmers protesting against the new farm laws registered their protest by showing black flags to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar as his motorcade was passing through Ambala city. Khattar was visiting the city to show his support for BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the upcoming civic polls, reported news agency PTI.Modi govt seems to be in ego clash with farmers: Raghav ChadhaAAP leader Raghav Chadha slammed the Modi government of being in an ego clash with the protesting farmers. Chadha said that the govt must let go of the ego and agree to all the farmers’ demands. He urged the government to roll back the three ‘black laws’. Not received any inviation from Agri Minister, says BKU spokespersonRakesh Tikait, spokesperson for the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) said that they have yet to receive an inviation from the Agriculture Minister to discuss the farm laws. He also said that the farmers will not accept anything less than complete rollback of the laws and that it would take more than a month to resolve all the issues. Farmers block Delhi-Meerut expresswayVehicular movement on the Delhi-Meerut expressway has been halted as farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws have blocked all its carriageways since 7:30 am.Centre trying to tire out farmers, says Sukhbir Singh BadalThe Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the Centre was trying to tire the farmers out by offering to start talks from the very beginning again. He said that it was futile since the farmers’ organisations had already rejected the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-updates-centre-trying-to-tire-out-farmers-says-sukhbir-singh-badal/story-t5KFYq54RIUYnMT7hgCcdL.html
23-12-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir DDC Election Results 2020 Updates: Gupkar Alliance ahead of BJP, latest tally shows||The counting of votes for 280 seats of Jammu and Kashmir District Development Councils (DDCs) in 20 districts started at 9am on Tuesday. This is the first time that elections were conducted for the DDC in the Union territory as the DDCs were introduced after the abrogation of the special status accorded to J-K under Article 370 on August 5, 2019.The polling was held under heavy security in eight phases — November 28, December 1, 4, 7, 10, 13, 16 and 19. Jammu and Kashmir have 140 DDCs each and elections were held for all the 280 seats. Apart from that, elections were also held for 935 panchayat halqas and 11,814 vacant panch constituencies in the Kashmir division. In the Jammu division, 135 panchayat halqas and 339 vacant panch constituencies went to polls.While the election to DDCs and panchayat by-polls were held through ballot, by-election to municipal seats were conducted through electronic voting machines (EVMs).All counting of votes is being done in district headquarters where the returning officers are in charge of the counting process for each constituency. The entire counting exercise is being monitored and recorded to achieve full transparency.Counting of ballot papers is being done on a round-wise basis after proper mixing of ballot papers from different polling stations as per the prescribed procedure and counting guidelines, J-K election commissioner KK Sharma said on Monday.Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing a three-way contest among Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). The Gupkar alliance has been forged by seven regional parties including Mehbooba Mufti’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Farooq Abdullah’s National Conference (NC) to collectively fight for the restoration of Article 370 in the Union territory. Follow live updates here: 10:30 pm: Counting still underway, latest tally here: Counting of votes for District Development Council continues- BJP- 65J&K NC-54Independent-39J&K PDP: 25INC: 20JKAP: 10JKPC-6JKPM-3(Data source: J&K State Election Authority) https://t.co/gzrVQTbfnK pic.twitter.com/xd3nN6KezM9:55 pm: BJP victorious on 54 seats, NC on 48 seats, independents on 36 seats and PDP on 22 seats as per tally at 9:30 pm. Jammu and Kashmir DDC elections tally at 9.30pm: BJP- 54J&K NC-48Independent-36J&K PDP: 22INC: 18JKAP: 9(Data source: J&K State Election Authority) pic.twitter.com/hmMc0XSGCw8:50 pm: National Conference’s Asim Hashmi defeats BJP’s Shakti Raj Parihar to win Doda’s Gundana seat.6:37 pm: Gupkar Alliance leading on 107 seats, BJP and Congress on 62 and 22 seats respectively.5:53 pm: BJP victorious on three seats in Kashmir-one each in Pampore, Bandipora and Pulwama.5:23 pm: Gupkar Alliance establishes substantial leadPAGD 95BJP 57Congress 225:13 pm: Mehbooba Mufti congratulates Waheed Para, tweets “couldn’t be prouder” of him. Couldn’t be prouder of PDPs @parawahid who won his maiden election by a huge margin of votes. Despite being arrested on baseless charges right after filing his nomination people have shown their love & trust for Waheed. Hope justice prevails. pic.twitter.com/MOU8gNUOic3:28 pm: PDP youth wing chief Waheed Para, arrested by NIA over alleged links with Hizbul Mujahideen, wins from Pulwama.3:22 pm: “Restrictive measures put in place. No victory processions will be allowed without permission,” says Jammu deputy commissioner Sushma Chauhan.2:55 pm: Independents dominate in Srinagar, winning seven out of 14 seats there, informs Srinagar district election officer Dr Shahid Choudhary. Apni Party candidates victorious on three seats, and one each for NC, PDP and J&K People’s Movement, says Choudhary.2:50 pm: National Conference’s Kaiser Mir and independent Shabir Aad Reshi victorious from Srinagar’s Khimber and Hawan constituencies respectively.2:26 pm: “BJP has opened its account in Kashmir valley with the victory of Ajaz Hussain. We are leading on several other seats in the Valley. It shows people of Kashmir valley want development,” says BJP leader Shahanwaz Hussain.2:15 pm: “We fought against PAGD candidate and BJP emerged victorious at this seat today. I congratulate people of Jammu and Kashmir and the security forces,” says Ajaz Hussain, BJP candidate from Balhama seat in Srinagar. We fought against PAGD candidate and BJP emerged victorious at this seat (Balhama seat in Srinagar) today. I congratulate people of Jammu and Kashmir & the security forces: Azaz Hussain, BJP candidate from Balhama, Srinagar#DDCElections pic.twitter.com/MFYMcouVfC2:04 pm: PAGD is currently leading in 67 seats in the valley.National Conference leading in 28 seats, PDP leading in 25 seats, Independent candidates leading in 28 seats, BJP leading in 2 seats, Apni Party leading in 6 seats, Congress leading in 9 seats, PM in 3 seats, CPI(M) in 5 seats, PC in 5 seats, PDF in 1 seat. 1:05 pm: Union minister Anurag Thakur on Tuesday while speaking to ANI expressed hope that BJP will emerge victorious in the recently concluded DDC polls. He said that people of Kashmir fulfilled PM Modi’s dream to re-establish democracy in Jammu and Kashmir. 11:50 am: Close fight between BJP and Gupkar AlliancePAGD 34 (Lead 33, Won 1)BJP 38Congress 11Others 2511:35 am: LeadsPAGD 23 (Lead 22, Won 1)BJP 38Congress 7Others 511. 15am: National Conference’s Mehmooda Nisar wins ShopianPAGD: 19BJP: 29Cong: 6Others: 1110.50 am: Kashmir valley- Total trends: 24PAGD : 08BJP: 05Cong: 02Others: 09Jammu Division- Total trends: 54BJP: 21PAGD: 06Cong: 09Others: 1810:45 am: Leads 40/280PAGD 19BJP 11Congress 03Others 0710:12am: Leads 28/280PAGD 11BJP 8INC 2JKAP 3Others 4Counting of votes for 280 constituencies of District Development Council (DDC) underway at Sher-I Kashmir International Conference Centre in SrinagarJammu and Kashmir: Counting of votes for 280 constituencies of District Development Council (DDC) underway at Sher-I Kashmir International Conference Centre in Srinagar.Visuals of heavy security deployment outside the counting centre. pic.twitter.com/li1S54vJaI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-of-votes-in-j-k-local-body-polls-to-start-today/story-6rzd2fZWGemk8LPoztTsLM.html
